September 22, 2020||India||NCERT questions claim of whistleblower on book scam||NEW DELHI: The National Council of Educational Research and Training has in a rebuttal to the TOI’s September 20 report 2020 “ NCERT officials involved in book piracy?” has said the whistle blower Harish Kumar Meena's allegation that he provided the tip-off to director, NCERT on 20.12.2018 regarding availability of NCERT pirated books "is not correct." "It is evident that he never provided the information to Director, NCERT. Further, it is stated that the first information provided to VSO is on 20.12.2018 night. The 21.12.2018 is the earliest date which could have been the date of raid but the raid was conducted when director, NCERT has received the information on 24.12.2018 from the then secretary, MHRD. The news report is completely wrong that there is delay of 5 days in conducting the raid actually there is no delay in conducting the raid as per the procedural requirement.” TOI, based on documents submitted during the inquiry, found that the messages were sent to the director and the VSO separately at 8.25 pm on December 20, 2018 and to MHRD secretary at 8.37 pm the same day. Also, based on the letter from the director of NCERT to secretary MHRD and the inquiry report, it was found that the “surprise check” was conducted after the information was received on December 24 from the MHRD secretary Rina Ray. Hrushikesh Senapaty, director, NCERT in his letter to the MHRD secretary writes, “With reference to the Whatsapp Message dated 24th December, 2018, an inquiry has been conducted by a three-member Committee constituted for this purpose.” The inquiry report of December 27, 2018 also stated that, “Secretary, MHRD forwarded the message to Director, NCERT for necessary action.” And “The Director, NCERT immediately instructed to undersigned to visit the premises …. Immediately, a surprise check has been conducted by NCERT team on 25.12.2018…” In its rebuttal, NCERT said: “It is once again reiterated that Shri Harish Kumar Meena, Assistant Professor, vide WhatsApp message dated 20.12.2018 in the late night informed to Vigilance Officer and the then secretary, MHRD regarding the availability of unauthorised books M/s Supreme Offset Press, Gr. Noida (UP). The official did not wait for authority response in the matter and himself made a visit to above printers in the morning hours on 21.12.2018 along with other unknown persons. The owner did not allow the official to inspect the press. When not allowed by firm owner, the official contacted VSO telephonically around 1015 am in the morning of 21.12.2018 (Friday). The VSO informed the official that by making such visit, he has alerted the printing press owner. The Proprietor of firm lodged a complaint against Shri Meena and informed about his unauthorised visit. Needless to inform that M/s Supreme Offset Press is an authorised printer of NCERT. However, based on the recording of the conversation and its transcript submitted during the proceedings of the inquiry, TOI found that the VSO didn’t tell the official that his visit would have alerted the printing press owner. Rather the VSO said he will act on the matter “next week,” to which Meena replied that by then all the books would be gone (see transcript of the conversation). The owner of the press emailed the complaint of the unauthorised visit on December 26, 2018, a day after the surprise check. NCERT in its rebuttal also said that “It is pertinent to mention here that for conducting inspections, there is a need for formation of expert team members from various divisions and assistance of local police with maintaining secrecy of inspection. Also, during the telephonic conversation between the VSO and Meena on December 21, 2018 ((see transcript of the conversation), the VSO said that the local police including the SP and DSP and a team of five to six officials from NCERT would be needed to be involved. TOI, based on the inquiry report found that the surprise check was conducted by “NCERT team on 25.12.2018 during 12.10PM to 1400PM consisting of following members: Ashutosh Mishra, VSO, R Selvaraj, Senior Store Officer, Vinod Devikar, Production Officer. The inquiry report to the MHRD has no mention of any assistance sought from police." NCERT in its rebuttal also claimed that its vigilance team “conducted 60 inspections/ raids during the year 2019 & 2020 to check and control piracy of NCERT Text Books at Meerut, Gajraula, Chandigarh, Gazipur, Ludiana, Amritsar, Udhampur, Bangalore, Sonipat and various locations in Delhi.” However, based on TOI's and other media reports the raids in Meerut, Gajraula and Amroha were conducted by the special task force (STF) while in Chandigarh the UT Vigilance Department conducted the raid with help from NCERT to confirm the books are pirated. It was also reported that most of the counterfeit books were published with “original” watermark, suggesting complicity of insiders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncert-questions-claim-of-whistleblower-on-book-scam/articleshow/78241433.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 3 held with arms for planning to rob accountant||LUDHIANA: The police have arrested three of the six accused who planned to rob a Haryana timber trader’s accountant in Khanna. The arrested have been identified as Vinod Kumar of Pionda village in Kaithal, Sonu Malik of Vikas Nagar, Panipat, and Sandeep, alias Deepi, of the same area. Other accused are: Deepak of Gari in Panipat, Tesa of the same area and Gullu of Krishanpura. Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh said, “We received a tip-off that the accused planned to rob Tushar, an accountant of timber trader Amit Gupta of Kaithal, in Khanna. Tushar had come to Punjab to collect money from their vendors.” A car coming from Mandi Gobindgarh side was stopped at a check-post near a mall in Khanna. “The car occupants identified themselves as Vinod Kumar and Sonu Malik. During checking, a.12 bore pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from Vinod and two sharp-edged weapons were found hidden in the car. Vinod and Sonu have been arrested,” the SSP added. On September 19, Sandeep, alias Deepi, was arrested from Sirhind bus stand and a.12 bore pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from him, he said. “During interrogation, they revealed their robbery plan. Their accomplices will be arrested soon,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-of-6-arrested-with-arms-for-planning-to-rob-accountant/articleshow/78241943.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 22, 2020||World||Punjab-born Sikh cabbie says 4 white men asked if he was Taliban, tried to pull off his turban in UK||LONDON: A Sikh taxi driver has told police in the UK that he was subjected to a vicious hate crime after picking up four white men from a casino in Berkshire. The men, who Vaneet Singh (41) from Tilehurst believes could have been Irish or Scottish, stuck drugs up his nose, vandalised his vehicle, offered him a cigarette and asked if he was a member of the Taliban. They even tried to pull off his turban on Saturday night, he said. The married father of three has been left shaken, battered, bruised, and suffering from flashbacks after a nightmare journey that earned him just £50. Singh, born in Batala, near Amritsar, is a tabla player who teaches the instrument in Berkshire, having studied at Chandigarh University. To help support his wife and children he also works part-time as a cab driver. Saturday night was his first day back at work since lockdown when he was sent to Grosvenor Casino in Reading to pick up the men and drive them to Basingstoke. At first they started pulling his seat belt tight round his neck. He politely asked them to stop. Then when they reached the countryside, the men opened the windows, took over his radio and played loud music and threw one of his back-seat headrests out of the window, Singh claimed to TOI. One of them had asked to be dropped in nearby Bramley. “After he got out, he came up to my window holding a black box of a substance I think was marijuana. He asked me to try it and I said it was against my religion and then he lifted up my face mask and forced it up my nose. It left me feeling intoxicated,” Singh claimed. “It had a horrible smell.” He threatened to call the police but the men demanded he drive them to Basingstoke. “I was scared they may have weapons or kill me if I refused,” he said. On the way one of them asked him to stop to urinate. “He got out and asked to drive the car and I refused. Then he started trying to pull my taxi plate off. I tried to call the police but the network was very poor. I then saw three headrests of the back seat were missing,” Singh claimed. “Back in the car, they slid their fingers behind my turban and tried to pull it off. They also kicked and punched me in the back through the seat and kept tightening my safety belt. They said ,’Are you the Taliban?’ I said, ‘No, I am a Sikh,’ and told them it is a religious symbol and asked them not to touch my turban,” Singh claimed, adding that he drove the rest of the journey with one hand on his turban and one on the wheel. In Basingstoke all three passengers got out at a red traffic light, kicked the back of his car, leaving a dent, and left. He returned to the casino where he told staff what happened, went home and ended up calling an ambulance at 5 am. “I have neck pain and chest pain now and my body keeps vibrating. This is my first experience — since moving to the UK in 2008 — of such an attack,” said Singh, who has informed the police. “This was 100% a racist attack. I am usually a friendly guy, always laughing, and this has made me very scared,” he said. Thames Valley police said it was investigating a report of assault, but no arrests had been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/punjab-born-sikh-cabbie-says-4-white-men-asked-if-he-was-taliban-tried-to-pull-off-his-turban-in-uk/articleshow/78243207.cms||NAOMI CANTON
September 22, 2020||India||‘Harivansh assault attack on Bihar’||NEW DELHI: The "harassment" of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh has given a fresh cause to the ruling NDA coalition in Bihar just ahead of the polls with deputy chief minister and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Monday referring to this episode as an attack on the “pride of Bihar” and said that people will give a befitting reply to the oppositi on. Speaking on the occasion of inauguration and foundation-laying of infrastructure projects by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Bihar deputy CM said, “I would like to mention a point here as every person in Bihar is deeply hurt. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivanshji is respected in Bihar and all over the country. The uncalled for incident which occurred with him in Parliament yesterday (Sunday), has hurt the people and pride of Bihar. The people of Bihar will give a befitting reply to the opposition for their behavior.” Chief minister Nitish Kumar also said that whatever happened in the Upper House on Sunday was “wrong” and highly “condemnable”. He said one should put his point clearly rather than resorting to such acts. Kumar said the reforms in agriculture laws have been brought for the benefit of the poor farmers. However, the PM did not refer to the Rajya Sabha episode during his little ‘over half an hour’ speech in which he largely talked about the farm reforms and pending amendments to the Essential Commodities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mps-misbehaviour-with-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-set-to-be-poll-issue-in-bihar/articleshow/78243880.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 22, 2020||Business||SBI offers up to 2 years repayment relief for home & retail loans||MUMBAI: State Bank of India will provide relief to home and retail loan borrowers impacted by Covid-19 in the form of either a moratorium of up to 24 months or by rescheduling instalments and extending the tenure by a period equivalent to the moratorium granted. The moratorium period can be extended by a maximum of 2 years, India’s largest lender said Monday, setting the tone for other banks, specially PSU players. In line with RBI’s one-time relief, the scheme is available to borrowers who had availed of a home loan before March 1, 2020 and were regular in repayments until the Covid-19 lockdown. But the borrowers will have to demonstrate that their income has been hit because of the pandemic. “For the purpose of restructuring, the bank will depend entirely on the customer’s assessment of when they expect their income to be normalised or to get employed,” said SBI managing director C S Setty said while announcing the scheme. The country’s largest lender has been the first to roll out a protocol for restructuring loans of retail borrowers who were affected by Covid-19. Other lenders including HDFC and ICICI Bank are expected to follow suit before the end of the month. To facilitate borrowers to understand their eligibility for restructuring, SBI has launched an online portal to enable borrowers check their eligibility for all retail loans. This includes home, education, auto, and other personal loans. The restructuring will give breathing space for a borrower until their income is normalised or they get re-employed. Also, they will not be classified as defaulters or non-performing assets. The downside is that the bank will charge 35 basis points extra as interest since the RBI needs them to set aside additional provisions for these loans. This means that despite initial relief over the tenure of the loan, the borrower will end up paying more than on a regular loan without restructuring. “We have put in place a scheme for restructuring and it is available to borrowers through our internal portal. We have also intimated borrowers but don’t expect much of traction for restructuring given the inquiries,” said Rajkiran Rai, MD & CEO, Union Bank of India. HDFC Bank has put in place a facility to submit online applications. The bank has said that it will report the loan to the credit bureau as ‘restructured’ and as per norms, all loans availed will be classified as restructured even if only one loan is being restructured. “The dues for the moratorium period can be capitalised. Or else it will be very strenuous for the borrower to repay. Capitalising the dues will reduce the pressure on the borrower and we are also working on this by elongating the term of the loan,” said Siddhartha Mohanty, MD & CEO, LIC Housing Finance. He added that even if the loan term is extended, typically home loan borrowers end up pre-paying their loans by seven to ten years. Borrowers who access SBI’s portal for restructuring will still have to visit the branch as a ‘wet signature’ is required for the loan document to be reworked. The portal will however take care of all the queries of the borrower. “It is not an end-to-end process but it will reduce the need for customers to visit branches especially during this time of Covid,” said Setty. Watch State Bank of India provides relief to home & retail loan borrowers impacted by Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-offers-up-to-2-years-repayment-relief-for-home-retail-loans/articleshow/78244864.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 22, 2020||India||Need to check digital media, not print or TV: Govt to SC||NEW DELHI: The Union government told the Supreme Court on Monday that print and electronic media were generally responsible in dissemination of content but there was a genuine need for a regulatory mechanism for web-based digital media, which frequently crossed the line. A fresh affidavit by the information and broadcasting ministry impressed upon a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph that there were enough regulatory mechanisms for the print and electronic media. It said the court should leave it to the government and legislature to assess the need for further regulatory mechanism, if needed. However, it said if at all the court was inclined to go ahead with formulating a regulatory mechanism or laying down guidelines, it should start the exercise with regard to digital media and web-based magazines and news portals. It would be desirable for the court to start “the said exercise first with web-based digital media which includes web magazines and web-based news channels and web-based newspapers as the same not only has a very wide reach but is completely uncontrolled”. The unregulated digital media had global presence both in terms of content coming into India and content going out from within the country and it required a person to just have a smartphone to start a digital media, it said. “There is absolutely no check on web-based digital media. Apart from spreading venomous hatred, deliberate and intended instigation to not only cause violence but even terrorism, it is also capable of indulging in tarnishing the image of individuals and institutions. The said practice is, in fact, rampant,” the ministry said. “By the very nature of its composition, the print and electronic media would rarely cross the line which may need intervention of this court frequently. As against that, by its very nature, the web-based digital media, by and large, remains unregulated,” the ministry said in the affidavit filed in proceedings initiated by the court on a PIL seeking a ban on telecast of Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ programme. The telecast of the serialised programme was stopped by the SC on finding it to be maligning the Muslim community. “In the case of electronic and print media, the security of the nation is taken care of at the time of registration and/or grant of licence to the company or the organisation intending to publish or broadcast either a newspaper or a news channel. The registration also follows only after clearance from the ministry of home affairs from the national security point of view (in case of TV channels) and other statutory authorities (in case of print media),” it said. “In case the SC desires to travel into the wider issues, then the issue in question (including particular series or a particular TV channel), it is absolutely inevitable to start with digital media. Any further regulation of electronic and print media by the SC, either by way of guidelines or providing for any redressal mechanism, would incentivise broadcasters (who may otherwise be desirous of publishing/telecasting undesirable content) to use electronic media less and telecast/publish the same thing on digital platforms which would remain unregulated despite having wider reach without any corresponding responsibility or obligation,” the ministry said. The Centre pointed out that to be a broadcaster or for starting a newspaper, there were several eligibility criteria and qualifying standards. “For operating or starting a news broadcast channel or the second category of channel, the company has to undergo a rigorous registration process which includes deposit of performance guarantee and also possession of minimum net worth of about Rs 20 crore for the first channel and Rs 3 crore for each new channel,” it said. “For a non-news channel, the minimum net worth required is of Rs 5 crore for the first channel and Rs 2.5 crore for each new channel. Apart from the same, being a broadcaster or a publisher also requires registration or licensing from statutory authorities and they are also governed by statutory provisions. As pointed out, by and large, there is a self-regulatory mechanism in place which may require a little finetuning to remove the lacunae,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-to-check-digital-media-not-print-or-tv-govt-to-sc/articleshow/78244976.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 22, 2020||India||LAC row: Ensure complete disengagement, India tells China||NEW DELHI: India on Monday asked China for “concrete and complete” troop disengagement from the ‘friction points’ at Pangong Tso, Chushul and Gogra-Hotsprings as well as finalisation of the roadmap for de-escalation along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army, having gained bargaining leverage after occupying multiple tactical heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area on August 29-30, reiterated the demand for restoration of status quo ante during the sixth round of military talks on Monday. Read AlsoIndian Army beats Chinese troops, occupies strategic height near Pangong lake's southern bank: SourcesIn a strategically significant move, the Indian Army has occupied the height on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in Ladakh which will give it an upper hand in the area. Sources said that on the night of Aug 29-30, a special operations battalion moved into the area and occupied the heights withBut there was no official word on the outcome of the meeting between the delegations headed by 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin, which began at 9.30 am and continued till late in the night on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border personnel meeting point. India-China standoff live update: Complete CoverageSources said the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was told that it “should make the first move” since it had created the rival troop face-offs and military build-ups by intruding into Indian territory at multiple locations in early May. “Indian troops will reciprocate. Otherwise, it was emphasised India is prepared for the long haul,” a source said. India has seen “some disconnect” between the five-point diplomatic consensus reached during the September 10 talks between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi and the “actual ground reality” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read AlsoIndia, China agree on 5-point plan for resolving border standoff in eastern LadakhIndia and China have agreed on a five-point plan for resolving the prolonged border face-off in eastern Ladakh that included abiding by all existing agreements and protocol on management of the frontier, maintaining peace and avoiding any action that could escalate matters. The agreement came“The PLA continues to reinforce its positions along the LAC. It does not seem to be ready for de-escalation as yet. It may be difficult to achieve a concrete breakthrough unless China agrees to major concessions and the three-step process of disengage-deescalate-deinduct,” the source said. The Indian military delegation had diplomatic representation for the first time, with MEA joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava taking part in the negotiations. The Indian side also included Lt-General P G K Menon, who is slated to replace Lt-Gen Singh as 14 Corps commander next month. Read AlsoLAC row: As Generals meet today, MEA tries to keep talks within political parametersThe foreign ministry will have a representative at the next meeting between senior commanders of Indian and Chinese armies, locked in a stand-off in eastern Ladakh. Naveen Srivastava, joint secretary, East Asia in MEA will join the commanders meeting to be held on Monday for the first time. ThisAs reported by TOI on Saturday, the high-powered China Study Group had discussed the different contingencies as well as preparations for a prolonged crisis. The Indian armed forces have already gone in for a massive ‘advance winter stocking’ operation all along the frontier in eastern Ladakh. The military talks on Monday between the rival corps commanders, who last met on August 2, comes after the Indian Army’s preemptive military manoeuvre to seize the previously-unoccupied tactical heights on the ridgeline stretching from Thakung on the south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) on August 29-30. Simultaneously, Indian soldiers also occupied heights overlooking the PLA deployments on the ridgeline over ‘Finger-4’ on the north bank of Pangong Tso. The parallel moves have led to at least four incidents of warning shots being exchanged after PLA tried to dislodge Indian troops from the heights between August 29 and September 8. There has, however, been no aggressive action by either side after the Jaishankar-Wang Yi on September 10. Watch LAC row: Ensure complete disengagement from friction points, India tells China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-asks-china-for-concrete-and-complete-troop-disengagement/articleshow/78245084.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 22, 2020||India||8 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for a week for ‘unruly’ conduct||NEW DELHI: Eight opposition members of the Rajya Sabha were suspended for a week on Monday for "unruly behaviour" during passage of the two farm bills on Sunday, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu also rejecting the notice for a no-confidence resolution against deputy chairman Harivansh. The eight MPs, including Trinamool leader Derek O’Brien and Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party, however, continued with their protests and refused to leave the House despite repeated instructions from the chair. It led to multiple adjournments, with the proceedings being washed out without any business being transacted on Monday. The other MPs are Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of Congress, Dola Sen of Trinamool, and K K Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of CPM. Expressing deep anguish, Naidu said, "It pained me a lot because what happened (during passage of the farm bills on Sunday) was unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable. It was a very bad day for the Rajya Sabha." He said some members, violating all Covid-19 physical distancing norms, came to the well of the House, climbed on the secretary general’s table and broke mics, while also hurling papers and the rulebook at the deputy chairperson. "Are these parliamentary standards?" he asked. While the opposition decided to protest the suspensions and call on President Ram Nath Kovind, this is the second such suspension of a significant number of MPs in recent years. In 2010, seven MPs — four from the Samajwadi Party, one each from JD(U), RJD and LJP — were suspended for fracas during passage of the women's reservation bill. The code of conduct adopted by the House in 2005 lays down several guidelines relating to behaviour of members. Naidu said Harivansh later informed him that he was abused with objectionable words, physically threatened and could also have been harmed. "If the marshals had not been called on time, what would have happened to the deputy chairperson? I am worried," he added. If the opposition — which wanted voting on a resolution to send the two farm bills to a select committee — had the numbers, they should have voted. The deputy chairman repeatedly requested the members to go to their seats, participate in the debate and move amendments. "Obviously, in view of the continuous disruption, division could not have taken place," Naidu said. He also rejected the resolution moved by leader of the opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and 46 other members for Harivansh’s removal because it was not in the proper format and without the requisite 14-day notice. Minister of state for parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan moved a motion for suspension of the eight MPs for gross disorderly conduct, especially with the chair, and "bringing disrepute" to the House. It was adopted by voice vote amid continuing protests from the opposition. The protesting MPs, however, did not leave the House despite being asked by Naidu to do so. O'Brien, in fact, had earlier in the proceedings also refused to leave the House after Naidu named him. Watch 8 opposition MPs suspended over unruly behaviour in Rajya Sabha on September 20||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/8-rajya-sabha-mps-suspended-for-a-week-for-unruly-conduct/articleshow/78245414.cms||---
September 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: Students trickle back to school in 8 states, J&K after 6 months||For the first time since March-end when restrictions were imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic, schools opened in some parts of the country on Monday. However, only seven states and one Union territory chose to act on the Centre’s ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines issued last month, which allowed opening of schools from September 21 for students of Class 9 and above. Driven by concern for health amid the spread of the virus, the attendance in the schools in these seven states and J&K was very thin on the first day. The other states are yet to decide a date for resuming the institutes, Delhi being one of them. In Assam, teachers felt the ground situation was not very convincing. K Chanda, principal of South Point School in Guwahati, said less than 10 per cent of students of classes IX and XII attended school. “Many guardians wanted to watch the response on the first day,” he said. “Online classes are on, so why take a chance,” said Atanu Chakraborty, a class XII student from Railway Higher Secondary School, Maligaon, Assam. With Covid-19 infections rising, it was the same story in Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, J&K, Haryana, Himachal and Nagaland – where schools resumed. “My parents let me go to school when I insisted. But, I returned from the gates when I found none of my friends turned up,” said Abhishek Agarwal, who studies in a private school in Bhopal. A Madhu Babu, an English teacher at ZP High School in Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, said they discussed various components of Covid-19 precautions during the meeting with parents on Monday. However, attendance remained low in both private and government schools in the state. Many governments are yet to take a decision. While the Gujarat government decided against re-opening of schools from September 21 “in the interest of students” at a cabinet meet presided over by chief minister Vijay Rupani on September 16, the Uttar Pradesh government will review the situation and take a call on this matter by September 30. It has asked education department officials to begin awareness campaigns on social distancing and Covid-19 protocols in schools and to feel the pulse of all stakeholders on resuming regular classes after September 30. “There is a risk of transmission of the virus if students gather at one place. It is not advisable for students to attend school in the present situation," said Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. He said decision will be taken once the situation improves. UP deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, who is also the minister for secondary and higher education, said: “Safety of students cannot be compromised.” “Even if schools reopen, students should be given the options of both online and offline classes, so that social distancing would be easier in classrooms,” said class XI student Piyush Pant of Spring Dale College in Lucknow. States like Maharashtra, Goa, Jharkhand, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, Bihar, Rajasthan, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal too are undecided on a date as many of them are still consulting the stakeholders. Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad conducted a virtual meeting recently with the stakeholders across the state to seek opinion. During the meeting, most of the participants said they weren't willing to start physical classes as yet. While Bihar principal secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar has convened a meeting on Tuesday to discuss a probable date for re-opening and in what manner, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is also the education minister, has announced that with cases on the rise in the state, a decision would be taken by October 2. Watch Covid-19 crisis: Schools across India reopen partially from today after a gap of nearly six months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/students-trickle-back-to-school-in-8-states-jk-after-6-months/articleshow/78244642.cms||---
September 22, 2020||India||Fall in testing pushes up daily positivity rate too||NEW DELHI: Even as the daily Covid-19 positivity rate rose to 11.8% on Sunday mainly due to drop in testing, 76% of the new 86,961 confirmed cases were reported from 10 states, health ministry said. Daily tests fell to 7,31,534 samples on Sunday after a record 12,06,806 tests on Saturday. So far, India has tested a total of 6 crore 43 lakh samples for Covid-19. A total of 86,961 new cases were detected on Sunday taking the total number of active cases to over 10 lakh. Majority of the new cases were reported from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, UP, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal and MP. Maharashtra alone accounted for over 20,000 new cases, whereas Karnataka which reported the second highest detected 8,191 fresh cases on Sunday — depicting a wide gap. Similarly, 86% of 1,130 deaths on Sunday were also in 10 states that included Punjab and Haryana, apart from Maharashtra, Karnataka, UP, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and MP. In the case of deaths too, variations are wide with the top ten states accounting for the majority of the total toll. Of the 1,130 deaths, Maharashtra accounted for 455 deaths on Sunday, whereas there were 101 deaths in Karnataka and 94 in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fall-in-testing-pushes-up-daily-positivity-rate-too/articleshow/78245420.cms||---
September 22, 2020||World||Trump says looking at 5 women to replace Ginsburg, wants confirmation before election||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said on Monday he is considering five women for his nomination for the US Supreme Court seat left open by the recent death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, adding he will announce his pick on Saturday and he prefers the Senate vote to confirm the nominee before the Nov 3 election. Trump, speaking to reporters before departing the White House for an Ohio campaign event, sought to discredit Ginsburg's family's statement that her last wish was the next president appoint her successor, saying without evidence it could have been from someone else. NPR reported the liberal feminist Ginsburg dictated a statement to her granddaughter. Trump is in a tight contest with former Vice President Joe Biden, a Democrat, to keep the White House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-looking-at-5-women-to-replace-ginsburg-wants-confirmation-before-election/articleshow/78245560.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Business||Raghuram Rajan, Viral Acharya call for privatizing PSBs, dismantling DFS||MUMBAI: Former central bankers Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya have authored a document on banking sector reforms wherein they have called for `re-privatising’ some public sector banks and dismantling the department of financial services. Calling for reduction of government stake below 50% the paper says that `re-privatization’ of select PSBs can then be undertaken as part of a carefully calibrated strategy, bringing in private investors who have both financial expertise as well as technological expertise but corporate houses must be kept from acquiring significant stakes, given their natural conflicts of interest. Other suggestions include a proposal made earlier during Rajan’s term in RBI of `wholesale banks’ that only lend to businesses and setting up a bad bank that will take over the bad loans from existing lenders. Most of the reforms proposed have been made in the past by various committees including the PJ Nayak committee on banking reforms. The paper `Indian Banks: A Time to Reform?’ has the strongest words for the bureaucrats at the finance ministry particularly the department of financial services that oversees all state-owned financial institutions. “Today, its job is to assert the government’s will over public sector banks and seek to affect bank regulation via the RBI Board seat carved out for the DFS Secretary in 2012. A key marker of whether PSB bank boards have sufficient independence is whether the department is eliminated, and its officials redeployed more productively elsewhere,” the paper said. Rajan, who was brought in as RBI governor by the UPA government in 2013 is currently at University of Chicago Booth School of Business while Acharya, who was appointed in 2017 under the Narendra Modi government, is currently with NYU Stern School of Business. Pointing out that the government has been forced to put in Rs 4 lakh crores into public sector banks since 2010, the paper says that credit to GDP continues to be low by global standards and bad loans continue to be high. The research paper is aimed at advising the government to seize the opportunity for reform brought about by the economic crisis which has reduced the government’s ability to keep pumping in capital into public sector banks. According to the authors, it examines what holds Indian banking back and suggests a variety of implementable reforms that could allow banking activity to grow significantly without the periodic boom-bust cycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/raghuram-rajan-viral-acharya-call-for-privatizing-psbs-dismantling-dfs/articleshow/78245583.cms||---
September 22, 2020||India||New cases drop by 20% as Covid-19 testing dips||NEW DELHI: India’s daily Covid-19 case tally dropped by nearly 20% on Monday as sharply reduced testing on Sunday resulted in lower detection of infections. Monday’s count of 73,279 cases across the country was the lowest daily tally in September even as deaths reported on the day remained relatively high at 1,047. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh had the highest growth rate of Covid-19 infections last week (September 14-20), with cases in the state having risen by 35% over the previous week. It was followed by Uttarakhand, with a 28% growth in infections, Himachal Pradesh (27%), Kerala (25%) and Punjab (23%), as per data collated by TOI from state governments. Overall, India’s cases grew by 13% last week. In absolute terms, Maharashtra had by far the highest number of new cases during the week at 1,48,334, at a growth rate of 14%, followed by Karnataka (59,992 cases; 13% growth), Andhra Pradesh (58,391; 10.2%), UP (42,187; 13.5%) and Tamil Nadu (39,234; 7.8%). Chhattisgarh saw cases rise by 22,192, which put it in 10th spot in absolute terms. However, this growth came from a low base of infections as the state had recorded less than 64,000 total cases till September 13. In deaths, Himachal had the highest growth rate of 56%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-cases-drop-by-20-as-covid-19-testing-dips/articleshow/78245679.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana arhtiyas see agitation against agriculture bills as fight for survival||CHANDIGARH: Arhtiyas (commission agents) in Punjab and Haryana are deeply entrenched in the system. They exercise a strong influence on agricultural activities and the politics of both states. Arhtiyas, who have been the main link between farmers and procurement agencies in the two states, launched their campaign against the Centre’s agri-marketing ordinances early as the three bills cleared by Parliament will adversely affect their business. These powerful commission agents regard their opposition to the three bills as a fight for survival. Successive state governments in Punjab and Haryana have tried to keep the arhtiyas in good humour, resulting in politically-aligned groups. However, the agri-marketing bills have now prompted the commission agents to form an umbrella federation of arhtiyas of Punjab and Haryana to improve their lobbying power. In both states, the commission agents double up as moneylenders and are known as the ATMs of farmers. Non-institutional sources like arhtiyas financed 66.74 % of loans in unbanked villages and 54.45 % of loans in areas that had a bank in Punjab, a study by then Centre for Research and Industrial Development (CRRID) on rural indebtedness found. That is why, despite attempts to promote farmer producer organisations (FPOs) with procurement agent licences, farmers have preferred to fall back on the commission agents. Read AlsoGovernment pushes through farm bills amid opposition charges of foul playAmid unruly and aggressive protests by opposition members, the Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed by voice vote two contentious farm bills that were earlier approved by the Lower House. The two bills will now be sent to the President for his assent. The bill was opposed by BJP's estranged ally, the“Arhtiyas have always been there for the farmers. The new farm bills brought in by BJP at the Centre are a threat to both communities. Apart from thousands of arhtiyas, there are over one lakh employees and 10 lakh labourers attached to these agents. The labourers stitch gunny bags and load grains. Th entry of corporate houses will completely change the system,” said Ravinder Singh Cheema, president of the Punjab Arhtiyas Association. Blog: Agriculture’s watershed momenthttps://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/blogs/toi-edit-page/agricultures-watershed-moment-new-farm-bills-will-unshackle-43-of-indias-workforce-that-is-engaged-in-the-sector/ Cheema, also a former vice-chairman of the Punjab Mandi Board, added there will be no system to safeguard the interests of the farmers in the “unregulated” buying system outside the existing mandis. The Mandi Board or the state government will have no say in ensuring fair play in the new “free market” regime, he said. In Punjab, there are over 40,000 arhtiyas, of which 28,000 work full-time and hold licences. They have decided to join the farm groups which have called for a Punjab bandh on September 25. Read AlsoRajya Sabha debates farm bills: Who said whatNEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed two contentious farm bills, which have triggered protests by farmers at several places, amid uproar by opposition members. The two bills -- Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion andVijay Kalra, president of the Federation of Arhtiyas Association, said the arhtiyas passed a resolution on Sunday to condemn the agri-marketing bills and resolved to launch an agitation in the state. “The BJP is hand-in-glove with the corporate sector, which seems eager to annex the fertile farmlands of peasants and demolish traditional the agro-economy for their profit. The new bills have changed the definition of ‘trade area’, ‘traders’ and ‘dispute resolution,’ which will sound the death knell of the traditional grain market system,” he said. In Haryana, too, around 32,000 registered arhtiyas are on the warpath against the Centre’s new agri-marketing bills. For the first time they have joined hands with farmers across Haryana. The arhtiyas are not only actively participating in protests against the central legislation at the local level but also were actively involved in statewide protests on the issue. Read AlsoWhat is farm bill 2020: Pros &amp; cons of three farm bills Centre introducedNEW DELHI: Amidst protest from opposition and a section of farmer's organisations, the Monsoon Session of the Lok Sabha passed three agriculture sector bills which will replace the existing ordinances once they are passed by the Rajya Sabha also. On Thursday, SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal resignedImportantly, Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association, an umbrella organisation of all groups of arhtiyas in the state, had expressed displeasure against the agricultural ordinances when initially announced by the Union government. Significantly, a large number of senior politicians in Haryana, including the families of former chief ministers Bhajan Lal and O P Chautala, were involved in the arhtiya business and had shops in Adampur and Sirsa markets, respectively. The political clout of the arhtiyas can be gauged from the fact that they will continue to be a part of the procurement process even after Punjab rolls out a public financial management system (PFMS) in two months. The Centre had arm-twisted the state into switching to the new system by holding back Rs 1,000 crore in procurement charges for the wheat crop amid apprehensions that it could happen again next season. On August 7 last year, chief minister Amarinder Singh had promised that arhtiyas would not be excluded from the payment process under PFMS. In turn, the arhtiyas would upload details of farmers in the state on the online portal for online transfer of payment through them. The Punjab government recently changed the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets (General) Rules to allow direct payment to farmers, bypassing the arhtiyas. The move was aimed at “financially empowering” the farmer and reducing their dependence on the arhtiyas. (With inputs from Ajay Sura)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-arhtiyas-see-agitation-against-agri-bills-as-fight-for-survival/articleshow/78245736.cms||Vibhor Mohan
September 22, 2020||India||Without comprehensive reforms, UN faces 'crisis of confidence': PM Modi||UNITED NATIONS: The United Nations faces a "crisis of confidence” without comprehensive reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, asserting that the world needs a reformed multilateralism that reflects today's realities, gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges and focuses on human welfare. Prime Minister Modi's call for reformed multilateralism assumes special significance as it comes on the eve of India taking a seat at the powerful UN Security Council as an elected non-permanent member for a two year term beginning January 1, 2021. "We cannot fight today's challenges with outdated structures. Without comprehensive reforms, the UN faces a crisis of confidence,” Modi said on Monday in his video address to the High-Level meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. As the UN marks 75 years of its existence, the 193-member UN General Assembly adopted a forward-looking political declaration that gave a clarion call for strengthening mechanism to combat terrorism, reformed multilateralism, inclusive development and better preparedness to deal with challenges like the Covid-19 pandemic. Noting that the declaration also acknowledges the need for reform of the United Nations itself, Modi said, "For today's interconnected world, we need a reformed multilateralism that reflects today's realities, gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges and focuses on human welfare.” He said India looks forward to working with all other nations towards this end. India has been spearheading decades-long efforts to reform the Security Council, saying a structure set up in 1945 does not reflect contemporary realities of the 21st century and is ill-equipped to handle current challenges. There is widespread support, including by four of the five permanent members of the Security Council - US, UK, France and Russia - for a permanent seat for India at the Council. India's priorities for its tenure on the Security Council find “resonance” in the Declaration that echoes New Delhi's call for strong mandate against terrorism, reformed multilateralism and inclusive development. India's overall objective during its tenure in the UN Security Council will be the achievement of NORMS — a New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System. In the Declaration, the Heads of State and Government categorically noted that the world of today is very different from what it was when the United Nations was created 75 years ago. “Our working methods need to keep pace and adapt. We support the ongoing reforms by the Secretary-General…We reiterate our call for reforms of three of the principal organs of the United Nations. We commit to instill new life in the discussions on the reform of the Security Council and continue the work to revitalise the General Assembly and strengthen the Economic and Social Council.” Addressing the special commemorative event on the UN's 75th anniversary, Modi said “75 years ago, a new hope arose from the horrors of war. For the first time in human history, an institution was created for the entire world.” He said as a founding signatory of the UN Charter, India was part of that noble vision, which reflected India's own philosophy of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam', which sees all creation as a family. "Our world today is a better place because of the United Nations,” the prime minister said. He paid tribute to all those who have advanced the cause of peace and development under the UN flag, including in UN peacekeeping missions, where India had been a leading contributor. India is among the largest troop contributors to UN Peacekeeping Missions, having provided over 200,000 troops in nearly 50 of the 71 peacekeeping missions mandated over the past six decades. India has lost more peacekeepers in the line of duty than any other UN member state and over the last 70 years, more than 160 Indian military, police and civilian personnel have lost their lives while serving in UN peacekeeping missions around the world. Modi stressed that while much has been achieved, the original mission remains incomplete. “The far-reaching Declaration that we are adopting today acknowledges that work still needs to be done in preventing conflict, in ensuring development, in addressing climate change, in reducing inequality and in leveraging digital technologies,” he said. In the Declaration, the Heads of State and Government vow to leave no one behind, protect the planet, promote peace and prevent conflicts, abide by international law and ensure justice, place women and girls at the center, build trust, improve digital cooperation, upgrade the United Nations, ensure sustainable financing, boost partnerships, listen to and work with youth and be prepared. This year's high-level UN General Assembly is being held in a largely virtual format as world leaders did not travel to New York for the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. Heads of State and Government and Ministers sent in pre-recorded video statements for the high-level week, including the special commemoration of the UN's 75 years and the General Debate. India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti introduced Prime Minister Modi's pre-recorded statement from the UN General Assembly Hall. Watch United Nations faces a 'crisis of confidence' without comprehensive reforms: PM Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/without-comprehensive-reforms-un-faces-crisis-of-confidence-pm-modi/articleshow/78245774.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Business||As moratorium ends, lenders turn cautious on truck/bus loans||Chennai: Fresh financing of trucks and buses has not picked up momentum post loan moratorium, as financiers focus on loan recovery with an eye on NPAs over the next 90 days and only the lowest-risk customers are getting vehicle finance. Financiers, however, cite poor demand. “We are going slow on new heavy vehicle segments mainly due to lack of demand. Existing vehicles are good enough for some more time as the economy needs to start growing however we are lending to used vehicles and facilitating sale and purchases,” said Umesh Revankar, MD & CEO, Shriram Transport Finance. RBI’s diktat asking lenders to restructure loans, should there be a need, is also delaying disbursements. “Of course we are cautious about asset quality. The moratorium has ended and now loan recovery has started. All banks and NBFCs are working out the formalities which will be announced soon. This will help specific segments like school buses, tourist taxis, inter state buses, where the vehicle could not be deployed because of lockdown and repossessing the asset is not the best option,” said Sundaram Finance CFO M Ramaswamy. “Financiers have become cautious after August 31 because they don’t want the loans to go into NPA so they are focusing on loan recovery. They are only financing the healthiest customers. There is a case pending in Madras HC to extend the NPA period from 90 to 180 days,” said city-based transporter Rajinder Singh, general secretary, All India Confederation of Goods Vehicles Owners Association. Truck firms say financing support is important because there is some small buzz already visible in certain niche segments. “Tippers are doing better with mining and construction picking up. E-commerce will roll as the festive season comes closer. Fuel bowser (mobile fuel stations) is a new segment and in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab, CNG vehicles upto 16 tonne are gaining traction as diesel has become pricier by Rs 8 per litre,” said Vinod Aggarwal, MD & CEO, Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-moratorium-ends-lenders-turn-cautious-on-truck/bus-loans/articleshow/78242465.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 22, 2020||Business||Sebi plans for –ve commodity price risk||TNN Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi has put in place a risk-management framework for trading in commodities where prices could dip into negative territory. Among others, Sebi said that the exchanges and clearing corporations should put in place a mechanism to ask for extra margin when they feel the price of a commodity could fall to zero or even enter negative territory. The extra margin is a kind of a safety net in the form of money deposited with the exchanges’ clearing corporations for trading on that bourse. The Sebi had constituted a committee of clearing corporations (CCs) and market participants to review the risk-management framework if Indian exchanges ever faced such a situation. The committee recommended an alternate risk-management framework (ARMF), included possible scenarios that may lead to a zero or a negative price of a commodity, and also the types of commodities that may witness such a situation. Based on the recommendations of the committee, Sebi has given 60 days to the bourses to put in place a system which could trigger an ARMF. It also said regular risk-management framework and ARMF should not run concurrently. The move follows an incident in May this year when prices of crude futures on the NYMEX entered negative territory. Subsequently, the Multi Commodities Exchange (MCX) — on which the prices of crude oil contracts are benchmarked to the NYMEX — was also was forced to settle the May contracts at a negative price. This decision by the MCX and its clearing corporation led to litigations that involved the bourse, its clearing corporation, brokers and traders. This was because when this incident happened, market participants in India were not ready for a negative commodity price which, till then, was only a theoretical possibility. According to the Sebi circular, in recent times, extreme volatility has been observed in commodity prices globally, particularly in the case of crude oil, “wherein the prices had unprecedentedly gone down to zero and subsequently, even negative”. “In such a scenario, margins equivalent to even 100% of the futures price would not have been sufficient to cover the steep upward or downward price variations in the futures market,” Sebi said. The markets regulator sought to enable a risk-management framework to handle such a scenario of ‘near zero’ and negative prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-plans-for-ve-commodity-price-risk/articleshow/78242406.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Business||Sensex tanks 812 pts as virus spread stokes fresh eco fears||TNN Mumbai: Across-the-board selling due to the weakening economic situation and a global selloff, mainly because of the spread of Covid-19 infections, led to an 812-point (over 2%) plunge in the sensex on Monday, closing at 38,034 points. Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel and HDFC Bank led the slide, while Kotak Bank, Infosys and TCS cushioned the fall to some extent. On the NSE, the Nifty closed at 11,251, down 254 points or 2.2%. After opening on a flat note, the market witnessed a one-way selloff as European indices opened weak and went into a slide. At one point, the sensex was down 907 points and closed just a tad off the intra-day low. Of the 30 sensex stocks, only three closed with gains. Mid- and small-cap stocks witnessed a stronger selloff with the BSE’s mid-cap index closing 3.4% lower, while the small-cap one closed 3.6% down. The day’s slide also left investors poorer by nearly Rs 4 lakh crore with the BSE’s market valuation now at Rs 153.4 lakh crore. There were reports that, led by HSBC, several global banks had helped launder money across the world. Also, there were indications that the UK could again go for another lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 infections. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, after the European markets opened, traders were quick to unwind their long positions fearing further weakness. “Asian shares slipped on Monday on fears the global economy may sizzle for a while due to a resurgence of the coronavirus infections in Europe, while fading hopes for US fiscal stimulus also weighed,” Jasani said. European stocks fell the most since July after a report alleged that several global banks had helped launder money across the world, he said. With the Dow Jones index down over 900 points or 3% in early trades on Monday evening in the US, also due to rising virus fears, market players are expecting another weak session on Tuesday on Dalal Street. Technically, too, according to Kotak Securities EVP (equity technical research) Shrikant Chouhan, investors could expect the Indian market to remain under pressure on Tuesday. “On the charts, the Nifty has changed its trading range — 11,300, which was earlier support level for the index, will now act as resistance. The index could fall to 11,000 or 10,900 levels if it breaks 11,150,” he wrote in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-812-pts-as-virus-spread-stokes-fresh-eco-fears/articleshow/78242748.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||Monkeys on a rampage destroy cotton crop in Raichur village||Belagavi: Cotton farmers in Yeragara village in Raichur district have been driven to their wits’ end trying to deal with monkeys running riot across their fields. A pack of monkeys has taken refuge at power grid towers close to the cotton fields. The monkeys, which have been feasting on cotton balls, have thus far destroyed standing crops across 12 acres in the village, leaving the affected farmers with no option but to appeal to the forest department for help in tackling the menace. The monkeys, identified as bonnet macaques, generally tend to invade farms with fruit-bearing trees, and can be easily frightened away by lighting up crackers. But the local farmers are surprised at finding the monkeys nesting so close to the fields, which they point to as a deviation from their normal behaviour. Shivaraj, Savaramma, Tippayya, Narasappa and Nallareddy Shivaraj Shankar are among the farmers who have had their crops destroyed by the primates. Nallareddy said that the monkeys had completely destroyed crops on 12 acres of their adjoining farms, and were now targetting the remaining eight acres. “We have burst more than 1,000 crackers, but this pack of around 60 to seventy monkeys seems to have no fear. They just climb up the tower, and come down again to feed on the cotton balls,” he told TOI. Narasappa, another cotton farmer whose fields have been rampaged by the monkeys, said that they had written to the range forest officer in the area. “But the official is giving us evasive replies. He informed us that the department catches only langurs but not bonnet macaques. The foresters asked us to speak to the members of the gram panchayat. But what can GP members and officials do in this situation?” Narasappa asked. GP member Aziz demanded a written statement from the forest department, clearly stating that it captured only langurs and not bonnet macaques. “We will speak to the panchayat development officer, and ask him to persuade the forest department to solve this problem. Men and women of the village are spending all night guarding the fields to save whatever is left and the forest department is turning a blind eye to this? Who will compensate the farmers for their losses?” Aziz asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/monkeys-on-a-rampage-destroy-cotton-crop-in-raichur-village/articleshow/78243645.cms||Shreyas HS
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||Bhadra continues to flow above danger level||Shivamogga/ Chikkamagaluru/Mandya: Bhadra river water flooded low-lying areas in Bhadravathi city in Shivamogga district on Monday. Nearly hundred people from 25 families have taken shelter at a camp. The reservoir is filled to the brim and a huge amount of water is being released into the river as torrential rainfall continues to lash Malnad region. In Mandya, Cauvery Niravari Nigam Limited (CNNL) authorities informed the district administration that they will not release heavy water from KRS reservoir since rain is abating in Kodagu district. As on Monday, water level in KRS stood at 124.5 ft against the maximum level of 124.8 ft with an inflow of 31,157 cusecs, while outflow was 43,930 cusecs. According to officials, the inflow suddenly rose to over 40,000 cusecs and crust grates had to be opened. “We have withdrawn the flood warning since rain in Cauvery catchment area has subsided. However, we cannot rule out the possibility of increase in outflow as rainfall is unpredictable,” said a senior CNNL officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bhadra-continues-to-flow-above-danger-level/articleshow/78243237.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Business||Route Mobile stock doubles on listing||TNN Mumbai: The IPO rush on Dalal Street continued with cloud communication services provider Route Mobile listing on Monday at more than double its offer price. The Rs 318-crore issue for Chemcon Speciality Chemicals too was subscribed more than five times on its launch day, while CAMS IPO, for Rs 2,242 crore, was subscribed more than 50%, also on its first day. On Monday, Route Mobile stocks listed on the BSE at Rs 708, a 102% premium to its IPO price of Rs 350. The stock touched a high at Rs 735, a low at Rs 625 and closed at Rs 651, a jump of 86% over its IPO price. This was the second blockbuster listing in as many weeks after Happiest Minds. On September 17, Happiest Minds Technologies had listed at a 111% premium to its offer price. On Monday evening, Angel Broking said that it has raised Rs 180 crore from 12 institutions. Its Rs 600-crore IPO is slotted to open on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/route-mobile-stock-doubles-on-listing/articleshow/78242650.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||Rain subsides in Malnad region||Mysuru: After moderate to heavy rains in all districts of Southern Karnataka over the past 24 hours, the intensity of showers reduced on Monday. However, the dams continue to receive heavy inflow leading to discharge of flood water. The dam authorities have released 37,000 cusecs of water from KRS Dam and 36,625 cusecs of water from Kabini Dam in HD Kote. Meanwhile, the IMD downgraded the rain forecast from Red Alert to Orange Alert in Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagalur and Hassan districts of the Malnad region. According to the Kabini dam authorities, the inflow is 28,000 cusecs while outflow is 35,000 cusecs since Monday morning. “However, both are expected to come down as rain intensity is reducing in Wayanad,” informed an officer. “The water level in the river Kapila is coming down,” said officials. According to the KSNDMC forecast, scattered to fairly widespread light to moderate rains are likely over Mysuru district till Tuesday. In Malnad districts, widespread light to moderate rains at most places with isolated heavy to extremely heavy rains are predicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rain-subsides-in-malnad-region/articleshow/78243541.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Kurja cranes arrive early in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Migratory birds Kurja demoiselle cranes have started arriving in Jaisalmer, the first flock of which was spotted near the ponds situated in Khetolai and Chacha villages on Monday. For the last one week, these birds were flying over Lathi area to find a suitable place. As there was good rain this monsoon, the Kurja birds have started to come before time. A group of birds were hovering over the village for one week to find a suitable place for camping. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kurja-cranes-arrive-early-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78244430.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal universities extend admission season||KOLKATA: After Calcutta University on Saturday extended the last date of admissions to undergraduate programmes in affiliated colleges for both honours and general courses up to October 30, the state higher education department on Monday instructed colleges affiliated to the state-aided universities to do the same. The decision was taken keeping in mind the “extraordinary” number of seats remaining vacant in several institutes despite several rounds of merit lists. Till now, the government had asked the colleges to complete their admission process by September 25. Presidency University registrar Debajyoti Konar said admissions are going on according to the second merit list. “Now, we will continue the admissions till October 30 or till the vacancies are filled up, whichever is earlier,” he said. This will also impact admissions in Jadavpur University, though it is yet to publish its first merit list for undergraduate courses. However, CU college principals are worried that if the government now allows classes to restart before the puja vacation, students taking late admission will lag and may require special classes. A CU college principal pointed out that though many prominent colleges have managed to fill up seats, several others are yet to get candidates for some not-so-popular subjects. “Even in the popular colleges, several seats are empty in subjects like Hindi, philosophy, Sanskrit and even sociology. The state has sent instructions that no seat should remain vacant. Thus, the last date for admissions has been extended,” he said. Most of the colleges have published five or six merit lists. This year, one of the major challenges faced by the institutes was the duplicate applications made by several candidates in the same subject due to the absence of any application fees. This resulted in the increase in number of merit lists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-varsities-extend-admission-season/articleshow/78242516.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1.22 lakh pupils to appear for BEd entrance exam today||PATNA: Altogether 1.22 lakh candidates would appear for the BEd Common Entrance Test (CET) to be conducted by Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) at 278 examination centres across the state on Tuesday. In Patna, 42,292 examinees have registered and supposed to take exams at 86 examination centres. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said adequate number of magistrates and police personnel have been deployed at each exam centre. “Besides, there will be no shortage of public transportation (buses, autorickshaws and e-rickshaws) for candidates to reach the centres,” he said. The examinees have to reach at the centre by 9am, he said. Carrying electronic gadgets like mobile phone, Bluetooth, digital diary and calculator and items like any written material, plain paper, clipboard and slide rule is strictly prohibited. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, arrangements like hand-free sanitiser machines and thermal screening have been made at the exam centres. Face masks would be given to the candidates before entering the exam halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-22l-pupils-to-appear-for-bed-entrance-exam-today/articleshow/78241907.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Patna||Flight operations at Darbhanga airport from November 8||PATNA: Budget carrier SpiceJet on Monday announced the launch of daily direct flights connecting Darbhanga with Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, starting from November 8. Darbhanga airport, which was bagged by SpiceJet under UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) II, will be the airline’s 13th destination under the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme and 55th destination in its domestic network. The Bengaluru-Darbhanga-Bengaluru flight (SG- 493/ 494) would land at Darbhanga at 11.15 am and depart at 4.25 pm, while Mumbai-Darbhanga-Mumbai flight (SG- 705/ 706) would land at 12.10 pm and leave for Mumbai at 12.40 pm. The flight SG- 495/ 496 between Delhi and Darbhanga would arrive at 3.55 pm and fly back to Delhi at 11.45 am. The airlines would operate its Boeing 737- 800 on all three routes. The airline is offering all-inclusive introductory one-way promotional fare starting at Rs 3,799 on all routes. A SpiceJet executive at Patna airport told this newspaper that the booking for Delhi-Darbhanga, Bengaluru- Darbhanga and Mumbai-Darbhanga sectors have started on portals and ticketing counters at the city airport. “People can also book tickets from travel agents. The ticket counters at Darbhanga airport will be operational once the ongoing work on civil enclave is complete,” an executive said. Ajay Singh, chairman- cum- managing director of the airline in a statement stated that new daily flights from Darbhanga from November 8 would connect the city with key metros — Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. “I am delighted to announce the launch of our much-awaited flight services to and from Darbhanga putting this key city on the country’s aviation map and making the upcoming festival season all the more special,” he said. He added, “Providing air connectivity to smaller towns has been a top priority for us and our latest addition couldn’t have come at a more opportune time for Bihar when thousands travel back home for Diwali and Chhath Puja.” Commencement of commercial flight operations from Darbhanga airport would be a boon for 22 districts of north Bihar, including Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Champaran, Saharsa and Purnia among others. Recently, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri visited the Darbnhanga airport and reviewed the progress of work there. GK Chandana, the project incharge of Darbhanga airport, DGM-AAI told this newspaper that 53% work on the airstrip was over before monsoon. “We would fulfil the basic requirement for flight operations by October- end. We had started the work on the airstrip on Sunday (September 20), but due to rains we stopped. We would analyse the situation for next two- days before restarting the re-carpeting work,” he said. Darbhanga Airport has a runway of 9000ft, while 7,545feet (2300m) is the required length for safe landing for aircraft like Boing 737s and Airbus A320s, as per the guideline of the Federal Aviation Administration, USA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flight-operations-at-darbhanga-airport-from-november-8/articleshow/78241664.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 22, 2020||Patna||Rhino count at Patna zoo increases to 13||PATNA: The one-horned rhinoceros has helped Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, to acquire global recognition. The rhino count has increased from 11 in 2019 to 13 in 2020, with the birth of two calves amid the lockdown. The World Rhino Day is celebrated on September 22 every year. City zoo has the second highest rhino population in the world after San Diego zoo, USA. To increase the count of critically endangered species of rhino, a ‘Rhino Conservation and Breeding Centre’ has been set up over 3.5 acres of land between its new lake and jungle trail area. A pair of rhinos was released inside the centre in April this year. The centre has all the facilities, including night house, forest area and open arena. The breeding area also has a lake, marshy patches and grassland to stimulate natural habitat for rhinos and help in mating. Some new features like nursery, net wire around the centre and animal keepers’ gallery, have been added. Zoo director Amit Kumar said the zoo authority would release another pair of rhinos in the breeding centre in the next 15-20 days. “This centre is unique and modern in the sense that we can keep almost 25 rhinos here at a time. At present, one male (Ganesh) and one female (Lali) rhinos are living in the natural habitat of the centre,” he said. “In the coming days, the population of rhinos may increase as some more have to be shifted to the new area,” he said. According to sources, Lali is expecting a baby rhino. The gestation period of a rhino is 16 months. The city zoo has seven male and six female rhinos, including two calves — Gudiya and Yuvraj. The Patna zoo has sent rhinos to Delhi, Kanpur, Ranchi, Chennai, Hyderabad and even to the USA under the animal exchange programme. Under the proposed animal exchange programme, Amit said, a pair of two-horned rhinos would come from Vietnam in lieu of a pair of one- horned rhinos. “An ambitious project for reintroduction of rhinos in Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) is in progress under the supervision of expert team from Patna Zoo. In due course, the rhinos would be released in VTR,” Amit said. In 1979, Patna zoo received one pair of rhinos named Kancha and Kanchi from Assam. Both Rhinos were sub-adult. Almost after 3 years, one rescued rhino (named Raju) from Bettiah Forest (at present VTR) was brought to this zoo. In 1988, one female rhino was born from the successful conjugation of Raju and Kanchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rhino-count-at-zoo-increases-to-13/articleshow/78241762.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 22, 2020||Patna||Major boost to road connectivity in Bihar as PM launches 7 projects||PATNA: Road connectivity in Bihar got a major boost with PM Narendra Modi launching projects worth Rs 14,258 crores on Monday. These seven National Highways (NH) and bridge projects involve a road length of about 350km at a cost of Rs 14,258 crore. Patna also got two major projects under PM Modi’s special package, including a ring road and a bridge parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu. Deliberating on the Patna ring road project, road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav told TOI: “The six-lane ring road project has total six components, out of which foundation of 39km-long Ramnagar-Kanhauli stretch was laid on Monday. This will allow vehicles to go from east to west without entering the town area in Patna. Besides, works are already in progress on Kachchi Dargah-Bidpupur six-lane bridge, which is another component of the ring road project. There are total six components of ring road project, which will together provide connectivity to at least eight NHs and five state highways.” The minister said all projects are part of PM Modi’s special package, which he had announced before 2015 assembly elections in Bihar. “Under the PM’s package, total number of bridges over river Ganga are going to be 17 with a lane capacity of 62. This way, on an average, there will be a bridge over rivers in the state at every 25km,” he said. Other road projects under the special package launched by PM Modi on Monday included four-laning of 98km stretch of Bakhtiyarpur-Rajauli section of NH-31, four-laning of 115.33km of Ara-Mohania section of NH-30, four-laning of 49km of Narenpur-Purnea section of NH-131A. “The Bakhtiyarpur-Rajauli project has been divided into three sections, out of which foundation was laid for two on Monday. Similarly, Ara-Mohania project also has two components and foundation has been laid for both. The Ara- Mohania project would smoothen the vehicular connectivity from Patna up to Varanasi as works are already underway on Patna-Ara stretch. Besides, the road connects to the Golden quadrilateral at Mohania, which connects Varanasi,” Yadav said. He added: “These roads will enhance better connectivity, convenience and economic growth in and around the state. Movement of people and goods will also improve substantially, especially with the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand.” Besides, two mega bridge projects were also launched by PM Modi, including a new 28.93km 4-lane bridge across river Kosi on NH-106 and 4.445km 4-lane bridge (parallel to Vikramashila Setu) at Bhagalpur. “The bridge over river Kosi connects Naugachia to Madhepura, which further gets connected to Birpur at Nepal border. Thus, people will reach up to Nepal border from Naugachia with construction of this bridge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/major-boost-to-road-connectivity-as-pm-launches-7-projects/articleshow/78241849.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 22, 2020||Patna||RJD, Congress to face farmers’ wrath in assembly polls: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister (CM) and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Monday said the RJD and the Congress would have to face the wrath of the farmers of Bihar in the upcoming assembly polls. Describing the opposition parties as anti-farmer, SuMo said they opposed the farm Bills in the Parliament, which showed that they wanted to continue exploiting the farmers, who were not getting the real price of their agriculture produce. “I want to know from the opposition, especially the RJD, if they intend to continue the exploitation of farmers by opposing the two farm Bills passed by the Parliament,” the BJP leader told mediapersons on the sidelines of protests by opposition parties in the state. He added, “The opposition leaders are trying to create confusion among the farmers by spreading rumours that the farm Bills are not in their favour. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has repeatedly said that the Bills are aimed at improving the economic condition of farmers.” The BJP leader also pointed out that Bihar had repealed the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006 to get rid of the exploitation of farmers. “The RJD wants to restore the system that came to an end in the state about 14 years ago,” he revealed. Expressing concern over the unsavoury behaviour of the leaders of opposition, including the RJD and the Congress, in the Upper House, SuMo said, “Harivansh ji is not only a noted journalist of Bihar, but also of the country. People will certainly teach the RJD a lesson in the coming elections.” SuMo also raised the issue of late Sushant Singh Rajput and Raghuvansh Prasad Singh to expose the “double standards” of the RJD. He said, “While the RJD and the Congress in Bihar demanded a CBI investigation into SSR’s death, the leaders of the UPA, which the two are part of, opposed the same in Maharashtra.” He added, “Similarly, former Union minister Raghuvan Prasad Singh was given a raw deal by the RJD leaders at the fag end of his life. The family members of the veteran parliamentarian were so unhappy that they did not allow Raghuvansh’s body to be kept at the RJD office after being brought to the Patna airport from New Delhi for his last rites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-congress-to-face-farmers-wrath-in-assembly-polls-sumo/articleshow/78241729.cms||Ramashankar
September 22, 2020||---||RJD, Congress to face farmers’ wrath in assembly polls: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister (CM) and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Monday said the RJD and the Congress would have to face the wrath of the farmers of Bihar in the upcoming assembly polls. Describing the opposition parties as anti-farmer, SuMo said they opposed the farm Bills in the Parliament, which showed that they wanted to continue exploiting the farmers, who were not getting the real price of their agriculture produce. “I want to know from the opposition, especially the RJD, if they intend to continue the exploitation of farmers by opposing the two farm Bills passed by the Parliament,” the BJP leader told mediapersons on the sidelines of protests by opposition parties in the state. He added, “The opposition leaders are trying to create confusion among the farmers by spreading rumours that the farm Bills are not in their favour. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has repeatedly said that the Bills are aimed at improving the economic condition of farmers.” The BJP leader also pointed out that Bihar had repealed the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006 to get rid of the exploitation of farmers. “The RJD wants to restore the system that came to an end in the state about 14 years ago,” he revealed. Expressing concern over the unsavoury behaviour of the leaders of opposition, including the RJD and the Congress, in the Upper House, SuMo said, “Harivansh ji is not only a noted journalist of Bihar, but also of the country. People will certainly teach the RJD a lesson in the coming elections.” SuMo also raised the issue of late Sushant Singh Rajput and Raghuvansh Prasad Singh to expose the “double standards” of the RJD. He said, “While the RJD and the Congress in Bihar demanded a CBI investigation into SSR’s death, the leaders of the UPA, which the two are part of, opposed the same in Maharashtra.” He added, “Similarly, former Union minister Raghuvan Prasad Singh was given a raw deal by the RJD leaders at the fag end of his life. The family members of the veteran parliamentarian were so unhappy that they did not allow Raghuvansh’s body to be kept at the RJD office after being brought to the Patna airport from New Delhi for his last rites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/rjd-congress-to-face-farmers-wrath-in-assembly-polls-sumo/articleshow/78249333.cms||Ramashankar
September 22, 2020||Patna||LJP missing from NDA posters, Chirag highlights ties with PM, Shah||PATNA: Amid the rumours of LJP being sidelined in the NDA ahead of the state polls, LJP chief Chirag Paswan stated on Monday that PM Modi is regularly taking updates about Chirag’s father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s health. In another statement, Chirag thanked Union home minister Amit Shah for his concerns about his father’s health. These statements come amid posters of the ruling coalition in Patna showing only photos of PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar. “PM Modi made several calls yesterday and today to enquire about papa’s health. He also talked to doctors involved in papa’s treatment. I am thankful from the core of my heart to PM Narendra Modi for standing by us at this time,” Chirag tweeted. The LJP founder was admitted at AIIMS-Delhi around 20 days ago for a “routine check-up” owing to underlying medical conditions and he was shifted to ICU last week. A statement issued by LJP on Monday stated that PM Modi has told Chirag to let him know if he needed any help regarding his father’s help. A few hours later, Chirag posted another tweet: “I am thankful to Amit Shah Ji for being concerned about papa. I am thankful to him for showing compassion for me despite himself being unwell till a few days ago.” LJP sources claimed that Chirag wanted to indicate that PM Modi and Shah are still very fond of Paswan and a message has been sent out to those trying to create a divide between BJP and LJP. “BJP is standing firmly with LJP at such a tough time. Besides, all functionaries and workers of the party back in Bihar have told Chirag Ji to be with Ram Vilas Ji as an ideal son. We are taking care of his work in Bihar with complete dedication and want early recovery of Ram Vilas Ji, following which both could come here,” LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said. Earlier on Sunday, Chirag wrote an emotional letter to his party men that he is unable to come to Bihar due to the health of his father. “Papa has suggested to me several times to go back to Patna but it is not possible for me as a son to leave him in the ICU. Today when he needs me, I should be with him otherwise your party president will never be able to forgive himself,” Chirag wrote. Meanwhile, BJP functionaries iterated that there are no glitches in the NDA. “BJP has amicable ties with all alliance partners. It is natural of our leaders to make courtesy calls to enquire about the health of senior leaders like Ram Vilas Ji. Such calls, as well as posters put up by parties in the coalition, reflect that all allies are working in tandem,” BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said. But opposition RJD claimed that the latest NDA poster reflected the side-lining of LJP. “Ram Vilas Ji was humiliated through the posters put up most likely by JD (U). It shows CM Nitish and his party has realized that they can’t win without PM’s face. Nevertheless, Chirag should take a clear stand now,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said. JD (U) on the other hand, boasted of the posters showing Nitish and PM Modi’s face. “It is a big advantage for NDA that two stalwart leaders in the country, PM Modi and CM Nitish are together in the alliance,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said, shying away from speaking on the absence of LJP leaders in the posters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-missing-from-nda-posters-chirag-highlights-ties-with-pm-shah/articleshow/78241887.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 22, 2020||Patna||Clone special trains leave Bihar with full occupancy||PATNA: Altogether four clone special trains departed for different destinations with full occupancy rate of passengers on Monday. The railways has allotted 10 pairs of such trains to the East Central Railway (ECR) to cope with the huge rush of passengers during the upcoming festivals like Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Saharsa-New Delhi clone special (02563) left for its destination at 5.15am on Monday with 113% occupancy rate of passengers. Similarly, the Rajgir-New Delhi special (03391) left Rajgir at 7am with 115% occupancy rate and stoppages at the Patna Junction, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction, Varanasi and Lucknow. The Darbhanga-New Delhi special (02569) departed for Delhi at 7am with 108% occupancy rate of passengers and stoppages at Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Chhapra, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Moradabad. The weekly Muzaffarpur-Delhi clone special (02573/02574) will leave Muzaffarpur every Sunday and Delhi every Monday and stop at Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Moradabad. Likewise, the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi special (03293/03294) will leave the Rajendra Nagar Terminal at 4.25pm every Sunday and New Delhi every Monday and halt at the Patna Junction, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction and Kanpur. The Jayanagar-Amritsar (04651/04652), Danapur-Bengaluru (06509/06510) and Patna-Ahmedabad (09447/09448) clone special trains will also depart for their respective destinations on the nominated days. The New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar (04653) and Katihar-Delhi (05485) clone specials will pass through the ECR’s jurisdiction. “Passengers can book tickets either through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation or the computerized passenger reservation system counters at different stations at least 10 days in advance,” the CPRO told this newspaper and added that the railways would ensure that all health protocols were followed strictly amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The clone special trains are running by utilizing Humsafar Express rakes and their fares are similar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/clone-special-trains-leave-bihar-with-full-occupancy/articleshow/78241809.cms||Kumod Verma
September 22, 2020||Patna||Advocate shot dead in Buxar||PATNA/BUXAR: A 35-year-old practising lawyer of Buxar civil court was shot dead on Itarhi-Buxar road under Mufassil police station in the district on Monday. Two bike-borne youths intercepted advocate Kishore Kumar Pandey alias Bambam Pandey near a petrol pump and shot at him around 10am. He was rushed to Buxar Sadar hospital where the doctors declared him dead. Kishore’s father Lakshman Pandey, also a practising lawyer, told the police that his son had left Gurudas Mathia village for the court on his motorbike. An empty cartridge was recovered from the spot. As the news reached the court, lawyers blocked the Itarhi road. SP Neeraj Kumar Singh rushed to the site and pacified the agitators. The road blockade was lifted on the assurances of the SP, who assumed charge on Monday. The SP said the reason behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. However, the family members apprehended land dispute or personal enmity behind the incident. On September 8, Patna civil court advocate Harendra Singh was killed near Sarai under Naubatpur police station in Patna rural. Earlier, sales tax lawyer Satyendra Kumar was killed in Bhojpur district on February 22. Prior to that a 35-year-old lawyer Tuntun Akela was shot dead in Gopalganj district. State bar council’s former vice-chairman Kameshwar Pandey along with his domestic help was found murdered at his residence in Bhagalpur in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/advocate-shot-dead-in-buxar/articleshow/78241710.cms||Ramashankar
September 22, 2020||Patna||Patna University extends last date for form submission||PATNA: The last date for online submission of forms for admission to the conventional postgraduate (PG) programmes of Patna University (PU) has been extended till October 5. A decision in this regard was taken by officiating vice-chancellor H N Prasad in view of the non-publication of results of the Degree Part III exams. However, the deadline for submission of application forms for all self-financing PG courses has ended and their entrance tests have been rescheduled in October. The tests for admission to various undergraduate (UG) courses, on the other hand, will be held between September 26 and 30. According to the revised academic calendar notified on Monday, the last date for admission to all UG and PG courses, both under the conventional as well as the self-financing modes, will be October 31. Induction meets will be held from November 2 to 5 and classes of the newly admitted students shall begin on November 5. Pending exams conducted: The pending Degree Part III examinations of PU were held with all precautionary measures at five centres on Monday. “Now, we will try to publish the results as soon as possible so that students are able to apply for admission to the PG courses,” claimed PU examination controller R K Mandal. Meanwhile, Munger University has made necessary arrangements to conduct its first offline examination of Degree Part II courses amid the Covid pandemic. Vice-chancellor R K Verma told this newspaper, “Strict guidelines have been issued to the centres for adhering to social distancing and sanitization norms and ensuring complete frisking of examinees at the entry points.” More than 18,000 students will write the exams which will start on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-extends-last-date-for-form-submission/articleshow/78241695.cms||B K Mishra
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 91.74% Covid recovery rate||PATNA: Altogether 1,314 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Monday, taking the tally to 1,69,856. Officially, six deaths were reported, including two from Patna, taking the toll to 870. However, with 1,55,824 recoveries so far, active cases in state stand at 13,160. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1381 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and Bihar’s recovery rate was 91.74%. Of the six official deaths, two each were Patna and Bhagalpur, followed by one death each from Vaishali and Banka. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths. Both the deceased were from Patna district. One was a 62-year-old man from S K Nagar locality, who died on Sunday. Another was a 73-year-old man of Danapur, who died on Saturday. Both the deaths were reported on Monday. AIIMS-P Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said eight patients were discharged and the same number of patients were admitted. Two patients admitted on Monday were from Kankarbagh and Ramkrishna Nagar localities. “Altogether 150 patients are admitted at the hospital, of which 62 are in the ICU and 37 on ventilator support,” said Dr Sanjeev. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) reported one death. The deceased was a 60-year-old female of Garniya village in Vaishali. Hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said the deceased had a medical history of hypertension. While eight patients were admitted on Monday, two were discharged and there were a total 23 patients as on Monday. Of total 1314 new Covid-19 cases registered on Monday, 260 were from Patna, taking the tally to 25830. However, with 23598 recoveries, active cases stand at 2033. Covid-19 cases registered in some other districts include Muzaffarpur (125), Purnea (75), Nalanda (60), Madhubani (56) and Supaul (57). As per the data shared by the state health department, 173603 samples were tested in 24 hour and so far, 5872929 samples have been tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-91-74-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/78241682.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Procedural delay & spike in cases hit shifting of patients||KOCHI: Symptomatic Covid-19 patients in Ernakulam have been forced to stay back at their houses for days after being tested positive for the disease, despite inadequate quarantine facilities, due to shortage of data entry staff and other procedural delays. In addition to the delay in admission procedures, steep spike in number of people getting infected has also increased the burden of officials handling the technical side, including feeding the details of patients in as many as three different government portals. The delay in shifting those who need medical attention has taken a toll on the mental health of the patients and their family members. “I have breathing difficulties while coughing. Symptoms started on September 13 (Saturday) and samples were taken for testing on Tuesday. I was tested positive on Thursday. When I called our ward member he said shifting would get delayed as many patients are being shifted to FLTCs. Finaly, I was shifted to an FLTC set up in the convention centre in Cial on Sunday morning,” said a Puthuvype native. Another 22-year-old woman who was tested positive on September 17 is yet to be shifted to a centre. Initially, she was told by health authorities that she would be shifted to an FLTC. “I neither have any elderly person staying with me nor have any comorbidities. But our four-member family uses common toilet. I was feeling tired and had breathing difficulties while coughing during the initial days. When I was tested positive, they told health officials would come and shift me to an FLTC. But no one has turned up till now. Police said shifting is not done in all cases," said the woman. Meanwhile, officials fear, if the issue is not addressed immediately, delay in shifting patients to FLTCs may increase mortality rate. Details of patients have to be entered in three portals – Healthmon, which has been integrated with ICMR, Jagratha for state’s use and Care for district’s purpose. Besides the portals, details have to be entered in drives as well. “Patients will be shifted to FLTCs once their details are entered in the Healthmon portal. Besides shortage of data entry operators, a bug seems to have entered the portal. It has been preventing health workers in the field to get details of patients from the portal. The shortage of data entry operators further delays the procedure. When the number of patients increases, the process becomes lengthier and tougher,” said a health official. End of the day, it’s the field-level officials who face the wrath of people over delay in shifting the needy to FLTCs, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/procedural-delay-spike-in-cases-hit-shifting-of-patients/articleshow/78241529.cms||T C Sreemol
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Create Covid care facilities for cops across the state: Deshmukh||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday asked the State director general of police Shubodh Jaiswal to ensure similar open Covid treatment facilities for cops across the state on the lines of Nagpur and Satara police. He was speaking during inauguration of a 16-bed dedicated Covid care facility at police hospital in Zingabai Takli. Covid positive Guardian minister Nitin Raut, who remotely inaugurated the facility from his hospital bed, won accolades for allotting Rs 50 lakh to enhance capacity of the new centre. At present, there are eight ICU beds with monitor, ventilator and other facilities at the centre. The facility, started with the initiative of CP Amitesh Kumar within a week of his taking charge, is set to act as ‘transit’ for the ailing cops requiring hospitalization. Around 15 personnel of city police have so far died of Covid and more than 800 have been infected. Kumar was assisted in the efforts by Jt CP Nilesh Bharne, DCP Gajanmane and chief medical officer of police hospital Dr Sandeep Shinde. Police have also tied up with renowned radiology and pathology laboratories, apart from entering into a tie-up with Indian Medical Association for running the facility. Deshmukh said such dedicated facilities for the police are required in every city and district of the state given the number of personnel testing positive crossing 20,000 mark and 222 having already succumbed to the disease. “Our cops maybe physically exhausted but their morale is still high,” he said. Guardian minister Raut praised the police as ‘Covid yoddhas’ for having guided and secured the people since the Covid outbreak. CP Kumar said he had taken up the responsibility ever since home minister Deshmukh had expressed desire to see dedicated Covid facility is developed in the city during a review meeting. “Around 10% of personnel have been affected. With shortage of beds in city, we had to have a facility where the patients and their family members can be stabilized until hospital beds are arranged,” he said. Kumar expressed gratitude to Mayo hospital dean Dr Ajay Keoliya, Dr Anup Marar, Dr Lokendra Singh and Dr Sadhashiv Bhole for extending their technical knowledge and suggestions to set up the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/create-covid-care-facilities-for-cops-across-the-state-deshmukh/articleshow/78242970.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 22, 2020||Varanasi||Trainee pilot killed in aircraft crash in Azamgarh district||Varanasi: A trainee pilot was killed after a trainer aircraft of Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Academy (IGRUA), Raebareli crashed near Khairuddinpur area under the limits of Saraimir police station in Azamgarh district on Monday morning. As per the initial investigations, bad weather is being considered as the reason behind the crash. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that a trainer aircraft TB20 (four-seater) of IDRUA Raebareli had taken off the Fursatganj airstrip. The trainee pilot identified as Konark Sharan of Haryana was on solo flight, he said adding that the pilot had to reach Mau before returning to Fursatganj. However, when the aircraft entered the sky of Saraimir amidst thunderstorm and lightening at around 11.20am, the villagers noticed the uncontrolled aircraft grounding. The villagers claimed that the pilot tried to jump out with parachute but died after falling in a waterlogged field while the debris of the crashed aircraft were also found in neighbouring fields. Singh said that the pilot’s body was sent for postmortem after reporting the matter to IGRUA. As per the details collected by Azamgath police from IGRUA authorities, Konark belonged to Palval district of Haryana and had completed his flight training of 125 hours including 52 hour solo flying successfully before going on Monday’s flight. Konark had left Fursatganj at 10.30am, said the officials adding that the accident was reported at 11.30 am. It is suspected that the aircraft was stranded in clouds during thunderstorm and it crashed. Singh said that actual cause of crash would become clear after investigation. Locals said that chaos prevailed whent hey saw the uncontrolled aircraft grounding. They also noticed body of the pilot before the Saraimir police could reach the spot. Later, SP Azamgah also reached there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/trainee-pilot-killed-in-aircraft-crash-in-azamgarh-district/articleshow/78244375.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Opposition slams ‘anti-farmer, anti-poor’ farm Bills||PATNA: The opposition in poll-bound Bihar has upped the ante against the NDA government over farm bills passed by Parliament amid a ruckus in the Rajya Sabha. While RJD has called for protest across all district headquarters on September 25, the youth wing of the state Congress protested at Kargil Chowk on Monday and burnt effigies of PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar. Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad tweeted against the passage of the Bills. “The anti-farmer and anti-poor Nitish-BJP government had in 2006 closed down the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) in Bihar. The result was that even one per cent of the state government’s food grain target could not be purchased at the minimum support price. This led to an increase in poverty and hence migration increased. Today, every other family has to migrate,” tweeted Lalu. RJD state president Jagdanand Singh said if the amendments in APMC were beneficial the results would have been seen. “But after 2006, the situation of farmers worsened in Bihar and instead of farming, many of them migrated to other states for livelihood,” Singh said. State Congress in-charge and party’s Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil on Monday said they have asked President Kovind for an appointment and have requested him not to pass the “illegal Bill”. Gohil released his video standing outside Parliament in which he said, “Twelve political parties had asked for a division vote in Rajya Sabha, but the bill was passed without voting. The day will be remembered as a black day in the history of Parliament.” Further hitting out at PM Narendra Modi, he said, “The PM is lying that the minimum support price will not be hampered. Nowhere in the Bill has it been mentioned that on contract with firms, farmers will not be paid below MSP, or those paying below MSP will be punished. The PM has also insulted the farmers by saying that the letters had been misguided. They are more brilliant than those sitting in airconditioned rooms and the PM should apologize to farmers.” The state Congress youth wing president Gunjan Patel said, “They have passed an anti-farmer bill for a few big corporates and it is their trick to do away with MSP. They are anti-poor, anti-farmers and anti-youth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-slams-anti-farmer-anti-poor-farm-bills/articleshow/78241760.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: Inspector among five injured in mob attack||PATNA: Altogether five personnel of the state excise and prohibition department, including an inspector, sustained serious injuries when a mob attacked them at a village in Siwan district on Monday morning. Three of them — inspector Gunjesh Kumar and constables Amit Kumar Rai and Verma Giri — were admitted to the sadar hospital for treatment. The trouble began around 7am when an excise team, led by Gunjesh, reached Rauja Gaur village under the G B Nagar police station area following a tip-off that illicit liquor was being brewed and supplied to nearby villages. The locals suddenly began pelting stones at the team and held two constables captive. Apprehending that the situation was going out of control, the members of the raiding team informed the G B Nagar police station and sought reinforcement. Sources said the new team also faced a hostile crowd at the village, stated to be a hub of illicit liquor smuggling. The service revolver of an assistant sub-inspector of police posted at the G B Nagar police station was snatched by the mob when he tried to open fire in the air. Later, the stolen revolver was recovered when reinforcement reached the spot from the district headquarters, led by Siwan SP Abhinav Kumar. Excise superintendent Priya Ranjan confirmed that five personnel, including the inspector, were injured in the mob attack. “The two constables, who were made hostage by the unruly mob, were rescued by police,” he said and added that the operation against the liquor mafia would continue. The SP told this newspaper that altogether 28 people, including two women, had been arrested on the charges of attacking the raiding team and brewing illicit liquor. He, however, denied the report of police firing and said, “Additional armed police force has been deployed at the village as a precautionary measure. Siwan sadar sub-divisional police officer Jitendra Pandey is also camping at the site.” The incident took place a day after a similar attack on an excise department team at Chhitauni Musahar Tola under the Goraiya Kothi police station area of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/inspector-among-five-injured-in-mob-attack/articleshow/78241685.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Laxmi Vilas hotel disinvestment scam: Accused seek stay on court order||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan high court will be hearing the criminal revision petitions moved by the three accused in the Laxmi Vilas Palace hotel disinvestment scam on Tuesday. The CBI (special) court had ordered to register criminal case against them and had summoned them through arrest warrant last Wednesday. The three accused including the then disinvestment secretary, Pradeep Baijal, MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and director of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Suri moved the high court here on Monday seeking stay on the order of CBI court. Suri has made an additional prayer for freeing the hotel from attachment. Nishant Bora, local counsel representing Baijal with senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, said that they have moved a petition seeking stay on the order of the CBI court. The petitions have been listed at numbers 63, 64 and 65 numbers in the court of justice Dinesh Mehta for hearing on Tuesday. Another accused, then minister for disinvestment Arun Shourie has also moved the high court seeking stay on the arrest warrant but his petition is yet to be listed for hearing. The fifth accused, Kantilal Karmsey, owner of the valuer company Kanti Karamsey & Company, however, has not yet moved any application. The CBI court had held 5 persons accused in the case for selling the hotel for a meagre amount of Rs 7.52 crore and causing the loss of Rs 244 crore to the government by heavily underpricing the property under a conspiracy. The CBI, inspite of the revelation of a criminal conspiracy in the disinvestment deal in its preliminary investigation in 2014, had surprisingly moved a closure report in August 2019 in the CBI court stating that there was nothing wrongful in the disinvestment process adopted for disinvestment in Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel of Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/laxmi-vilas-hotel-accused-seek-stay-on-court-order/articleshow/78244431.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar overcomes many Covid challenges in last six months||PATNA: It has been six months since the state reported the first three Covid-19 cases on March 22. Now, the tally has gone up over 1.60 lakh with nearly 900 Covid deaths in the state. Since March, the state government has faced several challenges in tackling the pandemic, including the need to develop health infrastructure and increase testing capacity, apart from tracing the contacts to curb the virus spread. Health experts say counselling patients and attendants and preparing standard operating procedures were also challenging for them. Initially, all the Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar had a history of foreign return. All the three people who had tested positive on March 22 had come back from abroad. In April, most of the people who tested positive had either returned from abroad or were close contacts of such people. Even the virus had not reached across the state by then. As per the data available with TOI, there were 425 Covid-19 cases registered from 29 districts of Bihar till April 20. As per the health department’s data on classification of districts, Gaya, Munger, Rohtas, Buxar and Patna were put in the red zone category in the first week of May, while 13 districts were in the green zone. In fact, none of the migrant intensive districts like Madhubani, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Madhepura, Supaul, Purnea, Katihar and Kishanganj were in the red zone then. And districts like Muzaffarpur and Katihar, which were in green zone category, are now among the top ten districts with maximum cases registered so far. However, with the influx of migrants and their random testing from May 8 onwards, the state witnessed an increase in Covid-19 cases, as well as a shift to rural parts. Apart from Patna, Araria, Supaul, Saharsa, Madhubani and Bhagalpur have maximum active cases now. None of these districts were initially kept in the red zone, barring Patna. As far as the month-wise data is concerned, August had the maximum over 85000 people testing positive for Covid-19 in Bihar. The number of cases has increased to 1,69,856. However, the silver lining is that over 91% of them recovered from the virus infection. Recalling the past six months, AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjiv Kumar, said, “It was quite a challenging task. Initially, patients and their attendants were not aware as to what to do and where to go. Also, since we had converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, all the specialists and superspecialists had to leave their field and work for Covid-19 and needed to be convinced. Making SOP was also difficult as we had to take care of the safety of all the health workers.” Former state IMA president and at present principal of Madhubani Medical College, Dr Rajiv Prasad Ranjan, said initially several people instead of opting for scientific treatment were going by their superstitious belief. “But now people are abiding by what is being told by health experts. We had reached an alarming situation in August, but managed well and succeeded in keeping the mortality rate low. Now doctors have also understood that clinical sense is the only strength,” said Dr Rajiv, adding, “Migrants were the victims of virus spread in bigger cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, but we gave them a healing touch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-overcomes-many-covid-challenges-in-last-six-months/articleshow/78241571.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 22, 2020||Patna||Minister: Internet connectivity to all villages in Bihar by March||PATNA: Union electronics and information technology (IT) minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that Bihar would be the first state in the country to have internet connectivity in all 45,945 villages through optical fibre by March 31 next year. “It is a matter of great pride for me,” Prasad said before PM Narendra Modi launched the project nationally to give internet connectivity to all the six lakh villages in the country through optical fibre in the next 1,000 days. Prasad said the optical fibre internet connectivity project in the state would entail an expenditure of Rs1,000 crore. Of the sum, the department of telecommunications would bear the cost of capital expenditure worth Rs640 crore. The facility would provide high-speed internet to the villages that would also mark the coming of digital revolution in the state, Prasad said. The PM, in his speech, said the state of digital revolution in the country was such that India had become one of the leading countries, making digital transactions worth Rs3 lakh crore in August. The internet connectivity would help provide reading material to students and access to tele-medicine to the poor of the country. Referring to the benefits that would accrue to the farmers, Modi said they would be able to have information on seeds, new techniques and national market, besides real time data on weather conditions. In sum, the internet connectivity would mean getting urban facility even by the rural population, the PM said. Earlier, Prasad said the state had 34,000 common service centres (CSCs) and the aim behind giving internet connectivity to villages was to make them access the CSCs. The department of telecommunications would provide one Wi-Fi and five FTTH connection free of cost for one year to identified government institutions, besides one Wi-Fi connection to a village at its public place. The persons related to government institutions to be given one Wi-Fi and five FTTH connections free are those working in primary schools and anganwadi kendras as well as ASHAs and Jeevika didis, among others, Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-internet-connectivity-to-all-villages-in-state-by-march/articleshow/78241780.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Patna||Few devotees offer ‘pind daan’ in Gaya this year||GAYA: With the cancellation of the Pitrapaksha Mela in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Gayapal pandas have entered the names of very few devotees offering ‘pind daan’ rituals in their ‘bahi-khatas’ (ledgers) this year. They are worried because the figures, which used to be high before, could not even touch double digits. According to sources, the names and details of all devotees, who perform ‘pind daan’ in Gaya, are present in the ‘bahi-khatas’ of the Gayapal pandas, as a result of which they are considered important documents. A Gayapal panda, Kedarnath Meharwar, told this newspaper that his ‘bahi-khata’ had just four new entries this year. He added, “Earlier, I would enter the names of new devotees performing ‘pind daan’ rituals every day.” Two others, Ajay Katariyar and Amarnath Dhokdi, rued that no new entry was made in their ‘bahi-khata’ ever since the lockdown was imposed. Dhokdi claimed that he had made nearly 3,000 devotees offer ‘pind daan’ rituals during Pitrapaksha last year. A senior member of the Gayapal Panda Samaj, Mahesh Guput, who looks after devotees from Delhi, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, said, “I made only eight new entries, but none of them was from outside Bihar.” Consequently, families of the Gayapal pandas as well as the local traders selling puja items and running eateries near the Vishnupad Temple are finding it hard to make ends meet because they are hugely dependent on the ‘pind daan’ rituals performed by devotees during the Pitrapaksha Mela. They, however, expect the situation to return to normalcy by December and are looking forward to January when a large number of pilgrims go to Gaya during the period of ‘kharmas’. The Gayapal pandas are traditionally known for according ‘sufal’ to the devotees, who offer ‘pind daan’ rituals in Gaya. Before that, the name and the address of the pilgrims are mentioned in their ‘bahi-khatas’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/few-devotees-offer-pind-daan-in-gaya-this-year/articleshow/78241719.cms||---
September 22, 2020||---||LJP missing from NDA posters, Chirag highlights ties with PM, Shah||PATNA: Amid the rumours of LJP being sidelined in the NDA ahead of the state polls, LJP chief Chirag Paswan stated on Monday that PM Modi is regularly taking updates about Chirag’s father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s health. In another statement, Chirag thanked Union home minister Amit Shah for his concerns about his father’s health. These statements come amid posters of the ruling coalition in Patna showing only photos of PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar. “PM Modi made several calls yesterday and today to enquire about papa’s health. He also talked to doctors involved in papa’s treatment. I am thankful from the core of my heart to PM Narendra Modi for standing by us at this time,” Chirag tweeted. The LJP founder was admitted at AIIMS-Delhi around 20 days ago for a “routine check-up” owing to underlying medical conditions and he was shifted to ICU last week. A statement issued by LJP on Monday stated that PM Modi has told Chirag to let him know if he needed any help regarding his father’s help. A few hours later, Chirag posted another tweet: “I am thankful to Amit Shah Ji for being concerned about papa. I am thankful to him for showing compassion for me despite himself being unwell till a few days ago.” LJP sources claimed that Chirag wanted to indicate that PM Modi and Shah are still very fond of Paswan and a message has been sent out to those trying to create a divide between BJP and LJP. “BJP is standing firmly with LJP at such a tough time. Besides, all functionaries and workers of the party back in Bihar have told Chirag Ji to be with Ram Vilas Ji as an ideal son. We are taking care of his work in Bihar with complete dedication and want early recovery of Ram Vilas Ji, following which both could come here,” LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said. Earlier on Sunday, Chirag wrote an emotional letter to his party men that he is unable to come to Bihar due to the health of his father. “Papa has suggested to me several times to go back to Patna but it is not possible for me as a son to leave him in the ICU. Today when he needs me, I should be with him otherwise your party president will never be able to forgive himself,” Chirag wrote. Meanwhile, BJP functionaries iterated that there are no glitches in the NDA. “BJP has amicable ties with all alliance partners. It is natural of our leaders to make courtesy calls to enquire about the health of senior leaders like Ram Vilas Ji. Such calls, as well as posters put up by parties in the coalition, reflect that all allies are working in tandem,” BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said. But opposition RJD claimed that the latest NDA poster reflected the side-lining of LJP. “Ram Vilas Ji was humiliated through the posters put up most likely by JD (U). It shows CM Nitish and his party has realized that they can’t win without PM’s face. Nevertheless, Chirag should take a clear stand now,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said. JD (U) on the other hand, boasted of the posters showing Nitish and PM Modi’s face. “It is a big advantage for NDA that two stalwart leaders in the country, PM Modi and CM Nitish are together in the alliance,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said, shying away from speaking on the absence of LJP leaders in the posters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ljp-missing-from-nda-posters-chirag-highlights-ties-with-pm-shah/articleshow/78249358.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||814 fresh cases push Covid-19 tally beyond 41,000 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 814 new infections of Covid-19, the case tally reached 41,777 and the infection rate rose a little above 7% in Uttarakhand on Monday. Also, 10 more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 501. Amidst this surge in Covid-19 cases, health workers are mulling to hold protests against poor wages and salary deductions. To draw the attention of the government towards their demand, nurses in several government hospitals across the state sported black bands on their arms on Monday as a mark of protest. The nurses have said that the ‘black band’ protest will go on till September 29. Subsequently, they will boycott work for an indefinite period if their demands are not met. Meenakshi Jakhmola, provincial chairperson of the Nurses Services Association, demanded that the nurses be given a grade pay of Rs 5,400. “Our salaries are already very less and deduction of one more day’s salary should not be done. The government should give us a hike rather harassing us during a pandemic,” said Jakhmola. She added that the nurses have been protesting against poor wages for long but senior health department officials have only given fake assurances. “This time, we will protest for around a week and then there will be a total boycott of work from September 30,” she added. Meanwhile, among the 814 fresh cases, the maximum of 309 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 111 from Nainital, and 110 from Haridwar. Udham Singh Nagar also reported 95 fresh cases. The rest of 189 cases were reported from hill districts, informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. In view of the rise in cases among the secretariat employees and MLAs, the health department team on Monday visited MLA hostel from where the samples of more two dozen legislators were collected for Covid-19 testing. Besides new cases, the recovery rate reached 69.4% on Monday after 1,172 patients recovered from the Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/814-fresh-cases-push-covid-19-tally-beyond-41k-in-ukhand-toll-touches-500/articleshow/78241525.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||3.5 magnitude earthquake hits Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: An earthquake of magnitude 3.5 was felt in several areas of Uttarkashi district at around 9 pm on Monday night. According to the information shared by district administration, the epicentre of the earthquake was in around 10 km depth at Uttarakhand-Himachal border area of Mori Tehsil region. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “The epicentre of the earthquake was somewhere in the forest area. No damage to life or property has been reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-5-magnitude-earthquake-hits-uttarkashi/articleshow/78241517.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 22, 2020||Business||Privatise PSBs, scrap finance services dept: Rajan, Acharya||TNN Mumbai: Former central bankers Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya have called for privatising some public sector banks (PSBs) and dismantling the department of financial services (DFS). In a paper on banking sector reforms, the duo have called for reduction of government stake below 50%. “...Privatisation of select PSBs can then be undertaken as part of a carefully calibrated strategy, bringing in private investors who have both financial as well as technological expertise,” they have said. But corporate houses must be kept from acquiring significant stakes, given their natural conflicts of interest. Most of the reforms proposed have been made in the past by various committees, including the P J Nayak committee on banking reforms. The paper ‘Indian banks: A time to reform?’ has the strongest words for the bureaucrats at the finance ministry, particularly the DFS that oversees all state-owned financial institutions. “Today, its job is to assert the government’s will over public sector banks and seek to affect bank regulation via the RBI board seat carved out for the DFS secretary in 2012. A key marker of whether PSB boards have sufficient independence is whether the department is eliminated, and its officials redeployed more productively elsewhere,” the paper said. Other suggestions include a proposal made earlier during Rajan’s term in the RBI of ‘wholesale banks’ that only lend to businesses, and setting up a bad bank that will take over the bad loans from existing lenders. Rajan, who was brought in as RBI governor by the UPA government in 2013, is currently at University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Acharya, who was appointed RBI deputy governor in 2017 under the Narendra Modi government, is currently with NYU Stern School of Business. Pointing out that the government has been forced to put Rs 4 lakh crore into PSBs since 2010, the paper says that credit-to-GDP ratio continues to be low by global standards and bad loans continue to be high. The research paper is aimed at advising the government to seize the opportunity for reform brought about by the economic crisis, which has reduced the government’s ability to keep pumping capital into PSBs. According to the authors, it examines what holds Indian banking back and suggests a variety of implementable reforms that could allow banking activity to grow significantly without the periodic boom-bust cycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/privatise-psbs-scrap-finance-services-dept-rajan-acharya/articleshow/78242533.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Full house at open-air theatres for first live show in Cov times||Kolkata: The city on Monday celebrated the first day of public performances at open air theatres. Despite a forecast of heavy showers and thunderstorm, both the open-air theatres at Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre were packed to the brim. The entry into Rangamancha, the ground inside EZCC, was dotted with paint indicating the distance each audience member will have to maintain from others. A volunteer in PPE checked the attendees with a thermal gun and sanitized their hands. Chairs were laid out far from each other and there were only 100 people allowed in at a time. At the amphitheatre, seating arrangements were made on alternate rows. “We are not allowing anyone to enter without a mask and proper sanitization. However, we are getting a lot of enquiries about live performances now, which is encouraging,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, programme executive of EZCC. Ballygunge resident Pramod Lunawat, who attended a public performance after nearly six months, said it felt like life was returning to normal. “The last public performance I attended was in March and was organized at hotel. This is a welcome change from what life had become since then,” he said. Theatre group Purba Paschim, which staged the play ‘Jwarasur Badh’, has been conducting workshops on online meeting platforms like Zoom. “We had chalked out each step starting with rehearsals till the exit of the audience on the day of performance. We made provisions for social distancing and sanitization too,” said Saumitra Mitra, director of the group. “There were measures we have to take on stage as well. A performer may not be able to keep social distance in mind during the play. So we designed the performances accordingly,” said Luna Poddar of Prerna Center for Performing Arts. Her team staged choreography and solo dance performances at the amphitheatre. Niladri Sekhar Banerjee, director of the play ‘Tata Thoi Thoi’, said, “We had to change a few traditional things, like holding hands during the curtain call, but we took all necessary precautions to keep our performers safe.” For Armisha Sen, a resident of Baguiati, such efforts will now pave the way for getting back to a normal life. “It is like breathing fresh air again. This is an experiment and we are all keenly waiting for theatres to reopen,” she said. Theatre workers like Madhumita Kundu, who had come to see the performances on Monday, felt this will help thousands of technicians as well. “Many of them had lost their jobs. Once performances restart, they will get a new lease of life,” Kundu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/full-house-at-open-air-theatres-for-first-live-show-in-cov-times/articleshow/78242536.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Unions raise voice against railways decision to impose user charges||Ludhiana: Following the railway ministry decision to impose user charge fee on the existing rail ticketing system with a view to increasing its revenue for development work to be carried out at all major railway stations (including Ludhiana), members of several rail unions in the city have raised their voice against the same. They claim that 90% travellers in all trains are from economic weaker sections of society and would not be able to bear the increasing charges on existing ticketing system. So, the railways will have to look for some other option to increase their revenue for conducting development work on the station premises. Speaking on this issue, Gaurav Sharma, a local member of Northern Railway Mazdoor Union, said that, “In the name of conducting the much required development work at all major stations of the country, the railway ministry has taken the decision of increasing charges on the existing rail ticketing system in the next few months, which is cause of concern among members of all unions in country as the railway is pressurising middle class families, which mostly travel in trains for reaching their destinations. “Members of our union are against the railway ministry decision to go in for privatisation of the railways by signing a contract with a big private firm to manage maintenance works of all stations and reducing involvement of the railway authorities by ending jobs in several departments. The railways give huge employment to lakhs of young people of society every year but with involvement of private companies not only the number of jobs will be reduced, but the salaries of workers will also get cut.” Another member of the same union Ashok Kumar said that, “The railways is running private trains on different routes after giving freehand to private companies in restricting the employment rate, which is totally an unfair practice because the railways is a government body and they should not put the fate of lakhs of workers in the hands of private firms.” “The railway ministry should take back this decision as it’s against the welfare of common people as the railways is main source of transportation for middle class families and the government should continue to run it as its responsibility instead of allowing private players to enter the management of the department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unions-raise-voice-against-railways-decision-to-impose-user-charges/articleshow/78242968.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||Govt approves Dasara elephants’ list||Mysuru: The state government has given its consent to the forest department’s list of five elephants including tusker Abhimanyu for jamboo savari during Dasara festival. DCF (wildlife) Alexander MG told TOI that the government approved the list two days ago. The forest department had selected 54-year-old tusker Abhimanyu to carry the golden howdah as tusker Arjuna has crossed 60 years. Elephants Gopi and Vikrama will be the ‘pattada aane’ and ‘nishane aane’ and cow elephants, Vijaya and Cauvery, will kumki elephants. The elephants will be brought to Aranya Bhavan from their respective camps on October 1. They will be welcomed at the Mysuru Palace with traditional pujas at 12.18pm on October 2. This year there will be no gajapayana. The Dasara festival will be inaugurated on October 17 between 7.45am to 8.15am atop Chamundi Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-approves-dasara-elephants-list/articleshow/78242683.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||Two people washed away in Tungabhadra||Haveri: Two people from Aremallapur village in Ranebennur taluk were washed away in the Tungabhadra river near Konanatambagi village on Monday. A pair of oxen and a bullock cart were also washed away along with them. The missing persons are Jagadish Anner, 25, and Bettappa Milli, 23. The bodies of oxen have been found near the spot where the incident took place. Police and fire staff along with expert swimmers have been searching for the missing persons since morning. According to locals, both the youths had gone to the river along with a bullock cart in the early hours of Monday to collect sand. The water level in the river had suddenly increased while they were lifting sand, and both were washed away between 6 and 7am. “We don’t know whether they had gone to the river to collect sand, but the rescue team is still searching for them. We have informed villagers who are living on the river bank in Haveri and Ballari districts to move to safer places,” said Ranebennur rural CPI Bhavati Banthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-people-washed-away-in-tungabhadra/articleshow/78243467.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||Beans hits Rs 120 a kg, tomato drops to Rs 30||Mysuru: Beans prices continued to increase in the city. On Monday, the local variety of beans was sold for Rs 120 per kg, the highest in the last one and half years. However, tomato prices have dropped to Rs 30 per kg. Prices of other vegetables remained stable. According to vendors, supply of beans and tomato continues to be affected by rain in Hassan, Chamarajanagar and rural areas in Mysuru. “The crop is damaged every where. So, the prices have increased. Beans prices is expected to remain above Rs 100 till the weekend,” said Basavaraju, a vendor on MG Road. According to him, even farmers are now getting Rs 60 to Rs.70 per kg of beans, the highest in last few months. Tomato prices have dropped in recent days as quality has reduced due to damage caused by rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/beans-hits-rs-120-a-kg-tomato-drops-to-rs-30/articleshow/78242666.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Business||Games startup MPL’s value up 3x at $450mn||BENGALURU: The valuation of Mobile Premier League (MPL) has tripled to $450 million in less than 18 months as it raised $90 million in a new funding round led by SIG, RTP Global along with MDI Ventures and Pegasus Tech Ventures. The deal comes as mobile gaming has gained due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has led to increased adoption of digital services and entertainment avenues. The funding, which also saw the participation of existing backers Sequoia Capital India, Indonesian ride-hailing and food-delivery firm Gojek’s venture unit and Base Partners, will take the total capital raised by the two-year-old startup to nearly $131 million. As a part of the round, 20-25 MPL employees have also been able to sell shares worth $3.2 million generating liquidity for ESOPs. MPL, which has multiple games on the platform ranging from chess and carrom to fantasy cricket where users can win money, right now has 13-15 million monthly active users. The startup has been marketing aggressively during the IPL by sponsoring two teams — Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore — besides having Virat Kohli as its brand ambassador. MPL has also seen its gross spends by customers on its platform increase from $350 million in March to $1 billion in September on an annualised basis, as new customers join besides existing users start playing more games. Going forward, the startup plans to invest in product development with a focus on live streaming of e-sports, which it feels is a big growth market. Some of the games for which it plans to hold e-tournaments that will be live-streamed include chess, pool and carrom. “We can have these tournaments played on MPL across the world and it could be in millions. E-sports will probably be part of the Olympics faster than cricket and the combined market cap of it in 10 years will be more than that of all physical sports combined. The simple reason for that is to compete in chess, I just need my smartphone but to play physical cricket I need a bat, ball, ground and a number of other things,” said MPL co-founder and CEO Sai Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/games-startup-mpls-value-up-3x-at-450mn/articleshow/78242601.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Two hours for Calcutta University, RBU final exams||KOLKATA: Prodded by the University Grants Commission (UGC) intervention, Calcutta University on Monday informed principals of affiliated colleges that all exams will now be held for two hours. RBU has also decided to follow suit. Last week, UGC had written to CU VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee, informing her that the decision to allocate 24 hours for the final-year and terminal semester examinations won’t be considered valid. In Monday’s in-person meeting with college heads on the Rajabazar campus, it was conveyed by CU officials that candidates would be able to download question papers 15 minutes before the beginning of exams from noon while another 15 minutes will be considered to upload the scanned answer scripts or send pictures of the scripts to the respective heads of departments. CU has decided to keep the examination dates and the time of beginning the tests unchanged. “We shall begin the exams as decided, between October 1 and October 8. Question papers will be sent to the college principals via email, which shall then be forwarded to the HODs and sent to students at their email IDs,” said a principal. Colleges will have the autonomy to decide if students who cannot upload or send the scanned pictures of answer scripts on time can do so in person later. He also said that the marks allotted to the papers will also be lesser than if the exams were held for the usual four hours. The Executive Council of RBU has said all theoretical examinations will be of two hours for 40 marks each. Examinees will have 30 minutes before exam to download the question paper and must upload answer scripts immediately after. All examinations, including practicals, will be held between October 1 and 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-hours-for-cu-rbu-final-exams/articleshow/78242476.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 22, 2020||Patna||Six months of Covid: A sectoral snapshot of Patna||PATNA: Six months of the Covid- 19 pandemic has disrupted lives across the country. It has forced people to remain locked-up at home, extinguished the income of a large number of daily wagers and many have their jobs or taken a pay cut as the economy has been badly affected by the prolonged lack of business activities due to the lockdown. Children and students have been affected too with the academic cycle disrupted. TOI takes a look back at various sectors over the past six months to decode how they were affected as the year went from normal to topsy-turvy in a short span. Educational institutions: Schools, colleges and universities have been shut since mid-March. They had to re-invent teaching using only virtual classes, sharing study materials, notes, videos of lectures and conducted exams on social platforms. Recently competitive exams such as NEET, JEE Main and NDA were conducted maintaining safety protocols while university exams of first, second and third year, and STET is underway. Many institutions are facing financial crunch. CB Singh, president of Association of Independent Schools, Bihar has urged the government to reopen schools as many parents are not paying tuition fees. “Due to financial crisis, many schools are on the verge of closure as many had to take heavy loans from banks to pay salary to staff, taxes and bills,” he said. Hospitality sector: City hotels and restaurants are optimistic that the economy will bounce back in the months ahead. Akhil Kochar, vice-president of a private hotel at Beerchand Patel Marg said booking has gradually improved after restriction on inter- state movement was lifted. “The occupancy rate in hotels improved from 10-15% in June and July to 20% in August and it is around 30% this month,” Kochar said. BD Singh, the general manager of a five-star hotel at Frazer Road said, “The occupancy is still 55- 60 per cent lower.” Restaurants and eateries have also witnessed a steady rise in customers. Commercial activities: All shops, shopping complexes and malls have opened adhering to social distancing norms and other safety measures. Electronics, homeware and fitness equipment shops are likely to bounce back earlier as people are preferring to stay at home post-lockdown. However, footfall is still 40-50% low in clothing shops, including branded showrooms. As the demand for products is low, production and supply are also badly hit. Ram Lal Khetan, president of Bihar Industries Association said the demand is 50% low because people are still scared of venturing out and spending. Transportation: The local and inter-city buses started plying from August 27 and the occupancy has rapidly increased in less than 15 days. Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, the state transport secretary said all city and district buses are running full. “The occupancy has increased up to 70- 80% while it is 100% on some major routes in Patna like Bailey road and Danapur. The inter- state buses are not plying because the other states have not granted the permission,” he said. Flight movements have also increased at Patna airport. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said the city airport, on Sunday, witnessed the third-largest footfall among all airports in the country. Offices: Several private offices are still in work from home mode though government offices and some private ones are running on full-strength as per the Centre’s directives under Unlock 4.0. The pandemic has robbed jobs from some IT professionals and people working in other sectors while many are facing pay cuts. Some people are still waiting to start their work as the company has put them on hold without pay. Services still closed: Cinema halls, theatres, swimming pools, museums and tourist spots are still closed. The owners of theatres claimed their only source of income has stopped. They are also unhappy as the new movies are being released on online streaming apps. A cinema hall executive said people would get used to watching movies at home as all new movies are streaming online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-months-of-covid-a-sectoral-snapshot-of-patna/articleshow/78241608.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 22, 2020||Patna||Intestinal disorders bad for Covid patients with diabetes||PATNA: An international team of medical scientists has reported that intestinal disorders cause complications in diabetic conditions of Covid-19 patients. “The scientists found that an ACE-2 (angiotensin converting enzyme-2) based digestive mechanism may be involved in the pathogenesis of digestive system and increases diabetes complications and also the disease recurrence of Covid-19,” said team leader Dr Ashutosh Kumar of anatomy department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences Patna (AIIMS-P). The research carried out under the etiologically elusive disorders research network was published in the Medical Hypothesis journal on September 13. Other researchers in the team were doctors from AIIMS Deoghar and Bhatinda, PGIMER (Chandigarh), Maulana Azad Medical College at Delhi besides those from the USA and France. “People with persistent intestinal disorders like constipation and inflammatory bowel disorders are more susceptible to Covid-19 virus infection,” Ashutosh said. He said the team found a very high presence of the molecule known as ACE 2 in the intestine of healthy individuals. This molecule is a mediator of the entry of Covid-19, causing virus in human cells. He said this molecule is involved in the absorption of sugar and nutrient proteins from the digested food in intestine. High expression of ACE 2 in mucosal cells of the intestine and gall bladder make these organs potential site for the virus entry and replication. “Continued replication of the virus at ACE 2 enriched sites may be the basis for recurrence of the Covid-19 in some people thought to be cured from first time infection,” Dr Ashutosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/intestinal-disorders-bad-for-covid-patients-with-diabetes/articleshow/78241635.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Business||China tests India’s efforts of Atmanirbhar; hikes prices of key drug materials||MUMBAI: China has increased prices of key starting materials (KSMs), which are used for making medicines, by 10-20%, leaving those of basic raw materials — or active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) — largely unchanged. Both KSMs and APIs are imported in India for making life-saving antibiotics, steroids and other medicines. While increased prices will put cost pressure on the domestic industry over the next few months, more importantly it has sparked speculation that this could be a potential ploy by China to scupper efforts of India’s drug industry to be self-reliant, or ‘Atmanirbhar’. Here’s how China’s action may impact India’s Atmanirbhar plans: Any increase in prices of imported KSMs will discourage indigenous API production in the country, making units unviable and APIs less competitive against Chinese products globally. At present, India is dependent on China for KSMs and APIs, with 70-80% of basic raw materials imported for making medicines. For certain life-saving antibiotics like cephalosporins, azithromycin and penicillin, the dependence on Chinese imports is as high as 90%. To boost indigenous manufacturing and self-reliance, the government announced an incentive scheme to manufacture 50-odd crucial APIs, where import dependence is high. Plans to spur domestic manufacturing have been there for a while. Now high volatility in prices due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and tensions with the neighbouring country, have highlighted the risk of dependence on a single source. Typically, a spike in prices of KSMs is cyclical, and is followed by those in APIs too. But this did not happen this year. This has raised eyebrows and triggered apprehension. Experts said, “Coupled with appreciation in the RMB (Chinese currency renminbi), the move defies economic logic.” Further, the RMB increased 4% against the dollar over the last 45 days. Chinese companies are believed to be operating through a cartel and manipulating KSM prices for steroids and antibiotics, a Mumbai-based executive who trades in bulk drugs told TOI. Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association president Mahesh Doshi said, “Cost pressure will be there (on API manufacturers) due to the increase in prices of imported KSMs.” The government’s production-linked scheme proposes to provide financial incentives to promote domestic manufacturing, but involves large investments from companies, particularly for the much-needed fermentation-based products. “It is crucial to ensure that investment happens. If we do not draw investment, then it will be impacted,” said PwC India pharma leader Sujay Shetty. To be competitive and a volume player in APIs globally, India will need to keep input costs low. Countries’ procurement strategies are now gradually being recalibrated and they are looking at diversifying their procurement sources away from China or seeking alternative sources for the same API. Watch China’s price hike on KSMs used in making key medicines, a potential ploy?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-hikes-prices-of-key-drug-ingredients/articleshow/78242710.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 22, 2020||Delhi||‘Tell-tale chats prove plot behind riots’||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has backed its chargesheet in the riots conspiracy case with a huge volume of transcripts of WhatsApp chats which, according to sources, suggest that not only did the violence take place according to a premeditated plan but also that a section of anti-CAA protesters had vehemently opposed and objected to the course the agitation was taking. These protesters, when questioned by the police, claimed to have revealed details, produced evidence and volunteered to record statements before a judicial officer under Section 164 of CrPC which is admissible as evidence in court. They are the “insiders” about whom TOI had reported on September 17 when the Delhi Police Special Cell had filed its 17,500-page-long chargesheet in court. While some of the chats quoted in this report are from February 17, some happened between February 22 and 23. “Jamia has the credibility to do it nationwide. But everywhere, one Jamia boy/girl must be present to execute this,” a person wrote to one of the arrested accused. The latter apparently replied by asking him to shut up and not put everything on Whatsapp. “Chup ho jao na bhai, tum saare plans yahin likh doge toh execute kya karoge,” (Please keep quiet. If you write about all the plans here, then what will you execute?) the accused woman allegedly wrote. According to the police, execution of the plan which is being talked about on Whatsapp was a part of the mobilisation of people — which finally led to violence — in the garb of sit-ins or ‘chakka jams’. These, they say, were precursors to the police and eventually the general public being attacked. Another protester, sources pointed out, was warning the other group members in the Whatsapp group about the “consequences” locals will have to face due to their actions. “I am not educated. But I would like to tell you that some locals have evidence of what all you were saying last night about your plans for a road blockade - your proposal to incite violence. So, don’t play with fire. It will not hurt you, it will hurt us badly,” reads his message in the main protest group called DPSG (Delhi Protesters Support Group). “Our protests will remain non-violent,” he adds. A local anti-CAA protester of this group wrote in a message on the night of February 22: “Because of your fantasies, we the locals of Seelampur and trans-Yamuna area are in great danger.” Another protester says “+1” in response. These messages are seemingly addressed to the administrators of the groups, many of whom have been arrested. Some are being questioned. Another message by an anti-CAA protester on February 17 reads: “Why have you distributed chilli powder among women for attacking police and paramilitary? What are you doing with us?” A message sent by a protester on February 22 reads: “Are they helping us? Why aren't they doing these adventures (blockades) at the place they live at." An update reads: "Pinja Tod said ‘kafan baandh ke aaye hain..aur jo hamare sath nahi, wo desh ka gaddar hai’ (we have come here with a shroud…and those who are not with us are traitors to the country) when the local women protesters asked them not to block the road.” Another protester reacted with: “These sort of slogans?” There are many messages, sources claim, which show that a section of anti-CAA protesters was unhappy with the turn the agitation was taking. One message sent by one such protester on February 17 read: “Itna samajh lo sirf ki violence nahi karne denge.. (We won’t allow you and your friends to indulge in violence).” “Very very irresponsible behaviour. At Delhi Gate-Daryaganj, you fought with the police but none of you got arrested. You ran away. Our local people got arrested and will face trial. For your adventures we suffer badly,” said another message. One message questioned the timing of apparently the Jamia stir. “But why was this done just a night before the Shaheen Bagh hearing? Couldn’t you hold it till that takes some shape? Now what will happen if this is cited against SB. Last thing we want is protest sites being pitted against each other.” To reinforce their case against the accused, police sources pointed to what they claimed was resentment against the Pinja Tod members. “‘Pinjra Tod walein marwa denge sabko. Hum iske khilaaf hain’. (The Pinja Tod people will put us in trouble. We are against all this) Guys we need to intervene with all our resources and normalise the situation anyhow. We need to de-escalate,” read a message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tell-tale-chats-prove-plot-behind-riots/articleshow/78244436.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: RMRI may start vaccine trials next week||PATNA: Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI) at Patna is likely to start the human clinical trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as ‘Covishield’. The RMRI officials said the Phase-II clinical trials of the vaccine is likely to begin next week as they received the green signal on Monday from the Pune-based manufacturer. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) granted approval to RMRI-Patna for Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of Covishield last month. A total of 17 medical institutes in India have been selected for the vaccine trials. At RMRI, 160 volunteers aged between 18 to 55 would take part in the Phase 2/3 human trials of Covishield. The trials would continue for 180 days. RMRI-Patna director Dr Krishna Panday said around 160 volunteers would be administered the vaccine dose. “Those who are willing to volunteer for the vaccination would go through Covid testing. Also, they will be examined for Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Elisa Test (antibody test) to check if they were ever exposed to the infection in the past and recovered,” he said. The voluntary participants will be given 0.5ml intramuscular injection on day 1 and day 29. The follow-up will be done on 59th day and again on 180th day to study the outcomes. Health experts would also observe the effects of vaccine on T-cell response within 14 days of vaccination and an antibody response within 28 days. During the follow-up, they would analyse the toxicity and efficacy of the vaccine. According to a report published in the British medical journal, The Lancet, the initial trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine produced a dual immune response in people aged 18 to 55.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rmri-may-start-vaccine-trials-next-week/articleshow/78241667.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 22, 2020||Patna||Vishnupad and Mahabodhi temples reopen in Gaya||GAYA: Vishnupad temple in Gaya and Mahabodhi Mahavihara in Bodh Gaya reopened for devotees and tourists after nearly five months on Monday. Vishnupad Temple Management Committee (VTMC) secretary Gajadhar Lal Pathak said the temple will be opened as per its normal timing — from 4.30am to 10pm. The temple remains closed from 12.30pm to 2pm. “Only 10 to 15 devotees would be allowed at a time. According to religious texts, the footprint of Lord Vishnu exists in its sanctum sanctorum. It is considered to be the main vedi where at least one pind everyday has to be offered necessarily,” Pathak said and added: “At least 15 pilgrims offered pind in the sanctum sanctorum while nearly 200 other devotees offered prayers till Monday evening.” VTMC president Kanhaiya Lal Mishra said the government’s guidelines related to Unlock is strictly being followed. Around 300 devotees visited the Mahabodhi Mahavihara. Most of them were from the monasteries in the town and some locals. Till September 30, the Mahavihara will open from 6 to 9am and 3 to 6pm. But from October 1, it will open from 5am to 9pm. Mahavihara chief monk Bhikkhu Chalinda said only 10 people are being allowed in the sanctum sanctorum at a time. “The entire campus is being sanitised twice daily,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vishnupad-and-mahabodhi-temples-reopen/articleshow/78241734.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar condemns heckling of RS deputy chairman||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday condemned the heckling of Rajya Sabha (RS) deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh in the House during the passage of the farm Bills. “Whatever happened in the RS yesterday (on Sunday) was very wrong. The incident should be strongly condemned,” Nitish said while speaking at a virtual programme in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier on Sunday, Nitish said he was “stunned and saddened” after hearing about the attack on Harivansh. “Today’s (Sunday) incident in the RS hurts the dignity of the Parliament. In democracy, we should maintain the dignity of the Parliament and respect the prestige of the chair,” Nitish tweeted in Hindi on Sunday night. Speaking at the same programme, deputy CM and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said, “The heckling of Harivansh in the Upper House during the passage of farm Bills has hurt the prestige of the people of Bihar. They will give a befitting reply in the coming assembly polls.” He added, “Harivansh is a respected person in Bihar and across the country.” JD (U) leader in the RS Ram Chandra Prasad Singh also condemned the incident and pointed out that the attack on Harivansh was an “insult to the Parliament and Bihar”. “Harivansh is loved by the people of Bihar. Hence, an attack on such a respectable and decent person is intolerable,” Singh told TOI over phone from New Delhi. Calling Harivansh the “son of Bihar”, Singh further said the members of the JD (U) would not tolerate any kind of attack on the RS deputy chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-condemns-heckling-of-rs-deputy-chairman/articleshow/78241777.cms||Madan Kumar
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur: New bridge to boost economy||BHAGALPUR: The businessmen and residents of Bhagalpur area were elated after PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation for a four-lane bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu over river Ganga through videoconferencing on Monday. The bridge is targeted to be constructed by 2024 with the cost of Rs 1,116.72 crore. They believe the new bridge, once completed, would boost growth and industrial development in the region. “Vikramshila Setu was opened on July 23, 2001. Traffic snarls are common as there is huge traffic on the two-lane bridge. The new bridge will make smooth passage for raw materials like stone chips, sand, coal, fly ash from NTPC and agriculture products,” Eastern Bihar Industries Association (EBIA) general secretary Alok Agarwal said. It would also provide better connectivity between north, east and south Bihar districts and entrepreneurs would be attracted by smooth transport passage, he said. “Investments of Rs1,116.72 crore in the bridge will boost local economy,” said Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (EBCCI) vice-president Sanjiv Sharma. The general secretary of Bhagalpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Birendra Kumar Badal, said: “The new bridge will save many patients who otherwise get stuck up in long traffic snarls on Vikramshila Setu.” The executive engineer of NH wing of road construction department, M K Pandey, said the process for acquiring nearly 19.1 hectare land has been expedited. The total land requirement for the project is 21.3 hectares. “Whereas 2.2 hectares of the requisite land is available with the state government, funds for acquisition of remaining has also been sanctioned,” he said. The foundation for the 4.367km-long bridge was laid near the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) for Women at Barari, which is almost 50 metres away from the Vikramshila Setu. BJP national spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain, Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar, SSP Ashish Bharti besides officials from RCD (NH wing) were present on the site on the occasion. CM Nitish Kumar had demanded a bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu during his meeting with Union road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and PM Modi in January, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-bridge-to-boost-economy/articleshow/78241798.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 22, 2020||Business||Be aggressive on divesting, cutting rates: HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta||MUMBAI: India needs to become aggressive on disinvestments and lowering interest rates. This, combined with actions such as direct transfers to the needy and measures to revive demand through stimulus, would go on to help the country become a $10-trillion economy in 10-15 years. This was stated by Hindustan Unilever CMD Sanjiv Mehta at a digital event organised by industry body Ficci, in conversation with Apollo Hospitals joint MD Sangita Reddy. Mehta said the contraction in the GDP is worrying, but understandable given that India went in for a hard lockdown after the Covid-19 pandemic started. He reckoned the GDP growth could be anywhere from -6% to minus mid-teens in FY21. “When we see this kind of contraction, it poses a certain risk of people who had moved from the bottom of the pyramid (BoP) to lower middle-class levels post-liberalisation, being pushed back to BoP,” said Mehta. The government needs to take some emergency measures, including direct transfers to the poor, even urban poor who are seen to be rising. “It’s the right thing to do till the economy picks up and we owe it to them. There should be no Indian going to bed hungry,” he said. Mehta, who does not believe the pandemic is a black swan event, spoke in favour of interest rate cuts even at the risk of inflation because he said that would be better than the economy going into a tailspin. While MSMEs have been given a lifeline, Mehta said once the moratorium ends, many may still require help in paying their debts. “It’s important that they keep breathing till the economy picks up,” said Mehta. He stressed that the government should create headroom to spend money and possibly go aggressive on disinvestments to raise funds. In addition, Mehta said a stimulus during the festive season would help boost consumer confidence and demand, thus benefiting the economy. “When cost of not doing exceeds the cost of doing, it would be unfortunate.. If we don’t take these measures now, it might become too late,” said Mehta. He said the retreat on globalisation is not in the interest of the country and that India should do its best to ensure the process of globalisation in trade does not halt. “The dream should be to make India into a middle-income country… We could be a $10-trillion economy in 10-15 years.” He, however, said he feared the pandemic may slow government and private sector action on climate change. “We should give way on procrastination and take concrete steps to bring down the climate curve. We cannot get a vaccine for climate change,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/be-aggressive-on-divesting-cutting-rates/articleshow/78242314.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Low demand, low production hit auto industry||Ludhiana: Ludhiana is the biggest hub of auto parts industry in India and both manufacturers and traders are based here in very high numbers. Ever since the spread of coronavirus the auto parts industry has taken a bad hit and hopes of the businessmen related with the industry have been dashed as in the beginning of 2020 the industry was showing some signs of improvement after the last year’s record recession in auto sector. However presently the major issues being faced by the industry are low production in the factories and less inflow of orders. According to the businessmen there seems no hope of improvement for at least next six months and its now up to state and centre government to take corrective measures to save their industry. Upkar Singh Ahuja, leading auto parts manufacturers and president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), “The auto parts manufacturing industry is passing through a very bad phase as production is down due to less availability of labour and also very less inflow of the orders. In the beginning of this year it seemed that the industry was coming back on the track of progress but coronavirus outbreak spoiled everything. Due to the lockdown losses worth several hundred crores have been incurred by the auto industry. Now, when some movement is being seen in other sectors, the situation is quite opposite in the auto industry. The only possible way by which the auto sector could be saved is by bringing in the vehicle scrapping policy, under which the vehicles which are 15-year-old should be scrapped and owners should be incentivised. This would not only boost the demand for new vehicles but also for the auto parts.” According to Gurpreet Singh Kahlon, another auto parts manufacturer and member of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Board of India, “In comparison with other sectors, the auto parts industry is facing a different set of problems. The biggest trouble for us is the highest rate of GST on our industry, which is 28%. This leads to high cost of investment and blockage of capital in case of delay in GST refunds. So, the only way by which immediate boost to our industry can be given is reducing the GST on auto parts by 10%. Already the central government is considering the proposal of reducing the GST on complete automobile sector from 28% to 18%, if that reduction is possible, then why not reduction on the auto parts.” Sanjay Narang, an auto parts trader, said, “Our entire sales network is based in other states and majority of our sales come from far-off states in North East but due to problems caused by the pandemic the supplies to our customers remained suspended. Now, when everything is returning to normal we still do not have orders as our customers are reporting very low demand and huge quantity of unsold stocks lying with them as the reason for this. We request the government to introduce immediate relief measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/low-demand-low-production-hit-auto-industry/articleshow/78242981.cms||Mohit Behl
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Mining mafia target police again, one injured||JAIPUR: In yet another case of attack by the mining mafia, a policeman was injured in Jaipur district’s Phagi police station area when the officials went to check those transporting illegal bajri on Monday. A case has been registered against more than a dozen people and at least three dumpers along with seven tractors have been seized by police while 11 people have been arrested. Jaipur Rural SP Shankar Dutt Sharma told TOI, “When the cops went to check illegal mining, a few persons who owned these dumpers pelted stones. An ASI suffered minor injuries and we have lodged an FIR.” “We are running a continuous operation to curb illegal mining in the area and our officials are running regular operations to nab those behind the acts. In this case also, more arrests will follow,” added the official. Prime accused in murder of homeguard held: Dausa police arrested prime accused in the murder of border homeguard while the hunt is on for one more named in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mining-mafia-target-police-again-1-injured/articleshow/78244452.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Varanasi||Ansari’s wife, 2 sons booked for land fraud||Varanasi: Jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, two sons and nine others have been booked for fraudulently getting a piece of land registered in their name to construct a hotel in Ghazipur district. The don’s wife has already been under Gangster Act and a NBW has been issued against her. Ghazipur Kotwali Inspector Dilip Singh said, “On the directive of the district magistrate, an investigation was done in the purchase of land on which Ansari’s family owns a hotel named as Ghazal in Mohammadpur Patti area and large scale irregularities were detected. Following this, a named FIR against 12 persons was lodged under section 420, 423 ,465, 467, 468, 471, 474, 477A, 120B of IPC at Kotwali police station.” “Apart from Ansari’s wife Afsha Ansari, their sons Abbas Ansari and Umar Ansari besides Ravindranath Sharma, Shrikant, Nandlal, Saiyyed Kaisar Hussain, Jafar Abbas, Saiyyed Sadiq Hussain, Shivnath Singh, Chandrasen Vishwakarma and Motilal have been made accused in this case,” said Inspector Kotwali, adding Afsha and her sons have been mentioned as main conspirators in this case. The land on which Ansari family constructed their hotel had been purchased from Ravindranath, Shrikant and Nandlal on April 29, 2005, said police adding, during investigation it was found that the trio had no authority to sell the property, but they registered it in the name of Ansari’s family members. The don’s wife is already in trouble as on September 18, the Gangster court in Ghazipur district had issued non-bailable warrants against her and also her two brothers. They trio had been booked under Gangster Act on September 12 for their involvement in grabbing land confiscated on the order of the district in different cases, embezzlement and other criminal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ansaris-wife-2-sons-booked-for-land-fraud/articleshow/78244421.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Stress making people vulnerable to Alzhemer’s||Ludhiana: Doctors claim that Alzheimer’s disease, the most common form of dementia, is a neuro-cognitive disorder characterised by cognitive decline which leads to a significant interference in the individual’s independent functioning. Whenever a person is suffering from memory loss that disrupts the person’s functioning in his or her daily life, there is an indication of suspecting the diagnosis for an Alzheimer’s disease. Even though its lifetime prevalence rates are significantly higher in the older populations, nevertheless an earlier onset is not uncommon, and hence we should be aware of the signs and symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease. “We need to raise awareness about dementia, understand its impact on people’s daily lives, challenge the stigma of dementia and the strategies to help people live comfortably with dementia. The message is that although your loved one may not remember you or may do things that frustrates you, but this is the time when he or she needs you the most,” says Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, department of psychiatry, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Early stages of Alzheimer’s may just seem as an age-related memory loss, thus it is often missed and ignored by the family members. Dr Chaudhary said, “Our psychiatry OPD at DMCH sees a lot of patients with dementia in late stages, where behaviour of the patient becomes troublesome for the family.” Dr Vineeth Jaison, associate professor of neurology at Christian Medical College and Hospital, said, “Everyone has a degree of memory loss as they have a lot of things going on in their mind but that is not Alzheimer’s. People with Alzheimer’s tend to forget and there is no treatment but a lot of things can be done to overcome this disease. Having a healthy lifestyle, eating a balanced diet, exercising regularly, meditating, having a good night sleep, increasing social interactions, engaging in brain storming games and activities, limiting intake of alcohol and smoking, avoiding excessive stress, keeping BP and blood sugar under control are some of the ways to prevent dementia among people.” He said, “There are certain potentials to be treated as it might be B12 deficiency or hypo-thyroidism and depression which leads to memory loss and further lower the functional capacity. Hence, these are all treatable diseases. However, once a patient develops full-fledged Alzheimer’s, then they need empathetic care from family, caregivers and treatment by doctor.” Experts claim that the deterioration caused by Alzheimer’s disease cannot be reversed or stalled, but its progress can be slowed, with the provision of appropriate support networks for the person as well as the family. According to them, with the help of medications as well as support, it is possible to help the individual preserve his level of functioning for a longer period of time. Warning Signs of Alzheimer’s disease 1. Sudden increase in forgetfulness. Misplacing things frequently, forgetting names, appointments, important dates or events; asking the same questions repeatedly 2. Difficulty in recalling common words. Struggling to find the right word, getting confused in spellings, unable to follow or sustain conversations, forgetting where they left off and ending up repeating themselves 3. Social withdrawal. Avoiding social situations to avoid embarrassment, preferring to stay alone 4. Difficulty in recognising familiar people. Not recognising people, mixing up names and at later stages even being unable to recognise their near and dear ones 5. Disturbances in executive functioning. Being unable to plan and organize activities, keeping track of accounts, forgetting the sequence of a familiar recipe, difficulty in concentrating on tasks with delayed reaction times and slower responses 6. Disorientation. Getting confused with time or place, losing track of days, seasons, years and even the passage of time very easily 7. Daily tasks become a chore. May not recollect how to go about mundane chores and seem unmotivated to complete their routine tasks at home, work or elsewhere 8. Changes in mood and personality. Tendency to become irritable and easily upset, feeling of helplessness, suspiciousness and mistrust of others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stress-making-people-vulnerable-to-alzhemers/articleshow/78242975.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Delhi||Right to protest has reasonable limits, says SC||NEW DELHI: Observing that there is no dispute that citizens have the right to protest, the Supreme Court on Monday said right comes with restrictions and a balance has to be maintained between the right to protest and the right to free movement of other people who feel inconvenienced due to blockade of roads. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul agreed with Solicitor General Tushar Mehta's submission that the right to protest is not an absolute right and it is subject to certain restrictions. "Right to protest cannot be an absolute right but there is right to protest," the bench said. While disposing of a batch of petitions seeking the court's direction for removal of CAA protesters from Shaheen Bagh in the national capital, the bench said it will pass a short order on the basis of its "experiment" in the case to deal with the situation when roads are used for protests. The court had in February appointed senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran as interlocutors to persuade the protesters to shift but their efforts were not successful. The bench said the petitions had become infructuous due to the supervening circumstances as Shaheen Bagh protesters vacated the road due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic but added that the larger issue has to be examined. “We are not disputing the right to protest. But it has to be balanced with people's right to free movement. For a long time, the public road was blocked and people were denied movement on the road. The issue is -where and how and how long such protests can go on," it observed. The petitioners pleaded with the bench that the apex court should frame guidelines so that protests like the one that was organised in Shaheen Bagh, where the agitators squatted on a busy road for months causing inconvenience to people, are not repeated. But the bench said that there cannot be a universal policy for protests. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing some of the protesters, contended that the protest against CAA at Shaheen Bagh was going on peacefully for months but the state machinery was misused to curb movement. Watch Right to protest not without restrictions, says SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/right-to-protest-has-reasonable-limits-says-sc/articleshow/78244491.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||‘Not a single animal adoption since lockdown’, say financially struggling Uttarakhand zoos||DEHRADUN: Zoos in Uttarakhand — which are already facing financial crunch with no visitors during peak season owing to the pandemic — are finding it hard to manage upkeep of species with not a single animal being adopted since lockdown. The two zoos in the state, one in Nainital and the other in Dehradun, house 500 species combined, including 14 leopards, two tigers and even a few red pandas. Every year, at least 20 animals on average are adopted by wildlife lovers from both zoos helping ease some of the animal costs. But this year, both zoos have recorded no animal adoption since April. “Pandemic has hit incomes hard and that could be one reason animal lovers haven’t donated. While we didn’t see any adoption since April, we did get queries where people were willing to adopt a species if they could take it home,” said P K Patro, director of Dehradun Zoo. The animal adoption at zoos is largely symbolic with the ‘parent’ getting a certificate of adoption, free entry for a year, income tax rebate and felicitation. While adopting a tiger can cost Rs 4 lakh annually, a leopard can cost Rs 25,000 a year and most bird species can be adopted for Rs 5,000. Maintenance of animals is mostly through the revenue generated from ticket sales. While Dehradun Zoo generates about Rs 2 crore every year from ticket sales, Nainital Zoo makes Rs 3 crore approximately. But with peak season — March to July — witnessing no visitors due to the lockdown, funds have dried up. Nainital Zoo which reopened in June has had “negligible visitors”, said T R Bijulal, director of the zoo. Zoo staff said the animals were being fed from funds provided by the forest department and have urged animal lovers to step forward. The dire financial situation has led both zoos to allow people to sponsor animal feed for a week or a month. “We don’t want people to hesitate due to the costs, so we are asking them to contribute in any way they can,” said Patro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-a-single-animal-adoption-since-lockdown-say-financially-struggling-ukhand-zoos/articleshow/78241544.cms||Shivani Azad
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: 60% of patients died within 10 days of developing symptoms||KOCHI: An analysis of Covid-19 deaths in Ernakulam till September 8 shows that most of the deaths were reported within 10 days of onset of symptoms of the disease. It further showed that the survival chance of a patient is high if he/she manages to withstand the impact of the virus beyond 10 days. Of the 43 deaths, officially recorded till September 8, 26 patients (60.5%) died within 10 days of developing symptoms. While the number of patients who died within 11-20 days of the onset of the infection stood at 12 (27.9%), only four patients died more than 20 days after developing symptoms. And only one patient died 30 days after contracting the infection in the district. The report, prepared by the district surveillance team, stressed the need for early treatment of patients, especially those with comorbidities, as it would increase the chances of survival. Any delay might lead to multi-organ failure, which will cause irreversible damage, it said. “It has been noted that patients who need utmost attention should get hospital care in the early stage itself to ensure he or she gets proper treatment and will preempt damage to vital organs. We noticed high possibilities for heart attack, stroke or kidney failure among Covid patients. What we witnessed in other countries is that sudden surge in cases resulted in patients not getting treatment in time and further leading to a high mortality rate. We can bring down the mortality rate by identifying patients who might develop issues and give them proper treatment at an early stage,” said a health official who prepared the analysis report. Most of those who figured in the official list of 43 deaths recorded till Sept 8 had diabetes & hypertension as comorbidities. One of them had issues related to obesity. Of the total patients who died, 91% had some kind of comorbidities. Most of the deceased had breathlessness as symptoms, followed by fever and cough. As many as 29 of 43 Covid victims had pneumonia and respiratory distress as major complications. It was followed by acute kidney injury and myocardial injury. The report also says nearly one fourth of the deceased were diagnosed with Covid only after death warranting strengthening identification of active cases, early detection especially among the vulnerable. Of the 43 deceased, 10 were tested and confirmed positive posthumously, raising concern among officials that undiagnosed Covid deaths can be a source of new clusters. The surveillance team projects Covid cases would touch 16,000 by the end of September. Currently, the district has 42 clusters. As many as 53 people died of Covid-19 in the district as on September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/60-of-patients-died-within-10days-of-developing-symptoms/articleshow/78241549.cms||T C Sreemol
September 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 80% don’t show up on schools’ first day in Covid times||BHOPAL: Empty benches marked the first day of school reopening in Madhya Pradesh in the middle of a Covid surge. In Bhopal, Covid fear kept away more than 80% students. A fraction of those who had sent their consent turned up. “On my insistence, my parents had agreed to let me attend school but I returned from the gates on finding that none of my friends had turned up,” said Abhishek Agarwal, who studies in a private school. School principals accepted that attendance was very poor. “I had the consent of 22 students till yesterday. Today, 10 attended school,” said Rajesh Sharma, principal of Bal Bhawan School, which has 700 students in classes 9 to 12. Schools of unaided association said they had good response on the first day. Sahodaya Group has decided to keep schools closed till September 30. “We were never in favour of opening schools. We are keeping a watch on the situation,” said group secretary S Joseph. KVs were closed too. Bhopal DEO Nitin Saxena said students will start coming back in a few days. P2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/80-dont-show-up-on-schools-first-day-in-covid-times/articleshow/78242988.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, MLAs get option for virtual House session||DEHRADUN: In a first, Uttarakhand Assembly will simultaneously hold a virtual assembly session for its members, who have opted to be a part of proceedings for their respective districts itself. The duration of the three-day Monsoon session - slated to start from September 23 - has already been curtailed to a day and the Question Hour removed. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal had requested all the MLAs above the age of 65 to virtually connect with the proceedings rather than going to the House. He had provided the options to others, too, as there were limited seating options in the main hall of the assembly premises. Till Monday evening, a total of 15 MLAs gave their consent to attend the proceedings online. The 15 lawmakers to give their nod are Govind Singh Kunjwal, Bishan Singh Chupal, Chandan Ram Das, Naveen Dhumka, Sanjeev Arya, Bharat Singh Chaudhary, Rajkumar, Ganesh Joshi, Ritu Khanduri Bhushan, Dilip Rawat, Mahesh Negi, Pushkar Singh Dhami, Chandra Pant, H S Cheema and nominated member George Ivan Gregory Mann. Secretary In-charge Assembly Mukesh Singhal told TOI, “The legislators, who are unable to be physically present in the House proceedings can attend the session virtually from their district headquarters. We have conducted a successful trial run on Sunday and Monday.” Since the onset of the pandemic, 11 MLAs have tested Covid positive. In addition to the MLAs, three staff members of the assembly Speaker’s office are also infected. A total of 30 seats have been arranged for lawmakers in the function hall of the state assembly's new building. Ten MLAs will get a pavilion seat. Besides, a total of 31 MLAs can be accommodated – following social distancing norms - in the main hall. The 11 legislators, who have either recovered or are still undergoing treatment, are Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal, Pradeep Batra, BJP state president Banshidhar Bhagat, Umesh Sharma Kau, Vinod Chamoli, Deshraj Karnwal and Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion. Two senior ministers Satpal Maharaj and Madan Kaushik, were admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh and discharged. The business advisory committee, which met on Sunday, has decided to not hold the Question Hour in the one-day session. While the state government is going to table at least 10 bills and 10 ordinances in the House, the Congress may introduce adjournment motions. Madan Kaushik, the urban development minister who also holds the charge of parliamentary affairs, said, “We will not have Question Hour and the session has been curtailed to a day. All arrangements for social distancing and virtual presence are being done.” Karan Mahra, the deputy leader of Opposition, who would be heading the Congress in the absence of Covid-19 positive Indira Hridayesh, said that the issue of rape allegations against BJP MLA Mahesh Negi would “definitely” come up in the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-mlas-get-option-for-virtual-house-session/articleshow/78241579.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 22, 2020||Delhi||Chats on phones at core of chargesheet||NEW DELHI: A large portion of the evidence in the riots conspiracy chargesheet comprises conversations on WhatsApp groups and individual chats retrieved from the phones of those arrested. At least three WhatsApp groups — JCC JMI Official, Jamia and JCC_JMI — were formed on January 24, apart from a group called “Warriors” created by Pinja Tod for coordination, police claimed. Also, the Delhi Protesters Support Group (DPSG), police said, had a lot of chatter pertaining to the violence. The chargesheet said the tone and manner of conversations in many groups changed after a few broke ranks and threatened to expose them. “They started talking about relief, rehabilitation and care of victims. The last post on Warriors was on February 24. On March 11, members of groups like DPSG discussed deleting chats and groups,” it added. Several conversations were linked to what was happening on the ground. “I have access to actors/directors who are willing to do this. Need a scriptwriter to round it out. Or if we have ready scripts, it can be produced,” a chat in one group read. Criticising Bhim Army, which is headed by activist Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, a message from “Clearing House” in DPSG said, “Bhim Army doesn’t even have the strength of a platoon. It doesn’t exist. It is an army that people have imagined exists because it offers the idea of militancy and romance that has gone missing.” Another message mentioned in the chargesheet read, “Trump will be in Delhi on 24th or 25th February. Shall we do something that shall affect Delhi at this time so our beloved Trump goes out of mind and might call CAA discriminatory? I believe him to be chaotic enough to say anything.” “Someone had suggested deleting this group after clearing the chat yesterday and moving to Signal now that the Centre has started going after civil society groups. Why are we still communicating on WhatsApp?” read a message by one of the accused. Responding to a message calling for a blockade at 23 places in Delhi, one of the arrested people said that police had got wind of their plans, so they should sit calmly. A message under the photograph of Shahrukh, the man who had been photographed wielding a gun during the riots, stated that nobody should share the picture on social media as he was one of their own. The chargesheet filed on September 16 alleged, “The conspirators, by their ingenuity and criminality of thoughts, presented an entirely new dimension to the meaning of hate speech. Theirs was sugarcoated with nationalism, which hid the sour and sordid truth that it was, in fact, a well-thought attempt at igniting and reinforcing a pan-Islamic identity.” “By keeping the target audience confused, at times against CAA, at times against the so-called fascism, at times in solidarity with Dalits and marginalised sections, the conspirators had something for everyone who was looking up to their intellectual corpus in the belief that they represented a bona fide political alternative in the vibrant Indian democratic palette,” it further alleged. Police claimed that the key conspirators worked towards the creation of a group, which eventually came to be known as DPSG, under a “common conspiracy and with a clear mind to mask the protests with the secular facade, providing mass-based and more acceptable civil society participation and also to exploit women and children as a shield while facing the police”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chats-on-phones-at-core-of-chargesheet/articleshow/78264975.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||SP stages dharnas against BJP govts’ ‘anti-people’ policy in all Pilibhit tehsils||Pilibhit: Two Samajwadi Party's former ministers, Riaz Ahmad and Hemraj Verma, joined party workers and office-bearers to stage a demonstration here. The party staged dharnas at all the tehsil headquarters in the district on Monday against BJP-led government in state for anti-farmers policies, increasing unemployment, rising graph of crime against women, inflation, the growing insecurity among the common people and poor medical and health services in the time of Covid-19 pandemic.The SP leaders handed over a14-point memorandum of demands to SDMs of their respective areas to be forwarded to the governor of UP.In Pilibhit city, the two former ministers and party workers assembled on the tehsil campus under the leadership of SP district unit president Anand Singh Yadav. They raised anti-government and anti-corruption slogans against both central and state governments. Later, they handed over a memorandum of demands to city magistrate Arun Kumar Singh for the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-stages-dharnas-against-bjp-govts-anti-people-policy-in-all-pilibhit-tehsils/articleshow/78240524.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Marathwada receives 172% expected rainfall in Sept||Aurangabad: A day after 14 revenue circles in Marathwada received heavy showers (over 65 mm), another nine circles in the region witnessed heavy downpour during the 24 hours ending on Monday morning. Aurangabad city and its outskirts, along with parts of Marathwada region, also received a few spells of light to medium rainfall during the second half of the day, much to the surprise of citizens and farmers. There met department has predicted more showers for Aurangabad and parts of Marathwada at least for the next 48 hours.  With the rainfall gaining more intensity, Marathwada region has received 199mm rain in so far in September, which accounts for 172% of the expected showers for this month. Since the onset of monsoon in June, Marathwada has received 763mm rain, which accounts for 121% of the expected showers in four months and 112% of the season’s quota of rainfall.  Weather expert Kirankumar Johare said spells of heavy rainfall on the line of ‘cloud burst’ has been a characteristic feature during the current rainy season. “A change in the pattern of monsoon can be observed during the current rainy season in Marathwada and other parts of the state. Such spells of heavy rainfall are likely during the remaining rainy season which may to get extended upto December this time,” said Johare. As per IMD, Aurangabad is likely to have cloudy skies with chances of heavy rain for the next 24 hours, followed by the possibility of moderate rainfall in the subsequent 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-receives-172-expected-rainfall-in-sept/articleshow/78244475.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kochi||A mother puts her organs ‘on sale’ in Kochi||KOCHI: “Mother’s organs (including the heart) for sale to aid her children’s medical care and pay off debts”. The plight of a six-member family came to light on Monday morning when they erected a board stating the above message in front of a makeshift tent along the Container Road in Ernakulam. Shanti S and her five children, three of whom are facing severe health complications, were seen lying in the small tent in the morning even as rain had partially flooded it. The family, which used to stay at a rented house in Varapuzha chose to move to the tent made of a plastic sheet after it became impossible for the family to pay their rent. “My eldest son, Rajesh Kumar, 25, met with an accident a year ago and underwent a brain surgery. He is still recovering. Around six years ago, me and my 11-year-old daughter crashed into an electric post and sustained serious injuries. My daughter is yet to recover from it. Ranjith Kumar, 23, my second son, had a growth in his abdomen which was removed. He can’t stand or sit in a position for long due to the surgery. Two of my children are still in school and I’ve a lot of debt,” Shanti told TOI from Mulavukadu police station after police moved them to the station upon finding them on the road. Shanti’s husband had abandoned the family years ago. Rajesh was a disco-jockey and used to be the breadwinner of the family till he met with the accident, the mother said. Ranjith can’t work due to his condition. My third son Sajith, 21, used to work at a movie theatre but after the lockdown, his earning have stopped. The youngest two, a boy and a girl are minors. Pauly T P, development standing committee chairman at Varapuzha panchayat said he met the woman over a year ago. “I acquainted them during the surgery of their eldest son about a year ago. Back then, MLA V D Satheeshan had intervened and helped them with an assistance of around Rs 2 lakh for the surgery. He was also looking at rehabilitating them under the ‘punergeni scheme’. However, the sudden financial crisis seems to have made them leave the rented house,” said Pauly. The family was moved to the visitor’s room at Mulavukaadu police station where the health minister K K Shailaja talked to her over phone and assured assistance. Kanayannoor tahsildar reached the police station and held discussions with them. “Shanti went back to the rented house at Varapuzha after authorities arranged a donation from Lions Club to pay for their stay at the house for the next six months. Medical assistance would be provided with the help of a private hospital. Authorities have also promised to check the family’s eligibility for the housing scheme under the government’s Life Mission,” said Pauly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-mother-puts-her-organs-on-sale/articleshow/78241567.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 4 killed, 6 injured in accident near Pali||JODHPUR: Four persons were killed and six others were injured when the truck they were travelling in overturned near village Keerva in Pali district on Monday morning. The deceased include two women and two children. The injured were rushed to the government hospital in Pali, where they are undergoing treatment. All the victims were Plaster of Paris artistes selling idols in Gurugram and were going to their village near Sadri in Pali district in a truck, which was heading towards Gujarat. The deceased have been identified as Laxmi (30), Dariya (32) and two girls aged 1 year and 6 years. SHO (Guda Endla) Chandra Singh Bhati said that 14 members of a family from Bawri community had boarded a mini truck from Gurgaon for their home in Sadri. “The truck was going to Gujarat and all these persons had to get down from the truck in Sanderao and had to take some other transport for their village,” Bhati said. But before they could get down, their truck overturned near village Keerva at about 6am, a little ahead from their destination. “The truck overturned on a patch where the road was under-construction and the traffic was moving on the half side of the road, thereby making the road only a single-lane road. This vehicle could not stay on the road while allowing other vehicles from the opposite direction to pass by and overturned,” Bhati said. All the victims fell down from the truck but four persons, including 2 women and 2 children, got crushed under the truck and died, while the rest just fell away from the truck, sustaining injuries. “Four persons died on the spot while others got injured, of which six who were gravely injured were admitted to Bangur Hospital in Pali,” said Bhati. Villagers and police rushed to the spot and initiated rescue operation. The traffic was also cleared by removing the vehicle from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-killed-6-injured-in-accident-near-pali/articleshow/78244468.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Covid death rate halved in last 30 days||MUMBAI: The city’s Covid-19 mortality rate has dropped to 2.2% in the last 30 days from 4.85% in the previous month. The national fatality rate is 1.63%. BMC chief IS Chahal said fatalities between August 20 and September 20 showed a big decline despite a rise in positive cases. Daily average positive cases detected in Mumbai have risen to 2,000 in September compared to 1,200 in August, but fatalities have not increased proportionally. Chahal attributed the fall to a weekly monitoring of deaths in all private and public hospitals. “In the last 31 days, the average Covid death rate under BMC has come down to 2.2% and the overall death rate has consequently fallen from 5.4% to 4.6%,” said Chahal. There were 53,976 cases reported in the last 30 days and 1,201 deaths. The city’s fatality rate in the month prior to that – the period between July 20 and August 20 -- was 4.85%. Incidentally, between August 20 and September 20, the state’s fatality rate was 1.93%. As per civic numbers, the average daily Covid-19 deaths have dropped to 40-50. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit and member of the state Covid task force said a number of factors have contributed to the decline in deaths. “The single most important factor would be the standardization of treatment protocols and the ability of doctors to anticipate cases that are worsening and need escalation. Thanks to constant bombardment, doctors know when to start remdesivir, steroids, oxygen support, among other interventions,” he said. “Also, equally important is that the protocols are being uniformly followed in public and private hospitals alike,” he said. As per the civic dashboard, of the 27,664 active cases, a little over 1,300 patients were critical, while 7,966 were symptomatic. Chahal said the cases have jumped from an average of 1,000 per day to 2,000 due to increased testing. “We still have 4,777 Covid beds and 271 ICU beds vacant as on Sunday,” he said. On Monday, 193 ICU beds were available. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe, who analyses deaths weekly, had previously told TOI that the decline in deaths was also because of increased awareness in the community and the tendency to seek early care. Dr Pandit concurred that the delay of 7-8 days that was previously seen has drastically reduced. “Importantly, even those in home isolation are in touch with their GPs or BMC doctors,” he said. A senior doctor, however, cautioned that the case fatality rate naturally declines once tests are doubled. “There is no doubt a decline in deaths but we could still be missing counting many. Deaths among the 20’s and 30’s must be studied,” the doctor added. Chahal said that efforts were being made to further reduce deaths even in jumbo field hospitals that are now working under the mentorship of 35 experts from Breach Candy, Bombay Hospital, Hinduja, Lilavati, Nanavati, Fortis, among others, since last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-covid-death-rate-halved-in-last-30-days/articleshow/78245196.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 22, 2020||Delhi||Three arrested for twin murders in northeast Delhi, weapons seized||NEW DELHI: The northeast Delhi Police have arrested three notorious criminals in connection with the twin murders that took place in Dayalpur locality on September 12. The accused have been identified as Javed Chikna, Sahabjaan and Jaan Saif Ali who are locals of the area. They were in the business of manufacturing undergarments. The cops have seized three pistols, a car and a bike from the trio. The arrests were made after the shooters were identified in the footage of several CCTV cameras while fleeing the spot. An informer tipped off the cops about their movement to an undisclosed location after which they were apprehended. “Javed and Sahabjaan said they had an enmity with the deceased Farooq in connection with a woman. Javed also had some property and financial dispute with Abdul Hameed. So, they plotted a conspiracy to eliminate the deceased,” additional DCP MA Rizvi said. On September 12, within a span of half an hour and barely over a kilometre apart, three men were shot at in different locations in northeast Delhi. While two of them, both business partners, died, their acquaintance sustained a bullet wound in his abdomen and is recuperating. At least a dozen rounds were fired as two men went around the area and first killed 45-year-old Farooq in Old Mustafabad and, later, his business partner, Abdul Hameed, at his office just over a kilometre away. The accused disclosed that they had escaped from Delhi immediately after the commission of crime and had visited Ajmer, Meerut and Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-arrested-for-twin-murders-in-northeast-delhi-weapons-seized/articleshow/78244519.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||IIT Roorkee to get a Technology Hub in Cyber-Physical Systems||ROORKEE: Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee, will soon get a Technology Hub under the National Mission of Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS). It is one of the 25 hubs being set up in the country with financial support from the Department of Science and Technology. Named as ‘ihub’, it will serve as a one-stop solution for 356 fundamental technologies. Out of Rs 135 crores sanctioned for the period of next five years, Rs 7.25 crores has already been released. The hub will focus on projects in “Device Technology and Materials” spread across seven application domains — Health Research, Defence Research and Development, Electronics and Information Technology, Housing and Urban Affairs, New and Renewable Energy, Telecommunications and Atomic Energy. Professor Sudeb Dasgupta, Head of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, IIT Roorkee, said “Cyber-Physical System comprises an advanced suite of technologies that will address the challenges of Industry 4.0 and foster an innovative and entrepreneurial ecosystem. This initiative will offer us an opportunity to shape futuristic India.” Under the Hub, IIT Roorkee proposes to develop several products related to CPS in collaboration with various national and international academic and industrial partners. Some of the proposals include the development of an AI-powered multipurpose intelligent security & surveillance system in collaboration with IIT Kanpur and McGill University Canada, a secure edge AI Processor in collaboration with Proficient Design LLC, USA, a Cyber-Physical Platform for Prototyping Microfluidic Lab-On-Chips in collaboration with IIT Guwahati; Ritsumeikan University, Japan; National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan and Johannes Kepler University, Austria. Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) is a new group of engineered systems that integrate computation and physical processes in a dynamic environment. CPS encompasses technology areas of Cybernetics, Mechatronics, Design and Embedded systems, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, Artificial Intelligence (AI), and many more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-roorkee-to-get-a-technology-hub-in-cyber-physical-systems/articleshow/78241595.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Centre ready to provide tech-support: Union minister||KOCHI: There is evidence of sea-level change in Kochi according to data recorded in sea-level gauges. This was stated by Dr Harsh Vardhan, science and technology minister in reply to Kerala MP A M Arif in Lok Sabha recently. Replying to the query, Vardhan said that while there is no ongoing study, Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has initiated efforts to generate ocean climate change advisory services to assess the possible changes in sea level, coastal erosion, increasing intensity of cyclone, wind waves, storm surges and change in marine water quality parameters. The minister’s reply said that while INCOIS, an autonomous body under ministry of earth sciences (MoES), has not taken up any studies/projects to specifically study the rise in sea level and increasing tidal waves along the coast of Kerala, it has carried out vulnerability assessments along the Indian coast, including Kerala, by using sea level change and shoreline change input parameters, among many other parameters. The sea levels are found to be changing at different rates along the Indian coast as per studies carried out at INCOIS. The long-term data on monthly mean sea levels obtained from sea-level gauges installed at major ports were used to carry out the analysis. The rate of change of sea level at 10 major ports, including Cochin port, was estimated. The sea-level change rate recorded for Cochin port is 1.30 mm/year based on monthly sea-level data of period 1939-2005. He said that MoES can provide technical assistance to state governments to tackle the issue of sea erosion. Last year, projections made by a new digital elevation model (DEM) produced by Climate Central, a US-based organization, had hinted that large parts of central Kerala, including Kochi islands and Vypin, are under high-risk zone of sea-level rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/centre-ready-to-provide-tech-support-union-min/articleshow/78241589.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Meerut||Man beaten to death by neighbours||BIJNOR: In a dispute over Rs 300, a youth was murdered by three of his neighbours after the accused used a wooden stick with protruding nails to hit the victim. Police claimed that all of them were in an inebriated state. The incident happened in Ganj area within the limits of Kotwali city police station in the district. The deceased sustained multiple injuries on his body and died on his way to the hospital. The deceased has been identified as Deepak (24) of Ganj area. According to Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh, four youths got Rs 300 from a temple. All in an inebriated state, fell into discord over sharing of the money which was in Deepak’s possession. Deepak’s neighbours Ravish, Mukesh and Shashi thrashed him and later, attacked him with sticks. After getting the information, deceased’s family members rushed to the scene but the accused had managed to escape. Deepak sustained severe injuries in his chest. He succumbed to his injuries while being taken to the hospital by his family members. Singh further said, ‘Police have registered a case against the accused. Ravish has been arrested. Two other are at large. They will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-beaten-to-death-by-neighbours/articleshow/78240548.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||SBI offers up to 2 yrs repayment relief for home & retail loans||Mumbai: State Bank of India will provide relief to home and retail loan borrowers impacted by Covid-19 in the form of either a moratorium of up to 24 months or by rescheduling instalments and extending the tenure by a period equivalent to the moratorium granted.The moratorium period can be extended by a maximum of 2 years, India’s largest lender said on Monday, setting the tone for other banks, specially PSU players.In line with RBI’s one-time relief, the scheme is available to borrowers who had availed of a home loan before March 1, 2020 and were regular in repayments until the Covid-19 lockdown.But the borrowers will have to demonstrate that their income has been hit because of the pandemic. “For the purpose of restructuring, the bank will depend entirely on the customer’s assessment of when they expect their income to be normalised or to get employed,” said SBI managing director C S Setty said while announcing the scheme.The country’s largest lender has been the first to roll out a protocol for restructuring loans of retail borrowers who were affected by Covid-19. Other lenders including HDFC and ICICI Bank are expected to follow suit before the end of the month.To facilitate borrowers to understand their eligibility for restructuring, SBI has launched an online portal to enable borrowers check their eligibility for all retail loans. This includes home, education, auto, and other personal loans.The restructuring will give breathing space for a borrower until their income is normalised or they get re-employed. Also, they will not be classified as defaulters or non-performing assets. The downside is that the bank will charge 35 basis points extra as interest since the RBI needs them to set aside additional provisions for these loans. This means that despite initial relief over the tenure of the loan, the borrower will end up paying more than on a regular loan without restructuring.“We have put in place a scheme for restructuring and it is available to borrowers through our internal portal. We have also intimated borrowers but don’t expect much of traction for restructuring given the inquiries,” said Rajkiran Rai, MD & CEO, Union Bank of India.HDFC Bank has put in place a facility to submit online applications. The bank has said that it will report the loan to the credit bureau as ‘restructured’ and as per norms, all loans availed will be classified as restructured even if only one loan is being restructured.“The dues for the moratorium period can be capitalised. Or else it will be very strenuous for the borrower to repay. Capitalising the dues will reduce the pressure on the borrower and we are also working on this by elongating the term of the loan,” said Siddhartha Mohanty, MD & CEO, LIC Housing Finance. He added that even if the loan term is extended, typically home loan borrowers end up pre-paying their loans by seven to ten years.Borrowers who access SBI’s portal for restructuring will still have to visit the branch as a ‘wet signature’ is required for the loan document to be reworked. The portal will however take care of all the queries of the borrower. “It is not an end-to-end process but it will reduce the need for customers to visit branches especially during this time of Covid,” said Setty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sbi-offers-up-to-2-yrs-repayment-relief-for-home-retail-loans/articleshow/78245201.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 22, 2020||Varanasi||Man shot at in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: A man was injured after shots were fired upon him in broad daylight when two groups came at loggerheads in Mohaddipur area in Gorakhpur on Monday. The injured man identified as Jitendra Yadav, son of Shyam Narayan Yadav is a resident of Bhagat Chauraha of the district and is undergoing treatment at the BRD Medical College. Police are searching for the assailants. According to doctors, Jitendra has suffered bullet injuries in his hand and abdomen area. “The incident took place near Cant Police station’s Engineering College police post area. A man was injured during firing and is undergoing treatment at the BRD Medical College. After inspecting the spot and taking statements of the injured, police have started searching for the assailants. Police recovered a motorcycle from the spot. The injured man told two names and a team under SP city is searching for them,” SSP Joginder Singh said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-shot-at-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/78244428.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Women to operate helicopters from warship||KOCHI: In a landmark event in the history of Indian Naval Air Arm, two women officers have been selected to join as “observers” (airborne tacticians) to operate helicopters from warship decks. Sub Lieutenant Kumudini Tyagi and SLt Riti Singh, both commissioned into the Indian Navy in 2018, have passed out from Observer Course at SNC, Kochi, on Monday. They will be the first set of women airborne combatants who would be posted on warships, a position which has always been dominated by male officer and sailors. Earlier, women were allowed to fly only fixed wing aircraft that took off and landed ashore. From now on, these women officers will be carrying out the riskiest operations like controlling take-off and landing on moving ships. Airborne tacticians play a crucial role in successful completion of a mission in naval aviation. Airborne tacticians handle sensors, weapons and tactics while a pilot just flies as per the airborne tacticians’ directions. Both, Riti of Hyderabad and Kumudini of Ghaziabad, are engineering graduates in computer science. Riti is the third generation from her family to serve in the Armed Forces. “Wearing the white uniform is a dream fulfilled,” she said. Kumudini said she joined the naval aviation wing after getting inspired from the woman naval officer Lt. Kiran Shekhawat, who died in an accident involving a naval aircraft. Two other officers, Sub Lt. Afnan Sheikh and Sub Lt. Kreeshma R, who passed out with them, would operate the fixed wing aircraft of the Navy. Thirteen male officers, including three from ICG, part of 91st Regular Observer Course, too have passed out on Monday. All of them were awarded ‘wings’ on graduating as observers at a ceremony held INS Garuda, Kochi. Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training) said it’s for the first-time women are going to be trained in helicopter operations which would pave way for deployment of women in warships of Navy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/women-to-operate-copters-from-warship/articleshow/78241609.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Delhi||Retired Navy officer shot in Dwarka house||NEW DELHI: A retired Navy officer, who had a realty and construction business, died after being shot in the face in Dwarka on Sunday night. The accused, who was known to the victim, is being tracked. Police are probing a monetary dispute behind the killing of Balraj Deshwal (55), who was owed money by the accused. The murder took place on the ground floor of Gehlan Apartments, which was built by Deshwal and his three business partners. The accused, Pradeep Khokar, owns a flat in the same building. Around 8.30pm on Sunday, Khokar, who was arguing with someone over the phone, entered the apartment complex. Eyewitnesses said that after seeing Deshwal, Khokar disconnected the call and started arguing with him. Deshwal and his associates were sitting in the ground floor parking area at that time. “A scuffle followed the argument after which Khokar took out a pistol and shot Deshwal in his face. Khokar fled the spot before any of Deshwal’s friends could react. They called police and rushed the victim to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival,” said a police officer. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said a case of murder had been registered and Khokar was being tracked. The body was sent for an autopsy. Khokar used to work as a teacher in Haryana and police teams were carrying out raids there. “Khokar owed an installment of Rs 5 lakh for the flat. However, we are yet to ascertain the exact reason behind the murder,” said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/retired-navy-officer-shot-in-dwarka-house/articleshow/78244544.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar traders oppose government’s proposal to put cap on number of Kumbh pilgrims||HARIDWAR: Miffed with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s proposal to put a cap on the number of pilgrims for Haridwar Kumbh 2021, the traders of the holy town have decided to launch a protest. They said the government should frame simpler rules for the pilgrims so that they can take part in large numbers in the four-month long event. “The Covid-19 pandemic has already ruined our business. If the government decides to restrict the number of pilgrims at the Kumbh, it will prove detrimental for our businesses,” a member of Haridwar Vyapar Mandal told TOI. CM Rawat had earlier said that the state will issue passes to the pilgrims planning to visit Haridwar for Kumbh 2021.  The decision on the total numbers of pilgrims will be taken next year depending on the Covid-19 situation. The announcement came as a big disappointment for the trading community. The local traders say that they already have suffered massive losses as many festivals and bathing days were not celebrated this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The hoteliers, transporters, tourist agents, and other shopkeepers besides priests were hoping that the Kumbh will be an opportunity to make up for the financial loss they had suffered,” said Kailash Keshwani, national secretary of Haridwar Vyapar Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-traders-oppose-govts-proposal-to-put-cap-on-number-of-kumbh-pilgrims/articleshow/78241606.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||292-case spike, 5 deaths in Chanda||Chandrapur: Covid count of district took a jump of 292 cases, taking the caseload to 7,816 on Sunday. Five deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 114. The day also saw 203 patients getting discharge, pushing the recoveries up to 4,484. The district has 3,218 patients under treatment, including 790 in home isolation. The deceased included a 59-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man from Tukum, a 47-year-old person from Wadgaon and a 66-year-old person from Panchsheel Chowk in Chandrapur city, and a 70-year-old man from Warora. They all had comorbidities. Four of them died in Chandrapur GMCH, while one died at Christ Hospital. Highest 102 cases came from Chandrapur city and suburbs, Ballarpur (18), Chimur (2), Korpana (13), Bramhapuri (31), Pombhurna (2), Mul (20), Gondipipri (8), Nagbhid (24), Warora (20), Bhadrawati (17), Saoli (11), Sindewahi (9) and Rajura (13) and one each from Hinganghat in Wardha and Chamorshi in Gadchiroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/292-case-spike-5-deaths-in-chanda/articleshow/78230780.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 22, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi RTO dies of Covid-19 in Lucknow||Jhansi: Jhansi RTO succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday morning in Lucknow where he was undergoing treatment for past few days. Also, four persons including two women died of the infection while 83 new cases surfaced in Jhansi on Monday. The Covid-19 toll has gone up by 137 in the district with a CFR rate of 2.0 while recovery rate is 82.09%. As per the medical bulletin released by Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi, Covid tally of district has reached 6,596, of which 4,817 patients have been cured so far including 84 discharged on Monday. At present, there are 1,044 active positive cases in the district undergoing treatment. All the four deaths were reported at Jhansi Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-rto-dies-of-covid-19-in-lucknow/articleshow/78244813.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Empty benches on Day 1 of school reopening in Covid times||BHOPAL: Poor response of students, closure of schools and fear among parents marked Day 1 of the schools reopening on Monday. Schools of unaided association claimed that their campuses were opened and the response was good but missionary schools remained shut while government schools saw poor student turnout. Sahodaya Group which has around 60 top schools, including missionary schools, have decided to keep the schools closed till September 30. "We were never in favour of opening the schools. We are keeping a watch on the situation as Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city. We will decide about opening of school after September 30," said secretary, Sahodaya Group, Sojan Joseph. "Like other days, there will be no change in our online classes," said Joseph. However, association of unaided private schools claimed that their schools opened and it received good response. "We were prepared completely as parents were also keen to send kids to school. We expect more students to keep coming for doubt clearing from their teachers," said vice-president of the unaided private schools’ association, Viny Raj Modi. As expected, students did not turn up despite full preparation from some schools. "We had a consent of 22 students till yesterday. However, today only 10 students turned up," said principal of Bal Bhawan School. There are 700 students enrolled in the school from class 9 to 12. State government schools also opened, but the response was very poor. "We are expecting that the students will start coming in next few days," said principal of a school without quoting his name. Parents are still scared and not keen on sending their kids to school. "I have no intimation from school about reopening. Nevertheless, I am not sending my daughter to the school in any situation," said Chander Dhankani, a parent. Even KV schools were also closed. "We are not informed about the school re-opening by the management. I do not know when will it open," said a KV teacher without quoting his name. DEO Bhopal, Nitin Saxena said that few schools had witnessed good response. "I think in the next few days students will start coming soon," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/empty-benches-on-day-1-of-school-reopening-in-covid-times/articleshow/78243021.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 22, 2020||Kanpur||Listed criminal escapes from police station||Kanpur:A history-sheeter, with nearly 25 criminal cases registered against him, escaped from the Chamanganj police station on Monday morning. The suspect took excuse from the policemen on the pretext of attending nature’s call and after pushing him gave him the slip. The man was identified as Javed alias Jugnu. Javed is a history-sheeter who was involved in offences in Chamanganj, Colonelganj, Beconganj and Bajaria police stations of the city. He has several cases including loot, chain snatching and cheating against him. A police team on late Sunday night was involved in a vehicle check in Chamanganj area when they noticed a man trying to escape. Police subsequently gave a chase and nabbed him. On suspicion, they took him to Chamanganj police station for an interrogation. “During questioning, he identified himself as Javed alias Jugnu, a listed history-sheeter. He further revealed that he had nearly 25 criminal cases against him at separate police stations across the city and had come out of jail nearly two months ago,” said station house officer Chamanganj Raj Bahadur Singh. Early on Monday morning, Javed requested the police station clerk who was on guard duty to allow him to attend nature’s call. The man while heading towards the toilet, pushed the clerk and escaped thereafter, he said. Policemen searched for him but in vain. They also alerted the nearest police stations. Police have launched a search for him in the city, added SHO further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/listed-criminal-escapes-from-police-station/articleshow/78244774.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Varanasi||Enact strict law to protect women in film industry: MP||Gorakhpur: BJP MP Ravi Kishan raised the issue of exploitation of women in the film industry in the Parliament on Monday and demanded framing of a strict law to prevent the abuse of actresses. “I raise the issue of women exploitation and demand a strict law to protect them. Our PM Modi gave a call for ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padao’ after which our daughters have been able to muster the courage to share their ordeal,” the actor-turned-MP said. Raising the issue after recent allegations of an actress against a filmmaker, Ravi Kishan said, “I am a father and have a daughter, and hence am deeply pained by these reports. In our country, daughters are worshiped like Durga Mata and this tradition is part of our Sanatan Dharma. Women now have the courage to name their oppressors.” “I demand that this Parliament enacts a law to stop exploitation of women. The law should be so strict that no one should dare to exploit women on the pretext of assuring them success by saying ‘Main teri life bana doonga.’ This ugly practice should be stopped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/enact-strict-law-to-protect-women-in-film-industry-mp/articleshow/78244461.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bhopal||Will early shop closure order help curb Covid cases?||BHOPAL: Despite exemption given to several categories of outlets, including medical and grocery shops, bars, liquor vendors, restaurants, eateries and any place dealing with the sale of edibles or drinks, closure of shops at 8pm over the past couple of days does leave a market largely empty. Sceptics, who thought that exemption to so many outlets to stay open, will defeat the purpose of market closure at 8 pm, have been proved wrong at least for now. However, people are still divided on how effective this step would be in containing the spread of coronavirus in the city. “The government doesn’t know what to do to contain the pandemic. This is the reason why it takes two steps forward and then one step back. In September itself, government allowed shops to operate till 11 pm, night curfew was lifted and a fortnight later comes the order to close markets at 8 pm. Night patrolling would be back,” a shopkeeper at Bittan Market said. Sources in the district administration said that ahead of Navratri, there will be pressure both from the trading community and common people to let the markets remain open till the usual time. “There was one month time. If spread of infection could be slowed down during this period by measures such as this, what is wrong in it,” said an official of the district administration. But one major reason why markets fall silent despite eateries, restaurants, grocery shops and food stalls exempted from early closure is the fact that the police are not allowing even eateries and food stalls to operate after 8 pm. “We have orders that only medical shops and bhojanalaya (restaurants serving meals only) should be allowed to remain ropen,” said a police constable, who was asking a roadside ice cream seller near Shahpura to close his shop and leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/will-early-shop-closure-order-help-curb-covid-cases/articleshow/78243030.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
September 22, 2020||Kanpur||Chargesheet against 42 in Bikru ambush soon||Kanpur:The police are all set to file chargesheet in the court with regard to the Bikru ambush of July 2 night against 42 accused. Eight policemen, including a deputy SP rank official, had lost their lives in the ambush laid by gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen. The accused have been booked under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with a deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 120 b (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 7 CLA Act and 3/25 Arms Act with regard to Bikru shootout on July 2 night. “As of now, more than 80 percent of task on the chargesheet with regard to Bikru incident has been achieved. It will hardly take two more weeks for completion. Five police stations in charge have been roped in to compile it. We have taken statements of nearly 150 witnesses including doctors of postmortem panel and those involved in ‘panchnama’, besides locals of Bikru and nearby villages,” said SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. “The findings are based on the probe and the evidence. It would soon be filed in court. Also, we are preparing other file wherein a few among the accused would be booked under NSA,” he added. To recall, eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 & 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area in Sachendi, the police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters, while more than 44 other accused have been identified. Out of which 36 were arrested and sent to jail, two others are still absconding and are police are zeroing in on them to make their arrest possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chargesheet-against-42-in-bikru-ambush-soon/articleshow/78244723.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||Crocodile rescued from jail premises||Vadodara: Guards posted at the Vadodara central jail were in for a shock on Monday when they were out for their routine patrolling in the jail premises. A five-foot-long crocodile was resting on the grass right outside the main jail’s boundary wall. The guards immediately contacted the Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) volunteers who rushed to the spot. “We got a call from the jail authorities following which we reached there. The reptile had ventured out of the Vishwamitri River and reached the jail premises through a drain. We have rescued it,” said Arvind Pawar of WRT. Vishwamitri River that flows right behind the jail is home to hundreds of crocodiles. In the past too, crocodiles have ventured near the jail during the monsoons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crocodile-rescued-from-jail-premises/articleshow/78241541.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Malayali officer tops in Navy’s observer course||KOCHI: A Malayali officer has topped in the Navy’s short service commission (SSC) observer course from the Southern Naval Command (SNC). Sub lieutenant Kreeshma R was awarded the Book Prize for being adjudged ‘Best in Overall Order of Merit’ among the four women officers who passed out from the 22nd SSC observer course of the Navy. Rear admiral Antony George, chief staff officer (training), awarded her the Book Prize during the passing out ceremony held at INS Garuda, Kochi. Kreeshma will be joining as an airborne tactician in fixed wing naval aircraft. She is the first from her family to join the armed forces. Born as the daughter of pharmacy entrepreneur A K Ravikumar and Indrani, who hail from Kadambazhipuram in Palakkad, Kreeshma was brought up in Chennai. After completing her BTech in electrical and electronics engineering, she joined the Navy in 2018 and completed the initial training at Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala. Though she was the topper in the merit list of the Army, she opted to join the Navy, where she came second in the list. “The fixed wing naval aircraft are critical in spotting and destroying enemy vessels, especially submarines,” said Kreeshma, who is an athlete too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-officer-tops-in-navys-observer-course/articleshow/78241618.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||Cop ‘encyclopaedia’ on burglary falls prey to nCov||Vadodara: A 52-year-old assistant sub-inspector know for his expertise in busting burglary gangs across the state, died of Covid-19 infection in Vadodara on Monday morning.ASI Arvind Thorat, who was fondly called ‘Arvindmama’ by his colleagues, breathed his last at about 10 am in a private hospital. He was admitted to the hospital on September 19 and his condition deteriorated on Sunday night. His last posting was at the police control room in the city. “He died as he got severely infected by Covid-19. We will be observing silence in his honour,” said Tejal Patel, ACP. Thorat got infected with Coronavirus some weeks ago and was on leave. After recovering, Thorat had recently re-joined the service. But his health deteriorated again three days ago.Thorat’s death came as a shocker for many as he was considered to be one of the most resourceful cops in the state. He was an encyclopaedia on burglary gangs and even the Mumbai crime branch used to seek help from him for tracking down the criminals.Thorat, who was posted in the special operations group (SOG), four years ago had busted several burglary gangs and helped in detecting crimes. Having joined police department in 1988, he had developed a network among the Sikhligar gangs over last 18 years and regularly got inputs from them. For his contribution to the police service, Thorat was awarded the Police Medal for meritorious service in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-encyclopaedia-on-burglary-falls-prey-to-ncov/articleshow/78241574.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Mulayam Singh Yadav’s night safari site in shortlist of three for Yogi Adityanath’s Film City||LUCKNOW/NOIDA: The site in Greater Noida where Mulayam Singh Yadav had proposed a night safari in 2005 when he was CM is the among three land parcels shortlisted for the new Film City that Yogi Adityanath wants to build in Noida. The chief minister is expected to finalise the location on Tuesday for the project, which he had last week declared would be India’s “biggest and most beautiful” Film City. The two other sites are in Sector 21 of the Yamuna Expressway region – which is the largest of the three with a potential 1,000 acres that can be used, and also closer to the new international airport proposed in Jewar – and an agglomeration of vacant plots in four Noida sectors (162, 164, 165 and 166). The site earmarked for the night safari for the last 15 years is in Murshadpur village near the Gautam Buddha University campus. The government is in possession of 250 acres here and an acquisition of another 300 acres has been proposed to make it a 550-acre land parcel. Similarly, the government has with itself 500 acres in the site shortlisted in the Yamuna Expressway region and will have to acquire the rest. Noida, where land is scarce, has offered the smallest parcel – CEO Ritu Maheshwari said 200 acres can be readied immediately by clubbing together vacant plots. All three proposals were rushed to Lucknow from Noida on Monday. The CM has summoned senior officials from the industries department for a detailed presentation of the Film City project on Tuesday. The CEOs of the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway development authorities are likely to join through video conference. “The night safari has been put on the backburner for the time being. It had been held up for various reasons, including lack of funds. The Film City project is crucial for the government right now and we have land ready for it,” said a government official. Last Friday, Yogi had announced the new Film City, which he said was needed to promote the state as a hub for film production, generation of employment and more investment. Struggling to come up with such a huge amount of land bank, New Okhla Industrial Development Authority also sent its proposal to the UP government late on Monday. NOIDA’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said that authority can provide 200-acre land immediately by clubbing together vacant plots in sectors 162, 164, 165 and 166. The project is backed by the Uttar Pradesh Film Policy of 2018 in which the government promised to support such ventures by providing land at industrial rates and also assist in developing infrastructure for it. The state has a nodal agency for the implementation of this policy – Film Bandhu. Noida already has a Film City in Sector 16A, which has over the years become Delhi-NCR’s largest media hub, and has almost reached saturation. Sandeep Marwah, owner of Marwah studios, which was among the first to set up base in Noida’s Film City, said, “It was a great challenge to establish the Film City back in the 90s when Uttar Pradesh neither had the temperament, nor scope for making films. But having established our studios that time, we have been able to provide a platform for others to come and create from Noida. With the Jewar airport coming up in close vicinity, we are hopeful the upcoming Film City will be a vibrant film-making hub.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msys-night-safari-site-in-shortlist-of-3-for-yogis-film-city/articleshow/78245223.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Noida||Mulayam Singh Yadav’s night safari site in shortlist of three for Yogi Adityanath’s Film City||LUCKNOW/NOIDA: The site in Greater Noida where Mulayam Singh Yadav had proposed a night safari in 2005 when he was CM is the among three land parcels shortlisted for the new Film City that Yogi Adityanath wants to build in Noida. The chief minister is expected to finalise the location on Tuesday for the project, which he had last week declared would be India’s “biggest and most beautiful” Film City. The two other sites are in Sector 21 of the Yamuna Expressway region – which is the largest of the three with a potential 1,000 acres that can be used, and also closer to the new international airport proposed in Jewar – and an agglomeration of vacant plots in four Noida sectors (162, 164, 165 and 166). The site earmarked for the night safari for the last 15 years is in Murshadpur village near the Gautam Buddha University campus. The government is in possession of 250 acres here and an acquisition of another 300 acres has been proposed to make it a 550-acre land parcel. Similarly, the government has with itself 500 acres in the site shortlisted in the Yamuna Expressway region and will have to acquire the rest. Noida, where land is scarce, has offered the smallest parcel – CEO Ritu Maheshwari said 200 acres can be readied immediately by clubbing together vacant plots. All three proposals were rushed to Lucknow from Noida on Monday. The CM has summoned senior officials from the industries department for a detailed presentation of the Film City project on Tuesday. The CEOs of the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway development authorities are likely to join through video conference. “The night safari has been put on the backburner for the time being. It had been held up for various reasons, including lack of funds. The Film City project is crucial for the government right now and we have land ready for it,” said a government official. Last Friday, Yogi had announced the new Film City, which he said was needed to promote the state as a hub for film production, generation of employment and more investment. Struggling to come up with such a huge amount of land bank, New Okhla Industrial Development Authority also sent its proposal to the UP government late on Monday. NOIDA’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said that authority can provide 200-acre land immediately by clubbing together vacant plots in sectors 162, 164, 165 and 166. The project is backed by the Uttar Pradesh Film Policy of 2018 in which the government promised to support such ventures by providing land at industrial rates and also assist in developing infrastructure for it. The state has a nodal agency for the implementation of this policy – Film Bandhu. Noida already has a Film City in Sector 16A, which has over the years become Delhi-NCR’s largest media hub, and has almost reached saturation. Sandeep Marwah, owner of Marwah studios, which was among the first to set up base in Noida’s Film City, said, “It was a great challenge to establish the Film City back in the 90s when Uttar Pradesh neither had the temperament, nor scope for making films. But having established our studios that time, we have been able to provide a platform for others to come and create from Noida. With the Jewar airport coming up in close vicinity, we are hopeful the upcoming Film City will be a vibrant film-making hub.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/msys-night-safari-site-in-shortlist-of-3-for-yogis-film-city/articleshow/78246778.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Parents wary, but schools prepare to receive students||Ludhiana: Provision of shift attendance only to take guidance, if needed, is not enough to assure anxious parents about the safety of their children in times of the pandemic. Despite the general apprehension, several schools have already drawn out re-opening modalities for those who may be willing to come after getting consent from parents. All prepared to receive students Navita Puri, principal, Kundan Vidya Mandir, Civil Lines said, “We have not opened schools and will take four to five more days as school tests are going on. But we are fully prepared and have made all preparations from pick-up to dispersal and social distancing marks.” According to her, students have to carry their own masks. “We will call 20 to 21 students of classes X and XII on alternate days. In fact, we are going for temperature checks and have set up six isolated rooms with oxygen cylinders as we can't send a child back immediately in case of sickness,” she said. School to start from October 5 Principal of DAV School, BRS Nagar J K Sidhu said, “In our school, the second round of mid-term exams from September 24 to September 30 will continue. Students are busy preparing and we will call them from October 5. We have sent Google forms for consent. We have 400 students in Class X and 324 in Class XII.” The school is also a centre for compartment exams. Sidhu said, “Even though our school is hosting compartment exams, there is a huge difference between appearing for an exam and attending classes in school. Students who are appearing for exams might be under stress. But we feel that as students will meet each other after a long time, there will be much meeting and greeting and students may behave in an irresponsible manner due to excitement. Therefore, schools will have to follow strict guidelines.” SHCS in containment zone Principal, Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar Sister Reshmi said, “We don't want to open the school just now as the school area lies in the containment zone. In fact, teachers are not coming to school. We all are covering the syllabus online.” ‘Cases on the rise, can’t risk it’ Mona Singh, principal, Guru Nanak Public School, Model Town Extension said, “We are not opening the school as cases are increasing. We will wait for two weeks before taking a call. There may be students in containment zones and we cannot take a risk.” In box Action plan for schools Sensitise — Ground staff: Educating them about how the virus spreads, how to protect self and workplace, importance of mask and social distancing, sanitising things, belongings, devices, eatables as well as ways to build immunity. They need to be told about things to take care of while using public transport, thermal checking etc. — Teaching and non-teaching staff: They have to be instructed to follow workplace guidelines, understand their role as guides for parents and students, undertake cyber security training and follow security guidelines besides following physical distancing throughout the day, even during break and departure. It is mandatory to go through thermal checking at reporting time, regularly report virtual class attendance to the parent, avoid sharing spoon, water bottle, glass, pen, pencil — Parents: They need to be socially responsible and follow guidelines issued by the authorities and school. They have to teach respiratory hygiene to children and take good care of the child’s diet, keep a check on the child’s activities on the internet and keep channels of communication open for children. Also, parents need to spot behavioural changes and seek counsellor’s help if necessary. — Students: They need to follow guidelines and learn how to prevent all kinds of viral infections, surf internet safely, adapt to virtual learning , develop self-discipline, self-control and self-management Sanitise —Make each member of the team responsible for sanitation of a particular area or block — Ensure sanitiser matches WHO guidelines — No touch hand sanitiser should be installed in various places — Grills and washrooms should be sanitised every three hours Scrutinise — Sanitation process in the campus — Health of staff and students — Restrict visitors from containment or buffer zone — Special marking to keep distance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parents-wary-but-schools-prepare-to-receive-students/articleshow/78241630.cms||Mehak Jain
September 22, 2020||Kanpur||First virtual Lok Adalat held, 37 cases disposed of||Kanpur: The first e-Lok Adalat held in Kanpur on Monday saw as many as 37 cases being disposed of. The virtual Lok Adalat was organized by the District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) under the guidance of district judge Ashok Kumar Singh (IIIrd). The inmates of Kanpur district jail not having any advocate to represent them appeared before the court via video conferencing. DLSA secretary Aishwarya Pratap Singh said the exercise had commenced two weeks ago with the help of a panel of advocates, jail administration and paralegal volunteers. The undertrials who had been nabbed in petty offenses gave their consent to confess their crime for early disposal of their cases instead of long proceedings. Around 37 undertrials had expressed their desire and gave their applications to DLSA. They appeared before the presiding officer, additional chief metropolitan magistrate Amit Singh, through video conferencing on Monday morning for disposal of their cases on the basis of their confession. Singh told TOI, the object of the e-Lok Adalat was to ensure that cases of undertrials who wanted to get their cases decided early are disposed of. It will also help in decongestion of the jail. Additional district judge and Lok Adalat nodal officer Pawan Srivastava was also present on the occasion. He said such e-Lok Adalats would be organized every month for jail inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/first-virtual-lok-adalat-held-37-cases-disposed-of/articleshow/78244787.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Allahabad||8 cops sent to lines after old man’s death||Prayagraj: Eight policemen, including a sub inspector, posted at Sangipur police station of Pratapgarh district were sent to reserve police lines on Monday. Inspector general of police (Prayagraj range) K P Singh told TOI, “A team of eight policemen led by a sub-inspector and officiating station officer of Sangipur police station had conducted a raid in a house at Babutara Majra village of Sangra Sundarpur in Lalganj police station area on late Saturday night in search of an accused. A 65 year old man of the family died an hour after the raid.” A probe has been ordered into the incident and the policemen sent to reserve police lines so that the inquiry is not affected, he added. The family members of the deceased Maqbool (65) gave a complaint to senior police officials on Sunday alleging that Maqbool died due to police highhandedness. Pratapgarh police, however, said the old man himself ran from the house on seeing them and he was not taken in custody. The family had refused to perform the last rites of the old man demanding action against policemen, but later relented on coming to know that eight policemen posted at Sangipur police station have been sent to police lines. Heavy police bandobast was made at Babutara Majra village on Monday in view of last rites of the deceased man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8-cops-sent-to-lines-after-old-mans-death/articleshow/78244878.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Heavy discharge from dams swells Godavari||Aurangabad: Godavari river is inching towards the alert level in Nanded district amid heavy discharge from different dams in Marathwada due to sustained rainfall in the region. The water level of Godavari river notched above 348m by Monday evening—which is few inches below the alert level of 351m, said authorities. Six major irrigation projects in the region, including Jayakwadi dam, have been directly releasing water after having reached its capacity, thereby leading to the swelling of Godavari river. Jaisingh Hire, assistant engineer with Command Area Development Authority (CADA), Aurangabad, said, “With the possibility of more rain in Marathwada as well as in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts, more discharge from different dams in the region is likely. The release can further raise the water level of Godavari river. Thus, we have issued an alert to the flood-management systems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heavy-discharge-from-dams-swells-godavari/articleshow/78244614.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram’s weekly per million cases exceeds Mumbai’s||KOCHI: Kerala's Covid infection is fast growing, with its new cases per week, per million population higher than Tamil Nadu's. The most affected is Thiruvananthapuram district, which has more new cases per week, per million population than Chennai or even Mumbai. The state’s test positivity rate (TPR) last week -- between September 12 and 19 -- touched 9.1%, much above the national rate of 8.7%. The surge has caused concern among health experts who warn that the state's critical care infrastructure will be exhausted in two weeks if the trend continues. The state could see more deaths, both Covid and non-Covid, due to unavailability of hospital ICUs and ventilators, they said. Last week, Kerala saw 111 new cases per week, per million population as against 78 in Tamil Nadu. Delhi with 245 new cases per week, per million population, Maharashtra 191, Andhra Pradesh 173, Karnataka 144 and Jammu and Kashmir 118 are ahead of Kerala. In contrast, during the Onam week -- August 29 to September 5 -- Kerala had only 55 new cases per week, per million population. The jump in cases in less than a fortnight is almost double. “The government's focus on controlling the epidemic is lost now. There is little focus on ensuring strict quarantine nor is there any mechanism to ensure that people strictly adhere to the Covid protocols. Even testing numbers have not significantly increased. All these are key to reducing community spread, but are sidelined as political developments have become more important than the pandemic,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India. “There are things that need immediate attention. Our TPR is increasing, which means that we are missing lots of cases and we need to ramp up our testing. The disease spread is rapid in Kerala and the Covid cases will surge in the coming weeks, ultimately leading to a collapse of healthcare infrastructure in the coming days,” said Dr Shenoy Padmanabha, who has been analysing the Covid pattern across the country. Thiruvananthapuram is the most affected district in Kerala, with 1,403 new cases per week, per million population last week. It is ahead of Mumbai (1,212 cases) and Chennai (991 cases) now, and inching closer to Delhi that has 1,442 new cases per week, per million population. The TPR in Thiruvananthapuram is 15%. “There is a sense of carelessness that has creeped in and this has led to the spread of the infection. Thiruvananthapuram being the state capital is also seeing a lot of movement of people from within and outside the state,” said Dr S S Lal, public health expert who has worked with the World Health Organization earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tvms-weekly-per-million-cases-exceeds-mumbais/articleshow/78243119.cms||Preetu Nair
September 22, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj Covid-19 case count nears 17,000-mark||Prayagraj: The past one month has been both challenging and worrisome for the health department and district administration as Covid-19 cases surged by 10,000 with the case count in Prayagraj speeding towards the 17,000-mark. In a consolatory development, however, the recovery rate increased to 78%. On August 20, there were 6,416 coronavirus cases but a steep rise in infection saw the caseload soar to 16,687 on September 20. As per health department data, there were 3,432 active cases in Prayagraj on Sunday. This month, 6,687 cases have been detected till September 20, accounting for 43% cases in the district. While 13,020 patients have recovered, 235 have succumbed to the disease so far. The city reported its first Covid-19 case on April 5 and crossed the 10,000-mark on September 1. Health officials said Covid-19 cases increased in Sangam city from June onwards. Only 87 cases and three deaths were recorded in the city till May 31, but within a month, cases rose to 286 and casualties to eight. The health department’s statistics show that 2,142 cases were reported in July and 7,540 in August. By August 31, the continuous rise in cases took the tally to 9,668. From September 1 to September 20, cases rose by 7,687 with 63% patients being from urban and semi urban areas. A senior health official said, “The recovery rate in Prayagraj district is around 78%. While 4,026 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals, 8,994 patients completed their home isolation till Sunday. The number of cases has increased significantly in the last three months, but the recovery rate has also gone up since August last week”. Records show that the recovery rate was higher among patients in home isolation than those admitted to hospitals. Till September 20, around 9,000 Covid-19 patients completed home isolation. The state government had allowed home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients on July 24. Health officials said, “As soon as we receive report of someone testing positive, the patient is allotted a zone and zonal surveillance officer and health team tracks the location and decide if home isolation can be permitted or admission in hospital is required.” Asymptomatic patients can opt for home isolation if they have requisite facilities at home and can avoid contact with other family members. Patients opting for home isolation must have a home quarantine kit comprising a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, masks, sterile gloves, sodium hypochlorite and Ashwagandha, Giloy and vitamin C tablets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-covid-19-case-count-nears-17000-mark/articleshow/78244898.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,430 new cases||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,430 new Covid cases, taking the total to 1.24 lakh. It was the state’s fourth straight day to record 1,400-plus daily cases. In terms of daily cases, Gujarat ranked 18th among Indian states. The new Covid cases in Gujarat include 290 from Surat, 177 from Ahmedabad, 143 from Rajkot, 137 from Vadodara, and 123 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad reached 35,204, 26,437 in Surat, 10,877 in Vadodara and 7,879 in Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 17 Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,339. The latest deaths in Gujarat include six from Surat, four from Vadodara, three from Ahmedabad, two from Bhavnagar, and one each from Rajkot and Gir Somnath. Total deaths in Ahmedabad are 1,785, Surat 731, Vadodara 166 and 125 in Rajkot. As on Monday evening, six districts have recorded more than 50 deaths. Two districts — Dang and Narmada — have not recorded any deaths of Covid-19 patients so far. A total of 1,316 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.05 lakh. The persons discharged in last 24 hours include 294 from Surat, 166 from Rajkot, 133 from Jamnagar, 120 from Ahmedabad and 109 from Vadodara With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat reached 16,337, which is 13% of the total Covid cases recorded so far in the state. The share of deceased and discharged patients was 2.7% and 84.3% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 61,897 tests, taking the total of tests conducted to 38.62 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-1430-new-cases/articleshow/78244664.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Allahabad||Khusro Bagh now open for locals||Prayagraj: Morning walkers, especially those residing in the old city area of the Sangam city, now have a reason to smile. After around six months, the gates of the Khusro Bagh of the city was opened for the morning walkers from Monday. The bagh, which has the tomb of Khusrau Mirza, Jahangir’s eldest son, would remain open for two hours in the morning. This bagh is under the protection of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and was closed since March 22, the day when the nation followed Janata curfew. “There was a long-standing demand of the local populace, who used to visit the park everyday in the morning hours for walking and practising Yoga etc. Thus, we decided to open the same for two hours, which could be increased as and when the authorities decide”, said officer in charge ASI, Arvind Tiwari. On day one of the opening, 464 people arrived at the garden, he added. The official added that the morning walkers, who visited the garden, were seen following the norms like wearing of mask and social distancing and we allowed only those who were wearing masks. Situated over forty acres and shaped as a quadrangle, it includes the tombs of Shah Begum (born Manbhawati Bai and died in 1604) who was Jahangir’s Rajput wife and the daughter of Maharaja Bhagwant Das. The other tomb is of Begum’s son and Jahangir’s eldest son Khusrau Mirza (died 1622) and her sister Nithar Begum (died 1624). As the park, which is located near the Prayagraj junction, it is very popular to the residence of Chowk, Khuldabad, Nakhaskhona etc. It is visited by over thousand persons every day. It was kept locked even during the phase when nation was ‘unlocking’ and other parks of the city were being opened. Haji Manjar Karrar, a resident of Ranimandi, welcomed the decision. He said that the garden should be opened daily from morning to evening. Lukerganj resident RS Tiwari says this is the most appropriate decision in terms of health. Bhusaili Tola resident Prem Kumar says that when other parks could be opened, why not Khusro bagh and now as the park is opened only for two hours, half the city will be relieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/khusro-bagh-now-open-for-locals/articleshow/78244888.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||47% of mask fines were in South West Zone||Ahmedabad: Around 47% of persons fined for not wearing a mask on Monday were from Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Vejalpur, Sarkhej and Maktampura areas which make up the South West Zone of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The other six zones accounted for the remaining 53% of mask violations. The officials said a total of Rs 7.85 lakh was collected in fines for not wearing masks, of which Rs 3.66 lakh was from the South West Zone, where officials said large numbers of people were hang out and were not wearing masks. AMC officials said that in other parts of the city even slum dwellers and people from low-income groups were wearing masks, but in posh areas compliance levels were low. The officials added that people were seen without masks and not maintaining social distancing in fancy restaurants and eateries. When questioned, a lot of people would say it was because they were eating. Another common response was that they were all from one family and lived together and hence did not need to wear masks or maintain distance. On checking their identity cards, it would emerge that they were not related and were meeting socially. The director of AMC’s solid waste department, Harshad Solanki, said AB Jewels, which was sealed on Saturday for not following social distancing, was fined Rs 3 lakh and was permitted to open the show room on Tuesday. The jewellers got all their staff tested and assured the AMC that only 60% of staff would work at any given time. All customers were checked as they entered and were instructed to ensure that social distancing was maintained and masks were worn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/47-of-mask-fines-were-in-south-west-zone/articleshow/78244646.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Decentralised grievance redressal a hit||Coimbatore: It was a grievance day with a difference at the Coimbatore collectorate on Monday as the office was less crowded than usual.Petitioners seemed satisfied with the collector’s decision to allow village administrative officers accept petitions instead and collect the plaints from them in turn. As a result, VAO offices including those in Pollachi and Mettupalayam were crowded.N Logu, an activist with the Coimbatore Consumer Voice, said it was a simple process when he took a senior citizen who was cheated of his property by his children and abandoned. “There were 20 to 30 people in front of the Kaniyur VAO office, but there was not much of a waiting time. We could go in pretty fast, give the petition, explain it to the officer and come out,” he told TOI.Within the city limits, while the PN Pudur VAO office received a lukewarm response, the Peelamedu VAO office saw a good turnout of people. In Pollachi, almost all the VAO offices, including Pollachi south and Vettaikaranpudur among others, saw good turnout. “Besides protecting people from crowds at the collectorate, this system has saved time, trouble and the cost of having to travel to the city to submit petition. We expect to receive more than twice the normal number of petitions,” said a senior official. “Also, it saves people from having to travel on public transport and risk exposure to the virus.”However, activists said it may not work in the long run as politicians may use the opportunity to get into brokering problems, especially disputes within families on land and money, and even complaints against companies. “We will never know if every petition is forwarded to the collectorate. We should have a way to track it. Some VAO officials don’t know which petition is concerning which department. I had to tell them that mine comes under the revenue department,” added Logu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/decentralised-grievance-redressal-a-hit/articleshow/78243132.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||102 private hospitals agree to treat Covid-19 patients||NAGPUR: All 102 private hospitals in the city, which had been asked by the NMC to treat Covid patients, have agreed to do so. The high court-appointed panel for sorting out the problems being faced by private hospitals to start treatment of Covid patients completed the hearing on Monday. Of the 102 private hospitals, only 39 had so far started treatment of Covid-19 patients. The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had on September 17 formed a committee to look into the matter. The administration and doctors of 63 hospitals were called before the committee on September 19 to sort out the problems faced by private hospitals. As only representatives of 35 of these hospitals were present, the committee expressed displeasure over the absence of the remaining hospitals. The other 21 hospitals were given a chance to be heard on Monday. All hospitals apprised the committee of their problems. The hospitals submitted details about the number of beds available, ventilators, ICU and oxygen facilities to the committee. “Everyone needs to cooperate in this hour of crisis,” said Joshi, chairman of the panel. He said a detailed report of the committee would be submitted to the high court after the completion of the hearing of all hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/102-pvt-hosps-agree-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78243138.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Artist, niece help find Pattanam Sphinx||Kochi: After Kerala Council of Historical Research (KCHR) turned down their request to excavate plots under their ownership in early March, researchers of PAMA trust, met land owners in the region for permission to conduct archeological exploration. But not many were willing. Sukumaran, a 65-year-old out-of-work artist who owned a plot adjacent to the one from where the intanglio of Goddess Fortuna was found during previous explorations, approached them and voluntarily offered the land. “He was literally pleading with us to excavate his plot and considered it his duty to provide us with the land. We found that he had planted cassava in the compound and there was not much space for trenches. We did not want to destroy it but he insisted that we uproot the cassava and continue with our work,” says P J Cherian, director, PAMA. On April 25, soon after the national lockdown was relaxed Sukumaran’s niece Pravitha P A, a Plus Two student who volunteered with PAMA, while sieving soil announced that she got a “plastic button”. The button turned out to be a seal-ring, intricately carved on a precious stone and now nick-named Pattanam Sphinx, a winged creature with feminine face. Sukumaran recreated both the Pattanam Sphinx and the Greco-Roman head in his paintings. “In my childhood, finding beads in the compound was common. We would go out to play and return with basins full of old beads,” says Sukumaran. A coconut tree climber-turned-commercial artist, Sukumaran says while Pravitha was quite lucky to have found it, their current economic status does not give them any reason to cheer. “There were a lot of misconceptions and many thought the government would take over their property if something significant is discovered from their compound,” says Vijay Govind, research associate, PAMA. None of the stuff they found was precious in terms of their material value but priceless considering their historic value, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/artist-niece-help-find-pattanam-sphinx/articleshow/78223669.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Daily count of Covid cases crosses 600-mark in dist||Coimbatore: The district crossed the 600-mark in daily case count of Covid-19 with 648 fresh cases being recorded on Monday, taking the total tally to 26,562 cases. Active cases which had dropped to 3,500 people a day last week again shot up to 4,475. The district also recorded six new deaths taking the toll to 388. As many as 531 were discharged on the day taking the total number of people recovered to 21,699. The increase in fresh and active cases has also led to the recovery rate dropping to 81.6%.The deaths include a 41-year-old man, a 44-year-old woman, a 55-year-old woman, a 70-year-old woman and a 68-year-old man who died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and a 94-year-old man who died at ESI Hospital.Most of the cases came from corporation limits. While Ganapathy recorded 24 cases, Sowripalayam recorded 15 cases, Ondipudur 13 and Singanallur 10 cases. Peelamedu recorded 14 new cases, of which 10 of them were from Mariamman Kovil Street. Local administration minister inaugurated Coimbatore Corporation’s mobile Covid-19 testing van on Monday. The day saw the block health supervisor of Negamum and the head clerk of the Annur sub-registrar office also test positive for the virus. The block health officer had been suffering from fever for the past three days and when it kept returning, he decided to test for the virus and it turned positive. The Annur sub-registrar office will be shut for three days for fumigation. There is no immediate plan to shift the office. On Tuesday, CPM cadres plan to protest outside the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI Medical College demanding better and more focused care for cCovid-19 patients. The party says that after cases began shooting up, they have reduced the care for patients. “They send patients home in seven to 10 days itself, even before the virus is fully out of their body. They give a person ventilator support for three days and then give it to another patient, even before the first one has fully recovered,” CPM district secretary V Ramamurthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/daily-count-of-covid-cases-crosses-600-mark-in-dist/articleshow/78243124.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Comprehensive study on causes of man-elephant conflict||Coimbatore: The district forest department will work with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) to study the effect of cropping pattern on man-animal conflicts in the region. The study would look at the use of pesticides and the possibility of them causing long-term poisoning of elephants. It would also undertake an inventory of native grass and tree species in forests which serve as fodder for elephants and look into ways for mass multiplying them.The project comes after there have been a series of elephant deaths in the district’s forest ranges. Officials from both forest department and TNAU said the project was in its preliminary stage and would develop in the coming months.Forest officials said the main aim of the study was to look into the causes for ‘human-wildlife negative interaction’, as they term man-animal conflict. I Anwardeen, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), Coimbatore circle, told TOI that they had discussed it with the vice-chancellor of TNAU, and had requested them to undertake the research portions. TNAU had nominated its Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, for the task.Anwardeen said they have planned to look into three aspects in the issue. The first was to study the possibilities of chronic (long-term) poisoning of the animals due to organophosphorus compounds, which are present in pesticides. “We would study crop protection measures adopted by farmers, and the lethality of the chemicals they use,” he said. A few elephants have reportedly died due to chronic poisoning of liver. The next was to study the crop management practices along the Bhavani River basin, to see if a change in cropping pattern could be brought in to avoid the movement of elephants into fields and give suggestions in an effort to reduce the effects of conflict. The third was to identify native grasses which are preferred fodder for elephants and to mass multiply them, to ensure elephants had enough fodder in forests, he said.K T Parthiban, dean of forestry at the TNAU Forest College and Research Institute, said they would also look into tree fodder for elephants. “We have identified 100 different tree species, of which we are looking to multiply 25, and conduct annual planting in forests, so as to rejuvenate fodder source for elephants,” Parthiban said. The project was in its preliminary stage and they would prepare a detailed project report within six months, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/comprehensive-study-on-causes-of-man-elephant-conflict/articleshow/78243118.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Students can visit schools voluntarily: DC||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has allowed students of classes IX to XII to visit their schools in areas outside containment zones on a voluntary basis to take guidance from their teachers.  However, this would be subject to the written consent of their parents/guardians from September 21, 2020, as per standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union ministry ofhealth and family welfare on September 8.  In his order, the deputy commissioner said the state home department has issued detailed instructions to permit skill or entrepreneurship training in National Skill Training Institutes, Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), short-term training centres registered with the National Skill Development Corporation or state skill development missions or other ministries of government of India or state governments.  Likewise, activities of National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Developments (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers have also been allowed from September 21, 2020, subject to strict adherence of the said SOPs.  The order also allows higher educational institutes to open for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-can-visit-schools-voluntarily-dc/articleshow/78241687.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh farmers take to streets, threaten stir over agriculture bills||BHOPAL: Farmers from across the state staged protests in state capital on Monday to protest the agriculture bills passed by the Union government. The farmers’ leaders alleged that the government has backed out and left the farmers at the mercy of the corporates. Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Mazoor Sang took out a symbolic march from Mansarovar complex to Board Office square and submitted memoranda to the officials. Similarly, farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kishan Union (BKU) also handed over memorandums to the officials at district level. National convener of Bhartiya Kishan Mazdoor Sangh, Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka-ji, who was in Bangalore addressing a farmers’ rally told TOI over phone that, “Farmers held a protest in Bhopal as it was the first day of Vidhan Sabha. As of now, we are organising awareness rallies in the entire country and telling farmers about the bills.” “The first bill aims at creating private mandis. We have demanded an addition of line in the Act that the produce will be purchased at MSP from the farmers, but this is not being done. Prime Minister tweeted after we staged protests in New Delhi that produce would be purchased at MSP, but tweet and law are two things. This is an issue of trust. It will throw farmers out of MSP. In Madhya Pradesh, a model Act was enacted wherein private mandis will be opened. Traders buying produce in private mandis will not have to pay tax. Thus traders will not go to the government mandis,” Kakka -ji said. “The second bill aims at throwing out several products from the essential commodities bracket. Thus, traders can now buy and hoard cereals, pulses as per their wish,” he said. “Then there is corporate farming and no provisions for appeal in civil court. Farmers can appeal to the sub-divisional magistrate, then collector and then the agriculture secretary of the country, but not in a civil court,” he said. Anil Yadav of the BKU said, “Government is calling off its responsibility towards farmers. Now corporates will decide their fate and farmers have no right to move court. We will not be able protest. Today, we could at least stage protest and approach government. Now, this will not be available as different traders will have different rates at different places, these bills aim at curtailing the power and unity of farmers. As of now, we are submitting memorandums across the state. And we will further intensify the protests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-farmers-take-to-streets-threaten-stir-over-agri-bills/articleshow/78243129.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC to deploy more staff for Covid testing||Ahmedabad: The rapid spread of Covid -19 has led the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to pump in more support staff in its medical department to scale up testing at the urban health centres. Many of the 152 new recruits are being deputed to Thaltej, Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Chandkheda, New Gota, Sankalitnagar, Vejalpur, Vasna, Navrangpura, Paldi and Ranip among other wards. Right now, the 152 additional paramedical support staff will be posted at the urban health centres for three-months on contract and will be joining duty on Wednesday. They will be paid a flat Rs 10,000 per month for the services. “A total of 444 vacancies were announced in June for physicians, paramedical staff, paramedical support staff and lab technicians. We are now feeling the need as the number of cases scale up. We want that people wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms,” says a senior AMC health official. Earlier in March the AMC had announced vacancies for 708 new medical and paramedical posts. “We will be recruiting more people as and when there will be need,” adds the medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-deploy-more-staff-for-covid-testing/articleshow/78244665.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty plunges into darkness as rain continues to lash Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Thirty trees were uprooted, a house was partially damaged after a tree fell on the building and 30 electric poles were damaged across the district as the incessant rainfall coupled with heavy wind continued to lash the Nilgiris on Monday. Avalanche and Upper Bhavani received the maximum amount of rainfall of 182 mm and 119 mm respectively in the past 24 hours ending 7am on Monday. Devala recorded 105 mm of rainfall while Ooty registered 8mm. But the strong wind uprooted 30 trees in Ooty, Kundha, Gudalur and Pandalur taluks. Part of Ooty town and rural areas suffered power cuts for over 20 hours.Meanwhile, IMD, Chennai, has alerted the district administration for heavy rain coupled with strong wind in the next 24 hours in the Nilgiris. Subsequently, the district administration has taken extra measures to handle the situation. A house was partially damaged at VC Colony after a tree fell on it late Sunday night. A man who was staying inside the house sustained shoulder injury, according to Ooty tahsildar Kuppuraj.“We have cleared the fallen tree overnight. In association with the forest department, we have identified at least 7-8 trees posing danger to the residents of VC Colony. The process of cutting those trees is underway,” Kuppuraj said.Uprooting of trees were reported from Thalakundha, Butfire, Gymkhana Club Road, Ooty-Gudalur Main Road, among others.Missionary Hill, Havelock Road, Kandhal and other parts in Ooty plunged into darkness on Sunday evening after many electric poles were damaged owing to wind and tree fall. Power was resumed only in some of the places on Monday.According to Tangedco, no major damage was reported but at least 30 electric poles were damaged across the district owing to continuous rain and wind. “Our field workers are engaged in fixing the damaged electric lines,” an official said. Collector J Innocent Divya said, “We have received heavy rain alert for Nilgiris. About 280 relief shelters are kept ready across the district. As many as 45 teams of disaster management are monitoring the highly vulnerable areas located across the district.” She added, “People, who feel not safe in their localities, can alert the control room number 1077 and move to the nearby shelter.” Given the high velocity of wind, the collector requested people not to venture out unnecessarily and park their vehicles under trees. Kotagiri and Coonoor taluks in the district experienced not much rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-plunges-into-darkness-as-rain-continues-to-lash-nilgiris/articleshow/78243137.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain brings farmers hope for bumper harvest||Coimbatore: The district witnessed drizzles and light rain for the third consecutive day on Monday. The temperature also fell to 28 Celsius, reminding residents of an erstwhile saying that it was ‘poor man’s Ooty’. While the public are enjoying the chilly weather, farmers especially sugarcane and turmeric are expecting a bumper harvest at the end of the year.Though the district recorded only 1.3mm of rainfall on Sunday, it continued to bring down the district’s maximum temperature and add to the southwest monsoon’s rainfall tally. Coimbatore recorded a maximum temperature of 28.3 C, which is 4.6 C lesser than usual maximum temperature during this period. The rainfall tally from June 1 also climbed to 162.5mm. “We expect the cloudy conditions to continue for two more days or until Wednesday,” said director of the agro climate research centre at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, S P Ramanathan.Chief meteorologist at Skymet weather services Mahesh Palawat said the rain so far was due to a surge in monsoon winds blowing over Kerala and Karnataka, which brought rain to interior Tamil Nadu, including Coimbatore. “However, the trough is weakening and moving northwards to Konkan coast and Goa. A few spurts of rainfall will occur again after September 25,” he said. “With rain being good throughout the season, the turmeric crop looks good and healthy,” said T Kadhiresan, a Thondamuthur-based farmer who has cultivated turmeric across 10 acres.Deivasigamani, from the Erode-based Turmeric Growers Association, also admits that the crop is expected to be bountiful but hopes the market prices improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-brings-farmers-hope-for-bumper-harvest/articleshow/78243144.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 122 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris crossed the 3,000-mark with logging of 122 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, even as 64 patients were discharged from health facilities.The district has seen a total of 3,090 Covid cases so far, of which 724 are active cases now. As many as 2,346 Covid patients recovered and were discharged so far in the district and the recovery rate as on date stands at 75.9%.The new cases include two children below 10 years of age and five people above 70 years. Ooty town reported five new cases. Of the new cases, about 30 cases tested positive after travelling to other districts. The remaining cases were primary, secondary and tertiary contacts of earlier positive cases, according to Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health.Villages in Ooty and Kotagiri blocks reported at least 90% of the new cases. While 15 Covid patients are being treated at ESI hospital and Coimbatore Medical College Hospital in Coimbatore, another 15 patients are under the care of private hospitals there.As many as 142 positive cases of the virus are under home quarantine and monitored. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides Covid care centres across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-122-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78243141.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Maratha quota row: Total bandh in Solapur, protests in Aurangabad||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: The normal life in Solapur city and district was disrupted on Monday owing to a bandh called by various Maratha organizations to press for their demand for reservations. The bandh was peaceful, barring a few incidents. In Aurangabad, members of the Sakal Maratha Samaj staged demonstrations in front of the divisional commissionerate demanding that the state government take a decision on the reservation for Maratha community within seven days. In a representation made to the Aurangabad divisional commissioner, the Sakal Maratha Samaj and the Maratha Kranti Morcha said the Maratha community accounts for 32 % of the state’s population and 99 % of its members are either workers or have very small holdings. Their condition could improve if they were given reservation in jobs and education. Activists of Maratha organizations in Solapur held demonstrations in front of the residences of all MLAs and MPs, belonging to all the political parties, including Praniti Shinde of Congress and BJP MP Siddheshwar Maharaj. All MPs and MLAs promised them that they would raise the issue. The activists came out on two-wheelers at various places in Solapur district in the morning and led procession as a part of bandh. Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) had stopped its service as a precautionary measure. Moreover, most of the shops, markets and other activities were closed during the day. A few violent incidents were reported in Solapur city and district. Activists pelted stones at ATM of a cooperative bank in Solapur city. A cloth shop was also targeted, while activist set ablaze tyres in Madha. In Pandharpur tehsil, workers tried to block a road near Pirachi Kuroli. A group of workers in Solapur tried to set afire effigy of the government. Solapur district collector and police authorities had conducted meetings and appealed to the activist to observe the bandh peacefully. A majority of the vehicles remained off the roads, while only essential services were operating. Bandh was supported by all the political parties and various organizations. Activists in Aurangabad pointed out that the community was fighting for the reservation for the last 30 years; however, some were attempting to create a social discord among different communities over this issue. They said there are about 60 MLAs belonging to the Maratha community in the state, who could help pass a resolution. The community has never opposed reservation for other communities, said another activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-quota-row-total-bandh-in-solapur-protests-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78244693.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Murder accused escapes from Salem GH Covid ward||Salem: A murder accused, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, escaped from the hospital on Monday. The accused, R Kumar alias Naresh Kumar, 21, of Kamalapuram near Omalur, raped and murdered a 55-year-old woman at Mallur on September 17. The accused also looted her earrings and mobile phone.Police traced Kumar to Kerala and alerted Tenkasi district SP Suguna Singh. The Tenkasi police arrested Naresh Kumar on Saturday evening.The Mallur police went to Tenkasi and took custody of the accused on Sunday morning.When bringing him back to Salem district, the Mallur police took him to SGMKMCH for Covid-19 test. The test results confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive. Police later admitted him to the hospital for treatment.On Monday morning, Naresh Kumar escaped from the Covid-19 ward. “We came to know this based on the alert from the hospital authorities,” the Mallur police said.The hospital management lodged a complaint with GH outpost police on Monday morning. “We have registered a case and on manhunt,” they said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/murder-accused-escapes-from-salem-gh-covid-ward/articleshow/78243173.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Lift onion export ban: Farmers||Krishnagiri: Farmers in Krishnagiri district have urged the Centre to lift the ban on onion export to avoid huge stock piling up in the fields.Farmers have cultivated small and big onions in more than 1,000 hectares across Krishnagiri district. Of this, export grade onions are cultivated in 400 hectares around Hosur, Shoolagiri and its surrounding villages. These onions used to be exported to Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong.Since the Centre had banned onion export after onion prices started to increase in the country. “Due to this stock has been pilling up. Locals don’t prefer export grade onion as it tastes different,” S Manjunatha said.Farmers usually get export quality onion seeds from private companies. These companies usually get the stock back from the farmers after harvest and export it. Farmers said the companies are not procuring onions due to the ban. The farmers are currently drying harvested onions as they will be spoiled if they fail to dry them. However, the district has been receiving rain in past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lift-onion-export-ban-farmers/articleshow/78243175.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for trying to burgle ATM kiosk||Salem: The city police arrested a 29-year-old man for attempting to burgle an ATM kiosk in Salem Steel Plant area on Sunday night.The accused, A Palanivel, of Steel Plant Murugan line area, was a truck driver.The police initiated an inquiry based on a complaint from Indian bank manager S Kavitha. Earlier, she came to know that there was an attempt to loot cash from her bank’s ATM kiosk in the early hours on Sunday.The police identified the accused using footage from CCTV camera installed in the kiosk.The accused also confessed to his crime during the inquiry, assistant commissioner C R Boopathi Rajan said. Based on his confession statement, the police arrested the accused.During inquiry, Palanivel said he was out of cash to run his family as he was without any job since March 25. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-trying-to-burgle-atm-kiosk/articleshow/78243155.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Opportunity to start new courses, invest in R&D’||Gandhinagar: Two universities in the state – the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU) and Raksha Shakti University (RSU) envisioned and established by the then CM Narendra Modi in 2008 and 2010, respectively, – on Sunday got the status of national institutes through special bills passed in the Lok Sabha. Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (home), said it was a proud moment for Gujarat. “It is the first time that two academic institutes working in the field of national security and forensic sciences have been accorded national status. It’s a step forward in strengthening the internal security structure of the country,” he said, adding that the state government would extend all assistance to the institutes. Dr J M Vyas, director general of GFSU, told TOI that the university currently has over 6,000 students enrolled in over 40 courses. “It’s a huge boost for the field as a whole. We’ll be collaborating with the FSLs in different states and also engage experts in research & development (R&D) projects. With funding for novel initiatives and expansion, it will be a great boost for international collaboration and offering of new courses,” he said, adding that the university is already known for its tailor-made courses for in-service police officers and forensic science experts from India and abroad. From the last academic year, RSU got a new address, Lavad near Gandhinagar. The university currently has 14 schools, several of which were established recently. Prof Bimal Patel, director general of RSU, said the university aims to play the role of an academic think-tank and be a link between academia and security organizations. “We can create regional centres in different parts of the country. We intend to start new courses aiming at specific industry requirements and with region-specific focus. We will also be planning a course on coastal security,” said Prof Patel. What it will mean to students Experts said that both the universities have highly specialized courses – several of which are focused on in-service officers and personnel. With the expansion of the field and opportunities to collaborate with institutes abroad, the universities can create a new cadre of forensic and security professionals who can also work with industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/opportunity-to-start-new-courses-invest-in-rd/articleshow/78244831.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: CET holds faculty development program online||BHUBANESWAR: The College of Engineering and Technology (CET) organised a virtual faculty development programme on ‘Recent Trends and Advances in Robotics and Automation’, which began on Monday. Altogether 475 people, including the faculty of different engineering institutions, industry persons and research scholars from six countries — the US, Indonesia, Nigeria, Vietnam, Pakistan and India — are participating in the five-day programme. The programme was the brainchild of the departments of mechanical and electrical engineering of CET. The objective was to keep the teachers abreast of the recent trends in robotics and cutting-edge technology. The 10 speakers, who will be sharing their expertise with the engineering teachers, have been drawn from IIT-Delhi, IIT-Roorkee, IIT-Guwahati, BITS-Pilani, University of Buffalo, ITS in Indonesia and other research organisations. The topics to be covered include artificial intelligence and robotics in healthcare and sensors and actuators in prosthetics devices. “The registration is free as the programme is being conducted through the virtual mode over Google Meet,” said S K Pradhan, associate professor, mechanical engineering, CET. It is being sponsored by TEQIP-III (Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme III), a World Bank-funded programme. The participants will have to attend the programme daily and give their feedback. E-certificates will be issued to participants who attend 80% of the sessions and score a minimum of 40% marks in the test to be conducted at the end of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cet-holds-faculty-devpt-prog-online/articleshow/78241752.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Man stabs beggar after dispute over beating stray dog||Coimbatore: A 50-year-old man was stabbed by a beggar when the former questioned him for beating a stray dog near Addis Street in the city on Sunday night. The Race Course police formed a special team to nab the beggar.The injured has been identified as M Ummar, 50, from Ukkadam. He used to stay on platforms near Coimbatore railway junction or in front of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. On Sunday night, Ummar returned to the place where he used to sleep on platform at Kovai Gray Town near Addis Street. He noticed another beggar Moideen, 56, of Ukkadam, beat a stray dog. When Ummar questioned Moideen for beating the stray dog, a verbal fight broke out between the two. In a fit of rage, Moideen took a sharp weapon and repeatedly stabbed on Ummar’s chest. Ummar suffered severe injuries and was battling for life. The Race Course police rushed to the spot and admitted Ummar at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).“After the assault, Moideen managed to escape. Our teams have been searching him in various platforms from Madukkarai to Gandhipuram. Our team is working to nab Moideen,” inspector of police, Race Course (law & order) police station, Sakthivel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-stabs-beggar-after-dispute-over-beating-stray-dog/articleshow/78243202.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Female captive elephant dies||Coimbatore: Captive elephant Kalpana died at the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp near Topslip on Monday.The 41-year-old female elephant became unwell two months ago after it suffered nerve damage, forest department officials said. “She was struggling to stand up. The department’s veterinary doctors tried their best. However, Kalpana died without responding to the treatment,” said deputy director of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) Arockiyaraj Xavier.Forest department officials and frontline staff paid floral tribute to the animal. The carcass was buried after postmortem near the elephant camp. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/female-captive-elephant-dies/articleshow/78243204.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||5.5-sovereign gold, Rs 16.57L recovered from burglars||Coimbatore: The city police arrested two notorious burglars on Monday and recovered Rs 16.57 lakh and 5.5 sovereigns of gold ornaments from them.The duo was identified as M Ganesh Kumar, 34, of Kodathasanur near Karamadai and B Prasath Raja, 27, of Palayampatti near Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district. “They broke open the house of K Duraisamy at Chitra Nagar in Saravanampatti on September 4 and looted Rs 30 lakh and 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments. They frittered away Rs 13.43 lakh,” a police officer said.Raja, a BE graduate, was working as an administrative officer of a private lodge in Udhagamandalam. He was lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison for possession of ganja for sales and befriended Kumar there. Kumar has more than 20 cases pending against him in connection with burglaries and a motorcycle theft. He was detained under the Goondas Act two years ago. They involved in a burglary spree after coming out of prison three months ago. Police said Duraisamy had sold a property at Gobichettipalaym in Erode district on September 2 and kept the money in his house. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan formed four special teams to nab the burglars. The teams collected 200 CCTV footage from houses and commercial establishments in the area and found two men on a motorcycle roaming near the crime scene. “We checked the ex-convicts’ list and picked up the duo for interrogation. They confessed to the crime,” the officer said. “Raja spent some money to buy gold ornaments for his wife. Kumar spent some on a woman in Coimbatore. The duo stayed in luxury hotels and gave treats to their jail mates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-5-sovereign-gold-rs-16-57l-recovered-from-burglars/articleshow/78243197.cms||A Subburaj
September 22, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha government orders probe into Sadguru Covid Hospital fire mishap||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Monday ordered an inquiry into the fire mishap at Sadguru Covid Hospital in Cuttack. Fire directorate sources said the private hospital did not possess a fire safety certificate. Health minister Naba Kishore Das has asked the additional chief secretary (ACS-health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra to supervise the inquiry. “It is a matter of serious concern and negligence. Since the fire broke out owing to an electric short circuit, I have asked our department ACS to seek separate reports from the fire services directorate and the energy department officials within 24 hours. The chief district medical and public health officers (CDM & PHOs) and other doctors should ensure immediate treatment of the patients, who were evacuated to other hospitals,” Das told TOI. The minister refused to comment on how the private hospital, which did not possess a fire safety certificate, was allowed to treat both Covid and non-Covid patients. Das said both the fire and electricity department officials will conduct a joint inspection of the Sadguru Covid Hospital and ask the authorities to comply with the shortcomings, if any. “We will allow the hospital to resume operations only after they comply with the fire safety measures,” Das said. Notably, the hospital had applied for a fire safety certificate in 2019. According to the procedure, the fire services personnel had inspected the hospital and recommended them to comply with the fire-fighting requirements. The hospital authorities had sought some time for the same. “The fire safety certificate has not been granted to the hospital as they have not yet complied with our recommendations. However, their fire extinguishing system, including sprinklers were functioning properly today owing to which a major fire was averted,” a senior fire services officer said. The fire services directorate had conducted a fire safety audit of Covid hospitals across the state in the wake of the death of eight patients following a fire tragedy in a Covid hospital in Ahmedabad on August 6. At least 50 Covid hospitals with 7,328 beds and 710 ICUs are currently functioning in the state. “We had also inspected Sadguru hospital’s fire safety standard in August last week. We had advised them to improve the minor shortcomings immediately,” the officer said. However, the Sadguru hospital authorities said they already adopted a foolproof fire-fighting mechanism. “We have complied with almost all the fire safety recommendations,” a hospital functionary said. The fire services directorate said they would start a fresh inspection of the fire safety compliance in Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-orders-probe-into-sadguru-covid-hosp-fire-mishap/articleshow/78247445.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government orders probe into Sadguru Covid Hospital fire mishap||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Monday ordered an inquiry into the fire mishap at Sadguru Covid Hospital in Cuttack. Fire directorate sources said the private hospital did not possess a fire safety certificate. Health minister Naba Kishore Das has asked the additional chief secretary (ACS-health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra to supervise the inquiry. “It is a matter of serious concern and negligence. Since the fire broke out owing to an electric short circuit, I have asked our department ACS to seek separate reports from the fire services directorate and the energy department officials within 24 hours. The chief district medical and public health officers (CDM & PHOs) and other doctors should ensure immediate treatment of the patients, who were evacuated to other hospitals,” Das told TOI. The minister refused to comment on how the private hospital, which did not possess a fire safety certificate, was allowed to treat both Covid and non-Covid patients. Das said both the fire and electricity department officials will conduct a joint inspection of the Sadguru Covid Hospital and ask the authorities to comply with the shortcomings, if any. “We will allow the hospital to resume operations only after they comply with the fire safety measures,” Das said. Notably, the hospital had applied for a fire safety certificate in 2019. According to the procedure, the fire services personnel had inspected the hospital and recommended them to comply with the fire-fighting requirements. The hospital authorities had sought some time for the same. “The fire safety certificate has not been granted to the hospital as they have not yet complied with our recommendations. However, their fire extinguishing system, including sprinklers were functioning properly today owing to which a major fire was averted,” a senior fire services officer said. The fire services directorate had conducted a fire safety audit of Covid hospitals across the state in the wake of the death of eight patients following a fire tragedy in a Covid hospital in Ahmedabad on August 6. At least 50 Covid hospitals with 7,328 beds and 710 ICUs are currently functioning in the state. “We had also inspected Sadguru hospital’s fire safety standard in August last week. We had advised them to improve the minor shortcomings immediately,” the officer said. However, the Sadguru hospital authorities said they already adopted a foolproof fire-fighting mechanism. “We have complied with almost all the fire safety recommendations,” a hospital functionary said. The fire services directorate said they would start a fresh inspection of the fire safety compliance in Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-orders-probe-into-sadguru-covid-hosp-fire-mishap/articleshow/78241763.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-M zone sees maximum students qualifying for JEE (Advanced), but fewer applicants this year||Mumbai: Even as the southern zone (IIT-Madras) continues to lead the seven IIT-zones to have the highest number of students qualifying for JEE (Advanced), the zone has seen a drop in the number of applicants as compared to last year. While the overall numbers too have dropped from 2019’s 1.74 lakh to 1.6 lakh this year, the drop is mostly seen in leading zones, including IIT-Bombay. Of the 1.6 lakh applicants, close to 40,000 are from IIT-Madras zone, followed by IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi (see box). Applicants registering from Delhi NCR, Rajasthan, J&K, which comes under IIT-Delhi, and the ones from the eastern zone (under IIT-Kharagpur) have dropped by over 5,000. Registrations from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Goa under the IIT-Bombay zone and Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry under the IIT-Madras zone, have dropped by over 3,000. On the contrary, the number of applicants from north-eastern states under IIT-Guwahati and central region under IIT-Kanpur has seen a rise. IIT-Roorkee too recorded a marginal rise. “Students migrate to other cities for coaching and end up giving the exam from those regions. In the pandemic, most students may have chosen their home states as exam centres. This could have led to the rise in numbers at some zones,” said an IIT director. Kota, a coaching destination, comes under the IIT-Delhi zone. These students may have returned home after the outbreak and may give exams from there. The ones usually registering from IIT-Kharagpur zone may have opted for centres under IIT-Guwahati. “ Some students may also be opting for NITs closer home,” said another director. Praveen Tyagi, chairman, Pace Group, said that some students who were not very focused on IITs, may have opted for alternative options due to the delay in the conduct of JEE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-m-zone-sees-maximum-students-qualifying-for-jee-advanced-but-fewer-applicants-this-year/articleshow/78244715.cms||Yogita Rao
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Poompuhar to take e-com route||Coimbatore: Almost a month ahead of the Navaratri festival, the Poompuhar showroom in the city, the retail arm of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, has decided to sell handicrafts and Golu dolls through e-commerce websites like Filpkart and eBay. The crafts are expected to be available for online sale in ten days. The showroom will also organize an exhibition this year. “Usually, we organize Navaratri exhibition for a month, but this time we decided to hold it for 45 days so that people can have enough time to visit the shop observing the social distancing norms,” said C Ronal Selvestin, manager of Poompuhar sales showroom. Besides, a medical camp will also be set up in front of the showroom, he said.The shop has came up with multiple ideas to attract the public this year. “One such is producing crafts that portray weavers, farmers and vendors at work. These crafts will be made up of matchstick wood. The process is not just time consuming but also requires high attention. Besides, the shop is making ‘marapachi’ doll, which is usually gifted in weddings, in dark wood,” he explained. An artisan, Annapoorai said, based on requirements of customers, they add value or make changes to the products. “Every year customers seek new varieties of crafts and based on which, we will either make value additions or create new concepts for next year’s exhibition,” she said. Selvestin said some artisans are, however, unwilling to make huge investments this year as they are skeptical about the sales. “A few artisans who displayed their crafts at previous exhibitions had backed out this year. Also, the percentage of inventories that reached the showroom has come down by 10 to 20% till date.”Despite this, the shop has been working on to increase the number of artisans to 20 this year from last year’s 15. “While products of 15 artisans, including eight from Coimbatore, are already on display, talks are on with five others from other districts like Nilgiris and Tiruvarur to exhibit at the event.”Following the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the average per day sales of the showroom has dropped by 60% with sudden ups and downs in sales in the past few months, he said. The sales before lockdown was about Rs 5-6 lakh per day, he addedThis year, the showroom has set sales target as Rs 50 lakh, which is about Rs 10 lakh higher than its last year sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poompuhar-to-take-e-com-route/articleshow/78243211.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Rail overbridge on Avarampalayam Road all set to open in November||Coimbatore: The railway overbridge on the Avarampalayam Road will be opened to the public in November.The state government spent Rs 21 crore to build the 560-metre-long bridge and spent Rs 32 crore for land acquisition.The Avarampalayam Road connects the Sathyamangalam Road and the Avinashi Road through Avarampalayam and Nava India. Presence of the Avarampalayam railway gate caused frequent traffic jams on the stretch.The state highways department decided to construct a bridge on the road in 2010 and planned to acquire lands to lay service roads. However, a section of people moved court and obtained orders to stop the work. Government officials held talks with the landowners and paid 32 crore for acquisition.The Southern Railway constructed its portion of the bridge above the track and handed it over to the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) and rural roads wing of the state highways in 2018. Following land acquisition, flyover work started in January 2019.“More than 90% of the work is complete. Lamp poles have to be fixed on the retaining wall of the bridge. Road laying work is underway on the bridge. The rail overbridge work and the service roads will be completed in October. The bridge will be ready for public use from November,” said an official. “Due to the pandemic, several construction labourers had left for their homes in March. The work was delayed due to manpower shortage.”A limited-use subway (LUS) for pedestrians, two wheelers and light motor vehicles to cross the railway track will be constructed soon. “The Southern Railway will start the LUS work at Avarampalayam railway track soon. Following the work, Nabard and rural roads wing will connect the LUS with service roads,” the official said. “The overbridge will drastically reduce traffic congestion on the Sathyamangalam Road. Commuters can use the bridge to easily reach Avinashi Road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rail-overbridge-on-avarampalayam-road-all-set-to-open-in-november/articleshow/78243215.cms||A Subburaj
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||PN Pudur residents condemn delay in road laying work||Coimbatore: Pappanaicken Pudur (PN Pudur) residents on Monday submitted a petition at the Telugupalayam village administrative office, requesting authorities to repair the Siruvani Road from Maruthamalai checkpost to Sennimalai Andavar Nagar.While the work was started earlier this year, it was paused and now, due to rain, the mud road has turned slushy, causing hardship to commuters, they said.The 1.5km road connects residential areas such as Sennimalai Andavar Nagar, Radhika Avenue, Radhika Avenue extension and Veerasami Colony to the main road. N Chandran, a resident, said they had petitioned the city corporation last year as well as this year to lay a road. “The civic body replied that work will be taken up, and earlier this year, took up the road laying work. But after doing preliminary work on a portion of the road, they paused the work and left the other portion untouched. After the recent rain, the road has become unusable,” he told TOI.A corporation official promised to finish the work soon. “We had laid wet mix on the road and were waiting for it to set when rain began. So, we had to halt the work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pn-pudur-residents-condemn-delay-in-road-laying-work/articleshow/78243219.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fountain light theft at Millennium Park hits civic body’s unlock plan||KOLKATA: At a time when the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is planning to unlock city’s parks, the civic body’s brass is yet to take a call on reopening Millennium Park. The reason is that the musical fountain of this major amusement park located along the Hooghly has become dysfunctional following theft of expensive decorative lights without which the fountain can’t operate. In the wake of the incident, the civic body is also planning to inspect security arrangements at city parks. “Since the musical fountain is a major attraction for the visitors, we can’t open the park without making the fountain functional,” said a KMC parks department official. However, sources in the KMC electrical department conceded that it would be a constraint for the civic body to replace the musical bollard lights which are expensive and are not readily available in Kolkata markets. “The musical bollard lights specially meant for the musical fountain are manufactured in Bengaluru. We have to first place orders for manufacturing these lights,” said a KMC electrical department official. Besides, the civic body’s current funds situation can be a deterrent for replacing the stolen lights, conceded an official. “Currently, we are going through a funds crunch which may hit the plan to replace the lights. According to a preliminary estimate, we need to spend Rs 40 lakh for replacing these lights,” said a KMC electrical department source. According to a civic official, the stolen lights form the backbone of the musical fountain which (the lights) works in sync with the sound system. “In absence of the lights, we may also need to check the sound system thoroughly before deciding on reinstalling the bollard musical lights,” the official said. The matter of theft came to light three weeks ago during a survey by a civic delegation to check properties of the park which lay locked since end of March. According to a civic official, the KMC electrical department lodged an FIR with the North Port police station. Sources said the civic brass has held the security agency engaged for manning the park responsible for the theft and may take punitive steps against the agency for failure to prevent the theft. Police said a probe was on to nab the culprits. “We don’t know whether it is a theft or something else has happened. We have initiated a probe and hope to wrap up investigation without delay,” said an officer. The KMC brass has, however, decided to take a fresh look at security arrangements of city’s major parks after the incident at Millennium Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fountain-light-theft-at-millennium-park-hits-civic-bodys-unlock-plan/articleshow/78243224.cms||Saikat Ray
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Three die as heavy rain, wind lash Kerala||KOCHI/KOZHIKODE: Heavy rains continued to lash Kerala on Monday with the IMD issuing an orange alert for 10 districts after a low-pressure area had formed over the northeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. Two persons drowned in separate incidents in Kasaragod district even as heavy rains continued to lash Malabar districts, causing damages to houses and crops. Meanwhile, the body of a youth who had gone missing in a stream at Neerolpalam in Malappuram on Friday was recovered on Monday. “One death was reported from Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. The death occurred after the person came in contact with a live electric wire which got snapped due to heavy rain and wind,” a State Disaster Management Authority official told PTI. About 11 more houses were partially damaged in heavy rains in Kannur district, taking the total number of damaged houses in the district in last three days to 34. Heavy rains also caused damages to crops and property at Iritty, Thalassery, Taliparamba and Kannur. Five relief camps have been opened in the district and about 131 persons have been shifted to camps and to houses of relatives. In Kasaragod, one house was totally damaged and 18 houses partially on Monday. With Madhuvahini river in spate, several low-lying areas at Madhur were inundated. The state is expected to see isolated heavy rainfall of 7-11cm in Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod districts. A similar condition is expected on September 25 too. Other places will have normal, light and medium rains. Though rain intensity will reduce, strong winds of speed up to 45-55kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. The weather will be squally, and sea will be rough. Hence fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas. The shutters of the Banasura Sagar dam in Wayanad which were opened on Sunday were raised further on Monday to increase the outflow to 62.5cumecs even as heavy rains continued in catchment areas. All the spillway shutters of Peechi and Chimony dams were opened on Monday by 5cm each, following incessant rains in the catchment areas, and consequent rise in water inflow into these reservoirs. Power generation has also been started in the mini hydel units attached to these dams. According to an official release, water level in Manali, Kurumali and Karuvannur rivers was likely to increase and people staying on the banks have been asked to be stay alert. Water level in Chalakkudy river was rising as shutters of Sholayar and Peringalkoothu dams were opened. Hence, a relief camp has been opened at Chalakkudy taluk and members of five families have been shifted there as water in several low-lying areas is rising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-die-as-heavy-rain-wind-lash-state/articleshow/78241785.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Cuttack||Narrow escape leaves patients of Sadguru hospital in Cuttack traumatised||CUTTACK: “I had taken my medicine and was lying down, taking rest, when I heard a commotion. Someone was saying ‘fire’,” said a 62-year-old Covid patient who was undergoing treatment at Sadguru Hospital in Jagatpur area of Cuttack. “Somebody said there was smoke coming out from one side of the building and we all must go out into the open. I panicked and got down from the bed and into the corridor. There I saw other people trying to reach safety. We all walked down the stairs and came out of the building,” said the senior citizen on Monday. He was supposed to leave the hospital in two days’ time, the fire only hastened the departure. A 43-year-old patient said around 12.30 he heard some paramedics rush into the ward and ask everybody to leave. “One said the building is on fire. Some of the paramedics helped me get down the stairs. It was frightening,” the patient said. Sudheshna Das got a call from her sister about the fire. Her sister was undergoing treatment at Sadguru Hospital for Covid. “I rushed to the hospital and saw my sister taking rest in an under-construction building near the hospital. She was extremely tired. There was panic all round,” said Das, who said since her sister was a Covid patient, she couldn’t take her back home. “I requested the hospital authorities to shift her and she was moved to a Covid care centre,” she added. Meanwhile, Sandip Rout sent out a tweet to chief minister Naveen Patnaik and and health minister Naba Kisore Das requesting help after his 58-year-old father, who had received plasma, was moved to a Covid care centre. Rout said his father was admitted to Sadguru Hospital on September 11 after he tested positive. “His condition deteriorated and he was administered plasma therapy on Sunday. My father was in the intensive care unit. But instead of moving him to a similar facility, the hospital authorities shifted him to a Covid care centre in Tangi where there is no facility to handle critical patient.” Dr Smita Mohanty, one of the owners of Sadguru Hospital, said “There was smoke in the ICU following an electric short circuit in the air-conditioner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/narrow-escape-leaves-patients-of-sadguru-hospital-traumatised/articleshow/78241776.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Correct discrepancies in data: Nitin Raut to DC||NAGPUR: Guardian minister Nitin Raut has asked divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to ensure that there is no difference in daily Covid data of cases and deaths released by five different authorities. The data, being given to the press and posted on social media, is creating confusion. Raut held a video conference with all officials on Monday. The energy minister is in Mumbai under treatment for Covid. “Difference in data is not acceptable. I have asked Kumar to talk to all and resolve it. The district civil surgeon (CS) in consultation with other agencies should finalize daily data of the district,” he said. On August 26 and on September 21, TOI had reported about the variations in data. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP) send the numbers from city and rural, respectively, to the CS who, as per state guidelines, is the nodal officer for reporting cases and deaths to the government. The data released by the three never matches. The data released by the state health department, which get the numbers from the CS, too is different. The deputy director (information) of Nagpur also gives out data which, again, is different numbers. The data by all five authorities are released between 5 and 6pm every day and posted on the social media too. The discrepancy in data was pointed out to Raut by TOI on Monday. There is huge difference in the number of city deaths reported by the CS and NMC. On Monday, the CS had 1,558 deaths while NMC states it as 1,885. The case is the same with number of positive cases, total number of tests, negative cases, case fatality rate and recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/correct-discrepancies-in-data-raut-to-dc/articleshow/78243226.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 22, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Many leaders don’t want backward tag’||Kolhapur: BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday said that many Maratha leaders are against being called backward and therefore they are opposing reservation in jobs and education for the poor members of the community. The leader also slammed Bollywood actor Kangna Ranaut for terming those opposing the farm Bill as terrorist. “BJP never supported her earlier for calling Mumbai PoK. Neither we support her now for calling those opposing the bill as terrorist. I don’t know her personally, but would like to say that she may not be able to comprehend the ill-effects of what she is saying.” Patil added that the farm Bill passed by the Parliament was a historic moment. Meanwhile, former MP and farmer leader Raju Shetti has slammed the central government for passing the bills with brute majority. “The Modi government has made the farmers dependent on big corporate houses. We want to know how they will implement the law,” Shetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/many-leaders-dont-want-backward-tag/articleshow/78244720.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu supplementary board exams begin||COIMBATORE: A total of 1,041 Class X candidates and 184 Class XII candidates appeared for the supplementary board exams in the district on Monday. As per information from school education department officials, a total of 1,200 candidates had registered for the Class X supplementary exam, and of them 991 had appeared. A total 381 of them wrote the exam in new syllabus and 610 of them in old syllabus. A total of 50 disabled candidates also wrote the exam. A total of 201 candidates had registered for the Class XII exam. A total of 156 wrote the exam in new syllabus and 23 in the old syllabus. All the five disabled candidates, who had registered, appeared for the exam. The Class XII supplementary exams were held at 12 exam centres, while the Class X exam at 16 exam centres. The candidates who had failed in earlier attempts and private candidates wrote the exams. On Monday, at the centres, the candidates were screened for body temperature and were made to wash their hands using soap. In the halls, they were made to spread out and sit, with eight candidates in a class. Disabled candidates who require scribes to write the exam, were made to sit ensuring physical distancing between the candidate and the scribe. Earlier, all the scribes were tested for Covid-19 and the results were sent to respective exam centres, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/supplementary-board-exams-begin/articleshow/78246943.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Police told to look into plaint against man for selling son to transgender||Kolhapur: The district child welfare committee has asked Kolhapur police to lodge the complaint of a grandmother who alleged that her son-in-law had sold her grandson to a transgender.The grandmother had approached police to find her 10-year-old grandson. Police traced the child and found that he was in the custody of a transgender.The transgender stated that she had paid Rs 5 lakh to the boy’s father Digambar Patil.Police said that since the child refused to return with his grandmother, they took up the case with the committee for child rights. Patil was working in a jewellery shop in Kolhapur. Kanchan Angadi, a member of the district panel, said Patil was an alcoholic and had two children. Both the children were staying with their mother, who has a medical problem, and were being looked after by their grandmother. Patil had requested that one of the chilren be sent to him for a few days. Months later, both the mother and the grandmother found the boy missing following which they approached police. Angadi said, “We listened to both sides. It is quite clear that the child was given to the transgender by his father who lost his job due to the lockdown. The father told us that the agreement was carried out in the presence of a notary officer in May this year. We are yet to get clarity over whether there was transaction of money. We have asked police to file a formal complaint of the grandmother and investigate further.”The boy is now in the custody of the committee. He is currently in Bal Kalyan Sankul along with other orphaned children. The panel members ruled that the child would remain in their custody till the enquiry was completed. Angadi said the panel would approach the Kolhapur superintendent of police on Tuesday to enquire the allegations and counter allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-told-to-look-into-plaint-against-man-for-selling-son-to-transgender/articleshow/78244721.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha HC defers video hearings to tomorrow on account of buildings’ sanitisation||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court had to reschedule the 470-odd cases listed for hearing through video on Monday following the detection of Covid patients in some sections of the court. The cases will be heard on Wednesday. More than 260 bail matters, along with some criminal appeals and writ petitions, found a spot on the weekly list before the courts of six single-judge benches and the chief justice in one of the four division benches. The registrar general notified late on Sunday that the cases listed on the weekly list would be taken up on Wednesday as the high court and its offices would remain closed on Monday and Tuesday for extensive sanitization. Five judgements listed for the day will also be delivered on Wednesday. Earlier, sanitization of the high court premises was carried out for two to three days from July 5 following the detection of cases of Covid-19 among employees of different sections. As all the old and new buildings sprawl over a large area, sanitising every nook and corner takes a couple of days. In another notification, the registrar general said, “Pursuant to the resolution of the full court, it is hereby notified that the normal functioning of the high court shall continue to remain suspended till October 9.” Old matters will be taken up for hearing along with fresh urgent matters on advance memo submitted by advocates and litigants to the deputy registrar (judicial) by e-filing mode/ e-mail / drop box with advance intimation to the opposite parties, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/hc-defers-video-hearings-to-tomorrow-on-account-of-buildings-sanitisation/articleshow/78241787.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||Neighbour held for giving leads about home-alone aged couple||Mysuru: A gang in Mysuru has landed in police net within three weeks of robbing an elderly couple. The gang of five, including two drivers, garment workers and a real estate agent, had robbed an aged couple — Veerabhadraiah and Rangamma — in south Mysuru following a tip-off from a neighbour. They were caught red-handed while trying to dispose of a part of the stolen jewellery at a pawn broker’s shop in the heart of Mysuru. DCP (law and order) A N Prakash Gowda told TOI that of the five, four are first-time offenders who are into menial jobs. One of them has been accused of robbery at the residence of a retired judicial officer in Hassan. The accused – Zabiulla, Ibrahim, Khasif, Suresh and Girish — being regular at races, had befriended one other sometime ago at the turf club and had been hanging out together ever since. Recently, Girish, a resident of Vivekananda Nagar, tipped-off the gang about the home-alone aged couple living next door, to rob them of valuables. Accordingly, the gang executed the plan and made away with jewellery worth Rs 12 lakh. Gowda said the gang members being out of work could be the reason for the crime. Girish, who is from a well-to-do family, was not involved in the act. But he was the main person leading to the crime. As planned, Zabiulla, Ibrahim and Khasif came in an autorickshaw, tied Veerabhadraiah and Rangamma after entering the house from the rear door — while Suresh kept a watch outside — and decamped with the jewellery. Later, the five accused shared the booty among themselves. City police have cautioned the public, especially aged couples and those living alone, not to reveal their personal or family details to strangers as it could land them in trouble. Girish, 52, is said to have befriended Veerabhadraiah and collected his family details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/neighbour-held-for-giving-leads-about-home-alone-aged-couple/articleshow/78242925.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||Special team to keep an eye on IPL betting||Mysuru: Betting on cricket matches is an offence and punishable under law, and the city police are not taking any chance during the latest edition of Indian Premier League (IPL) that commenced on Saturday. They are on alert to crack down on miscreants organising bets. A special team has been formed under the supervision of City Crime Branch (CCB) assistant commissioner of police Mariyappa. Sleuths of CCB will be keeping an eye on illegal betting, which has been happening over the years either at a place or through an organised network. Some years ago in KR Pet of Mandya district, a teenaged school student lost his life after his friends fatally assaulted him for allegedly not giving them cricket bet money. There have also been several assaults and threats as the bet money often don’t change hands as agreed upon. DCP (law and order) Prakash Gowda said they are not taking any chance with regard to checking cricket betting this time too. “We have formed a special team headed by ACP of CCB, and it will closely monitor the illegal activity. We will also appeal to the public to inform cops if they come across any such illegal activity in their neighbourhood,” the DCP said. However, the onus is on parents to keep a watch on the activities of their wards during T20 cricket season as the latter may engage in betting, mostly because of peer pressure or bad influence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/special-team-to-keep-an-eye-on-ipl-betting/articleshow/78242878.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||Higher testing, but positive cases go down marginally||Vadodara: Covid-19 testing continued to hit a new high even as the number of positive cases in the city and district witnessed a decreasing trend for the second consecutive day. According to the official data, 4,255 tests were conducted during the 24 hours ending on Monday evening and 129 positive cases were detected.The city and district had registered the highest cases in a day on Saturday when 135 persons had tested positive. This came down to 131 new cases on Sunday and 129 on Monday. On all these days, testing had remained high and more tests were conducted than the previous days.With the fresh Covid-19 cases, the total number of cases in the city and district went up to 10,688. As many as 109 persons were discharged from home isolation or hospitals in the city, taking he total number of cured patients up to 9,010. The total number of admitted patients now stands at 1,500 including 63 on ventilator or BIPAP machines and 167 on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining patients is said to be stable. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed the deaths of two more persons due to Covid-19. This took the number of deaths where Covid-19 was the primary cause of death up to 178.Officer on special duty for the Covid-19 Vinod Rao said that there were sufficient beds in the city as the facilities were continuously upgraded. Rao shared data that revealed that he overall occupancy of beds in Covid-19 hospitals stood at 59 per cent. The occupancy of ventilator beds stood at 74 per cent while that of ICU beds stood at 76 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/higher-testing-but-positive-cases-go-down-marginally/articleshow/78243254.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Covid fear, service disruption blamed for low footfall on Mo Bus||BHUBANESWAR: There has been no increase in passenger footfall on the Mo Bus, as Covid cases continue to rise in the capital. In fact, the daily average footfall has come down from 15,000 in August to 12,000 in September. Pre-Covid, the daily average footfall on the city bus service would be over 1.2 lakh. Now, it is just 10 per cent of that number, proving that commuters are apprehensive about availing themselves of a bus rise. In spite of the vehicles being sanitized after every trip, and at night before they are parked in the depots, most commuters are fearful of taking public transport. Sources in the Capital Region Urban Transport (Crut) said the buses were running to full capacity only during the office rush hour in the morning, and sometimes during the evening when people returned home from work. For the remainder of the day, the buses were running nearly empty, they added. Disruptions in service have also led to low commuter confidence. Soon after resumption of service, the buses went off the roads for two weeks in July after the government imposed a shutdown. This disrupted passenger flow. “With rising cases, many feel that travelling with strangers might invite trouble,” said a Crut official, adding that the situation would only improve with a reduction in the number of cases. Srikant Rout, who used to commute to Cuttack every day on the city bus service, has switched to using his bike. “For some days, we must be restrained (about using public transport). I miss the bus ride but the infection is spreading very fast and I need to be careful. I don’t want to infect my family,” he said. Of a fleet of 200 buses, the city bus service is running 60 buses on eight routes now. The Crut continues to post encouraging messages on social media to motivate people to travel on the Mo Bus. “While the buses are not running in full strength, we are preparing to serve you better. Do you have a memory with your favourite mode of commute? Did riding with us bring a new relationship into your life? Do you remember your first #MobusBus ride?” the Crut recently posted on its Twitter handle. The same is the case with auto-rickshaws. Earlier autos would refuse commuters but now it is the other way round. “Out of the 22,000 auto-rickshaws in the city, only 5,000 are running. Many drivers have parked their autos at home and switched to working as farm labourers or daily-wage labourers. They are unable to repay their vehicle loans,” said Naba Kishor Mohanty, president, Rajadhani Auto Rickshaw Mahasangha. The city on Monday reported 306 Covid cases against 506 recoveries. Of the new cases, 123 were detected from quarantine and the rest were local cases. With 14,942 recoveries and 68 deaths, the city now has 3,874 active cases. The total virus count has jumped to 18,898.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/coronavirus-fear-service-disruption-blamed-for-low-footfall-on-mo-buses/articleshow/78241791.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Big relief for poor Covid-19 patients across Mahrashtra||Nashik: The state government has relaxed some of the rules of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) that were proving to be a hindrance to claim benefits under the scheme. The relaxations will benefit not only poor patients, but also the hospitals treating them.The packages for the patient can be increased till Rs 1.5 lakh per family per year. Similarly, in case of additional packages, the hospitals were entitled for complete payment of the additional package also – as against the earlier condition of only 1.5 times payment.“The state government has made several changes to the terms and conditions to help patients get treatment for Covid-19 easily and at the same time, hospitals will also get better returns. The biggest relief comes in the form of withdrawal of the condition of getting the Arterial Blood Gas (ABG) report and thus, the patients will start getting the benefit from the first day,” Dr Sudharkar Shinde, CEO MJPJAY, told TOI. One of the major conditions for getting the benefit of the scheme and treatment was that if the saturated oxygen (SPO2) levels in the patient dropped below 94%, it was mandatory to get the ABG report. This process was consuming time and costly.The public health department in a letter issued on Saturday to the district collectors and civil surgeons has said that the condition has been scrapped. A few of the other benefits for the patients include exemption of presenting High Resolution CT (HRCT) scan for the patients before getting admitted for the Covid-19 treatment. It would prove beneficial in the rural areas that have fewer CT scan centres.The condition for presenting a hard copy of the ration card has also been done away with by allowing the Arogyamitra to download the soft copy through the online process. “Many times, an entire family is admitted in hospitals and they either can’t find the card at the last moment or nobody is there at home to provide one. Since the Public Distribution System Data is online, the ration card can easily be downloaded from the same and attached to the case paper,” the officer added. The empanelled hospitals also stand to gain in the new guidelines. Accordingly, in case of death, the hospitals will now get complete package amount irrespective of the days the patient was treated – which was the earlier condition. Considering the load on the hospitals, the MJPJAY has increased the time when submission of claims can be done – from 30 days to 60 days from the 11th day of the discharge of the patient. The Covid-19 treatment is available package wise even to the people having white ration card, till October 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/big-relief-for-poor-covid-19-patients-across-mahrashtra/articleshow/78370302.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||29 Samruddhi workers held for violating Covid rules||Aurangabad: Jalna police have registered a case against 29 employees and daily wagers working at the camp office of one of the leading contractors handling the construction of Samruddhi Mahamarg after a video of them dancing to the tunes dished out by a DJ system installed in a tempo went viral. Chandanzira police inspector Shyamsundar Kauthale told TOI, “The suspects have blatantly violated the orders of the district collector issued under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code and social distancing norm.” Preliminary probe has revealed that the video was recorded last week on Friday evening. Several people had gathered at the camp office situated in Nagewadi Shivar of Jalna to mark the occasion of Vishwakarma puja.The district administration has expressed anguish over the video, in which scores of workers in the campus were either standing close by or moving around with hardly anyone wearing masks. A senior official said that all those spotted in the video moving moving around wihout wearing masks should also face appropriate legal action.Taking cognizance of the video, Prabhakar Wagh—a constable at Chandanzira police station— lodged a complaint stating that the video showed a lot of people violating safety protocols like not wearing masks, not observing social distancing norms and playing DJ music without permission. An offence under sections of 88 , 269 and 270 of the IPC has been registered.Police said that the suspects were arrested and later released on bail. Kauthale said that the process of filing a chargesheet was underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/29-samruddhi-workers-held-for-violating-covid-rules/articleshow/78244726.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Terror case accused deported from Saudi, held from airport||Thiruvananthapuram: Two persons with terrorist links have been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Thiruvananthapuram airport after they were deported from Saudi Arabia. One of them, Shuhaib, a native of Pappinisseri in Kannur, is wanted in the Bengaluru blasts case. He is learnt to be an accomplice of Thadiyantavide Nazeer, who is serving sentence in jail in Karnataka for his involvement in the Bengaluru serial bomb blasts case of 2008. The other, Muhammed Gulnawaz, a native of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh is learnt to be associated with Lashkar-e-Taiba and the NIA was on the lookout for him with respect to a hawala case in Delhi, in 2016. Both persons were absconding since they were wanted in connection with the cases. Both of them arrived by a Riyadh-Thiruvananthapuram flight, around 7pm on Monday. According to police sources, around 20 NIA officials were present at the airport, out of which four entered the airport and took the two wanted persons in custody after they alighted from the flight. State police sources said that the police were informed as the matter was a case of deportation from Saudi. “Since the flights are few, the agency might have chosen to put them on the first available flight to the country after completing necessary formalities in Saudi,” sources said. The arrests come two days after the agency took into custody three persons with alleged links to Pakistan-sponsored Al Qaida module from Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/terror-case-accused-deported-from-saudi-held-from-airport/articleshow/78241881.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||MSU first state varsity to cut term fees partially||Vadodara: M S University has become the first state university in Gujarat which has partially waived off fees of students for one semester. The publicly-funded university on Monday approved a proposal to waive off fee components collected under selected heads for one term or the current semester between June and December due to virtual teaching because of Covid-19. The decision by the university will benefit nearly 45,000 students currently enrolled in various undergraduate and post-graduate courses in the university. The fee reduction is in the range of Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,850 in regular programmes. For instance, fee reduction at faculties like commerce, medicine and Baroda Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya and M K Amin College, Padra stands at Rs 1,500 whereas at Faculty of Medicine it stands at Rs 4,850.At faculties of law and education and psychology the fee reduction is Rs 1,700 whereas at faculty of fine arts it is Rs 3,750. At arts faculty, the reduction comes to Rs 1,550 whereas at faculty of family and community sciences, it comes to Rs 1,925. At faculty of performing arts, faculty of technology and engineering and pharmacy, it stands at Rs 2,150 whereas at faculty of science, it stands at Rs 1,850. Students of faculty of social work will pay Rs 1,600 less fees while those of polytechnic college will pay Rs 2,250 lesser. At post-graduate level, the fee reduction is in the range of Rs 1,850 to Rs 7,500. In select courses, students will get huge relief. Students of B Design and M Design courses of fine arts will have to pay Rs 26,000 less whereas that of MSc in cell and molecular biology the reduction comes to Rs 21,600. Similarly, there is reduction in the range of Rs 6,100 to Rs 8,000 in regular and evening MBA courses run by faculty of management studies. University officials said that fees of those students who have already the fees will be adjusted in the next term/ semester. --BOXFire at MSU head office Vadodara: A minor fire broke out at the terrace of M S University’s head office on Monday. The fire broke out in the outdoor unit of an air-conditioner installed at the head office. Members of the university’s vigilance staff immediately doused the fire using an extinguisher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-first-state-varsity-to-cut-term-fees-partially/articleshow/78241861.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Gazetted officers oppose 100% attendance in govt offices||Aurangabad: The state-level forum of gazetted officers has declared its protest against the government resolution (GR) asking for 100% attendance of Class I and Class II officers in all government establishments.While the forum has opposed the move citing the outbreak of Covid-19 and the risks associated with it, civic activists have supported the government decision. G D Kulthe, founder and chief counsellor of the state-level forum of gazetted officers, said the existing government policies were too poor to ask for 100% attendance of government employees. “Currently, there is no insurance cover for government employees against Covid-19. Neither is there any provision of reimbursement towards medical expenses for treatment of Covid nor any special leave if an employee gets infected,” said Kulthe. Listing out more reasons for opposing the GR, the aforesaid forum said a majority of the government establishments were not properly equipped for offering precautionary measures against the infection.“There has been a vehement opposition from employees to the GR that was issued on August 31. We are okay with attendance in the range of 35% to 50%. If our demand is not heard, the forum members will stop work,” said Kulthe. Civic activist Ram Baheti said the government employees must accept the new normal. “A section of government workforce, such as doctors and police, has been rendering their duties since the onset of the pandemic. The gazetted officers must take lessons from them. A smooth functioning of government offices has become the need of the hour amid the current crisis,” said Baheti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gazetted-officers-oppose-100-attendance-in-govt-offices/articleshow/78244756.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: On Day 1 of reopening, only 3% students turn up in government schools||GURUGRAM: The government schools in the state, which started brief 40-minute doubt-clearing sessions for interested students of classes 9 to 12 from Monday, received a tepid response with only 3% of the students showing up. Most of the private schools are yet to roll out these classes. In government institutions, out of 38,925 students enrolled in classes 9 to 12, only 1,119 students were present in all the government schools across the city. The class-wise data showed that 302 students of class 9, 360 students of class 10, 190 of class 11 and 267 of class 12 reported to school for the sessions or to access libraries and laboratories. While all the schools followed the standard operating procedures like testing every teacher and sanitising students at the gate, many adopted their own set of protocols to ensure social distancing. For instance at Jacobpura Government Senior Secondary School which is trying out the odd-even formula, only students with odd roll numbers were called on Monday to avoid crowding. Similarly, in Sector 4/7 Government School that witnessed one of the highest student turnouts, pupils were made to enter in batches on an hourly basis. After completion of an hour, students were requested to vacate the premises to make space for the next batch. “Forty nine students of class X and 52 of class 12 reached the school on the first day. All these 101 students were given different schedules. No student was stopped in school for more than one hour. The school has approximately 700 students enrolled in these classes,” said Suman Sharma, the school principal. In Islampur Government Senior Secondary School, only 13 students showed up on Monday despite the arrangements made by the school. The staff claimed that turnout was low because it was the first day, and more students may be expected to come in the coming days. In many government schools like the one in Sadar, the yearly admission process was also being conducted alongside these sessions, but the school had ensured the timings of these two activities did not clash. While government schools still managed to attract a few students, the response in the private schools that opened today was worse. In many schools like CD International, not a single student turned up for the brief sessions. Many other private schools said they are waiting to see how the plan works in the government schools before opening. Schools like DPS, Salwan, Ryan, Suncity have claimed that their online classes are happening smoothly, and only the few students who want additional help from teachers or need to access the libraries or laboratories are showing interest. The number, however, is very discouraging, suggesting that parents are still sceptical about sending their kids to school. For instance, at DPS in Sector 45, which will be calling students only from Tuesday and in a staggered manner, has reported that less than 5% students are showing interest in coming to school. “The online classes are already covering the entire syllabus and students have adjusted to that system. Also, many parents are wary of sending kids to school,” said Aditi Mishra, the school principal. At Ryan International School, students will be called to campus only from Saturday, and in the meantime, is calling 25% of the teachers each day to train them on the SOPs issued by the government. At Salwan Public School, the brief counselling sessions will be rolled a little later as the school is one of the chosen centers for the CBSE compartment exams. Many schools have even expressed their concerns over the move and are nervous about calling students at a time when the cases are on the rise. “If anything happens in government schools a lot of details may not even come out. That isn’t the case for us. A single case of Covid and there’ll be witch-hunting and what not. We have all the preparations but even then we can’t ensure that campus can be entirely Covid-free. We aren’t forcing parents to send their kids as safety is more important for both kids and teachers,” said a principal of a private school who didn’t wish to be named. Watch Gurugram: Only 3% students turn up in government schools on first day of reopening||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/on-day-1-of-reopening-only-3-students-turn-up-in-government-schools/articleshow/78244767.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cong wants to keep farmers poor: Paatil||Gandhinagar: State BJP president C R Paatil alleged on Monday that the Congress is attempting to spread misinformation among farmers about provisions of the new agricultural reforms bills introduced in Parliament.Addressing a virtual press conference on Monday for the first time after recovering from the Covid-19 infection, Paatil said that the reforms in agriculture will go a long way in ensuring that the income of farmers doubles by 2022, as envisaged by the PM.“The agriculture reforms bills have nothing which can cause damage to farmer’s interests. Congress is upset over the success of PM Modi in bringing these reforms. Congress wants to keep farmers poor and dependent forever, and that is why the Congress is opposing the farm reforms,” Paatil said.He further said that the Congress is alleging that minimum support price (MSP) mechanism will be discontinued after the reforms. “These are baseless charges by the Congress. The government has made it clear that MSP will continue and farmers will be able to sell their produce elsewhere if they get better prices than the MSP,” Paatil said.He added that another provision which will benefit farmers is that traders will have to make payments to farmers within three days of sale. “The Congress must go through the new provisions before spreading lies,” Paatil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-wants-to-keep-farmers-poor-paatil/articleshow/78244778.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Liquor bodies urge West Bengal govt not to change tax structure||KOLKATA: The Indian alcoholic beverage industry has raised an alarm over the new taxation structure for sale of liquor in West Bengal and urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee not to make any changes in the tax structure in the current fiscal keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic during which the industry has already been hit hard. In a joint representation to CM, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) and International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI) has said that if the taxation structure is changed just before the beginning of the Durga Puja festivities and other rules and regulations are also changed, it would prove to be counter-productive both for the government and the industry. The two industry bodies, which represent international and national spirits and wine companies, has urged the West Bengal government to delay the proposed taxation implementation beyond 2020 to avoid disruptions in the market. “The state has already seen a 35% fall in volumes in the month of July-August, which could worsen going forward. When most states are rationalizing taxes (Odisha, Delhi) in order to bring MRP at such levels that revenue is maximized, WB has proposed a taxation structure which would make MRPs even higher. We estimate 40%-45% (for the entire year) fall on overall volumes if such a taxation structure is implemented in its current shape and form,” the joint representation to the CM stated. The two bodies have pointed out that new taxation structure would lead to revenue collection shortfall of about 25% from the revenue target of the Excise Department for the year 2020-21. Urging the state government to implement any changes in taxation structure by incorporating industry recommendations, CIABC director general Vinod Giri said: “There are some serious gaps in the proposed taxation structure which need to be addressed before taking any decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-bodies-urge-govt-not-to-change-tax-structure/articleshow/78243313.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Man dies in mob attack; 1 held, 2 minors detained||Kolhapur: A 40-year-old man from Kolhapur city lost his life when an angry mob severely beat him following a dispute between two groups of the children. Shahupuri police have detained two minor boys and arrested a man in this connection. The incident took place on Saturday night on the main road in Kasba Bawda area. The police have identified the deceased as Irfan Mohmmad Ali Nakade (40), a resident of Shahupuri in Kolhapur city. Naseer Mansur Shaikh (41), a resident of Kasba Bawda has been arrested, while two minor boys have been detained. Police said that the incident was fallout of dispute between two groups of boys over installation of LED lighting in Kasba Bawda area on Saturday evening. Irfaan Nakade’s son was involved in the dispute. Irfan, along with few others, went to Kasba Bawda area to get clarification of the dispute between the two groups. However, Irfan and others were attacked by the mob. Irfan, somehow, managed to flee from the spot but was chased by the mob. Irfan fell down near the district court building. When the mob reached the spot, they lashed at him and rendered him unconscious, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-dies-in-mob-attack-1-held-2-minors-detained/articleshow/78244771.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New role for security guards at pandals in new-normal Durga Puja||KOLKATA: From crowd management to health management, the job profile of private security guards at Durga Puja pandals will undergo a sea change post Covid-19 as they will serve as the first line of defence to ensure that people maintain social distancing and get screened properly. The deployment of private guards has been in vogue at multiple big-ticket Puja pandals like Tridhara Sammilani, Sreee Bhumi, Ekdalia Evergreen and Ballygunge Cultural for the last few years. “But this year, along with batons and walkie talkies, the security guards at pandals will also be armed with thermal guns. We are training the guards to ensure the maintenance of Covid protocols like social distancing not by force, but by talking to pandal hoppers amicably,” said Shyamal Karmakar, managing director of S & IB Security services. Debajit Chowdhury of NIS Management Pvt Ltd that deploys hundreds of guards at multiple big-ticket pujas every year said the emphasis is on wearing masks and health monitoring this time. “There will be a large number of asymptomatic patients who may transmit the infection. The problem will be if someone suddenly falls sick. Earlier, our men used to attend a sick person, take him/her to the first aid corner and even help the person get into an ambulance, if needed. Given the present scenario, this will be a challenge,” said Chowdhury. “Guards will have to play the roles of security guards as well as a safety wardens. They are already trained in sanitisation, health screening and crowd maintenance and it will be a challenging Puja for them this year,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, secretary general, central association of private security industry (CAPSI), West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-role-for-security-guards-at-pandals-in-new-normal-puja/articleshow/78243338.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Bamboo raft washed away tribespeople rescued at Kurathikudi near Adimali||IDUKKI: Nine tribespeople were rescued after a country boat (bamboo raft) they were travelling in got washed away in floodwaters at Kurathikudi near Adimali on Monday. Three tribal families were crossing Koonthrapuzha River after collecting herbal plants (koova) when a rope connecting them to the banks snapped. Two fell into the river while others managed to hold onto the boat. A local resident, Jaimon, who witnessed the accident, jumped to the river and rescued the people. “Due to the strong flow of the river, the boat got washed away for over 4km. The timely act by the resident avoided a tragedy,” said Devikulam tahsildar Gigi M Kunnappalli. The people who were rescued are Sasi (50), Kumari(48), Sivan (50), Omana(33), Sivaganga(3), Sivanand(35), Shivani (30), Ananthu (8) and Anumol (6), he said. “Kurathikudi is situated around 8km deep inside the forest. The accident occurred in an isolated place and there are no communication facilities available. I will submit a detailed report to the collector,” Kunnappalli said. Sebinster Francis, who accompanied a revenue team that visited the spot, said, “It was not long enough, since we came out of Pettimudi tragedy that another was about to happen. While holding onto the bamboo raft, two mothers had tied their daughters to the back and this saved the children from being drifted away.” Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said, “Lack of proper communication and roads is the main hurdle we face during accidents in Idukki. In Kurathikudi, the news reached outside world only two hours after the accident.” Idukki collector H Dineshan said “The district administration will honour the man who rescued the people in Kurathikudi.” Former Idukki MP Joyce George said, “In 2014, the forest department destroyed the bridges connecting the area. After protests, they reconstructed the bridges. In the name of the forest conservation act, the forest department creates hurdles to all developmental activities inside forest settlements. The forest department blocked the construction work of a BSNL mobile tower near Kurathikudi and now there are no communication facilities available in the region,” George said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bamboo-raft-washed-away-9-tribespeople-rescued/articleshow/78241891.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 22, 2020||Surat||Surat: Diamond exports up, near pre-Covid level||SURAT: There is some good news for diamantaires in Surat. Diamond trading is all set to recover its sparkle lost due to the coronavirus pandemic as demand increases from the US, Europe and China over the last two months.According to the data published by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the export of polished diamonds from India in August stood at Rs 9,000 crore against Rs 11,000 crore, which is a decline of 20% compared to the same month last year. However, from Rs 3,000 crore exports in April, there has been a steady rise over the past four months. Industry experts stated that the polished diamond exports have recovered due to the increase in the demand from the US, the UK and China. Starting from October, the exports are all set to match the previous year’s figures, believe experts. Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC, said, “From $36 million exports in April, the export of gems and jewellery from India has increased to $1.76 billion in August. We have witnessed a steady increase in the orders from several countries, mainly the US, the UK and China. Diamond units are working in full swing and getting back to normalcy.” Shah added, “The way trade is recovering, we are hopeful to restrict the the downside of export to just over 20-25% at the closure of the fiscal year.” During the April to August period, the overall gross exports of cut and polished diamonds stood at Rs 30,000 crore, against Rs 46,000 crore during the same period in the previous year. Vice-chairman of GJEPC Vipul Shah told TOI, “The industry is optimistic to match the export numbers of the previous year as the demand for polished diamond and jewellery has rebounded in the key consumer markets around the world. Due to the ban on international flights, small and medium diamantaires are unable to visit South Africa and Belgium to purchase rough diamonds, which is a big constraint. However, we are hopeful that things will fall in line from the next month.” Industry sources said that the third and fourth quarter were looking optimistic with orders coming from USA and the demand picking up in China from September onwards. “There is a 10-15% boost in the orders from US, China and Europe” said Kirti Shah, diamond exporter. “The situation is such that the old inventories of the diamantaires have dried up and the production of diamonds is done at a very slow pace due to rise in the rough diamond prices by almost 15%,” Shah added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-exports-up-near-pre-covid-level/articleshow/78243328.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Thakre elected new VP of CBD||Nashik: Sachin Thakre of the BJP-RPI alliance on Monday was unanimously elected the new vice president of Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD). A special meeting chaired by president of the cantonment board Brig G S Goraya was convened at the public library of the CBD for the election of the vice president. Corporator Bhagwan Kataria had recently handed over his resignation as the vice president owing to which the new election was held. Kataria, Baburao Mojad, Prabhavati Dhivre, Asha Godse, Meena Karanjkar, Kaveri Kasar, Col Atul Bisht, CEO Ajay Kumar and other senior officials and office-bearers of the CBD were also present for the special meeting. Thakre’s name for the post of vice-president was proposed by corporator Baburao Mojad and it was seconded by corporator Kataria. Since no other name was proposed for the post, the Thakre was elected unanimously. After being elected, Thakre assured everyone that he would carry out developmental works by taking everyone along.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/thakre-elected-new-vp-of-cbd/articleshow/78240884.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Cuttack||Heron with colour aberration photographed in Odisha for first time||CUTTACK: The Melanistic Cattle Egret, a rare small heron with nearly black plumage, has been photographed for the first time in the state on Monday at Tangi in Khurda. The bird was first sighted on September 1. The Cattle Egret is a small white heron which feeds around grazing cattle. They are native to southern Eurasia and Africa. The Melanistic Cattle Egret is a case of colour aberration in the bird. Wild Orissa (WO), an organization for conservation of nature and wildlife, has been recording significant instances of colour aberrations in birds in Odisha in the past two decades. WO vice chairman Nanda Kishore Bhujabal came across the Melanistic Cattle Egret at Tangi. WO Tangi (Khurda) Regional Chapter Governor Chinmaya Bhujabal on Monday said, “This is the first record for Odisha of the Melanistic Cattle Egret. Its plumage was dark, with some pale areas on the primaries and a black throat; the feathers on the crown and mantle were blackish.” From its size and proportions, as well as its feeding behaviour, the bird was easily identified as an colour aberrant Cattle Egret. This finding will be shared with national and international research organizations to ascertain the reason for colour aberrations in Cattle Egret, Bhujabal said. According to WO research findings, sighting of a grey coloured Cattle Egret was reported in November 1995 in Goa, Subsequently a Melanistic Cattle Egret was reported to have been spotted in Jharkhand in 2013. In October 2017 a bluish-coloured Cattle Egret was seen in Guwahati. There were no further reports from India. Among the cases of colour aberration in birds documented by WO in Odisha are Leucistic Black Tailed Godwit and White Purple Swamphen in the Chilika waters in 2015 and 2019, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/heron-with-colour-aberration-photographed-in-state-for-1st-time/articleshow/78241931.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||No city school reopens, may allow students next month||Ludhiana: While the Union government decided September 21 as the date for reopening of schools for the students of higher classes, seeking guidance of their teachers (following a consent of their parents), none of the government and private institutions opened here on Monday. They are likely to resume operations by the first week of October. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 18 to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. According to HRD ministry officials, whenever schools and colleges reopen, proper guidelines of physical distancing, new seating matrix, staggered classes, and new library, assembly, recess rules would have to be followed. The directives were endorsed by the Punjab government and schools were allowed to re-open from September 21. School authorities claimed that they may reopen next week after the compartment exams were over. This would be a fresh beginning that required proactive approach and clear vision, claimed city principals. Principal of BCM School, Sector 32, DP Guleria said, “There will be no proper classes, but students can come for guidance and support. We have conducted a survey of parents and over 50% are willing to send their wards to schools. We will be calling students in three phases. In the first phase, students of classes X and XII will come for a writing examination and taking guidance from teachers. In the second phase, which starts in the second week of October, students of classes X, XI and XII may be called and in the third phase, starting from the third week of October, classes from IX to XII will come.”He said students would come in two slots — morning and pre-noon, and afternoon — as per the discretion of the school heads. Consent of parents Principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School Paramjeet Kaur said, “We intend to open the school in a few days for limited students after their parents’ consent. We are still collecting consents for students of classes IX to XII.” Govt schools waiting for guidelines District education officer Swaranjeet Kaur said, “No government school was reopened as we have not received guidelines from the state government. Once we receive these, we will follow them.”Helpline numbers CBSE helpline: 1800-11-8002Covid-19 helpline: 104Child and women: 1098Central helpline: 011-23978046UGC helpline: 011-23604200||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-city-school-reopens-may-allow-students-next-month/articleshow/78241967.cms||Mehak Jain
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Six height bars to come up on Maa||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) will install new height bars on the entry sides at six points of Maa flyover. The height bars will have the provision for unfixing and re-fixing its horizontal portions as per requirement during the movement of any VVIP’s car. Currently, the flyover has only one height bar on the entry point of the Garia end up ramp. The authorities have floated tenders to engage an agency for installation of the height bars. The project cost has been pegged at around Rs 10 lakh. The agency that will be selected will need to complete the work within 45 days from the date of the commencement of work. The new height bars will be of 2.9-meter high. The authorities are also planning to put up a fence on a certain stretch of Maa flyover towards its Park Circus side to prevent kite threads from coming near the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-height-bars-to-come-up-on-maa/articleshow/78243373.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Geriatric Covid ward set up at GG Hospital||Rajkot: GG Hospital in Jamnagar has set up a geriatric ward for elderly Covid patients above 60 years of age in order to provide them special treatment and care. “The hospital has deputed patient attendants for this ward. There will be one patient attendant for every six patients, who will take care of their daily requirements of food and other facilities,” said Dr Manish Mehta of the hospital. Of the 314 patients at the hospital, 60 have been shifted to the geriatric ward. There is a segregation of male and female in the ward in which each division has the capacity to accommodate and treat 60 patients. Talking about his experience, Mukesh Desai, a patient at the geriatric ward, said, “When I was admitted to this ward, I was unconscious. After I regained consciousness, I started recovering fast with the help of yoga training given by the staff in the morning, regular dosage of medicines and good diet.” “The doctors and the staff here treat us like their family members. They infuse positivity into our sagging spirits,” said 70-year-old Manjuben, another patient in the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/geriatric-covid-ward-set-up-at-gg-hospital/articleshow/78241973.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||5 die of Covid-19, 245 test positive||TNNLudhiana: Nine persons, including five from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Monday. The day also saw 245 of the district testing positive, as per the state media bulletin.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 72-year-old man of Jamalpur; an 86-year-old man of Panjita who had cirrhosis; a 45-year-old man of Kot Mangal Singh with hypertension; an 81-year-old man of Udham Singh Nagar with diabetes and hypertension; and a 59-year-old diabetic man of Mundiyan Kalan.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Ludhiana toll tally has mounted to 668 and that of outsiders to 200. To date, 2,32,768 suspects have been tested here.The state health department bulletin stated that of the 245 positive cases from Ludhiana, 52 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 19 positive cases’ contacts, 31 from OPD, five health-care workers, one severe acute respiratory infection case, and one of pre-operative.The district case count now stands at 16,484, including 1,465 active cases.As per the bulletin, 370 patients were discharged on Monday.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the number of persons home quarantined was 4,276. The health department officials said the total number of samples taken by the department in Ludhiana on the day was 4,517, of which 3,375 were for rapid antigen tests and 1,122 for RTPCR.As per the latest data of the state media bulletin, the cured percentage rate in Ludhiana was 87.06%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-die-of-covid-19-245-test-positive/articleshow/78241956.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Delhi||As ICU beds fill up fast in Delhi, govt allays fears||NEW DELHI: In the 21 days of September till Monday, there were 74,511 new cases of Covid-19 infection in Delhi for an average of 3,548 per day. The death toll in the same period was 570. Given this surge, the Covid-designated hospitals are suddenly under pressure. However, on Monday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain attributed the rising occupancy of Covid beds to an influx of critical patients from outside Delhi, and said there was no shortage with over a thousand ICU beds still available. “Those coming to Delhi from other states are mostly patients who need intensive care. Over 1,500 outsiders are currently admitted in ICU wards in Delhi,” Jain said. “The outstation patients come having planned in advance to visit a particular hospital. That is why information about the supposed shortage of ICU beds in some private hospitals is emerging. But there are nearly 1,000 ICU beds that are unoccupied.” On Monday, at 8.30pm, only 38% of ICU beds with a ventilator and 29% of ICU beds without a ventilator were vacant. Covid patients from Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and several other states are rushing to Delhi due to lack of confidence in the healthcare system in their own states and getting admitted both to private and government hospitals in the capital. Among public hospitals, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Deep Chand Bandhu, Lady Hardinge Medical College and Northern Railway Central hospitals didn’t have a single ICU bed (without ventilator) vacant on Monday. Sir Ganga Ram, Apollo, Maharaja Agrasen, Fortis Shalimar Bagh, Sri Balaji Action and Aakash Healthcare were among the private hospitals in a similar position. Most severely ill Covid patients require oxygen therapy and continuous monitoring of vital parameters for timely medical intervention based on the symptoms or complications. With the bed demand rising, Jain said that in the past 10 days, around 1,000 beds were added in Covid hospitals and this would be increased. The government recently revealed that more than 500 ICU beds were added in private hospitals in a week. The health minister also clarified that there was no crisis of convalescent plasma in Delhi. “Those needing plasma can approach the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences plasma bank. There is no shortage,” Jain said. Delhi government has opened two plasma banks, the second at Lok Nayak Hospital, which, however, uses convalescent plasma to treat only in-house patients. The Covid toll crossed 5,000 mark in Delhi on Monday, with 32 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours to bring the total to 570 in the 21 days of September. To the 74,511 infections detected during this period, Delhi logged 2,548 new cases on Monday to take the tally to over 2.49 lakh. Monday’s tally was lower than the numbers reported during the course of the month, but it could be due to the fewer tests conducted — 33,733 of which 8,828 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 24,905 rapid antigen — in the last 24 hours. The capital now has 30,941 active cases of Covid-19, of which 19,213 (62%) are in home isolation. Those hospitalised numbered 7,069 (23%). A doctor said, “Asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms are isolating themselves at home. Only those with moderate to severe symptoms are in hospitals, with many requiring ICU care.” The doctor warned that if new cases continued to grow at the current rate, there could be a crisis of beds for the critically-ill. “There is a significant increase in cases of patients suffering from dengue or dengue and Covid both. This is creating extra pressure on the health infrastructure,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-icu-beds-fill-up-fast-govt-allays-fears/articleshow/78244812.cms||---
September 22, 2020||World||US closes in on 200,000 virus deaths, weeks before election||WASHINGTON: The United States edged close to registering 200,000 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, the latest grim milestone for the country just weeks before voters decide if President Donald Trump will stay in office. According to a rolling tally by Johns Hopkins University, 199,743 Americans have died and 6.8 million have been confirmed infected. The US has had the world's highest official death toll for months, ahead of Brazil and India, with 136,895 and 87,882 deaths respectively. Overall, the US accounts for four percent of the world's population and 20 percent of its coronavirus deaths, while its daily fatality rate relative to the overall population is four times greater than that of the European Union. Critics say the statistics expose the Trump administration's failure to meet its sternest test ahead of the November 3 election. "Due to Donald Trump's lies and incompetence in the past six months, (we) have seen one of the gravest losses of American life in history," his Democratic rival Joe Biden charged on Monday. "With this crisis, a real crisis, a crisis that required serious presidential leadership, he just wasn't up to it. He froze. He failed to act. He panicked. And America has paid the worst price of any nation in the world." Trump insisted on "Fox and Friends" Monday that the United States was "rounding the corner with or without a vaccine." But the president has high hopes that the swift approval of a vaccine will boost his reelection chances. "I would say that you'll have (a vaccine) long before the end of the year, maybe by the end of October," he told Fox, adding that his priority was "total safety - it's number one." Trump has set even more ambitious goals, stating that by April of next year, most Americans who want to be immunized will have a vaccine. Most experts argue that betting on vaccines is not a viable strategy. Without adhering to masks, distancing and contact-tracing, and without ramping up testing, tens of thousands more could still die before life returns to normal in the US. "What we need to do is shift... towards a more screening approach that's proactive to test asymptomatic individuals," Harvard surgeon and health policy researcher Thomas Tsai told AFP. He said the government should approve rapid, at-home antigen tests, which it has been reluctant to do so far, and which would require the government to pay for it instead of insurance companies. "Covid will be the third leading cause of death this year in the US," tweeted Tom Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) under former president Barack Obama. "The staggering death toll from the virus is a reflection of a failed national response, but it's not too late to turn it around." Only the number of people who died from heart disease and cancer will be higher. It's likely that the US actually crossed 200,000 deaths in July, said Eric Topol, director of the Scripps Research Institute, citing the excess mortality rate. The initial lack of tests led to an undercount of the virus' toll. "We are the outlier to have been caught totally flat-footed with no testing, and just not learning from mistakes," Topol added, explaining why the virus continues to kill more than in Europe, despite improvements in how the disease is managed in hospitals. Belgium, Spain and Britain still have higher total death rates per capita than the United States, but were able to partly control the first wave of outbreaks through near-total lockdowns. "We never got adequate suppression, and yet we're opening everything and trying to make believe that everything is just great," said Topol. Adoption of public health measures remains mixed across the US. In many cities, students have gone back to school virtually, the indoor areas of bars and restaurants remain closed, and mask use is up. But hotspots are still flaring up, currently in the Midwest and on college campuses that returned to in-person learning. Critics say Trump abdicated responsibility and left it to the state governors to deal with the crisis and decide on lockdowns. "We had a crazy quilt of responses across the country that totally confused the average person," William Schaffner, a health policy professor at Vanderbilt University, told AFP. "We needed a unified, coherent, strong, national response." The public health system will be tested as we move into fall and winter, said Harvard epidemiologist Michael Mina. Anticipating a "twindemic" of coronavirus and flu, officials are stocking up on a record number of flu vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-closes-in-on-200000-virus-deaths-weeks-before-election/articleshow/78245728.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai's Marina Beach still off limits; police on 24x7 vigil||CHENNAI: The last time visitors stepped on the expansive sands of the Marina Beach was March 20. The beach has been off-limits to the public since then. All the seven entries from Kamarajar Salai remain barricaded, and areguarded night-and-day by a posse of about 50 cops, besides patrol teams and CCTV surveillance. Expert committees, including the one headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan, have repeatedly batted for total restoration of normality and reopening of all public utilities. Needless to say, it includes the city’s famed beaches as well. However, beaches, as also cinema theatres, are yet to figure in lockdown exit norms of the state government. Therefore, police assiduously block the sands, chase away stray visitors and fine violators. On Monday alone, 80 people were fined for ‘entering’ the beach violating the ban. Though police claim these restrictions are part of the Covid-19 measures, sources told TOI they are careful not to let repeat of the Jallikkattu-type protest by allowing people to gather on the sands. Citing passage of several contentious laws by the Centre, and the consequent protests, intelligence agencies have tipped the state government about similar protests on the Marina, they said. Only the main stretch between Light House and the memorial area has been blocked, said an officer, pointing out that there are no restrictions for people to use the beach off Loop Road to Srinivasapuram at Foreshore Estate. “People in Nochikuppam and in the nearby slum clearance board complex are allowed to access the beach and roam, as usual,” he said. As for the remaining stretch which witnessed the 15-day Jallikattu protest, binocular-wielding policemen are watching everyone crossing the stretch. “Patrol teams have been mandated to tip off the beat cops by whistle or through wireless, if they notice any suspicious movements of people on the beach,” said a senior officer. Apart from this, police are scanning CCTV images captured between the Gandhi statue point and Kannagi statue. “There are some gray areas in between these two outposts, so we have stationed a police van fitted with CCTV dome cameras,” said another officer. Of course, all these do not deter compulsive beach-goers who manage to dash across the sands and wade into waves, before running away before they are caught by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/marina-still-off-limits-police-on-24x7-vigil/articleshow/78241980.cms||A Selvaraj
September 22, 2020||Pune||PMC to ready biggest 24x7 oxygen supply set-up by October||PUNE: The civic body will put in place a round-the-clock medical oxygen supply system within a month at the Naidu Hospital following the setting up of a tank having the capacity to store around 14,000 litres of the essential gas. The biggest oxygen supply system for the health hubs run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will not only cater to Naidu Hospital. The tank will also be used to refill vacant oxygen cylinders. The cylinders can then be transported to other municipal health hubs, such as Kamla Nehru hospital, with oxygen beds. PMC officials said the civic administration has planned a number of steps to increase the supply of oxygen for medical purpose. “The system at Naidu hospital will be a permanent set-up for the supply of O2 at municipal hospitals. The civic administration can depend on this tank for providing O2 to the municipal medical facilities,” PMC chief engineer Shriniwas Kandul told TOI. He said the oxygen tank set up at the jumbo hospital would be used on a temporary basis. “But the system at Naidu hospital will be of long-term use. A mechanism will also be in place for consistently providing the facility with liquid oxygen,” he said. Shiv Sena corporator Prithviraj Sutar said, “The PMC should ensure full utilization of the existing 02 beds at its hospitals. The Kamla Nehru hospital is equipped with O2 beds. But these beds are not being used for Covid-19 mitigation. The civic administration should dedicate at least 100 beds for Covid-19 in this hospital,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-ready-biggest-24x7-oxygen-supply-set-up-by-oct/articleshow/78243429.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Noida||Three Noida, e-way sites shortlisted for new film city||LUCKNOW/NOIDA: The site in Greater Noida where Mulayam Singh Yadav had proposed a night safari in 2005 when he was CM is among three land parcels shortlisted for the new film city that Yogi Adityanath wants to build in Noida. The CM is expected to finalise on Tuesday the location for the project, which he had last week declared would be India’s “biggest and most beautiful” film city. The two other sites are in Sector 21 of the Yamuna Expressway region — which is the largest of the three with 1,000 acres, and also closer to the new international airport proposed in Jewar — and an agglomeration of plots in four Noida sectors (162, 164, 165 and 166). Noida ready with 200 acres for Film CityThe site earmarked for the night safari for the last 15 years is in Murshadpur village near the Gautam Buddha University campus. The government is in possession of 250 acres here and an acquisition of another 300 acres has been proposed to make it a 550-acre land parcel. Similarly, the government has with itself 500 acres in the site shortlisted in the Yamuna Expressway region and will have to acquire the rest. Noida, where land is scarce, has offered the smallest parcel – CEO Ritu Maheshwari said 200 acres can be readied immediately by clubbing together vacant plots. All three proposals were rushed to the Uttar Pradesh capital from Noida on Monday. The CM has summoned senior officials from the industries department for a detailed presentation of the Film City project on Tuesday. The CEOs of the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway development authorities are likely to join through video conference. “The night safari has been put on the backburner for the time being. It had been held up for various reasons, including lack of funds. The Film City project is crucial for the government right now and we have land ready for it,” said a government official. Last Friday, Yogi had announced the new Film City, which he said was needed to promote the state as a hub for film production, generation of employment and more investment. Struggling to come up with such a huge amount of land bank, New Okhla Industrial Development Authority also sent its proposal to the UP government late on Monday. NOIDA’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said that authority can provide 200-acre land immediately by clubbing together vacant plots in sectors 162, 164, 165 and 166. Watch UP: Three land parcels shortlisted for new film city in Gautam Budh Nagar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/mulayams-night-safari-site-for-film-city/articleshow/78244825.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Only a few schools reopen, parents wary amid Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Though unlock-4 guidelines facilitated a partial reopening of schools for class 9 to 12 students from Monday, many schools are still in the wait and watch mode. When some schools sought the opinion of parents, only 20% submitted the consent form. “Not even 20% of schools have reopened today,” said KV Praveen Raju, president, Independent Schools Management Association (ISMA), which comprises managements of top schools in the city, adding that reopening schools only for doubts clarifications will not yield much response from students and their parents. “If the schools can at least go for blended learning, there might be some positive response,” he added. Principals of few schools said that parents are also against sending their children for practical classes. “Hardly 6% of our class 11 and 12 parents have given their consent. When it comes to class 9 and 10 students, it is slightly better as 14% parents are willing to send their children to schools for clarification of doubts or for practicals,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School, Alwal, adding that although the school is not reopening on Monday, they are planning to start from October 1. The members of Telangana Recognised Schools Managements Association (TRSMA), which represents managements of over 10,000 budget schools, said that they won’t be reopening schools unless the government provides financial help and takes up sanitation and maintenance work of their schools. “It is not feasible for us to run classes only for a few students as we have to hire teachers and start paying salaries and other bills once the schools reopen. Further, the lenders will also start pressurising us to pay dues, and clearing them is not possible without collecting fee dues,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA. He added that managements are worried that the state would make them responsible and initiate action against us if a student/staff contracts coronavirus or God forbid someone dies after reopening schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-a-few-schools-reopen-parents-wary-amid-covid-19/articleshow/78243434.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Parking on NSC Bose Road triggers chaos||Chennai: Disallowing vehicles of advocates inside the high court campus has led to a chaotic situation on the busy NSC Bose Road as parked vehicles have encroached the driving space. While one lane of angle parking is usually allowed on the road vehicles are now parked encroaching the carriageway, leaving space only for one vehicle to pass at a time. “There is space only for an MTC bus to pass through and it leads to a traffic snarl. Several public institutions and offices have begun functioning and vehicles are being allowed. It is high time the high court administration too allows parking of advocates’ vehicles inside the campus,” said an advocate requesting anonymity. However, a section of advocates ToI spoke to said not all vehicles parked outside are that of advocates. “The functioning of the court has not changed much since the lockdown and only those having listed cases are allowed inside. Clients are also wary of the situation and are not visiting. So, visitors to the court are not usual,” said another advocate. Whatever be the case, motorists have been subjected to a hard time due to haphazard parking. Police said some vehicles belong to visitors to the shopping area and market nearby. “We have been booking cases and towing away vehicles. Apart from visitors to the high court, traders of the wholesale market nearby and small-time hawkers come from different parts of the city and set up shops on pavements and park their vehicles. We will be taking strict action,” said a traffic enforcement officer with city police. Humayun, who runs a shop in the area, said even before the lockdown, there used to be parking issues as commercial complexes and PSUs along the road used to illegally reserve parking spaces for themselves, placing ‘no parking’ sign boards outside their buildings, while parking is on a first-come first-served basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parking-on-nsc-bose-road-triggers-chaos/articleshow/78242000.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Patient, four others attack doctor, staff in Khanna||TNNLudhiana: Khanna police booked a patient and his four accomplices for allegedly attacking a doctor and his staff at a private hospital on Sunday night. The accused patient, Mandeep Singh, is from Krishna Nagar, Khanna. Dr Major Singh Jawandha of the private hospital on Peer Khanna Road told the police that Mandeep came to them on Sunday evening with an injury on his hand, and as it appeared to have been inflicted in a fight, he asked him to go to the civil hospital to get a medico-legal report. The complainant said the patient and his accomplices abused and attacked him and his staff. IMA member and Khanna civil hospital medical officer said Dr Jawandha suffered an injury on the leg after the accused hit him with a wooden stick. He said Dr Jawandha was admitted to the Khanna civil hospital and was fine now. He added that they had decided to observe a strike, but on the assurance of the Khanna SSP that the culprits would be booked, they called it off. The police booked the accused under sections 451 (house trespass in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC and under the Disaster Management Act. Khanna City-II SHO inspector Randeep Kumar said raids were on to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/patient-four-others-attack-doctor-staff-in-khanna/articleshow/78242001.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown helped in reducing cases doubling time in state: AIIMS study||Hyderabad: A study done by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences revealed that the lockdown imposed in March and April had helped in curbing the spread of Covid-19 in Telangana and other states with highest decrease reported in Andhra Pradesh. AIIMS Bhopal researchers estimated time-varying reproduction number and doubling time before the commencement of lockdown and during first 15 days and 30 days of the lockdown in 10 high prevalence states. Telangana, AP, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh reported increase in doubling time.  Increase in doubling time indicates slow growth rate of an outbreak and vice-versa. Telangana’s doubling time which was 4.9 in the first 15 days of lockdown increased to 8 after 30 days of lockdown. In AP, the doubling time was 3.7 in the first 15 days of lockdown and increased to 6.1 after 30 days of lockdown. Gujarat reported a decrease in doubling time meaning no slowing down of the outbreak. Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan reported negligible change in doubling time. The study of researchers — Arun Mitra , Abhijit P Pakhare, Adrija Roy and Ankur Joshi of department of community and family medicine, AIIMS Bhopal, was published in ‘PLOS ONE’ journal. “Seven states saw a reduction in reproduction number between the early epidemic phase and the current timeframe. The highest decrease was seen in AP (73%) followed by Delhi (43%) and Rajasthan (30%). Telangana and TN saw stable reproduction during this time period while Gujarat, on the other hand, saw an increase,” revealed the researchers in the study. Reproduction number in AP decreased from 5.7 to 1.3 from first 15 days to 30 days of lockdown. In Telangana, the reproduction number decreased from 2.5 to 2.4. “The growth rates of eight of 10 states witnessed decline between the two time intervals of early epidemic phase and 30 days. UP didn’t show a decline in growth rate, whereas Gujarat witnessed an increase,” said the researchers. In AP, the growth rate decreased from 0.18 to 0.11 from 15 days of lockdown (early epidemic) to 30 days of lockdown. In Telangana, growth rate decreased from 0.14 to 0.09. Researchers found that there was decrease of these transmission parameters across different Indian states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-helped-in-reducing-cases-doubling-time-in-state-aiims-study/articleshow/78243419.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Dussehra effigy maker suffers pandemic pangs||Ludhiana: The days ahead of Navaratras and Dussehra were packed with activities for 48-year-old Asgar Ali of Agra as he along with his family prepared the effigies of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna. His team would get orders from the city as well as Chandigarh, Rajasthan and Haryana. But this year, there is a lull these days with no Dussehra committee placing orders for effigies.Ali has been a part of this ancestral business for over 15 years. “These days were the busiest for us. My family would accompany me to different cities to help prepare the effigies. But this time, we are at home in Agra as we have not received any order to date, with public gatherings not allowed amid the pandemic,” said Ali.Recalling the old days, he said he used to prepare effigies for Ludhiana’s Daresi ground, Upkar Nagar Dussehra committee, Hambran Road, Dhandhran Road, among others. “I have travelled across the country, as I get orders from various cities. We reach a city at least one-and-a-half month before for completing the effigies and take material along from Agra,” he added.A diploma holder in civil engineering, Ali ensured his children were well-educated. “My elder daughter, Asma, is a government teacher and the younger one is pursuing MSc. My son holds a degree in masters in computer applications and the other in BSc,” he said.His son, Imran, said, “All throughout the year, we remain busy in studies. But these two months, we would accompany our father to help him make effigies. I miss those days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dussehra-effigy-maker-suffers-pandemic-pangs/articleshow/78241993.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Delhi||Japanese method to give a green makeover to Delhi's mountain of shame||NEW DELHI: To create a dense mini forest near the Ghazipur landfill, East Delhi Municipal Corporation has employed the Japanese method of Miyawaki urban forestry. The man-made patch is not only expected to improve the ambient air quality in the area, but also serve as a test for using the same approach to turn the infamous garbage mountain into a biodiversity park. A municipal official said that more than 1,000 saplings of 40 native Indian species have been planted using the Miyawaki method over a 450 square metres. “The system developed by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki ensures that the growth of a forests ten times faster and 30 times denser than through traditional plantation methods,” the official said. The Miyawaki method, also called the potted seedling method, may show the way forward for setting up a biodiversity park at the landfill, as suggested by National Green Tribunal. It is an afforestation technique that uses native plant species along with components such as perforators, water retainer, organic manure and mulch. The method guarantees high survival and the growth. The same methodology was used earlier near Barapulla drain at Sarai Kale Khan by Delhi Development Authority and the Union government’s department of biotechnology to reclaim a swampy sewage area and turn it into a carbon sink. EDMC expects the pilot to help determine which native species are suitable for the proposed green belts around the landfill, both in controlling odour control and improving ambient air quality. The landfill is currently being freed of legacy waste through bio-mining and trommeling. EDMC is removing more than 3,600 tonnes of waste every day from thesite. Taking suo motu cognisance of TOI’s May 27, 2019, report “Below Mountains of Trash Lie Poison Lakes”, NGT directed the biomining of the landfill instead of its capping and turning of the garbage dumps into biodiversity parks. TOI had reported how the city’s landfills were polluting underground aquifers, forcing people in the vicinity to consume water contaminated by leachate. If successfully reclaimed through bio-mining and trommeling, there will be 70 acres of land at Ghazipur to be forested. Nirmal Jain, EDMC mayor, disclosed that a section of the stabilised Ghazipur landfill had already been covered with grass and plants. “This new technique will be used to green the patches of land around the landfill in order to turn the entire area into a green lung for the region,” Jain said. In Akira Miyawaki’s system, native species are chosen in the right mix to create a four-layered system of shrubs, sub-tree level, tree layer and canopy layer. After the treatment of soil, the plants are packed closely so that vertical growth takes place rather than horizontal growth, eventually creating a mini self-sustaining ecosystem. An EDMC official said that the plants used in Ghazipur included timber, medicinal, flowering, fruit and shrub species. In addition to Ghazipur and Barapullah, the same method has been adopted in neighboring Gautam Buddh Nagar, where India’s largest Miyawaki forest is being created in Greater Noida. In September 2019, two lakh plants were planted over 71,000 sq m. However, several environmentalists have noted that these man-made woods cannot replace natural forests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/japanese-method-to-give-a-green-makeover-to-mountain-of-shame/articleshow/78244820.cms||Paras Singh
September 22, 2020||Delhi||DU colleges sore over special audit||NEW DELHI: The problems of the teaching and non-teaching staff of the 12 colleges funded by Delhi government will not be resolved for some days. Delhi high court has referred the plea moved by the staff for non-payment of salaries since May to a division bench, which will hear the matter on Thursday. Delhi government maintains the audits were initiated after complaints of financial irregularities. However, the colleges question the objective of the audit when the earlier CAG audit as well as Delhi government’s ELFA audit noted no discrepancies. One of the factors behind the financial morass is believed to be the rejection of government nominees for the governing bodies of the colleges by Delhi University. However, on Monday, when DU held an emergency Executive Council meeting, the nominee list, on hold since March, wasn’t discussed. Hem Chandra Jain, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, one of the institutions facing the audit, said, “A special audit is carried out only when the statutory audits indicate serious lapses. I say it with all confidence there are no such indication in our college audits.” Mamta Sharma of Aditi Mahavidyalaya similarly said the latest audit in May of the accounts of 2018-19 did not reveal any corruption0000, yet “we got a letter from the government about a special audit”. A government official retorted, “Grant are given to cover the shortfall between total revenues and total expenditure. Unless the colleges disclose their revenue, the government can’t release any grant. Until Friday, these colleges refused to reveal revenue details. Once the audit is completed, the amounts due to the 12 colleges can be determined and payments made.” However, Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, claimed revenue details had been provided to the government as per the mandate of Directorate of Higher Education. She maintained, “The government is targeting these colleges because the governing body chairpersons are not its nominees.” Of the six colleges where the special audit has been ordered, three have university nominees as chairpersons. In others, the GB is yet to be formed. The tussle began late last year when DU asked the state government to reconsider the names of six of its GB nominees, a request turned down by the government on the ground that the university did not have the mandate to demand a reconsideration. In June, the state government instructed the six colleges not to conduct GB elections until the names were approved. But Keshav Mahavidyalaya, pleading that it needed a chairperson and treasurer to be able to appoint ad-hoc teachers before the new academic session, went to court to secure a decision. Keshav and Bhagini Nivedita colleges then elected their GB chairpersons. On August 24, the former received the notice about the special audit. At Monday’s Executive Council meeting, DU alleged both chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia had refused to meet DU’s representatives for four months to resolve the problem. EC member Rajesh Jha claimed, “We were assured by vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi that the DU administration had sought time from the lieutenant governor, CM and the deputy CM, but did not succeed.” Dean of colleges Balram Pani also confirmed to TOI the lack of government response to the meeting request. However, describing this as “completely false,” a Delhi government official said. “In fact, the deputy CM called a meeting with the VC to discuss the matter before the independent audit was ordered and wrote several letters. The VC did not even bother to respond. If he’s still willing, the VC is welcome to discuss the issue in the next 2-3 days,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-colleges-sore-over-special-audit/articleshow/78244828.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Min Jayakumar’s name at subway stokes row||Chennai: A picture of the RBI vehicular subway with a plaque containing the name of minister D Jayakumar and ignoring one with the name of former chief minister K Kamaraj, who launched it, stoked a controversy before the minister clarified.  The new plaque on the 60-year-old subway says it was renovated by Southern Railway and inaugurated by minister for fisheries and personnel and administrative reforms D Jayakumar on January 26, 2020. The imprint on the one with Kamaraj’s name has almost completely worn off.  Constructed in 1963, it was meant to ease the traffic between the secretariat and North Chennai as a railway level crossing hindered the smooth movement of vehicles. According to Dravidian historian K Thirunavukarasu, vehicles had to take a detour to reach the other side through Broadway to avoid the railway gate. “The historical plaque should have been renovated as it was a significant contribution of Kamarajar,” he added. Social media on Monday was abuzz with memes over the minister removing the name of the former chief minister before Jayakumar tweeted pictures of the old plaque staying intact. Saying none can make the old plaque invisible, he tweeted, “But, what can I comment about those speaking out of ignorance?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/min-jayakumars-name-at-subway-stokes-row/articleshow/78242011.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt wants 80% of private hospital beds for Covid care||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said private hospitals in the city should dedicate 80% of their beds to Covid-19 care. He said nearly 1,790 non-oxygenated beds with the private hospitals “served no purpose” in terms of Covid-19 treatment and told the health hubs to immediately convert them into facilities supported by the gas. Tope, who was in the city, had a three-hour meeting with representatives of the hospitals after the dashboard data revealed that some health hubs with 300 beds each were dedicating 10-15 ICU beds for Covid-19 cases. It was also revealed that the number of oxygen beds was dismal. “We told the hospitals to ensure an 80:20 ratio of their beds within a week for Covid-19 mitigation. They have to ensure oxygen lines,” he told TOI. Indian Medical Association state president Avinash Bhondwe said besides the oxygen beds, there has to be a check on if the hospitals were abiding by the Centre’s protocols related to separation of beds (infective and non-infective), ventilators, and central oxygen supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-wants-80-of-pvt-hosp-beds-for-ncov-care/articleshow/78243457.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: With surge in cases, utilisation of oxygen beds goes up by 24%||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the utilisation of oxygen beds for Covid-19 patients has gone up to 24 percent compared to 18 percent, at the beginning of this month. While this is indicative of an increase of hospitalisation of serious cases, experts say that this spike is likely to continue up to December. The continuous upswing is being attributed to increased inter-district travel, once the unlock came into force. Siddipet, Khammam, Nalgonda, and Warangal Urban have been recording the number of cases for over a month. Of late, Mulugu, Vikarabad and Jayashankar Bhupalapally are experiencing a surge. “With the virus reaching more and more villages, the spread will continue till December. After reaching its peak, the number of cases will decline,” said a senior health official, adding that people are travelling a lot between districts for agricultural and medical purposes. However, even as instances of hospitalisation are on the rise, particularly due to the late detection of cases, the recovery is found to be good among the rural population. “While most villagers are still susceptible, the semi-urban and urban population is getting affected due to the high population density. The recovery is best in the majority of these cases as most are asymptomatic cases,” said Dr Kiran Madala, in charge head of the department of critical care at the Nizamabad Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-surge-in-cases-utilisation-of-oxygen-beds-goes-up-by-24/articleshow/78243466.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 22, 2020||Delhi||Into its third week, Delhi Metro switches gears||NEW DELHI: With Monday marking 15 days of resumption of Delhi Metro services after more than five months, the footfall has seen a steady rise and operations have “stabilised” according to the new normal. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is likely to scale down additional manpower deputed for ensuring safety norms with most passengers adapting to the current arrangements. On day one, when only Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) was opened as part of the graded resumption of services, only around 15,500 passengers travelled. But the number kept rising as other corridors gradually opened up. September 14, the first Monday since all corridors became operational and DMRC reverted to the old service timings of 6am to 11pm, saw nearly 2.5 lakh passengers. The “line utilisation” figure on September 14 was 6.8 lakh. This is calculated by the number of corridors used by a passenger to reach his destination. By September 18, the figure went up to 8 lakh. Compared with the average figure of 54.2 lakh recorded in September 2019, the dip was 86%. A DMRC spokesperson said, “As services resumed in a graded manner, when all corridors were not operational and service timings were not the same, there can’t be an absolute comparison in terms of line utilisation growth at this stage.” “There has not been much of a rush at stations and in trains even during peak hours. Though queues form outside busy stations, social distancing is maintained as passengers are largely cooperative. The awareness level in passengers is satisfactorily high. People have seamlessly adapted to the new normal and operations have settled,” the official said. However, this hasn’t meant that all passengers are following safety norms diligently. DMRC had to deploy flying squads from September 11 to ensure compliance of rules. Till September 20, these squads penalised 2,214 passengers fining them Rs 200 each for not wearing face masks or not maintaining social distancing. This is apart from 5,000 passengers counselled for not wearing face masks properly or not being careful about maintaining distance. The largest number of violators, 724, were prosecuted on Yellow Line, followed by 580 on Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh) and 545 on Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City). Apart from regular front line staff at the stations, DMRC has deployed around 1,000 personnel across the network to assist and guide passengers. “These personnel are from different departments. We have to take a decision on when they can resume their usual duties. A decision is likely to be taken by the end of this week on gradual scaling down of additional personnel, including Civil Defence volunteers at a later stage,” the official said. Though DMRC didn’t share the exact number of passengers who travelled between September 14 and 20, the line utilisation figures revealed that the three oldest workhorses — Yellow, Blue and Red (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal) Lines — accounted for nearly 70% of the total footfall. This is despite the corridors making up only 42.5% of the total network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/into-its-3rd-week-delhi-metro-switches-gears-/articleshow/78244835.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors divided over proper use of remdesivir, shortage also a worry||PUNE: The city’s medical fraternity is divided over the appropriate use of antiviral drug remdesivir to treat people infected with Covid-19. Though some doctors say it is beneficial in hypoxic patients with Covid-19 (with blood oxygen saturation below 95), others feel that there is no need to wait for patients to get hypoxic. The second group of doctors says the drug should be administered if radiological investigation, including x-ray or CT scan, shows peculiar ground-glass opacity or lung lesions. The lack of clarity about remdesivir judicious use, along with the insistence from patients’ relatives for the drug and increased caseload, are among the reasons why it is in short supply in Pune. The Indian Council of Medical Research and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences have told the states to use drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab, mentioned as investigational therapies, on Covid-19 patients strictly as per the protocol because “their indiscriminate use or use in conditions may cause more harm than good”. “In my opinion, all patients with lung lesions on scan should get remdesivir irrespective of hypoxia. Why wait for hypoxia to set in? I have used the drug in quite a few patients with Covid-19. My personal experience with remdisevir has been good,” critical care expert Subhal Dixit says. “It all depends upon the selection of patients. Starting the drug at the right time is crucial. 1The beneficial effects of the drug are seen after 3-4 days. The drug also helps curtail the patients’ oxygen needs,” says Dixit, who is also the former national president of the Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine. Critical care expert Kapil Borawake, however, has a different view. “Remdesivir should be administered on patients requiring oxygen therapy or having moderate to severe disease based on biomarkers. The presence of hypoxia and lung lesions on CT scan showing more than 50% lung involvement are the main indicators for remdesivir’s use. Patients with mild to moderate infection not needing oxygen support are not likely to benefit from the drug,” he says. Senior physician Narendra Javadekar admits that there have been grey areas about the use of the drug due to the peculiar unpredictability of the disease. “The Covid-19 trajectory is often unpredictable in a sizeable number of patients. Even patients with mild fever or body ache and no pre-existing medical conditions are seen developing abnormal immune response against the virus on the eight or ninth day of illness. This unpredictable course even among healthy adults has divided the doctors over the use of remdesivir,” Javadekar says. Patients’ relatives are also responsible for the extensive use of the drug. “Remdesivir and tocilizumab are expensive drugs. Patients from affording class feel that since these drugs are expensive, they must be effective. They start insisting on their use right from the beginning,” Javadekar says. Bharati hospital’s deputy medical director Jitendra Oswal says. “If every patient is given remdesivir, then it will lead to indiscriminate and rampant use of the drug. This will deprive the really needy patients.”.  “The daily requirement of remdesivir in Pune is over 1,000 vials. Barring big private hospitals, most small and medium-sized facilities are facing the acute drug shortage,” says Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association Hospital Board of India, Pune branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-divided-over-proper-use-of-remdesivir-shortage-also-a-worry/articleshow/78243573.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||Over two dozen injured as over-packed bus topples in Mahisagar||Vadodara: Around 25 persons were injured when a private bus carrying nearly 100 passengers from Sanjeli in Dahod district to Kalavad in Jamnagar district overturned. Most of the passengers in the bus were tribal labours going to various places in Saurashtra.The incident took place on Sunday night near the Padhariya village in Santrampur taluka of Mahisagar district. An offence regarding it was registered in the early hours on Monday at the Santrampur police station.According to the offence, the driver of the bus was driving it in a reckless manner and lost control near Padhariya. The bus fell on its side making a loud noise. Emergency ambulances, police and other officials were informed by those who witnessed the accident. Those injured were rushed to a hospital in Santrampur from where some were also taken to Godhra.While the offence regarding the incident does not mention the number of passengers travelling in the bus, the sarpanch of a village near the accident site claimed that the bus was carrying around 100 passengers. The sarpanch Rupa Dhamot told media persons that he and others had rushed to the site and saw the passengers at the place.The driver of the bus escaped after the incident and attempts were being made to locate him. The injured in the incident included several persons who were members of the same family. Entire families from the tribal belt in central Gujarat travel long distances to work in farms or construction sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-two-dozen-injured-as-over-packed-bus-topples-in-mahisagar/articleshow/78242009.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana reports 1,300 new cases, nine fatalities||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 1,302 new cases and nine deaths, raising the caseload to 1,72,608. While the total Covid-19 deaths in the state rose to 1042, so far 1,41,930 patients have recovered and 29,636 persons are under medical care. The case fatality rate which is a measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus when compared to the total number of infected patients, is currently at 0.60 per cent in the state, as compared to the national average of 1.60 per cent. A low case fatality rate means lower number of Covid-19 patients dying from the virus. The recovery rate which represents the percentage of patients affected with the virus, having recovered from it, is on the increase in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-1300-new-cases-nine-fatalities/articleshow/78243468.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Simultaneous polls in Khammam, Greater Warangal & GHMC unlikely||Hyderabad: Elections for the Khammam and Greater Warangal municipal corporations are unlikely to be held in concurrence with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, the state election commission has said. Contrary to expectations, the SEC wants to first finish the mammoth task of pre-poll preparations for GHMC and then procees for elections to the other two civic bodies. The present term of the elected bodies of Khammam and Warangal civic bodies is up to March 14, 2021 whereas in GHMC it is till February 10 2021. “Though a final decision has not been taken but the idea is to complete the election process for GHMC and then focus on the other two corporations. There are 150 divisions in Greater Hyderabad having nearly 75 lakh voters,” state election commissioner C Partha Sarathy told TOI. Meanwhile, the ruling TRS has been busy inaugurating infrastructure projects and announcing new ones in all three municipal corporations. Although TRS working president and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao is focussing on Greater Hyderabad, he toured Warangal town after heavy rains recently too. Two other ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Puvvada Ajay Kumar are concentrating on Warangal and Khammam civic bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/simultaneous-polls-in-khammam-greater-warangal-ghmc-unlikely/articleshow/78243480.cms||Roushan Ali
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Int’l flights on but response remains sluggish||Chennai: International flights may have resumed under the ‘air bubble’ concept early this month but passenger response is sluggish. Most of the flights have hardly 100 passengers or less as only those who have emergencies or those who are returning to rejoin families are flying. On Sunday and Monday, the airport handled only 1,500 passengers including arrivals and departures though there were 16 flights. Most of the flights are to the Middle East and Southeast Asia. An airport official said, “Passenger numbers are erratic. Some of the flights have good load factor while others have only around 100 passengers which is quite low for international flights. We expect the passenger numbers to pick up gradually.” Quarantine restrictions is a major stumbling block, he added. Though rules have been relaxed in such a way that people who have a Covid-19 negative test certificate can get exemption from a full institutional quarantine, people hesitate. “It is not easy to get a test done abroad and the tests are expensive too. So many people are deferring their trip till rules will be relaxed further. More people will travel if the need for quarantine is scrapped,” he added. Many flights from Europe and the US are allowed under the ‘air bubble’ scheme via Delhi but in spite of the demand for people to return to Chennai only 40 to 50 passengers are there on a flight from the US to Chennai via Delhi. A majority of the passengers on these flights get down in Delhi. Nevertheless, airlines have approached the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to start more services under the ‘air bubble’ concept. An official said that more airlines are eager to resume international operations. “British Airways has already started their service from Heathrow while Lufthansa is waiting to resume services to Frankfurt these are the two popular European destinations the airport used to have in the pre-shutdown days.” However, frequency is less. This is also considered as a factor that has impacted the passenger flow. Basheer Ahmed of Metro Travels said, “Students have started to travel to Europe and the UK. We have bookings to Dublin while many people have started to fly to Dubai and Muscat to join duty and also to rejoin families. Air fares are competitive in private airlines which is supposed to encourage more travellers. But still the passenger numbers are not that high.” More international flights may start in October or November. Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Singapore, Colombo and Dubai were some of the popular routes from Chennai in the pre-shutdown days. Airline officials hope that IPL may trigger the habit of leisure travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/intl-flights-on-but-response-remains-sluggish/articleshow/78242020.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||DMHOs pulled up for poor virus testing in six districts, state govt hints at action||Hyderabad: The state health authorities on Monday pulled up health officials of six districts, which have been faring poorly in Covid-19 testing . The six District Medical and Health Officers (DMHO) were asked to submit an explanation within 24 hours, failing which action will be initiated against them. Testing in the state, meanwhile, hit a new low with just 31,095 samples being tested across the state. It was 53,000 the previous day. The letter, sent to DMHOs of Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Medchal, Narayanpet, Nirmal, Rajanna Sircilla and Vikarabad by the director of public health, stated that these districts have a high positivity rate but still failed to conduct tests. Of the six districts, Medchal and Jayashankar Bhupalpally had done zero antigen tests on Sunday while Narayanpet did just 8 tests. Among the other three, Nirmal recorded 47 antigen tests, Rajanna Sircilla 39 tests and Vikarabad 72 tests. Each of these districts have been performing around 200 tests per day on an average, as against the daily target of 2,000 tests set for each district. “It is observed from the database of rapid antigen/ RT-PCR test report on 20.09.2020, these districts have not conducted tests at all or conducted less number of antigen and RT-PCR tests, in spite of high positivity rate and repeated instructions from office. In this connection, it shows that performance of the above districts in conducting tests is very low, especially on public holidays compared to other districts. Hence the DMHOs are directed to submit an explanation on the above poor performance within 24 hours without fail. Otherwise action will be initiated against the concerned,” reads the letter, warning that this may be treated as most urgent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dmhos-pulled-up-for-poor-virus-testing-in-six-districts-state-govt-hints-at-action/articleshow/78243472.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 22, 2020||Kochi||Blast kills two guest workers in Malayattoor||KOCHI: Two guest labourers died after explosives stored at a house, and meant for a nearby quarry, exploded in the wee hours of Monday at Malayattoor in Ernakulam. The explosion occured at around 3:20 am and the building where the victims stayed collapsed. The intensity of the explosion blew the body of one of them into pieces, sources said. The deceased were identified as D Naga (36) of Kollegala, Karnataka, and Peryannan Lachumanan (38) of Salem, Tamil Nadu. Both of them were in quarantine since they arrived from their respective states, sources said. The accident happened at Illithodu in Malayattoor. Kalady police registered a case since the explosives were stored in a building, and not the magazine where it was permitted storage as per the explosive license. The FIR was registered under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Explosives Act. The victims worked at the quarry for over the past ten years. “They had gone home before the lockdown and were in quarantine ever since they came back. The building where the explosion happened was quite big and had an area of over 1,500sq ft. Their quarantine period would have gotten over soon,” said Sajeev Chandran, local ward member. Fire and rescue department and police dug out the bodies from under the debris, and moved them to two different hospitals. The explosion could be heard about 4km away and window panes of several houses were destroyed in the impact. Minor cracks developed on walls of some houses too. The cause of the explosion can only be known after a scientific examination, police said. Ernakulam rural SP K Kathick visited the spot and formed a special investigation team, under Perumbavoor DSP Bijumon, to probe into the incident. Forensics and dog squads also inspected the spot. Bodies would be handed over to the kin after an autopsy, police said. “It is possible that they were arranging the explosives for work in the morning when the blast happened. It also could have happened when the duo was asleep. The exact cause can be assessed only through a comprehensive probe,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, district collector S Suhas has ordered an enquiry into the incident. “A report has been sought from the tahsildar about the Malayattoor Illithodu blast. Postmortem of the deceased are going on. Sub-collector would inspect the spot. Police have registered an FIR and have begun a probe. If any illegalities are found, stringent action including cancellation of licence, would be initiated,” collector wrote on his Facebook page.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/blast-kills-2-near-quarry-in-malayattoor/articleshow/78242041.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Opinion of parties on voting mode sought||Hyderabad: In view of the Covid-19 situation, the State Election Commission (SEC) has sought opinion of political parties whether to conduct the ensuing polls to GHMC with electronic voting machines (EVMs) or through ballot boxes on or before September 30. If no reply is received, the Commission will deem it as the political party has no opinion on it. The initial response was mixed from various political parties. BJP’s Telangana unit said it considers EVM usage to be safe during Covid-19 as physical touch points are minimal compared to the paper ballot, while Congress said SEC should actually be asking whether or not to conduct elections amid the pandemic. “EC should provide hand gloves and sanitizers to all voters as they come inside the booth to vote,” BJP Telangana chief spokesperson K Krishna Saagar Rao said. Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka said Covid-19 could spread through both EVMs and the ballot. He said even campaigning would be difficult as it would not be an easy task to ensure all people involved in campaigning including, voters, maintain physical distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/opinion-of-parties-on-voting-mode-sought/articleshow/78243522.cms||Roushan Ali
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Burglars attempt to break ATM, 1 held||Nashik: Five burglars attempted to break open an ATM kiosk of a private bank on the Wadner-Pathardi road in the early hours of Monday. Police have arrested one of the burglars who was hiding in the dark. Nilesh Mainkar, senior police inspector of Indiranagar police station, said they recovered a a pink bag containing screwdrivers, spanners, and other tools from the arrested accused identified as Rupesh Kahar (21). Kahar has revealed the names of his four other accomplice. Dinesh Patil a constable of the Indiranagar police station, along with another constable was patrolling the Pathardi Phata area. When the two constables went to check if the ATM of the private bank was intact, they found two burglars dashing out seeing the police. Though Patil chased them, four burglars managed to escape in the dark. Following which the control room was alerted. Police officials rushed to the spot and cordoned off the area. Kahar was found hiding in the dark near a garden in the area and the rest fled the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglars-attempt-to-break-atm-1-held/articleshow/78240974.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 22, 2020||Pune||Bike-borne men snatch 3 cellphones in Bhosari||Pune: Motorcycle-borne men snatched three cellphones and cash, collectively worth Rs45,00, in separate incidents in the past four days in Bhosari. Police said in all the robberies, the bike-borne men had their faces covered with handkerchiefs and primarily targeted pedestrians. In the first incident, Shivdas Wagh (21) of Bhosari, was on his way to work in the early hours of Saturday, when three bike-borne men snatched his cellphone worth Rs5,000. Wagh lodged an FIR with the Bhosari police on Sunday. When Nilesh Chavan (36) of Bhosari was returning home from his workplace on Friday night, four men riding on two motorcycles waylaid him at Kasarwadi and fled after snatching his cellphone and Rs20,000. In the third robbery, Kiran Shirvale (21), on Sunday approached the Bhosari police and stated that two bike-borne men had snatched his cellphone worth Rs10,000 on the morning of September 15. In another development, the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Sunday arrested two criminals on police records and recovered a cellphone worth Rs1.3 lakh from them. The duo had snatched the cellphone from the Bhosari MIDC area. The arrested suspect, Himanshu Solanki (20) of Dighi, has six cases registered against him with the Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and the Pune rural police. His accomplice, Prajjwal Jambe (20), has a case against him with the Dighi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bike-borne-men-snatch-3-cellphones-in-bhosari/articleshow/78244850.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||4 pour kerosene on GHMC staff, arrested||Hyderabad: Four persons were arrested for pouring kerosene on Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) disaster management staff and trying to set them on fire when the team was demolishing illegal encroachments on Monday. An assistant engineer from the directorate of enforcement vigilance and disaster management, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, and his staff went to bring down illegal constructions at Gopal Rao Nagar, at Miyapur, when a group of people gathered and tried to stop the work. The four arrested accused were identified as Mohd Kareem (25) from Ameerpet, Shaik Salman (23) and Syed Imran (26) from New Hafeezpet, Miyapur, and Shaik Akram (39) from KPHB. The four accused along with others poured the kerosene on the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) disaster management staff and tried to lit the fire but the staff somehow managed to escape from the fire. The four offenders have been booked for attempt to murder, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty and disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-pour-kerosene-on-ghmc-staff-arrested/articleshow/78243515.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Waive school fees or face stir’||Gandhinagar: Paresh Dhanani, leader of opposition (LOP) in the assembly, said in the monsoon session of the assembly that the Congress will launch an agitation if government does not step in and waive school fees for students. He added that parents are facing a lot of hardships because of the lockdown and subsequent economic crisis.Dhanani also said that the government needs to give an economic assistance package for unorganized sector workers. He also demanded reduction in VAT on petrol/diesel and also waiver of all taxes of local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waive-school-fees-or-face-stir/articleshow/78244874.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras researchers develops nano-coated magnesium implants for bone fractures||CHENNAI: IIT-M researchers have developed nano-coated magnesium alloy mesh cage implants, as an alternative for titanium support for fractured bones, which can degrade slowly and get absorbed in the body as the bone heals. The team has tested the material on rabbits and has plans to study its application in larger animals like sheep and goats and eventually repairing human bones. Professor Mukesh Doble, department of biotechnology, said while research on use of magnesium, which is abundant in the body and known to accelerate bone healing, as a degradable bone implant has been around for some time, the issue with the material is that it degrades faster even before the bone heals. The IITM research team has come up with a solution by nano-coating magnesium alloy with two biocompatible materials — polycaprolactone, a biodegradable polymer and hydroxyapatite, a calcium phosphate-based biomaterial to help the implant degrade slowly. “By coating a bare magnesium with the two biomaterials, we tried to address the degradation rate so that it matches with that of the growth of the bone. With the coating, magnesium implant would take about one to one-and-a-half years to degrade in the body and by that time, the bone would have healed,” the professor said. The researchers said while small fractures or defects can be treated with plates and rods, fractures longer than 5cm in long bones would take long time to heal. Hence they need some support. “Titanium mesh cage is usually used to heal and stabilise the bone. But it does not degrade and so remains in the body permanently. Magnesium is now being looked at as an option as it’s mechanical properties are closer to that of the bone,” the professor said. The researchers tested the nano-coated magnesium alloy on the femur of a rabbit and found that it showed bone formation while bridging the defect region without any adverse reaction. The researchers said they are exploring funding opportunities to further test the alloy in repairing bone defects in large animals like goats or sheep to further study its efficacy. Watch Chennai: IIT-Madras researchers develop nano-coated magnesium bone implants for fractures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/researchers-develops-magnesium-implants-for-bone-fractures/articleshow/78242035.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chennai||HC: Smuggling of red sanders claiming poor people’s lives big time||Chennai: Red sanders smuggling has become a menace and it is taking poor people’s lives big time, said the Madras high court, adding marginalized people are lured into cutting and smuggling red sanders from AP. "From media reports it is evident that a mafia consisting of powerful political personalities, police, exporters and brokers from the neighbouring state as well as in Tamil Nadu are involved in the smuggling," a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and P Velmurugan said on Monday. The court made the observations while hearing a habeas corpus plea moved by the mother of an accused detained under the Goondas Act for smuggling. "It is seen from the present case that red sanders woods smuggling is taking away many lives in Tamil Nadu. The smuggling has become a menace and poor people have become victims. The marginalized people are lured into cutting and smuggling of red sanders from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, especially in Chithoor, and in other neighbouring districts," the court said. About 20 people found cutting red sanders trees in Seshachalam forest of Chithoor were shot down on April 27, 2015 by red sanders and anti-smuggling task force and many persons were also arrested. Even in May 2014, three persons from Thiruvannamalai district were shot while about 100 men were felling red sanders trees, the bench pointed out. "It is stated the traditional route of smugglers used to be Chittoor and Nellore to Chennai Port from where it would be transported to Southeast Asia. Recently red sanders are coming from Palakonda hills of Kadapa and Ananthapur. They are stated to be smuggled via Ananthapur to Bangalore and from there to Chennai Port," the judges said. The court then directed the DGP to file a detailed report as to the number of persons killed during smuggling, cases registered, arrested and involvement of politicians in the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-smuggling-of-red-sanders-claiming-poor-peoples-lives-big-time/articleshow/78242046.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC starts bus service to more destinations||Nashik: The Nashik division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) from Monday has added few more destinations for its bus services. According to a senior MSRTC official, the Nashik division has started buses for Indore, Ahmedabad, Patoda in Jalgaon, Buldhana and Kolhapur and soon the services to more destinations will also be made available. Buses for Ahmedabad and Kolhapur are semi-sleeper non-air conditioned. The bus for Kolhapur leaves at 8pm from New Central Bus Stand, while for Ahmedabad, the bus will leave at 8.30 pm. For Indore, an ordinary bus will leave from the New CBS at 10.30 am on Monday. The bus services have been started buses on the new routes after the state government waived off the condition of carrying maximum 50% passengers in the bus owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. According to the official, frequency of buses on existing routes including Mumbai, Pune, Jalgaon, Dhule and Aurangabad was also being revised to cater to the requirements of the commuters. “The buses for Mumbai and Pune followed by Dhule are receiving maximum crowd, while there are less frequent travellers on other routes,” the official said. “The operations have been reactivated up to 40% of the pre-Covid levels. We would be increase it gradually only after receiving good response from the commuters. We have about 37% occupancy in the buses currently and we are hoping that the numbers go up shortly. Only after that the buses to few more destinations on the other routes will be started,” he added. The load factor the buses are operating is on the lower side large because there is still ban on religious gatherings, family functions and even education sector. “Once these things are allowed, we will see the people travelling and only then will we have commuters with us,” the MSRTC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-starts-bus-service-to-more-destinations/articleshow/78241034.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 22, 2020||Pune||Wisecracking memes keep theatre alive in city||Pune: Wisecracking memes with typical self-deprecating humour have kept the Facebook page of Theatron Entertainment, a Pune-based theatre group, alive these days.With theatre production in a limbo owing to the pandemic, the group led by Suraj Parasnis and Virajas Kulkarni, has found a unique way to keep its patrons engaged. “It is really difficult to figure out every day what we should do as a theatre group to be on people’s mind. So, we came up with memes, which take a satirical look at the world of theatre -- all for some light-hearted fun,” said Parasnis.Theatron Entertainment has a dedicated team that comes up with witty memes dripping with tongue-in-cheek humour. A lot of the content is derived from what theatre professionals, brought up in the world of plays and inter-college theatre, are exposed to over the years. Some of the memes poke fun at the enthusiasm of college students trying to create impression with dodgy scripts.Like a few other theatre groups, Parasnis and his colleagues have also branched out into film production. The group has produced 10 short films, in different languages, which are expected to release later this year. Theatron Entertainment has decided to stream some of its flagship plays in the United States.“We have teamed up with a production house to livestream some of our plays, such as Anathema, in the US,” Parasnis added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wisecracking-memes-keep-theatre-alive-in-city/articleshow/78244857.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Trial of howitzer guns stopped||Jaisalmer: The trial of final phase of Howitzer guns that was going on at Pokhran field firing range has been stopped by DRDO after the barrel of one of the guns exploded last week. The companies left with their guns on Saturday. DRDO has formed a board to investigate the explosion of barrel and a high-level inquiry has been ordered. The trial was going on for last 10 days in the presence of DRDO and army experts. The design of this 155mm 52-caliber gun was made by Armament Research & Development Establishment, Pune and manufactured by Tata Power and Bharat Forge. The barrel of a gun during the firing at the trial blasted in which 3-4 experts suffered minor injuries. In 2017 also barrel of a gun of the same company exploded during trials. That time the reason was problem in ammunition. This gun has power to fire at a distance of 47km and can fire 6 rounds in 30 seconds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trial-of-howitzer-guns-stopped/articleshow/78243543.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Edu institutes see future in online learning, spend on tech upgrade||Pune: From spending about Rs 1 crore to upgrade the e-skills of teachers and for buying software licences, to tying up with already established online educational-technology platforms, educational institutions have gone all out to adopt the e-learning platform. The transition has been quick and complete that many schools are contemplating undertaking the entire academic year online with only practicals and assessment being done online. About four months into the academic year, TOI looks at colleges and schools to understand how much money has been spent and where they stand now in terms of online education. Taking into consideration the complexities and intricacies involved in school management , a robust ERP software is needed to manage resources with optimal efficiency. The tools required for online teaching are just one part of the features required especially by schools. The Vivekanand Academy has designed ‘Divine Campus’ software which is being used successfully by more than 200 schools across Maharashtra. The customized school management system is ideal for ICSE, CBSE, SSC , IB schools, said director of the academy Bhushan Ambadkar.The ERP software should bring teachers, school administration, students and parents under one platform and should be able to communicate with each other while the software performs its task of integrating all resources for optimal use, minimizing time, saving money and ensuring digital security, Ambadkar added. PA Inamdar, president of Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society (Azam Campus) said, “Our campus has 800 mbps internet connectivity, a projector-screen-sound-in each classroom from KG to PG, tablet provided to each student with Wi-Fi connection. We have also tied up with top ‘Scorer’ software of 'Navneet' for classes 1 to 10. Besides, we have our own ICT academy and IT department to ensure that online classes run smoothly. “Sharad Kunte, chairman, Deccan Education Society anticipates that the online mode will go on for the entire academic year. “We have bought licenses to the tune of Rs 1 crore so that teachers can use them for online classes. They are doing it from the comforts of their home as calling them to college is risky. We have about 60 institutes. So, at least for a year, we are covered," she said.S K Jain, president of Shikshan Prasarak Mandali talked about blended learning. "We have till now purchased Microsoft licences to the tune of Rs 88 lakh and this number is expected to increase to Rs 1.5 crore once all classes begin functioning. We have about 44 institutes and over 40,000 students. Even if by any chance classes start, it will be in batches with only certain students coming in a week. Others will sit at home and continue online lectures," he said. Amruta Prabhu, principal of The HDFC School, said they have licences from multiple platforms for academic, staff, logistic and parent-meeting purposes."We have a tie-up with Microsoft and they have chosen us as one of the Microsoft incubator schools for this year. Twenty-eight of our teachers are also Microsoft innovative educator experts. We also have a licence of the Cisco Webex platform and also the Zoom licence for staff meetings and parent meetings. We also have access to the Google platform where the head of the institutes hold meetings. All these are officially licensed accesses which means there is no time limit to these meets and they are also secured. Even in post Covid era, we won't be backtracking in the educational technology initiatives as we think this is going to be the way forward," Prabhu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-institutes-see-future-in-online-learning-spend-on-tech-upgrade/articleshow/78244861.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt mulls metro double decker viaduct in Sec’bad Cantonment||Secunderabad: In a move that would ease traffic woes, the state government is planning to build a metro double decker viaduct on an elevated skyway in the Secunderabad Cantonment area. It is learnt that the HMDA has already appointed a consultant to study the feasibility of this double decker viaduct on the elevated skyway. As per the plan, the normal vehicle traffic will be allowed on the ground level and also on the flyover while metro rail runs on the second level. HMDA officials told TOI on condition of anonymity that the study report is being prepared. “The consultant is studying the feasibility of the double decker viaduct on elevated skyway on the lines of Nagpur’s viaduct. A team from HMDA is expected to visit Nagpur to study their project,” the official said. State government is planning to build two skyways of about 18 kilometres each. While one skyway runs between SP Road and Shamirpet over the Rajiv Rahadari, the second would be between Paradise Circle and Kandlakoya (NH 44). “The proposed metro double decker viaduct would be built on any one of these skyways. We are waiting for the defence ministry to hand over the 120-acre land sought for this project,” the source said. Meanwhile, a senior HMDA engineering official said that they are waiting for state government’s clearance. If it comes through the project would provide metro connectivity to residential areas like Bowenpally, Suchitra Junction, Kompally etc .  The approximate cost of this project, the number of metro stations and the length of the viaduct would be known only after the DPR is ready. Moreover, we also need clearance from the Airports Authority of India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mulls-metro-double-decker-viaduct-in-secbad-cantonment/articleshow/78243539.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||After revenue, Telangana to clip powers of registration department||HYDERABAD: After curtailing the powers of tahsildars in mutation of lands and other powers through new Revenue Act, Telangana government is now gearing up to cut the discretionary powers of registration and stamps (R&S) department soon. The government is also planning to initiate reforms to reduce corruption in the department. The government has recently issued orders restricting the sub-registrar offices (SROs) for registering only non-agriculture properties, while tahsildars have been given powers to register agriculture properties. Official sources said the R&S department is registering properties by collecting registration and stamp duty fees based on the agreement value of the property (between the two parties) and government value of the property whichever is higher. “Under section 47-A of the Indian Stamp Act, the R&S department has powers to revise the registration value of the property. This revision is done if a particular property is valued high though it is located in a bylane or not suitable for development. In such cases, the R&S department can reduce the value of the property 20% to even up to 50% justifying the reason for reduction and conducting inspection. Now, the government is now planning to scrap such powers to the department officials,” a senior official of CMO said. Secondly, the SROs are taking two to three days for providing scanned copies of registration documents to the parties after registration is done. Officials said the government wants to ensure the registration scanned document should be provided on the same day even entrusting the scanning work to the private agencies. The CM said document templates would be kept ready, which can be used by the prospective buyers and sellers of the properties for registrations. “Only one or two document writers will be given licence to help people who cannot prepare the documents on their own. Taking action against them if they indulge in any malpractices like cancellation of the licence will be incorporated in the reforms,” sources said. Following allegations that many document writers have become conduits for SROs in collecting bribes along with their document preparation charges, the CM has directed the officials to issue licence to one or two document writers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-revenue-tto-clip-powers-of-registration-dept/articleshow/78243545.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Spike in number of illegal taxi services across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With no sign of authorities resuming inter-state government bus services yet, the number of private vehicles operating as taxis seems to be going up in several areas across the city. Taxi drivers in the city who have commercial or yellow number plates for their vehicles allege that these vehicles, that are using private number plates and operating as cabs, are not only affecting the business of registered taxi drivers but are putting the lives of passengers at risk. “Many private vehicle owners prefer to operate illegal taxi services to avoid the official procedures. These services have increased post the lockdown restrictions were lifted by the state government, especially because the curbs of inter-state bus services are yet to be lifted. We are open to the idea of government improving public transport through buses and metro rail but by allowing private taxi aggregators, the government is only losing revenue which they earn in the form of taxes,” said Shaik Salauddin, president, Telangana Four Wheeler Drivers Association. Commercial taxi operators pay for insurance, road tax, quarterly, half-yearly and annually apart from getting a fitness test done every two years.  “Private vehicle owners run taxi services without getting their vehicles registered for commercial services to avoid paying additional road tax and permit charges at check posts.Insurance premium for a private vehicle is nearly half of that of commercial transport vehicle,” said Salauddin. Officials said that in case these cabs with white number plates meet with an accident, neither the passenger nor the driver will be able to claim insurance. “There are separate insurance plans for commercial and private vehicles. If it comes to light that accident took place while the owner of the vehicle was using a private vehicle for commercial purposes, the insurance will not be sanctioned,” an official of a reputed insurance company informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-number-of-illegal-taxi-services-across-hyd/articleshow/78243564.cms||Moulika.KV
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Sharp dip in vegetable cultivation spikes prices||HYDERABAD: With farmers cutting down on cultivation — leading to a shortage in supply of 11.5 tonnes from within the state — prices of vegetables have seen a sharp rise recently. In fact, experts fear that the costs will continue to stay high through the rainy season with most districts, including Rangareddy, Vikarabad and Mahbubnagar that supply veggies to Hyderabad, witnessing a reduction of about 50,000 acres, in its cultivation area. According to official figures, as against the estimated 4.5 lakh acres of vegetables, only 90,000 acres were brought under cultivation in the state this rainy season. In Rangareddy alone, vegetable cultivation dropped by 27,000 acres — from 72,000 acres last year to 45,000 acres this season. There is also a decrease of about 10,000 acres in vegetable cultivation in Vikarabad and Mahbubnagar. The case is no different in Suryapet. Farmers say not getting minimum support price (MSP) for vegetables is one of the prime reasons they’ve started opting for agricultural crops instead. “I used to cultivate tomatoes till last year but the prices were very volatile and I could not sustain losses. Hence, I have shifted to paddy,” said Srikanth Reddy N, a farmer from Ranga Reddy district. That this cultivation is extremely laborious, is another deterrent for farmers said, L Venkatram Reddy, director of horticulture department. “Getting labour too is difficult and those in villages mostly opt for NREGS works,” he said. While the state must produce 42 lakh tonnes of vegetables per year, only 31 lakh tonnes of vegetables are being produced. Hence, there is a shortage of 11 lakh tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharp-dip-in-vegetable-cultivation-spikes-prices/articleshow/78243576.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Over 5k candidates infray for sarpanch posts||Jaipur: For the first phase of elections to 1,002 panchyats on September 27, a total of 5,388 candidates for sarpanch posts and 11,890 for panch posts are left in the fray after the withdrawal of nomination on Monday. In all, 13 sarpanches and 4,468 panches have already been elected unopposed in the first phase. Election commissioner PS Mehra said 9,042 candidates had filed a total of 9,066 nomination papers. After scrutiny, 8875 papers were found valid, but 3,474 candidates withdrew their names on the last day of withdrawal. Similarly, 21,557 nomination papers were filed by 21,542 candidates for 9,688 wards of 1,002 gram panchayats of which 20,961 nomination papers were found valid. He said 4,571 candidates withdrew their names, while 4468 panchs were elected unopposed. He told that after withdrawal of the names, 11,890 candidates will now try their luck in the election for ward panchs. Mehra said election will be held from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm on September 27. Counting of votes will be done at all panchayat headquarters after the end of voting. On September 29, the election of up-sarpanch will be held. He said a total of 33, 40,035 voters will exercise their franchise in these panchayats, out of which 17,48,670 are men, 15,91,347 women and 18 voters (third gender) are included.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5k-candidates-infray-for-sarpanch-posts/articleshow/78243574.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Agra||6 months after Covid, tourists say ‘Waah Taj’ again||Agra: After a gap of 188 days, the Taj Mahal, the top tourist attraction in the country, opened to the public on Monday. The response was lukewarm as only 1,235 tourists, including 20 foreigners, visited the Mughal-era monument on Monday amid strict Covid-19 safety protocol and social distancing norms. The Archaeological Survey of India has allowed only 5,000 tourists per day as against a daily average of over 25,000 tourists visiting the Taj in pre-Covid times. It stretched to nearly a lakh during festivals. The Agra Fort, which too had been closed since the lockdown began in March, also reopened on Monday to a tepid response with only 248 tourists visiting the historic fort. Officials are hopeful that the footfall may go up in the days ahead after international flights become operational. ASI’s superintending archeologist (Agra circle) Vasant Swarnkar told TOI that all precautions are being taken and the tourists walking into the monuments have to sanitise their hands as well as footwear. The iconic ‘Diana’ bench – a vantage point for photography with the Taj in the background, which became famous after the British princess sat here in February 1992 – has been laminated and being sanitized from time to time, Swarnkar said, adding that group photography has been banned inside the 17 century monument to maintain social distancing. A Chinese tourist was also among the foreign nationals who visited the Taj on the first day of its reopening. Looking happy, he got himself clicked, with the iconic Taj in the background. Tourists expressed relief over the scanty footfall at the monument. “We feel like VVIPs. And above all, it felt safe,” said Ritu, in her thirties, who came from Delhi along with her husband. A few visitors had to be turned back as their body temperature was found higher than normal. A video of a woman tourist arguing with an ASI staff at the gate claiming that her body temperature was higher due to hot weather, went viral on social media. Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) commandant (Taj Mahal) Rahul Yadav said, “SOPs are being followed by all personnel. Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) kits have been provided to security persons involved in frisking tourists at the entry gate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-months-after-covid-tourists-say-waah-taj-again/articleshow/78241027.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 22, 2020||Pune||PCMC panel begins probe into 87 schools with ‘minority tag’||PUNE: As many as 87 schools in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation have declared themselves as minority institutes which exempts them from applying the clause of Right to Education Act 2009, which makes the provision for reservation of 25% free seats in the entry-level classes in a school. Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap has said many of these schools do not follow the rules and regulations required for minority institute recognition. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has recently formed a committee to look into the veracity of the minority certificates acquired by the institutions. Since the monsoon session began, this month was cut short to just two days with no question answer session, his question was not tabled in the assembly this time, but Jagtap said many parents had come forward with complaints that there were schools among those called minority schools which did not adhere to norms laid down by the state and Centre, that qualified them as minority institutes. A three-member committee was established by Jyotsana Shinde, education officer (primary), PCMC on Saturday and investigations began on Monday. “Here, we have about 657 schools under PCMC which include aided, unaided, PCMC and minority schools. Of these, about 87 schools who have uploaded the minority certificate which exempts them from implementing reservation policy under RTE Act,” she said. Since the minority certificate is issued by the state government, they accept the certificate without further ado or enquiry. “But, this time around we have received many complaints from parents stating that the school has wrongfully acquired the certificate so that they can be exempt from various norms of the government which are otherwise applicable to the school,” she said. A few years ago, it was made mandatory for educational trusts and societies seeking minority status to register as non-governmental organisations with the NITI Aayog, except when the institutions are run by individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-panel-begins-probe-into-87-schools-with-minority-tag/articleshow/78244868.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||No entrance test for 12 PG courses||Lucknow: Lucknow University (LU) has decided not to conduct entrance tests for 12 postgraduate courses as the number of application forms submitted for them were fewer than the seats. Admissions to these courses will be granted on the basis of marks scored by the applicants in the qualifying undergraduate examinations. The university has also decided to not offer four self-finance postgraduate courses in this session as the number of applications was less than 40% of the total seats. The postgraduate courses in which no entrance exam will be conducted include MA (Arab Culture), MA (Arabic), MA (defence studies), MA (Persian), MA (philosophy), MA (Sanskrit), MA (Urdu), MA (population studies) and MSc (biostatistics). Though involving important subjects, these courses have received fewer applications in the past several years as students now prefer more job-oriented degrees. The self-finance postgraduate courses which will be suspended this year include MA (business economics), MA (French), MA (women’s studies) and MSc (mass communication in science & technology). The entrance examination for the rest of the postgraduate courses will be conducted tentatively from October 10-17 in two shifts daily. The schedule has been uploaded on LU’s official website. University authorities also said if any of the entrance test dates are clashing, applicants can notify them at uoladmissions2020@gmail.com along with a scanned copy of the application forms of all the courses they have applied to by September 22. The final schedule will be declared thereafter. According to an LU press statement, due to the pandemic admissions to Masters in Visual Arts (MVA) courses will be granted only on the basis of marks obtained in the written test. There will be no practical exam or viva voce. The entrance test will be an MCQ-based one with 100 questions. In LLM, admissions will be granted only on the basis of marks obtained in the written test, which will be an MCQ-based one. The candidates will have to attempt 100 questions and there will be no interview. In MEd, admissions will be granted on the basis of an applicant’s performance in the written test and their academic index. There will be no interview. Details of the entrance test and formula for calculation of the academic index have been mentioned in the admission guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-entrance-test-for-12-pg-courses/articleshow/78244876.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Agra||148 new Covid-19 +ve cases in Agra||Agra: In a highest single-day increase, at least 148 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 4,998. The patients included 10 suffering from coronary artery infection, eight of severe acute respiratory syndrome, six of influenza-like illness and nine of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Also, 90 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 4,998 cases reported in the district, 78.8% have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are now 938 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 3,942 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/148-new-covid-19-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78241035.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Agra||Agra varsity yet to declare results of UG students||Agra: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University is yet to declare the results of undergraduate students for the 2019-20 academic session. The new session for 2020-21 cannot commence till the results are announced. University officials claimed the results of first-year and second-year undergraduate students would be declared in the next 3-4 days. On July 24, the examination committee of Agra University had decided that first-year and second-year students of undergraduate courses would be promoted on the basis of the marks scored in the exams conducted before cancellation of the annual examination following the Covid-19 pandemic. But even after two months of delay, the results have not been declared. Varsity’s examination controller Rajeev Kumar said, “The results of first-year and second-year students will be uploaded on the varsity website within the next 3-4 days. The admission process for 2020-21 session is in progress. Online classes will be started in the first week of October.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-varsity-yet-to-declare-results-of-ug-students/articleshow/78241040.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Five routes identified for airport bus service||PUNE: The Pune airport authorities have identified five tentative routes for the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) to commence its airport bus services from Dassera onwards. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “The routes are tentative, and we are waiting for the PMPML to commence the services. The parking location for the buses will be finalised soon.” Rajendra Jagtap, chairman-cum-managing director, PMPML, told TOI that currently they were in the process of developing an application for helping flyers board the buses. “The application will have information about special airport buses, routes, stops and timings. Also, one will be able to book seats on the airconditioned buses through the application. The team is working on the same and it should be ready by October 2, following which there will be some test runs. We are aiming to start the airport bus services in a full-fledged manner from Dassera onwards,” he said. He added that the buses would display information about flight arrivals and departures. “These aspects are important for an airport bus service. The buses also need to reach the airport with flyers on time,” he added. During an earlier talk, the PMPML officials had told TOI that 20 buses would be pressed into airport service and issues regarding fares were being discussed. “The number of routes will go up based on passenger feedback. The buses will enter the airport premises. They will be parked at the area which was earlier the taxi bay,” another PMPML official pointed out. “In Kolkata, Mumbai and Bengaluru, people travel to and from the airports on buses. While mobile applications are fine, the PMPML needs to ensure that the buses are comfortable and do not breakdown occasionally,” Srikant Dalwe, a frequent flyer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-routes-identified-for-airport-bus-service/articleshow/78244872.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Sexual abuse of girl: Case against religious teacher||Kozhikode: Kalpakancheri police, in Malappuram district, have registered a case against a religious teacher under Pocso for sexually abusing a 17-year-old girl. Swalahudeen Bukhari Thangal, who runs an educational and religious institution, allegedly sexually abused the girl after promising to marry her. The issue was first reported to the Childline that conducted an initial inquiry. Malappuram Childline co-ordinator Anwar Karakkadan said that Thangal had reportedly arranged a mock marriage in a car with two witnesses to convince the girl. The girl is a Plus-two student at the institution run by Thangal. It is said that he had exchanged messages regularly with the girl. The relatives of the girl have retrieved WhatsApp chats and pictures he sent to the girl. Police said that they received the complaint last Friday and have registered a case against the Thangal. According to police, he has been absent for the last four days after the relatives of the girl went in search of him. The statement of the girl is recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/sexual-abuse-of-girl-case-against-religious-teacher/articleshow/78242116.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Surat||Caught red-handed, pickpocket suspect slits own throat||Surat: A 23-year-old suspect of pickpocketing slit his throat using a blade while being taken to a police station near Kamrej of Surat district in the early hours on Monday. The man died on the spot before he could be shifted to a hospital. Registering a case of accidental death police started an investigation. Yusuf Memon, a resident of Bhestan area, slit his throat on Kathore Amboli road near Kathore while going to the police station in an auto rickshaw. He was nabbed red handed by two gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawans who were taking him to Kamrej police station. Police recovered the blade from the auto rickshaw and another blade from the Memon’s trouser pocket. The suspect was trying to rob an auto rickshaw driver of his mobile phone and cash when the GRD jawans noticed him with the blade. The rickshaw driver was sleeping in his auto rickshaw parked on the road. The GRD jawans caught Memon and were taking him to the police station. “One GRD jawan sat with Memon in a rickshaw while another was on his motorcycle. As the rickshaw neared Kathore, the accused took out a blade and slit his throat. The incident was captured on CCTV camera,” said a police officer. The GRD jawans immediately called for 108 ambulance which arrived on the spot, but by then Memon was already dead. Raising doubts over the cause of his death, family members alleged that Memon was receiving death threats from some rivals for the past few days. “Due to the doubts being raised by the family police got videography done of all the procedures. A penal post mortem was conducted,” said police. Memon is a history-sheeter who had been caught for thefts and multiple other crimes including attempt to murder in the past. He was out with his associates during early hours on Monday when the cops caught him. His associates were following him in another rickshaw when the incident took place, police informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/caught-red-handed-pickpocket-suspect-slits-own-throat/articleshow/78242130.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Eamcet hall tickets for AM released||Hyderabad: The hall tickets of the agriculture and medical (AM) stream candidates appearing for the TS EAMCET have been released and will be available for download from the EAMCET website from September 21 to September 25. A total of 78, 970 candidates applied for the exams, which will be held on September 28 and 29 in 84 centers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eamcet-hall-tickets-for-am-released/articleshow/78243604.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chennai||C Rangarajan panel for complete unlock to revive Tamil Nadu's economy||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government must lift the lockdown completely, spend Rs 10,000 crore more than budgeted on capital expenditure and use the Rs 3,200 crore construction sector funds lying idle to stimulate economic revival. These are among the recommendations of the expert committee headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan set up in May to suggest short-term and medium-term measures to help revive the state’s economy impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. In its report, submitted to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday, the committee said the state government must find ways other than a lockdown to contain the pandemic. “Ending the lockdowns is a must to help revive the economy. There are visible green shoots of economic growth going by GST (collections), the consumption of petroleum products, and electricity. The state’s economy could reach the pre-Covid levels in about two months. For this fiscal (2020-21), the state’s economy could either grow by 1.71% or decline. We are not sure how much the decline would be,” Rangarajan said, after his meeting with the chief minister. “After carefully considering your suggestions, our government will implement those recommendations to help revive the state’s economy and to ensure Tamil Nadu’s growth,” the chief minister said. Key suggestions include offering employment guarantee in urban areas and extending the distribution of free rice to PDS cardholders beyond November. The rise in the state’s debt burden is unavoidable this year. “The government may have to spend Rs5,000 crore more towards the health sector in fighting the pandemic. More expenditure will act as a stimulus in rejuvenating economy,” Rangarajan said. Infusing an additional capital of Rs1,000 crore in state-owned Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) was also suggested. “Promoting more industrial parks and setting aside parts of them for MSMEs will sustain the focus on their revival,” Rangarajan added. “What finally gets implemented depends on feasibility. There are a large number of recommendations. Some of them we will definitely be implemented and some of them we have already implemented on our own,” a senior government official told TOI. “Easing lockdown completely depends on the ground situation and we have already been doing it in phases. What is really left are the suburban trains and we need to look at a balance on how to do that. Most other businesses have started. His suggestion to borrow more and not to cut expenditure makes macro-economic sense and we will consider it,” the official said. As for the Rs 3,200 crore referred to by Rangarajan, the official said the Construction Workers Welfare Board has that sizeable fund raised through ‘construction cess’ of one per cent on civil contracts. The Supreme Court has imposed some restrictions on how that can be spent and it has to be used for the welfare of the construction industry and people involved. “We are devising schemes for it, since we have to use it for their welfare like skilling and providing accommodation. We can use it for the migrant workers, involved in construction, too,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rangarajan-panel-for-complete-unlock-to-revive-tn-economy/articleshow/78243606.cms||D Govardan
September 22, 2020||Nashik||MMC for auditing of pvt hosp bills||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has prepared teams to audit bills issued to Covid-19 patients by various private hospitals following direction from district collector Suraj Mandhare. “There have been several complaints about overcharging in private hospitals. The corporation has received nothing in written so far,” said a senior officer from the civic administration. “The auditors will look for all such items that are in addition to the protocol of treatment allowed by the state government. The hospitals will be asked to explain their stand and at the same time reverse the extra payment to the patients,” said the officer. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mmc-for-auditing-of-pvt-hosp-bills/articleshow/78241078.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||LU aspirants can lock BA choices from today||LUCKNOW: The online off campus counselling for admissions in BA and BA (honours) courses of Lucknow University and its associated colleges will be held from September 22. Total seats in BA in LU are 1,210 and in BA(Hons) 380. About 68 colleges associated with it have around 20,000 seats and will also take admissions through the counselling conducted by the university. It is for the first time that LU is conducting a centralised admission for itself and some of its affiliated colleges. LU spokesperson said all candidates should go through the counselling guidelines and videos available on the university's website. Candidates whose names are in the merit list can participate in the process which comprises two steps — registration and filling choice of subjects. The process of registration and choice filling will start at 2pm on September 22. Registrations can be done till midnight of September 28 and choice filling till September 29 midnight. For registrations, candidates will have to first check the details for refunds, if any, and enter correct data. They also need to view personal details mentioned before their names and declare that they have read the eligibility conditions properly. Thereafter, candidates will have to submit the counselling fee of Rs 200 and advance course fee of Rs 1,000. The step 2, i.e, choice filling, candidates registered for counselling have to first fill their choices of subjects/colleges according to their preferences. They can give as many choices as they want. Lower rank candidates are advised to give more choices so that they are not denied allotment. choices can be rearranged any number of times till final submission if they have not locked them. Candidates can take a printout of the submitted choices even without locking. This is being done so that they can go through it and decide on the sequence of subject/college that they want. Choices can be filled in multiple sessions. There is an option to save these choices before logging out. Data not saved will be lost, said the spokesperson. LU spokesperson also said that the choices filled by the candidate are final and cannot be changed once locked. The candidate themselves will be responsible for choices filled through their login. If a candidate has submitted the choices but not locked after the last date of choice filling is over, it will automatically be locked before seat allotment. If the candidate has registered for counseling but not submitted the choices, she/he would not be considered for seat allotment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-aspirants-can-lock-ba-choices-from-today/articleshow/78244886.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Agra||Five-member gang that burgled liquor shops arrested in Firozabad||Agra: A five-member gang of liquor thieves was arrested by the special operation group (SOG) of Firozabad district police in a raid in Sirsaganj area on Sunday night. The gang had burgled two liquor shops in the district in the last 15 days. The five arrested men include gang leader Bhura, Ranjit Kumar alias Vinay, Tinku Fakeer, Zubair Ali and Shiv Kumar.According to police, two country-made pistols, a car, 15 cartons of beer and nine of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) — which they had stolen from shops under Tundla and Narkhi police station were recovered from them. Police said the men are school and college dropouts from lower-middle-class families in the age group of 20-25. They used to illegally sell the stolen liquor across the district at less than MRP. Additional superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “This was a new gang. Thefts at liquor shops were quite unusual. They found them an easy target. After breaking into liquor shops, the gang used to run away with packed cartons in their car and sell them in the market. They have confessed to carrying out burglaries at two liquor shops in the last 15 days. Following a tip-off, SOG arrested them while they were about to break into another liquor shop in Sirsaganj.” Sirsaganj station-house officer Girish Chand Gautam said, “The five men were booked under IPC sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 457 (house break-in to commit offence), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and sent to jail on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-member-gang-that-burgled-liquor-shops-arrested-in-firozabad/articleshow/78241048.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Raigir stn to now be called Yadadri||Hyderabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) on Monday announced that the name of the Raigir railway station has been changed to Yadadri railway station with effect from September 18. “The competent authority has approved the change in the name of Raigir railway station,” read the SCR release. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raigir-stn-to-now-be-called-yadadri/articleshow/78243635.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government drags feet on providing care for non-Covid patients at Victoria Hospital||BENGALURU: It's nearly six months since Victoria Hospital, a key public healthcare provider that catered to multiple specialities, stopped treating non-Covid-19 patients, leaving thousands who flocked to the facility daily for treatment in the lurch. A five-member expert committee formed by the government in May was tasked with visiting Victoria Hospital, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, Broadway Road hospital (now Charaka) and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Disease to recommend a strategy to treat non-Covid patients. The committee recommended Victoria Hospital must continue as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, but modify operations so as to also handle non-Covid essential services. But nothing happened on the ground and the burden of caring for non-Covid patients is now on other government hospitals in Bengaluru like KC General and Jayanagar general hospitals, which also treat Covid patients. The report suggested the masterplan building (with 450 inpatient beds, 16 ICU beds, blood bank and radiology services) and ENT block with 100 inpatient beds and allied facilities open for non-Covid patients. It also suggested PMSSY hospital building and Minto super speciality hospital resume operations. Dr PG Girish, director of medical education, said it’s the government which must take the decision. He claimed only patients with elective surgeries and treatment may have been affected in the past five months, as emergencies are being attended to by other government hospitals. "All those with cardiac emergencies seek treatment in Jayadeva hospital, cancer patients in Kidwai and accident trauma cases in Nimhans," Dr Girish said. Bowring hospital treats both patients, but the number of beds for non-Covid patients is limited to 50. "We get only a few non-Covid patients since a majority of staff work in the 165-bed Covid facility," said Dr Manoj Kumar, dean and director of the hospital. Dr Ramesh Krishna, medical superintendent, Victoria Hospital said, "Non-Covid treatment is already on in Vanivilas Hospital, Minto, Dermatology, & HIV departments. PMSSY could start soon. We have to wait for orders from the government to start non-Covid work in other departments." In all, 600 beds in Victoria Hospital are being used for Covid treatment. "Also, there is a lack of manpower as all our staff are working on Covid care. The situation in May was different from what it is now as Covid cases are increasing." He pointed out that the burns ward of the hospital has not closed for a single day. Hospital honchos also fear infection while treating non-Covid patients as the risk is high. They say patients are administered rapid antigen tests which show they are negative, but many turn positive days later. At Bowring hospital, 38 doctors have tested positive for Covid so far.  Dr PG Girish, special officer for PMSSY hospital on Victoria Hospital campus, said the block is likely to open on September 23. "No Covid-19 patient was treated here, but it was used to quarantine treating doctors. We took swabs from 300 different locations for culture tests and found growth of Clostridium tetani bacterium in two places. We have fumigated the place to ensure safety," said Dr Girish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-drags-feet-on-providing-care-for-non-covid-patients-at-victoria/articleshow/78242147.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 22, 2020||Agra||EOW seeks arrest of SP’s district prez of Hathras, 12 others in a 2006 scholarship scam||Agra: Economic Offences Wing (EOW) on Monday approached police in Hathras to trace and arrest 13 people, including the district president of Samajwadi Party, wanted in an alleged multi-crore scholarship scam which took place in 2006. Acting on the request of the EOW’s Kanpur unit, local police have made public announcements, urging people to disclose the whereabouts of the suspects and asking the accused to surrender. According to police, an FIR was lodged at Sikandararao police station in 2006 against the 13 people including SP district president Yuvraj Singh Yadav. But they have not been arrested so far. When contacted, SP Hathras Vikrant Vir, said, “I have directed police personnel to arrest the accused as early as possible. We have already made a public announcement regarding this and they will be nabbed soon.” Asking about the delay in arrest, SP EOW (Kanpur) Babu Ram told TOI that earlier Hathras police was investigating the case and the investigations were transferred to them after three years of registering the FIR. “We have initiated the arrest process after getting an approval from the government,” said the SP, adding that they are in touch with Hathras police for arresting the accused for the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eow-seeks-arrest-of-sps-district-prez-of-hathras-12-others-in-a-2006-scholarship-scam/articleshow/78241047.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Opium, precursors seized in Chittor, 2 held||Udaipur: Chittorgarh police confiscated huge amount of opium, poppy dust, precursors, two cars and Rs 21 Lakh from two separate places on Monday. Police also arrested two persons in this connection. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said the crime branch Jaipur alerted the local police about the huge amount of narcotics stocked in two different places under Sadar police station limits of the district. On the instructions of IG (crime) Vijay Kumar Singh, a special team led by DSP Surya Veer Singh Rathore camped at Chittorgarh and collected authentic information on smuggling of narcotic substances in the area. The team shared the details with local police. Two teams were set off to raid the places. One of the teams led by Sadar SHO Phoolchand Tailor went to Bhatt Kotdi village at Udailal Dhakad’s home and found 7.68 gram opium, 5.67 quintal poppy dust (doda chura), precursor in form of white powder 650 gram. Cops also seized a car and Rs 8 lakh from him. Another team raided Heeralal Jat’s house in Karunda village. Seeing the police, Heeralal tried to flush the opium by emptying it in the kitchen’s sink. Police nabbed him and collected the opium dissolved in utensils which weighed around 12.55kg. Some 5.92kg chemical powder used in mixing with opium too was found from his custody while cops also found Rs 13 lakh cash and an unregistered car at his home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/opium-precursors-seized-in-chittor-2-held/articleshow/78243641.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Minor boy among two killed, one critical after speeding SUV hit them||Bareilly: Two people, including a minor boy, were killed and one sustained critical injuries after being hit by a speeding vehicle in Banda area of Shahjahanpur district on Monday morning. Police said Premchand Agarwal, along with his wife Nisha, daughter Neha and son-in-law Vaibhav Jain, was on his way to Delhi from Lakhimpur Kheri district in his SUV. When they reached near Nawabpur village, Vaibhav, who was at the wheel, lost control over the vehicle and hit three pedestrians, including the minor, and the vehicle entered a field, said police. Police have identified the victims as Ishwari Prasad (45) and Rajnish (12), while the condition of Guddu (24) is critical. The driver was in the custody of police at the time of filing this report. Ishwari — the lone breadwinner for the family — is survived by wife Rambeti, son Ram Kishore (21) and daughter Kiran (18). Rajnish was a student of Class V. Guddu, a labourer, is battling for his life at the district hospital in Shahjahanpur. Banda police station SHO Chandrapal Singh said, “We have registered an FIR under IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence). The SUV was impounded and action is being taken against the driver by the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-boy-among-two-killed-one-critical-after-speeding-suv-hit-them/articleshow/78239951.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||Bridges submerged, low-lying areas inundated in Kalyana Karnataka||Raichur/Yadgir: A prolonged spell of inclement weather in Yadgir, Raichur and Kalaburagi districts, where it has been raining continuously for the past three days has thrown life out of gear. In Raichur district, Aroli village was cut-off from nearby towns and villages after heavy rain submerged the bridge that served as its key link. Meanwhile, several areas across the three districts have reported waterlogging with low-lying areas getting inundated. Urban pockets in the three districts are not faring well either, with low-lying areas in Raichur, Yadgir and Kalaburagi towns inundated. The swelling waters of the Bheema and Tungabhadra rivers has prompted officials in all the districts to issue a warning to people against venturing near the banks. However, the intensity of the showers is on the decline, which the officials are confident, will usher in respite and help put things in order again. Raichur disaster management official Venkatesh Bulla said that the quantum of rainfall that the district had recorded in the past seven days was 123% higher than normal. “The water is subsiding. The waters that submerged the Aroli Bridge are receding and it is in a condition fit for commuting now. Waterlogging has been reported in several areas owing to faulty drainage system. There have also been reports in Raichur town of water entering homes, much to the residents’ chagrin. The deputy commissioner has taken cognisance of this lacuna in the infrastructure in Raichur city, and instructed officials to clear the drains to prevent water from entering houses,” Bulla said. Authorities at the Tungabhadra Dam on Monday issued a warning on the alarming rise in the water level of the reservoir. Furthermore, outflow from the reservoir is expected to touch 150,000 cusecs. Meanwhile, Malkhed Bridge that connects Kalaburagi to Hyderabad went under water, bringing inter-state traffic to a grinding halt. Although water from the bridge has been cleared, residents of villages on the banks of Bheema River are in a state of panic given the impending release of water from the Sannati Dam. Yadgir deputy commissioner R Ragapriya said that the district had recorded 2% excess rainfall in the span of a week. Although no houses have been damaged, standing crops across vast tracts of fields have been destroyed. “At Gurusanagi, a barrage connecting the old and new dams sustained damage after water gushed in. But the damage to it is minimal and the barrage will be repaired once the rain subsides,” Ragapriya told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bridges-submerged-low-lying-areas-inundated-in-kalyana-karnataka/articleshow/78243253.cms||Shreyas HS
September 22, 2020||Agra||Over dozen ‘dengue deaths’ amid Covid-19add to health department’s concerns in UP||Agra: With Mainpuri reporting a possible outbreak of dengue, UP health officials are now worried about battling against both Covid-19 and dengue at the same time. Over a dozen deaths were reported due to dengue. And at least 150 people were found to be infected. According to officials, till now, 150 people have been admitted to a school-turned health facility and the district hospital with complaints of high fever and muscular pain. While district officials admit that several cases of dengue have been reported in Karimganj village, they have so far denied that these deaths are due to the disease. A team of two health officials - epidemiologist Mukesh Prasad and entomologist Vipin Kumar - reached Mainpuri on Sunday to find out the reason behind the high fever among locals. They have started collecting samples of the infected individuals. Mainpuri’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr AK Pandey told TOI that so far only 11 deaths have been reported and that, too, due to co-morbidity among the patients. He, however, confirmed that many people had been infected with dengue but the "situation is under control". The CMO added that some village locals were earlier taking treatment from quacks and when the situation went out of hand, they reported to the government hospital. Health department has filed an FIR against three quacks for providing treatment to dengue patients without informing the health department and issuing lab reports in the absence of pathologists and doctors. The police booked Dr Ashish Shakya, Satyapal Shakya and Raghvendra Rajput under section 15 (3) of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, section 51 of Disaster Management Act along with sections 188 and 269 of IPC at Kotwali police station. Mainpuri district magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh said that all steps are being taken to control the spread of dengue and provide the best treatment to people infected with the disease. “Spray and fogging are being conducted in the village,” he added. However, Sadar MLA Raj Kumar Yadav, who visited the village, said that the government has failed to provide timely diagnosis and treatment and almost every second person in the village is affected with dengue. “I have informed our party chief Akhilesh Yadav about it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-dozen-dengue-deaths-amid-covid-19add-to-health-departments-concerns-in-up/articleshow/78241054.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 22, 2020||Bengaluru||NLSIU to refund registration fee after deducting Rs 75||BENGALURU: NLSIU has said it will implement the SC judgment in “letter and spirit” and will admit students for the academic year 2020-21 based on results of CLAT 2020 and not NLAT 2020. The university said it will refund the NLAT registration fee after a deduction of Rs 75 as application processing charges, and the amount will reach candidates in the next 9-14 days. NLAT general category candidates had paid Rs 150 as the fee. “..The university, in consultation with its governing bodies will take necessary steps to welcome a new batch of students to experience NLSIU’s unique and transformative educational experience. At a meeting held earlier today (September 21), the faculty resolved the university will do everything possible to respect its founding commitment to a trimester-based academic calendar and maintain the highest academic rigour and standards...,” NLSIU said in a release, thanking students and parents for their “patience and support through this September.” Univ an integral part: ConsortiumMeanwhile, the consortium of national law universities said NLSIU will be its “integral part”. “…We are fully prepared to conduct CLAT on September 28. NLSIU is an integral part of us and will cooperate in the smooth conduct of CLAT. He (NLSIU VC Prof Sudhir Krishnaswamy) was never removed from his post but was merely asked not to discharge his duties due to conflict of interest between the consortium and NLSIU,” said Faizan Mustafa, who is presently discharging duties of the consortium’s secretary. “We are glad all our arguments were accepted by the Supreme Court and our consortium has been judicially recognised as the appropriate body to conduct the admission test for member universities, including NLSIU…” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nlsiu-to-refund-registration-fee-after-deducting-rs-75/articleshow/78242936.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy to leave for Delhi today, meet key ministers||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy will leave for New Delhi on Tuesday. According to the sources in the CMO, Jagan has an appointment scheduled with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman later in the evening. Sources said the chief minister will be discussing GST devolution and release of funds to the state under Polavaram Project and other schemes. The Centre had stated that it had found bills worth Rs 760 crore pertaining to Polavaram ineligible but had given assurance for clearance of balance funds at the earliest. The chief minister is also likely to take up issues like CBI probe into AP Fibernet and Amaravati land deals. Jagan is likely to seek appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah and make a personal request for a CBI investigation. Sources also said the CM was planning to meet Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to renew the party’s request for disciplinary action against rebel MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-to-leave-for-del-today-meet-key-mins/articleshow/78241632.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Health min Alla Nani inspects property for multi-specialty hosps||Visakhapatnam: Deputy chief minister and health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Alla Nani), along with deputy chief ministers Dharmana Krishna Das and Pamula Pushpa Sreevani, and officials on Monday inspected the proposed lands for setting up a multi-specialty hospital in Parvathiuram in Vizianagaram district and in either Palakonda or Seethampeta in Srikakulam district. The health minister said a multi-specialty hospital will be coming up in Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram and another in either Palakonda or Seethampeta in Srikakulam. The hospitals, the minister said, will provide treatment to tribal residents in Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA)-Parvathipuram and ITDA-Seethampeta. The health minister added that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is keen to provide better treatment to tribal residents in the Agency by setting up multi-specialty hospitals under the purview of each ITDA in the state. The government will set up another 16 medical colleges, in addition to the existing 11, and another 16 super-specialty hospitals and fill up vacant posts in the health sector to provide better medical care, he added. “We have visited the proposed lands for the proposed multi-specialty hospitals in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. We will submit a report to the chief minister to finalise the land for the projects,” the health minister said. Officials said multi-specialty hospitals in all ITDA centres are part of the state government’s mission aimed at improving health services in tribal areas. The hospitals will have a special focus on vector-borne diseases. At present, a majority of the serious cases are referred to the district hospital, over 60 km away from ITDA centres. Apart from provisions for CT scan and ECG, specialists from neurology, nephrology, gynaecology and orthopedics will be available at the multi-specialty hospitals, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/health-min-alla-nani-inspects-property-for-multi-specialty-hosps/articleshow/78241561.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Malayappa Swamy blesses devout on Simha vahanam||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy blessed devotees on the Simha vahanam and the Muthyapu Pandiri vahanam on the third day of the annual Brahmotsavam festivities at Tirumala on Monday. Lord Malayappa Swamy in the form of Yoga Narasimha swamy adorned with antique jewellery and exquisite garlands was brought to a mandapam adjacent to the sanctum sanctorum at the Tirumala temple and a series of religious formalities were completed in the morning. According to mythology, the Lord as a Lion King is an embodiment of power and speed, a supreme powerful entity born to eliminate the evil and save the righteous. The Lord distributes His powers to the devotees who have a darshan of Him in the Yoga Mudra. Later at night, Lord Malayappa Swamy flanked by his two divine consorts Goddess Bhudevi and Sridevi seated atop the Pandal shaped golden carrier and decorated with expensive and resplendent milky white pearls called the Muthyapu Pandiri vahanam, conveyed the importance of peace, love and co-existence in the society. TTD EO Anil Kumar Singhal, additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, SP A Ramesh Reddy and other officials took part. Thousands of devotees witnessed the processions from homes through Sri Venkateswara bhakti channel of the TTD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/malayappa-swamy-blesses-devout-on-simha-vahanam/articleshow/78241594.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Officials review security ahead of Jagan’s visit||Tirupati: Government and Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) officials on Monday reviewed arrangements at Tirumala ahead of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s visit on September 23 and 24. TTD executive officer (EO), additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, SP Avula Ramesh Reddy and other officials inspected the venue where the chief minister along with his Karnataka counterpart BS Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for Karnataka choultries, the Nada Neerajanam stage and the Tirumala temple. The police department carried out an advanced security liaison as part of the procedure. According to TTD sources, the chief minister will arrive in the temple city at 3.50 pm on Wednesday and proceed to Tirumala by road. He is expected to head to the Sri Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple from where he will carry a set of Pattu vastrams to be presented to Lord Venkateswara on behalf of the state government. After worshipping Lord Venkateswara inside the sanctum sanctorum, the chief minister will reach the Nada Neerajanam dais where he will take part in the parayanam programme organised by the TTD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/officials-review-security-ahead-of-jagans-visit/articleshow/78241607.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||App to give farmers crop survey status||Mysuru: Farmers across the state who uploaded relevant information for the survey of their kharif crop can now track the status on the ‘Bele Darshak’ app, which the government launched this year. They can also use the app to verify if the photographs with the government are the same that they uploaded, in addition to confirming the accuracy of other details such as the survey numbers of their plots, names and contact number. The survey of crops sown in the monsoon started on August 15 and conclude on September 24 will be the first-of-its-kind to be held not only in Karnataka but across the country. Sources in the agriculture department told TOI that there were 73 lakh farmers across Karnataka, and traditional modes of surveying often resulted in gaping discrepancies between the estimation and actual production of crops and their loss across Karnataka. “This app will help survey all fields for both the kharif and rabi seasons,” a source said. As on Saturday, of the more than two crore plots from across the 30 districts of Karnataka, more than 1.1 crore have been surveyed for the kharif season, while just under a crore of them are yet to be covered under the procedure. Officials are hoping to ensure that 70 to 75% of all the plots are enlisted in the survey. Joint director of the agriculture department, Mysuru Mahanteshappa said that, in the event of farmers or officials finding inconsistencies or mistakes in the information they have provided, they can file objections on the ‘Bele Darshak’ app, and get them rectified by October 15. “The survey is important insofar as to ensure farmers are covered under crop insurance schemes, minimum support price and compensation in case of crop loss. If farmers fail to upload these details, the government can withhold subsidy and other benefits,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/app-to-give-farmers-crop-survey-status/articleshow/78243084.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Rain abates in Udupi, affected people allowed to return home||Mangaluru/Udupi: Though Udupi received a reprieve on Monday morning with rain abating to a certain extent, the fears were compounded when moderate to heavy rain started in the afternoon. But the district administration allayed fears saying though there was a red alert, Sunday’s situation will not arise as the rain was discontinuous unlike the previous days. On Monday morning water receded from all water-logged areas and people’s movement returned to normal. Sri Krishna Mutt authorities supplied breakfast and lunch from the mutt to nearby households who had problem starting their kitchens after Sunday’s inundation. Water also receded in the Rajangana and the mutt’s parking areas which saw more than five feet of water due to Indrani River being in spate on Sunday. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha told TOI that situation is returning to normal as rain has abated to certain extent. Sunday’s situation was due to continuous downpour of 12-15 hours at a stretch. On Monday, there were two brief showers, hence there was no water logging or inundation, he said. Regarding people returning to their homes, Jagadeesha said that it will be done on a case to case basis. “Police and other agencies will assess the situation in that particular area, check the buildings for damage and stability. If they are satisfied, people will be allowed to go to their houses. Our relief centre’s have been working efficiently and there’s no need for panic,’’ he added. Later in the evening, DC said that only 150 of the 1,201 people remained at relief camps and rest had returned to their homes. The DC rebutted complaints that the district administration was slow to react to the situation. He said workforce and materials were put into operations wherever needed at the earliest. “NDRF, SDRF assisted us in some areas where we faced difficulty,’’ he said. Ferocity of rain has reduced in Dakshina Kannada with the district receiving 81 mm of rainfall on Monday, in the last 24 hours, as against 149 mm on Sunday. Belthangady taluk received the highest amount of rainfall at 104 mm, followed by Sullia at 87mm. Bantwal and Mangaluru taluks received 74mm and 78 mm of rainfall respectively. But waters in Nethravathi River is rising and reaching danger levels. VEHICLEs BANned ON NH-169 The Udupi district administration has banned movement of vehicles on Mala Kudremukh National Highway-169 for two days from Monday following landslides and tree fall, which damaged a vehicle. BOX TOP THREE HIGH RAINFALL LOCATIONS IN THE STATE (IN MM): 344 mm Balkoor, Honnavar Taluk; 288.5 mm Belase, Ankola Taluk and 279 mm Shetageri, Ankola Taluk, all in Uttara Kannada District of Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rain-abates-in-udupi-affected-people-allowed-to-return-home/articleshow/78243578.cms||Stanley Pinto
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||Week begins on a note of protest in Dharwad||Dharwad: It was a Monday of protests and demonstrations in Dharwad. Farmers, anganwadi workers and activists from labour organisations all gathered in succession in front of the deputy commissioner’s office seeking fulfilment of their demands and redressal of grievances. Anganwadi workers demanded starting LKG and UKG classes at the centres, which they said was in keeping with the proposals made in the National Education policy-2020. However, with the state government being more eager to start kindergarten classes at public schools, anganwadi workers fear that many centres could be shut rendering hundreds of them jobless. Call for rural developmentResidents of Hunasikumari village, assembling under the banner of Raitha Krushikarmikara Sanghatane, held a rally in Dharwad pointing to the lack of basic facilities, and seeking their development. The protesters said that the majority of the village’s population was constituted by members of Gowli community. “We do not have access to transport and there is no primary health centre in our village. We have to travel to Dharwad for medical treatment,” the protesters said. ‘Pay insurance for crop loss’ Farmers from Shirur village in Navalgund taluk converged on Dharwad demanding immediate disbursal of insurance for the crop loss sustained in the kharif and rabi seasons in 2018-19. The farmers also pointed to the pathetic condition of the roads leading to Shirur, which they said needed to be repaired post-haste. The farmers also sought assistance from the district administration in getting loans of up to Rs 10 lakh at 1% interest, which they said would help them sustain them and ensure continuity in the same occupation. Release pending wages, demand hostel workers Workers at hostels administered by the social welfare and backward classes department on Monday submitted a memorandum demanding payment of pending wages. Citing the directive issued by the state government stipulating payment of wages to hostel workers for the period during which the lockdown was in force, the protesters said that the delay in payment had plunged hundreds of them in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/week-begins-on-a-note-of-protest-in-dharwad/articleshow/78243607.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP & chief secy issued NHRC notices||Vijayawada: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued a notice to Andhra Pradesh government chief secretary and director general of police based on a complaint by state Congress unit seeking an action taken report in the case against Dr G Gangadhar. On August 29, the Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S Sailajanath represented the case of APCC vice-president G. Gangadhar, a practicing pediatrician, to NHRC chairman, citing “harassment of the whistle-blower doctors by YSRC in the state.” “The authorities are also directed to ensure that no whistle-blower or social-political activist be exploited, humiliated or harassed on flimsy grounds,” the NHRC’s letter to AP chief secretary and DGP office stated. The action taken report is to be submitted within four weeks to the commission. During a TV debate, Gangadhar spoke about the situation in hospitals across the state and claimed there was little or no availability of PPE kits, masks and sanitizers and sought improvements in services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-chief-secy-issued-nhrc-notices/articleshow/78241538.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||App launched to provide 87 police services across AP||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to make police services more accessible to the public, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy launched the AP Police Seva App at Tadepalli Camp Office on Monday. The AP Police Seva App would enable registration of complaints online and monitor the follow-up action. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister explained that complaints can be lodged, and their status can be monitored online, and this is in tune with the friendly policing concept and to instill confidence among the people. The new app offers 87 types of services connecting all police stations across the state besides integrating the existing Disha App as well. Cops said that there is no need to go to the police station for lodging a complaint but can use the app and can track the status of the complaint. A receipt would be generated after lodging the complaint and the status of the complaint can be followed up without going to police stations. The application consists of 12 modules related to women’s safety, where even the Disha app was integrated. In addition to this, it also comprises six road safety modules, where a report of an accident victim can be filed online and further linked to hospital services. Similarly, it has 15 modules of cybercrime, where one can report any sort of cybercrime. In a first, the AP Police-Seva app also consists a fact-check feature to enable people take precaution from fake news and other rumours circulating on social media. Other services like passport verification, monitoring of house safety, lost documents and other verification services are available with the app. Director general of police D Gautam Sawang and home minister Mekathoti Sucharita were present during the launch event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/app-launched-to-provide-87-police-services-across-ap/articleshow/78241520.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bengaluru||NLSIU aspirants despair over wasted effort; some glad to get another shot||BENGALURU: The Supreme Court order quashing the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020 drew a mixed reaction from students and parents in the city. Many candidates felt all the effort they put in had come to naught. However, some were relieved to know they have another chance to make it to National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, which conducted the exam. The SC has said NLSIU should conduct admissions to its UG and PG courses in accordance with Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), slated to be held on September 28. “I had faced technical glitches on the first day and took a re-exam, which went well. Everything happened in less than a week. I wish we could have got more time and the test was conducted in a smoother manner. But I’m happy to have got another shot,” said a student. Several students, who were worried about alleged malpractices during the exam, said they’re happy that they will get a fair chance again. “From viral videos to students boasting of cheating, there were many reports of malpractices. The deserving students would have lost out,” said a law aspirant from Bishop Cotton Girls’ School. But many students felt all they stress and strain they experienced was for nothing. “Several students had to travel, spend money on registration, get new devices, ensure adequate internet and undergo a lot of mental trauma since the day the mock test was held...But we are happy the Supreme Court has considered the matter and done justice to students who couldn’t farewell for no fault of theirs,” said a law student, who volunteered in helping the aspirants. Many questioned the registration fee of Rs 150 that was charged for the exam. “What about the effort genuine students put in? Will the university refund the Rs 150 fee?” said Muktesh Bajpayee, brother of an NLAT aspirant, who couldn’t take the exam because of technical glitches twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nlsiu-aspirants-despair-over-wasted-effort-some-glad-to-get-another-shot/articleshow/78242881.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Centre to release Rs 3,300 crore loan to AP power sector||VIJAYAWADA: The Union government will release Rs 3,300 crore to AP power sector under Aatma Nirbhar loan. Union minister for energy RK Singh on Monday directed officials to release the amount to AP, as per an official statement. The Centre has assured 30% subsidy on 10,000 MW solar project for farmer’s free power. The assurance came during a meeting with AP energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli, and APGENCO managing director G Sai Prasad in New Delhi. The AP government has proposed the solar power project aimed at ensuring free power supply to agriculture sector for the next 30 years. The state government has recently invited tenders for the project. This is one of the major developments in the meeting with the Union minister. When the AP officials explained the poor financial status of AP Discoms due to various reasons, the minister assured that the Union government would provide all support for easing excess financial burden on AP Discoms. The officials told the minister that the state government had already sanctioned a total amount of around Rs 17,904 crore in 2019-20 towards clearing pending tariff subsidy dues and other charges. The government would also bear a subsidy burden of Rs 11,000 crore for 2020- 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/centre-to-release-rs-3300-cr-loan-to-ap-power-sector/articleshow/78241623.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Plea to delay civic polls not heard in HC||Jaipur: The state government’s plea in Rajasthan High Court to extend time for holding elections to six municipal corporation in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota could not be heard on Monday. The state government had last week moved an application in the court requesting to postpone the elections to six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota till March 31, 2021. R B Mathur, the counsel for the state  commission, said, “The matter was listed for hearing but could not be heard on Monday.” The court earlier had directed to hold the elections by August 31 on the application of the state government which had sought permission from the court to hold elections by December 31. Municipal corporation elections in the three cities were due in November 2019. The state government assured the court to hold elections in six months following bifurcation of the three civic bodies. Elections were to be held in April, but the state government filed an application on March 18 seeking six more weeks from the court due to the pandemic. After this, on the application of the state government, the court had given permission to hold elections by August 31. The elections to 129 urban local bodies were postponed till October 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plea-to-delay-civic-polls-not-heard-in-hc/articleshow/78243690.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Trichy||Police launch project Shield to fight crimes against women||Trichy: The Trichy range police on Monday launched a project called Shield to create safe and violence-free communities for women and children.Launched in collaboration with the International Justice Mission (IJM), the project will be implemented in the Trichy range comprising Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. Inspector general of police, central zone, H M Jayaram launched the project at a function in Trichy. The project is the brain-child of deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Trichy range, Annie Vijaya. It will be an eight-month-long project which intends to develop a systematic and evidence-based policing to increase the performance of the police department in combating crimes against women and children.“The project is fully scientific based to put an end to crimes against women and children and to ensure them a safe environment. We are going to fight it out united with all the stakeholders,” DIG Annie told reporters.IJM will coordinate with the Trichy range police for data analysis and provide support in developing a strategy and implementing the same. It will also undertake an endline study on the completion of the project.The plan is to gather data on crimes against women and children. The data will be analysed to identify the six crimes most frequently committed and the 25 hotspots with highest incidence of crimes.A strategy of action will be implemented after further fact-finding work on the status of women welfare groups in the region. This will include building capacity and increasing convergence among women and child protection stakeholders and creating awareness on women and child protection mechanisms in hotspot locations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-launch-project-shield-to-fight-crimes-against-women/articleshow/78244914.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Imambaras may open next week, more wait for Bhool Bhulaiya||LUCKNOW: After a shutdown of nearly seven months, Bada Imambara, Chhota Imambara and Husainabad Picture Gallery are likely to open for visitors from next week with safety precautions. However, visitors will have to wait a little more for the reopening of ‘Bhool Bhulaiya’ at Bada Imambara. The decision was taken by officials of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) Lucknow Circle, Husainabad and Allied Trust and UP Tourism as part of Unlock-4, wherein they submitted standard operating protocols (SOPs) to the district magistrate in view of the reopening of monuments. According to the SOPs, only 2,000 visitors in a day will be allowed in a monument. Entry will be barred for those without a face mask. At a time, only seven visitors will be allowed to enter the monuments. The second group will enter 10 minutes after the first group. Visitors will have to maintain social distancing at all times. Tourists will be able to stay inside the monuments for a maximum period of two hours. Timings for the monuments will be from 6am to 5pm. “Every visitor entering will be thermally scanned and we will ensure proper sanitization. Booking of tickets will be done online. We have submitted all guidelines to the higher authorities and as soon as we get a nod, we will reopen the monuments,” said Manoj Saxena, ASI superintendent, Lucknow Circle. Earlier, ASI-protected monuments like Residency, Clock Tower, Satkhanda, among others were reopened for visitors on July 6 amid precautions. Entry at Bada Imambara, Chota Imambara and Picture Gallery was only allowed for religious purposes. There are 328 monuments of importance that fall under Lucknow jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/imambaras-may-open-next-wk-more-wait-for-bhool-bhulaiya/articleshow/78244909.cms||Aditi Singh
September 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NIA probe: Kanam smells political motive||T’puram: CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said that political motives and interference behind the ongoing NIA probe in the gold smuggling case cannot be ruled out. "It is a known fact that BJP government in Delhi used national agencies to settle political scores in several states. It was Congress which fell prey to the move in most places. We suspect a move is afoot to create a smokescreen till the assembly election to weaken the LDF government which is performing well. Unfortunately, Congress is supporting BJP’s agenda here," he said on Monday. Ruling out the demand for minister KT Jaleel’s resignation, he said the primary responsibility in gold smuggling case fell on customs and central government. Referring to the NIA case based on UAPA charges, Rajendran said the charge is that through gold smuggling they tried to destabilise the country’s economy. "If so, how will they deal with the Union government which is responsible for 23.9% fall in GDP," he asked. According to Rajendran, the CM’s decision to call for a central agency probe was apt as the state police were not authorized to probe such cases with links in other countries. "Even after two months of probe, there is no major headway. India and UAE had signed an extradition treaty to exchange criminals. It is possible to bring the real culprits to India and book them. Why is it not happening?" he asked. The CPI state executive will meet on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss political situation in state. The meet will decide whether a campaign to expose political intention behind the probe needs to be organized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-probe-kanam-smells-political-motive/articleshow/78242177.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Technical fault delays Delhi-bound flight by 5 hrs||Ahmedabad: At a time when most people are reluctant to travel due to the pandemic, passengers to Delhi from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in Ahmedabad had a harrowing experience, as their flight was delayed by at least five hours early on Monday. The flight, operated by state-owned carrier, Air India, was scheduled to depart at 10am; however, the flight ended up leaving the airport after 3.30pm. According to sources, the incoming aircraft was delayed due to a technical fault. “The incoming aircraft from Pune suffered a technical glitch and till that was sorted out, the flight couldn’t depart from Pune and come to Ahmedabad. Soon after it landed in Ahmedabad, it departed within 20 minutes or so,” said a source. Passengers were provided refreshments and snacks by the airline’s ground staff, as learnt. Apart from this, a Patna-bound flight operated by SpiceJet, was diverted to Varanasi. Sources confirmed that due to bad weather conditions triggered by heavy rainfall in Patna, the airline was forced to divert it. The departures of six flights were cancelled from SVPI airport on Monday. These include three flights to Hyderabad in addition to one each to Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi. Sources confirmed that flights were cancelled due to operational constraints. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/technical-fault-delays-delhi-bound-flight-by-5-hrs/articleshow/78244922.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Another remdesivir black mktg racket busted||Rajkot: A day after five people were arrested for black marketing of remdesivir injections in the city, the detection of crime branch (DCB) and state Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) busted a similar racket involving a local pharmaceutical company and a medical representative who were procuring this crucial drug in large quantities on forged bills of hospitals.Police detained Sachin Patel (24), owner the Theos Pharmaceutical Pvt Company Ltd, and Rajanikant Faldu (29), medical representative (MR) of another pharma company, who had connived to produce forged bills of various hospitals to various pharmaceutical companies and purchased large quantities of the injections to sell them in the black market. Some of the hospitals were not even designated for Covid-19 treatment.The investigation revealed that duo had purchased as many as 2,332 remdesivir injections total worth Rs 4.54 lakh since August 15. The scam was exposed after the FDCA got information that Vedant Hospital, designated for Covid-19 treatment, had purchased 110 remdesivir packages (one package contains five vials) from Theos Pharma, which has a wholesale license.“When FDCA inquired with the hospital, its owner Dr Anwar Kothia said they had neither placed any such order nor received any stock of injections. After this revelation, FDCA team along with Dr Kothia approached us and the latter lodged the complaint,” said Manoj Agarwal, Rajkot police commissioner. Patel and Faldu were arrested and investigation revealed that the pharma company had purchased 96 remdesivir injections by producing the bill of Shubham Hospital, which is not designated for Covid-19 treatment. “Shubham Hospital had never placed such order or got supply of the injections. Patel and Faldu had sold a total of 96 injections in the black market,” said Agarwal. Dr HG Koshia, Commissioner, FDCA - Gujarat, said, “Since cases in Rajkot were rising, we were pushing additional stock of remdesivir there. Still, we learnt there was a shortage of the drug. Last week, we asked our teams to check with the stockists - New Ideal Agency and Theos Pharmaceuticals - regarding the sudden shortage.”“We have got information about another stockist New Ideal Agency from FDCA that is involved in the racket and investigation is on,” Agarwal said.Meanwhile, as a token of appreciation, Agrawal awarded a cash prize of Rs 15,000 to crime branch sub-inspector Vanrajsinh Jadeja and his subordinates for successful investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-remdesivir-black-mktg-racket-busted/articleshow/78370560.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Trichy||DYFI cadre stage sack race protest||Trichy: Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) cadre on Monday staged a novel protest to highlight the bad condition of the road on the Cauvery bridge in Trichy. They held a gunny sack race on the bridge. The protesters said that the gunny sack race was held to highlight the back-breaking journey endured by the commuters as there are several potholes. Since Cauvery bridge is the major link for residents from Srirangam to reach the other parts of Trichy, the bridge is a crucial link “Despite the multiple maintenance works taken up in the bridge in recent years, Cauvery bridge continues to be unfriendly for motorists,” P Lenin, district secretary, DYFI, said. Officials, who had rushed to the spot on learning about the protest, assured the DYFI cadre that it would be repaired. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dyfi-cadre-stage-sack-race-protest/articleshow/78244926.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Trichy||Study on for new bridge across Cauvery in Trichy||Trichy: The state highways department has embarked on a feasibility study to build a new bridge across the Cauvery to connect the city’s mainland with Srirangam Island. Senior officials have inspected the plausible locations for the proposed bridge, which is planned to decongest the ageing Cauvery bridge. Commissioned in 1976, the existing bridge is the most used link for the Srirangam and Thiruvanaikoil residents to reach rest of the city. The 44-year-old bridge, however, has undergone a series of maintenance works recently costing the highways department more than Rs 1.50 crore. Although the highways department had attempted guniting method (applying a mixture of sand and cement at a specified pressure) to fill the gaps in the bridge, it did not solve the problem. Considering the increasing movement of vehicles, the department initiated the survey. “The survey is underway and experts have inspected the sites. We are yet to finalise a location for the proposed bridge,” P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways, told TOI. While officials plan to link Melachinthamani with Mambalasaalai with the new bridge, locals have sought the department to consider linking Ayyallamman ghat near Kudamurutti with Amma mandapam in Srirangam. “There is ample space available at Ayyalamman bathing ghat to link Srirangam directly without touching Melachinthamani and Mambalasaalai. The distance between the two banks is short,” V B Jaganath, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES), said. Residents also asked the authorities to plan it as a six-lane bridge to meet the future demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/study-on-for-new-bridge-across-cauvery-in-trichy/articleshow/78244921.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||10,760 in provisional pharmacy merit list||Ahmedabad: The admission committee has released the provisional merit list for degree and diploma pharmacy courses in which 10,760 candidates have been shortlisted. In all, there are 7,756 seats in degree and diploma pharmacy courses in the state. Of these, 6,456 are for degree courses and 1,300 for diploma courses. The last date for online registrations for the first round of admissions to pharmacy courses ended on September 11. The finalization of the institute seat matrix was on September 18 following which the provisional merit list was declared on Monday. The choice filling for the mock round will be from Monday till September 29. The final merit list will be announced on October 1 after the declaration of the mock round results on September 30. The first allotment list will be out on October 8. The announcement of the results of GUJCET earlier this month has led to a huge rise in the number of students registering for pharmacy courses. This was reflected in the large number of applications received on September 5, the last day of registration, before the admission committee extended the deadline till September 11. Of the 9,500 applications received for pharmacy courses, 800 new applications were filed on September 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10760-in-provisional-pharmacy-merit-list/articleshow/78243740.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Two Covid positive jail inmates die||Lucknow: Two inmates of Lucknow district jail, who had tested positive to coronavirus, died on Monday. The jail officials confirmed that both the deceased inmates had tested Covid positive. However, autopsies will reveal the exact cause of death. Jail inmate Amit Gautam (30) died at Balrampur hospital on September 18, while Bachcha Yadav aka Rakesh Yadav (42) died at Lokbandhu Hospital on Monday. PRO, DG Jail, Santosh Verma said, “Both jail inmates had fallen sick. They were found suffering with serious ailments and also tested positive for novel coronavirus.” “Since the autopsy reports of both is yet to come, the cause of death is not known as yet,” Verma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-covid-positive-jail-inmates-die/articleshow/78244924.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Other universities in Odisha not to follow Khallikote, slash fees: VCs||BHUBANESWAR: Universities in the state are unlikely to toe the Khallikote University, Berhampur, decision to reduce admission and course fees for PG students this year. Khallikote University has reduced the fee. Vice-chancellors (VCs) of other universities told TOI that their admission fee is affordable. “There is no plan to slash the admission fees. Utkal University is a huge affiliating university and it has thousands of students. It is not feasible for us to reduce the admission fees,” said Utkal University vice-chancellor S M Patnaik. The state has 12 state public universities along with Odisha State Open University (OSOU). “We charge an admission fee of Rs 5,000 per year for master degree courses, Rs 3,000 per annum for bachelor degree courses and Rs 2,000 for six-month certificate courses. It is very less compared to other open universities and public universities. Besides, we have to pay our employees and spend money on other educational needs. So we will not reduce the admission fee further,” said Srikant Mohapatra, vice-chancellor of OSOU. Some VCs said the Khallikote University is offering less number of PG courses and admits less number of students compared to big universities like Utkal University, Sambalpur University and Berhampur University. “It was charging high amount of fees earlier from the students. Now they have reduced the fees to attract more students,” said a VC. A senior higher education department official said the universities themselves take the decision regarding the fee structures of their courses. “The department does not interfere in their decision to reduce or increase the admission and course fees,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/other-univs-not-to-follow-khallikote-slash-fees-vcs/articleshow/78242175.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
September 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plus II admissions starts in Odisha amid Covid-19 restrictions||BHUBANESWAR: Admissions to Plus II courses in three streams of higher secondary schools across Odisha started on Monday following Covid-9 guidelines. As many as 3,79,815 students registered for admission and paid the fees online. Out of them, 58, 852 students took admission on the first day. Admissions were held as per the first cut-off list and will continue till September 26. Several students alleged that some colleges did not accept the digi-locker marksheets and asked them to get the signature of the school principal on it. “I came from Pakidi Hill in Ganjam. Even though it has been written that digi-locker certificates are authentic and acceptable, the authorities asked me to get signature of school principal on it. In this Covid situation, it is very difficult to travel back to school for a signature,” said Sanskruti Pradhan, a student of Adarsh Vidyalaya, Pakidi Hill from Ganjam. She has been selected for admission to Rama Devi Higher Secondary School here. Out of the students, who took admission on Monday, the maximum number of 32, 624 students took admission in the arts stream followed by 17,927 students in science, 5,263 in commerce, 1,573 in Sanskrit and 1,445 in vocational streams. “It is a very difficult phase and we were very uncertain about the academic career of our children amidst the pandemic. We are happy that the government started the admission process otherwise students would have lost one year,” said Tarunkanti Panda, a parent. All higher secondary schools have been asked to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines like thermal screening at the entrance gate, use of masks and maintenance of at least six-feet distance. Only one parent is allowed into the school premises and the admission process of only 15 students gets over in an hour. This year, admissions will be held for 4, 53, 643 seats in 2028 schools across Odisha. The second cut-off mark will be declared on October 3 while the second phase admission will start from October 5 to 7 while spot admission will be held on October 16 and the admission process will be complete by October 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plus-ii-admissions-starts-in-state-amid-covid-19-restrictions/articleshow/78242185.cms||Minati Singha
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Expedite implementation of water diversion schemes, says Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday asked the water resources department (WRD) officials to expedite the implementation of water diversion schemes across Nashik district. Bhujbal was addressing the meeting of Godavari Marathwada Irrigation Development Corporation (GMIDC) officials through video conference. During the meeting, he stressed on the implementation of the schemes at the earliest so that water from the rivers originating in Nashik district and flowing towards Arabian sea or towards Gujarat was effectively diverted into Godavari that would eventually help Nashik as well as Marathwada region. It should be noted that high court has banned any construction related to water storage on the upstream of Jayakwadi dam due to which if Nashik has to get some water for its future needs it will have to bank upon the water diversion schemes only. “The WRD should focus on all water diversion schemes, including the Manjarpada II project, as it will help in bringing water for parched areas of Nashik — Chandwad, Nandgaon, Yeola and even parts of Marathwada region,” he said. He also directed the officials to prepare the plan on the basis of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme in Telangana and also focus upon implementing the use of solar energy for this purpose. Manjarpada I water diversion scheme in Nashik was conceptualized in the year 2005-06 and the work began in the year 2008-09. Around 80%of the work was completed by 2014, but during then one the project was put in the backseat. The project got a revised approval in 2018 following which the project was completed and diversion of water was started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/expedite-implementation-of-water-diversion-schemes-says-bhujbal/articleshow/78241086.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar admin told to ramp up Covid testing to meet state standards||Nashik: Nashik divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game asked Ahmednagar district administration to ramp up Covid testing in order to meet the testing standards in the state.“In Ahmednagar, though the recovery rate of Covi patients is good, their testing average is low and it has been observed that their ‘hit rate’, which is the ratio of throat swabs testing positive to the numbers of swab collected is on the higher side,” said Game, who toured all five districts in the backdrop of Covid-19.The commissioner said Ahmednagar had to conduct more tests to meet the state average of 44,000 tests per million as against their current average of 24,000 tests per million. The administration has set up plans for increasing the same.Game also visited Jalgaon district which has had a terrible case fatality rate (CFR) in the past but it has improved now.Ensure better beds with oxygen at dedicated covid health centres and dedicated covid hospitals, setting up oxygen tanks instead of relying on the supply of oxygen through cylinders can help in improving CFR, he said.Game, the former commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation, suggested an effective contact tracing programme in all the districts.As health workers move around tracing contacts, noting down details, it causes delay. “Hence I have asked the officials to use the online system for effective contact tracing exercise to l help them contain the spread of covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-admin-told-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-to-meet-state-standards/articleshow/78241102.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 22, 2020||Trichy||Increasing Covid-19 cases in Trichy suburbs ring alarm bells||Trichy: The number of Covid-19 cases in Trichy city may have come down in the past one month, but the suburbs are recording a substantial number of fresh cases in recent days. Locals lament the inadequate focus and lapses in Covid-19 preventive measures, as a significant number frequent the city every day.Since September 11, as many as 76 positive cases were reported in 20 suburbs. While mandatory facemask rule is adhered to an extent in the city, shops in the suburbs and those coming are not following the SOPs. “Enforcement of Covid-19 restrictions is a rarity in suburbs. Even shops are not mandating the customers to wear masks,” C Sakthivel, a resident of No 1 tollgate said.Samayapuram, Anna Nagar, No 1 tollgate, Nachukurichi and Bhel township are among the suburbs that have reported multiple cases per day in recent weeks.Corporation officials said they have been insisting their counterparts in village panchayats to prevent overcrowding. Officials said that lapses in suburbs could affect the city’s Covid-19 scenario as public movement is rampant.Meanwhile, residents from the suburbs claimed urban primary health centres (UPHC) are conducting tests only for city residents, and they are asked to give samples either at the MGMGH or other rural primary health centres. However, a senior health official with the district administration denied the allegation. “We are focussing the suburbs by conducting fever camps. Recently, camps were conducted in Anna Nagar and Thiruverumbur. Suburbs are being monitored. The situation is under control,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/increasing-covid-19-cases-in-trichy-suburbs-ring-alarm-bells/articleshow/78244918.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 22, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR recoveries top new cases over less testing||PUNE: As many as 3,007 Covid-19 patients recovered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, taking its total cured count above 2.06 lakh. In comparison, as many as 2,338 people tested positive in PMR in the last 24 hours, pushing the region’s tally up to 2.54 lakh. The decline in new cases was mainly on account of lesser testing during the weekend. Among 2,338 new cases, as many as 884 were recorded in the PMC limits, 655 in the PCMC limits and 799 in the rural and Cantonment areas. Among recoveries, PMC areas reported 1,259 discharges in last 24 hours, as many as 1,122 in PCMC limits and 629 in rural and Cantonment parts. A report released by district health office stated 76 patients succumbed to Covid-related complications on Monday, pushing PMR’s death toll to 5,774. A report released by PMC stated 952 patients were at critical stage. A total of 3,536 patients were on oxygen support in PMC limits and 492 were put on ventilator support. Action against shops PMC on Monday initiated action against 12 shops that were open after stipulated timing of 7pm. The shops were from the Manikbaug area on Sinhagad Road. A total fine of Rs 8,000 was imposed on the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-top-new-cases-over-less-testing/articleshow/78243695.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 22, 2020||Trichy||33 years on, Ammapettai residents still wait for full-time govt hospital||Thanjavur: A 33-year-old demand of residents of Ammapettai in Thanjavur to upgrade a primary health centre functioning there into a full-time government hospital is yet to be fulfilled. The centre, which witnesses around 300 to 400 footfalls on a daily basis was established in 1916. Based on the demand put forth by the public to upgrade the PHC, the department of public health and preventive medicine asked the villagers to identify a suitable land to build a government hospital. Subsequently, residents of Ammapettai donated money and around one acre of land was bought and registered with the public health department on June 27, 1987. However, there is no development yet, R Senthilkumar, union secretary, CPI said. Being a selection grade town panchayat, there are around 30,000 people residing apart from the people from surrounding villages including Vadapathi, Keela Kovilpathu, Puliyankudi 1, Neduvasal. Altogether around 1.5 lakh people are relying only on the PHC located in Ammapettai. As the centre is functioning only from 9am to 2pm, villagers have no choice but to take patients to a hospital in case of emergency after 2pm. “People have to travel around 30km to reach the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur in case of heart attack, snake bite, fire injuries during the evening hour,” he alleged. At least the state government should look into the matter now and do the needful, as the required land is readily available for the past 33 years, he further stated. “In this regard, we approached the deputy director of health services. Based on their instruction we have also written to the joint director of health services in Thanjavur and the district collector”, Senthilkumar added. When contacted, deputy director of health services Raveendran told TOI that each block can have one upgraded PHC. Ammapettai comes under Melatur block and it already has an upgraded PHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/33-years-on-ammapettai-residents-still-wait-for-full-time-govt-hospital/articleshow/78244928.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 22, 2020||Trichy||Covid woes add to struggle of spl students as board exam begins||Trichy: While the five-day state board examinations for private candidates started on Monday, parents of special children had a tough time equipping them to guard against Covid-19 infection besides preparing them for the examination.A total of 1,049 students in Trichy district have registered as private candidates for class X state board examination this year. As many as 879 students appeared for the examination, and out of which 79 are special children. These candidates were among the 1,410 special children from across the state who had requested the state government to declare them all-pass like it did in the case of the regular state board students of class X.After their request was rejected by the state government and the Madras high court, the five-day examination for these students started on Monday. Parents are concerned that their kids, many of them have low immunity, may contract the virus infection if they were taken to the examination halls. The state government made it mandatory for private candidates to appear for the examination and gave a month for preparation.However, the directorate of government examination had made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of the candidates. For normal students who appear as private candidates, ensuring social distancing was enough besides checking temperature and Covid-19 symptoms.Since special children appear for the examination with the help of scribes, they were asked to get Covid-19 test a day before the examination. The school education department had made arrangement for scribes to take Covid-19 test.“We only hope that our children are not infected with Covid-19 as they will have to appear for examinations on five days,” said Joseph Sathyaraj, parent of a 16-year-old special child in Trichy. It is indeed a risk that we took for a better future of our children, he said. Since many special children have very poor immunity, it was an uphill task for their parents to keep them safe all through this lockdown. Our only concern I about their safety, a parent said. When the chief minister announced all-pass for state board class X students, he didn’t mention about private candidates. “My 17-year-old autistic son forgot all the classroom lessons in his special school in the prolonged lockdown. We have tried our best to recall all his classroom education,” says T R Kumaravel, another parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-woes-add-to-struggle-of-spl-students-as-board-exam-begins/articleshow/78244929.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 22, 2020||Pune||Talegaon Dabhade records surge in infection||Pune: The Talegaon Dabhade municipal council has recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases to emerge as the worst-affected among 14 municipal towns in rural Pune. The town has so far recorded 1,500 nCoV positive cases of which 853 have been discharged after recovery, 45 have succumbed to the virus and 602 are active cases under treatment as on September 20. The recovery rate of the municipal town is 56.9% and case fatality rate is 3%. “Cases have gone up in August and September,” said Madhusudhan Barge, tehsildar, Wadgaon Maval, under whose jurisdiction Talegaon Dabhade falls. In August, Chakan and Saswad municipal councils had more Covid-19 cases, but now Talegaon has surpassed them,” he added. Barge said, “The surge in cases can be attributed to a combination of factors such as increased movement to and from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas and enhanced testing as part of the effort to treat Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/talegaon-dabhade-records-surge-in-infection/articleshow/78243754.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 22, 2020||Pune||Jumbo facilities to run to capacity in a week: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday directed the local civic authorities to get the jumbo facilities at CoEP grounds and Annasaheb Magar stadium fully operational within a week to tide over the bed shortage amid rising Covid-19 cases. When fully operational, both these facilities will provide 800 beds each for Covid-19 patients. “I have directed the authorities concerned to get the facilities running at full capacity within a week. One agency can run both the facilities, if required. The local authorities should also ensure that there are more specialist doctors for the facilities,” he said, while also seeking maximised operations of PMC-run Baner facility. The minister said a pharmacy store and a CT-scan centre would be operational at the facility at the earliest, with free medicines like Remdesivir for the poor people. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said they would be ready to operate the facility at full strength seven days after the work order was issued. “By September 29-30, the jumbo facility should be operating all 800 beds,” he said. On Monday, the CoEP jumbo facility was operating 250 oxygen beds and 60 ICU beds. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar expressed confidence about operating all 800 beds by September 24. “We are already ready for operating 600 beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-facilities-to-run-to-capacity-in-a-week-tope/articleshow/78243750.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Draft building bylaws likely to hit investors of tourism units||Jaipur: The fate of Rajasthan’s economy hinged to tourism. When the sector is in free-flow, it opens up opportunities for all, from high-paid executives to the poor tonga wala, camel riders and the folk artists. The industry says Rajasthan has to be a cheaper destination to attract large number of tourists and the argument has never carried as much weight as now when the state’s lifeline industry has been hobbled by the pandemic. But the proposed building bylaws 2020 do not reflect the same logic. The cost of land has risen and allowing more built up and coverage area is the key to reducing the investment cost per room. That would mean the motel or the resort owner can offer rooms at an affordable price. “If we have to remain competitive, then we have to offer rooms at cheaper rates. The proposed building bylaws need to be aligned to that rationale. For a state like Rajasthan, tourism is very important if we want to create jobs for our youths. Not only that, the sector is a huge revenue generator for the state government,” said Nitin Gupta, head of CII-Rajasthan. Similar sentiments were echoed by other people in the tourism industry. They said every policy should reflect the reality of that time and capture the trends prevailing. Given the current pandemic, tourism needs a special attention and a different approach. “The pandemic has shown that there is a huge demand for resorts. The trend for resorts accommodation is increasing as tourists want experiences. Rajasthan is a leisure destination and promoting resorts would be in sync with the character of the destination,” said Sunil Mehta, India head of World Wilderness Congress. Mehta said that resorts or amusement parks need large sizes of land and unless they are allowed to have an increased built up area the economics will not be there for investments. Gupta said that hotels, motels, resorts, and amusement parks should be allowed 10% more coverage area to reduce cost of investment per room and that will make them commercially viable. He said, the built up area should be raised from the proposed 0.60% to 1.50% for motels, resorts and amusement parks. In terms of number of floors, resorts and resort housing should be allowed G+4 instead of the proposed G+2. Mehta also drew attention to the fact that the high cost of land has pushed many investors to opt for hotels instead of resorts even though the current trend is in favour of experiences and activity-based facilities. “There are not many investors who are looking to build resorts and the prime reason for this is the cost of land. Given the current preferences, we should build more resorts and that will make the destination more attractive for the tourists,” said Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/draft-building-bylaws-likely-to-hit-investors-of-tourism-units/articleshow/78243757.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Teen girl tied, set ablaze in Sultanpur, dies||Lucknow: An 18-year-old girl who was allegedly set on fire in Sultanpur succumbed to injuries at KGMU Trauma Centre on Monday night. The victim was set ablaze in Tadarsa village under Baldirai police station in Sultanpur on Monday and was referred to KGMU. SP Sultanpur, Shiv Hari Meena told TOI that three persons have been detained on the basis of the victim’s dying statement. “Her statement was taken by a magistrate when she was taken to local hospital and would now be treated as her dying declaration,” he said. The victim was drawing water from a well outside her house when three men overpowered her. “The accused reportedly tied her hands and legs, doused her with kerosene and set her on fire,” said CO Baldirai, Lekhraj Singh. She raised an alarm after which her relatives and villagers rushed to help. She was first taken to a nearby hospital from where doctors referred her to Lucknow, said Singh. “The girl’s family has rivalry with many families in the village,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-girl-tied-set-ablaze-in-sultanpur-dies/articleshow/78244930.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pinarayi’s talks with warring church groups inconclusive||T’puram: The conciliatory talks initiated by CM Pinarayi Vijayan with Jacobite and Orthodox church representatives on Monday remained inconclusive as the warring factions refused to budge from their stand on claims over church properties. The talks were held separately at the chief minister’s official chamber. The government is learnt to have informed both church groups that its decision on the proposals and demands raised by the two groups at the meeting will be conveyed in 10 days. The talks were held with the Jacobite faction first and then with the representatives of the Orthodox church. The Jacobite church delegation requested the chief minister to bring in a piece of legislation to conduct plebiscite in each diocese to find a lasting solution to long-pending disputes. The church representatives expressed hope for an amicable settlement. The Orthodox church delegation reiterated its stand against the conduct of plebiscite, which representatives said was against the spirit of the Supreme Court order that approved the Orthodox church’s right over several churches that were under the Jacobite faction. They demanded that the church constitution of 1934 should be accepted by everyone. More talks with the warring factions are expected in the coming days to ensure a lasting solution to the violent clashes between the two churches over buildings and property rights. The government is learnt have started thinking of bringing an ordinance that could strike a truce between the factions. However, there is no consensus yet among legal experts about the legal sanctity of such an ordinance in the wake of the SC order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pinarayis-talks-with-warring-church-groups-inconclusive/articleshow/78242194.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 732 new cases, 40 deaths||Kolhapur: As many as 40 deaths and 732 new cases related to Covid-19 were reported across Satara district on Monday. Out of the new cases, Satara tehsil registered 11 deaths and 243 new patients. According to a health official, 12 women and 28 men succumbed to the contagion on Monday, of which 31 were senior citizens. Karad showed slight decline in number of new cases being reported as only 107 new patients were added on Monday, including 21 from Karad town. Umbraj and Masur registered 15 and 10 cases respectively, while Malkapur registered seven new cases. As many as 35 people tested positive in Wai tehsil, including eight from Wai town and seven from Dhom. Khandala also reported 33 new patients, including 12 from Shirval. Patan tehsil added 21 cases. The district has so far recorded 30,824 positive cases, of which 20,250 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-732-new-cases-40-deaths/articleshow/78241107.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||For jobs, tribal youths protest atop hill in Dungarpur dis||Jaipur: Over 500 tribal youths have climbed atop Kakri Doongri hill in Bichhiwada tehsil of Dungarpur on the border of Rajasthan-Gujarat for the past one week demanding the vacant 1,167 seats of general and OBC category under Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) to be filled by ST candidates. Supported by students’ wing NSUI and ABVP of the Congress and the BJP, respectively, the protest led by Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) is gaining momentum in the tribal districts like Dungarpur, Banswara and Udaipur. “Till the government announced the filling of these vacant posts by our candidates, the movement will continue,” said Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA from Chorasi, who is camping in the Bichhiwada Tehsil, supporting the movement. Holding bamboo sticks claiming to protect from the wild animals, the youths spent their day singing folk songs, hearing speeches of their political and religious leaders or sometimes they play cricket to kill their time. The food is being supplied by the tribal groups from nearby villages. Mukesh Parmar, vice-president of BTP, says that this is beginning of the awakening of underprivileged groups. “The government at the state and the Centre will see us fighting for our rights on the regular basis. It will continue until the government fulfil our 32 demands including a separate state called Bhil Pradesh," said Parmar. Jay Yadav, SP of Dungarpur, says that they are holding their protest peacefully not causing any law and order problem. TOI called up the director of secondary education, Bikaner Saurabh Swami but he was not available for comment. These vacancies were from 2018 teaching post recruitment for 5,400 teachers. As per the reservation scheme, 50% posts of 2,700 were allotted for Scheduled Tribe candidates. While the remaining 2700 post which comes under the open category which says that candidates who have scored 60% and above marks in REET are eligible for the selection. Only 1,500 candidates in the open category could able to get a score above 60% which makes 1,167 posts vacant. The tribal youths are demanding that these vacant posts should be given to them since they hold a majority in the region. As per the rule, for ST candidates the minimum qualifying score is 36% against 60% for the open category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-jobs-tribal-youths-protest-atop-hill-in-dungarpur-dis/articleshow/78243763.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: On their way to court, newly-weds end lives||LUCKNOW: A couple, who had eloped and married against their parents’ wishes, committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance while being brought to Lucknow from Bareilly by a police escort team to be produced before the court on Monday. Police said they were bringing the woman to produce her before the court as her mother had lodged a case of her abduction in August. Later in the evening, a joint team of Lucknow and Bareilly police recovered sulphas tablets from the room where the couple lived. The deceased were identified as Vikas Soni (34) of New Premnagar in Krishnanagar and Parul Rawat (32) of Thakurganj. Deputy commissioner of police, central, Somen Barma said Vikas and Parul had eloped a few months ago and married against the wish of their families. “They were staying at a house in Bareilly. After Parul went missing, her mother filed a complaint after which the court directed Krishnanagar police to recover the girl and present her before it,” Barma told TOI. After the couple was traced in Bareilly, a police team was dispatched to bring them to Lucknow. “The cops were in a private vehicle and the woman’s brother and her brother-in-law were also present with them. As Parul insisted, Vikas also accompanied the police team,” he said. The DCP said during the journey Parul started vomiting and Vikas’s condition also started deteriorating after some time. When asked, Parul and Vikas informed cops that they had consumed poisonous substance. Cops took them to KGMU’s Trauma Centre but they were pronounced dead on arrival. Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey confirmed that the couple had consumed poison which they also confessed in the presence of their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/on-their-way-to-court-newly-weds-end-lives/articleshow/78244941.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Attacked for delivering girls, woman loses foetus, a boy||BAREILLY: A 43-year-old labourer’s dream to father a baby boy was laid to rest forever with the death of male foetus inside her wife’s womb, which he had allegedly ripped open with a sickle on Saturday after being convinced that she was set to deliver another girl child, the sixth one. Doctors at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, who somehow managed to save Anita Devi’s life, told on Sunday that she may never be able to conceive now due to damages to the uterus. The doctors there described the attack as a “devilish” act, the woman’s brother Ravi Singh told TOI. While Anita was still in ICU, her husband Pannalal was on Sunday sent to jail after being produced before a court. He was booked for attempt to murder, and police in Budaun were in process of adding more sections after the death of the foetus. Their five children were with Anita’s relatives, staring at a bleak future. On Saturday evening, Pannalal had come home drunk and again asked his wife to abort the foetus. A village priest had told him that the unborn child was a girl and Pannalal-- who had full faith in his words-- didn’t want a sixth girl. But Anita didn’t want to kill the unborn. Another bout of argument followed and Pannalal, in a fit of rage, picked up a sickle lying in the house and attacked Anita with it, tearing apart her belly and exposing the insides. Neighbours had rushed to Anita’s help and she was taken to district hospital in Bareilly. Ravi told TOI, “There was a moment when I had lost hope. But the doctors and supporting staff at Safdarjung hospital acted like angels and saved my sister’s life. Unfortunately, the child in her womb, who was actually a baby boy, couldn’t survive because of an injury to her uterus which caused infection. Doctors said that she may not be able to conceive further. She is currently admitted at the ICU but they will shift her to the general ward on Tuesday. “Several people, including doctors, met me at the hospital after coming to know about the incident. And they said that it was a devil’s act.” Station house officer (SHO) of Budaun’s Civil Lines police station Sudhakar Pandey said, “We will add the charges of foeticide after receiving the medical report of the woman and recording her statement. Pannalal has been sent to jail and he is yet to know that he actually killed his son. We will apply for his custody for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-40-whose-belly-was-slashed-by-husband-for-only-delivering-girls-loses-her-foetus-a-boy/articleshow/78240040.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medical teachers: Gujarat HC seeks govt reply||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has sought reply from the state government on why it has excluded Diplomat National Board (DNB) doctors for recruitment for 686 posts of faculty members in government medical colleges on 11-month contract. The state government came up with an advertisement on May 29 seeking online applications for appointments of medical professional candidates on contractual basis for 686 vacant posts of professor, associate professor, assistant professor and tutor in various subjects in government colleges and attached teaching hospitals. The advertisement was issued by the government after it came under fire when the Gujarat high court castigated it for its poor response to Covid-19. The Association of DNB Doctors has challenged the advertisement issued on May 29 for various posts of faculties in government medical colleges. In its petition filed through advocate Narendra Jain, the association has objected to the exclusion of doctors having DNB qualifications from eligibility criteria. It has submitted that the Medical Council of India (MCI) and the subsequent legislation consider the postgraduate qualification of DNB as equivalent to MD, MS and MCh degrees, if not superior to them. Those candidates who have undergone DNB training and teaching experience in particular colleges having minimum 100 beds for certain period are considered equally eligible for the post of teaching as any holder of post-graduation qualification like MD and MS. The petitioner cited gazette to this effect. The petition has urged the court to direct the authorities to re-notify its advertisement afresh in accordance with latest regulations and include DNB qualification as eligibility criteria for teaching in medical colleges. The petitioner has also sought to quash the ongoing recruitment process and stay it at least till the HC decides the issue about eligibility of DNB doctors for the post of teachers. The petitioners submitted that the Supreme Court through its various pronouncements has held that the regulations framed by the MCI are statutory in character and hence they are binding and mandatory on all universities and colleges. With this, it has taken exception to the advertisement which said that the appointments would be made permanent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-govt-reply-over-recruitment-of-medical-teachers/articleshow/78243767.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: New diagnosis strategy for Maharashtra on the cards||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said he was mulling over a new “testing strategy” for Maharashtra, for which he would be soon holding discussions with the chief minister and the Covid task force. Tope said he had held some preliminary discussions with the Covid task force members and would soon announce on “who all should be tested” after proper consultation and deliberation at the Centre and the state.  With the state being told to ramp up testing further, the minister said better monitoring was needed to ensure beds for needy patients, else even asymptomatic patients might end up occupying beds at hospitals. As against a positivity rate of 20% in state, Pune district has about 27% positivity rate. “The ratio of testing should be 70:30 where RT-PCR tests should be more and less of antigen tests,” the minister said. On Sunday, the state recorded as many as 44,038 tests per million, while the country registered 45,474 tests per million. The same count for the district stayed at 99,211. The minister said with increased cases, it was time that more doctors extended their help to arrest case spread. “We should be ready and geared up considering the rise in cases and have more hospitals work as Covid hospitals. We should have all doctors coming forward for Covid duty,” he said. The minister had on Sunday reviewed the Sassoon hospital, where he said even after the government announced a package of Rs 2.25 lakh per month, there were not enough applications. He said over 200 doctors were needed and so they would start fresh recruitment process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-diagnosis-strategy-for-maharashtra-on-the-cards/articleshow/78243760.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 22, 2020||Trichy||UGC asks BDU to wait for nod to start admissions for distance edu courses||Trichy: The admission process for Bharathidasan University’s (BDU) distance education programmes came to a pause after the distance education bureau (DEB) of University Grants Commission (UGC) questioned the university for initiating admissions without necessary approval.Centre for distance education (CDE) of BDU issued advertisements for its distance education programmes on July 19. Further, it had also extended last date for submission of applications till September 31. However, BDU skipped mandatory approval from the DEB, sources said. Officials from DEB have asked the university to halt the admission process till they get approval to run these programmes.Meanwhile, A Ilangovan, director in-charge of CDE – BDU said that DEB officials are convinced with the clarification given by us for starting the admission process. “But, they have asked us to wait for a few days as they will open the online portal for institutions to apply for approval to the distance education programmes,” he said.The university got accredited with A+ grade in the third cycle of national accreditation and assessment council (NAAC) in April last year, which makes it eligible to offer programmes through distance mode.Ilangovan will be meeting DEB officials in New Delhi in a few days to clarify on their decision to go ahead with the admissions.Poor financial condition is cited as a reason for BDU to go ahead with admissions for distance education programmes. A section of non-teaching staffs had, in July this year, wrote to university administration seeking steps to explore new revenue source. The situation had worsened to the extent that corpus funds had to be utilized to disburse salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ugc-asks-bdu-to-wait-for-nod-to-start-admissions-for-distance-edu-courses/articleshow/78244939.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 22, 2020||Trichy||50% submit answer scripts online for BDU end sem exam||Trichy: Roughly 50% of students from colleges affiliated to the Bharathidasan University made use of online platforms to appear for the end semester examination starting on Monday.Around 80% students sit the examination in one mode or the other from final year undergraduate and post graduate programs. Deciding to have the end semester examination online, Bharathidasan University gave three options to students for sending their answer scripts after appearing for the examination from their homes.Students were asked to send snapshots of answer scripts through a dedicated portal and email. Or they were asked to handover the answer scripts to a nearby college. They were told to download question papers from the portal. Further, principals of respective colleges were asked to e-mail question papers to the students.Controller of examination in-charge of BDU S Srinivasa Raghavan said that nearly 24,000 students accessed the portal through their login IDs and passwords. However, 20,000 of them could actually upload the answer scripts through the portal or e-mail.He said about 80% of the students registered for the end semester examinations have appeared for the examination. This included 30% students who chose to submit answer scripts in a nearby college.Saying that there was heavy traffic in the portal, Raghavan said that about 50-100 students were accessing the portal per second from 9am to 9 30 am when students were instructed to download the question papers.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/50-submit-answer-scripts-online-for-bdu-end-sem-exam/articleshow/78244934.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BTP, BJP rift over move to revive tribal culture||JAIPUR: Reports of rifts between the BJP and the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) are pouring in from tribal areas. The BJP has charged BTP of involving in anti-Hindu activities in tribal-dominated districts of Udaipur, Banswara and Dungarpur, while the BTP has termed it as reviving their forgotten culture. The BTP staged a protest at the tribal commissioner office in Udaipur last Monday reminding the ruling Congress of fulfilling 32 point demands including protection from fringe elements from invading their culture. The recent tension was triggered by a letter by senior BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria on September 10 demanding action on BTP leaders for causing social discord by removing religious flags from temples and forcing the tribals to shun Hindu religious symbols and cultural practices. The incident of removal of saffron flags by a tribal clan at Sonar temple in Udaipur is seen as a conspiracy by the BJP against the majority community. “The BTP is in pact with terrorist groups in Jharkhand. The group leaders visit here and provoke people against each other. Those tribals who worship are being attacked by them to instil fear in them. I have asked the DGP to take action against these comrades in the guise of political leaders,” said Kataria over the phone. He asked the state home department to recall the IB reports from the last five years to find out if their move is political. The three-year-old BTP made astonishing gains in its maiden polls by making some radical promises of a separate statehood Bhil Pradesh for tribals, reservation for tribals locally and separate family code. They have gradually made inroads in the tribal regions and started claiming themselves as the sole representative of the tribal. BTP state president Vela Ram Ghogra cautioned BJP and its allies Vanvasi Kalyan Parishad along with Christian Missionaries to stop diluting their culture. “The tribals have woken up after centuries of suppression and subjugation by influential classes. Our party believes in the Constitution which has given us the rights to protect our culture from any kind of invasion,” said Ghogra over the phone. Chorasi MLA Rajkumar Roat minced no words by blaming RSS for taking hostage their culture from decades. “The saffron flag is given by the RSS and its affiliates in our religious places. Our flags include red and green colour only. It is BJP and the Congress only ploy to brand tribal groups as Naxalite to suppress us. Similarly, Christian missionaries have also caused great damage to us by their uninterrupted conversion spree. We are against every such move,” said Roat. BTP ally Congress has not reacted to the controversy. TOI had called Arjum Ram Bamaniya for his reaction but was not available. The simmering tension between the two has infiltrated among tribal and non-tribal population in these districts. “Since the party came into existence, we could see how tribal youths calling for separate statehood and their way of greeting has changed from Jai Shree Ram, Namaskar or Pranam to Jay Johar,” said Piyush Padya, a local businessman at Banswara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-bjp-rift-over-move-to-revive-tribal-culture/articleshow/78243769.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu non-teaching staff threatens indefinite strike||Aurangabad: Around 450 members of the non-teaching staff at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) have threatened to go on indefinite strike from October 1 in order to highlight their demand for benefits of the Seventh Pay Commission. The agitation, which coincides with the starting of final-year examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses from September 25, will commence in a symbolic manner in the form of ‘pen-down’ protest. Kailas Pathrikar, president of the Association of Non-teaching Staff of Bamu, on Monday said it is unjust on the part of the state government to offer the desired benefits to members of the teaching staff and keep the non-teaching staff waiting. “We have been deprived of the benefits of the Seventh Pay Commission for more than four-and-a-half years now when the Centre first ratified the recommendations in 2016. The state government, around one year ago, made the benefits applicable for the members of the teaching staff, but badly ignored the non-teaching staff from the state universities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-non-teaching-staff-threatens-indefinite-strike/articleshow/78241119.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: BTP, BJP rift over move to revive tribal culture||JAIPUR: Reports of rifts between the BJP and the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) are pouring in from tribal areas. The BJP has charged BTP of involving in anti-Hindu activities in tribal-dominated districts of Udaipur, Banswara and Dungarpur, while the BTP has termed it as reviving their forgotten culture. The BTP staged a protest at the tribal commissioner office in Udaipur last Monday reminding the ruling Congress of fulfilling 32 point demands including protection from fringe elements from invading their culture. The recent tension was triggered by a letter by senior BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria on September 10 demanding action on BTP leaders for causing social discord by removing religious flags from temples and forcing the tribals to shun Hindu religious symbols and cultural practices. The incident of removal of saffron flags by a tribal clan at Sonar temple in Udaipur is seen as a conspiracy by the BJP against the majority community. “The BTP is in pact with terrorist groups in Jharkhand. The group leaders visit here and provoke people against each other. Those tribals who worship are being attacked by them to instil fear in them. I have asked the DGP to take action against these comrades in the guise of political leaders,” said Kataria over the phone. He asked the state home department to recall the IB reports from the last five years to find out if their move is political. The three-year-old BTP made astonishing gains in its maiden polls by making some radical promises of a separate statehood Bhil Pradesh for tribals, reservation for tribals locally and separate family code. They have gradually made inroads in the tribal regions and started claiming themselves as the sole representative of the tribal. BTP state president Vela Ram Ghogra cautioned BJP and its allies Vanvasi Kalyan Parishad along with Christian Missionaries to stop diluting their culture. “The tribals have woken up after centuries of suppression and subjugation by influential classes. Our party believes in the Constitution which has given us the rights to protect our culture from any kind of invasion,” said Ghogra over the phone. Chorasi MLA Rajkumar Roat minced no words by blaming RSS for taking hostage their culture from decades. “The saffron flag is given by the RSS and its affiliates in our religious places. Our flags include red and green colour only. It is BJP and the Congress only ploy to brand tribal groups as Naxalite to suppress us. Similarly, Christian missionaries have also caused great damage to us by their uninterrupted conversion spree. We are against every such move,” said Roat. BTP ally Congress has not reacted to the controversy. TOI had called Arjum Ram Bamaniya for his reaction but was not available. The simmering tension between the two has infiltrated among tribal and non-tribal population in these districts. “Since the party came into existence, we could see how tribal youths calling for separate statehood and their way of greeting has changed from Jai Shree Ram, Namaskar or Pranam to Jay Johar,” said Piyush Padya, a local businessman at Banswara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/btp-bjp-rift-over-move-to-revive-tribal-culture/articleshow/78251645.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Medical student beats his wife to death before four-year-old son in Bareilly, booked||Bareilly: A 28-year-old student of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) allegedly killed his wife before their four-year-old son in Meerganj area of Bareilly district late on Sunday. Police said the accused, Rajeev Singh, returned home inebriated and picked an argument with his wife Shalu, 26, which took a violent turn and Rajeev strangled her, while their minor son Tejas witnessed the crime. Police said they learnt from the child that his mother was murdered by his father, who tried to make the murder look like a suicide. Following the complaint of Shalu’s father Abhay Singh, Rajeev was booked for the dowry death at Bahedi police station. Bahedi circle officer Ramanand Rai will investigate the case. The victim’s father said, “I had solemnised my daughter’s marriage with Rajeev in 2015. On Sunday, I was informed that my daughter had committed suicide. When I reached her home, I found multiple injuries on her body. Later, her son told me that his mother was thrashed by her father and she never woke up thereafter. Rajeev was demanding Rs 2 lakh for investing somewhere, but I had refused. It is possibly the reason behind my daughter’s murder.” The CO said, “We have registered an FIR under relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act and IPC sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304B (dowry death) against Rajeev Singh and his parents. Further action will be taken after receiving the autopsy report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/medical-student-beats-his-wife-to-death-before-four-year-old-son-in-bareilly-booked/articleshow/78240054.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Plan in place to shift people to safer areas in rural Nashik||Nashik: The local administration has drawn up plans to shift people staying in low-lying areas and near river tributaries to safer locations if and when required in view of the heavy and incessant rain in rural areas of Nashik district.Yeola and Niphad taluka are witnessing flood-like situation and some houses on the banks of water bodies have been damaged.Chandwad tehsildar Pradeep Patil said, “Some families living along a rivulet in the town had to be shifted as water had entered their houses. But they went back as soon as the water receded.” Similar was the situation in Nandgaon and Yeola talukas, where families were shifted to safer locations for some time. However, the people returned home after the water receded and rainfall activity became weak.The officers from the local administration said this was perhaps the first time that people from Chandwad, Yeola and Nandgaon have been affected due to the rain as the areas hardly witness such heavy rain.“Each of these talukas has received more than average annual rainfall so far this year. Chandwad taluka received very heavy rain on Saturday. Plans have already been drawn up for safer relocation of people during the monsoon”These areas received very heavy rain on Saturday and Sunday, following which around 20 families were affected across the district. The officers said that some rural areas were battered by heavy rain on Monday, but the situation was better than the previous two days and did not necessitate shifting of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/plan-in-place-to-shift-people-to-safer-areas-in-rural-nashik/articleshow/78241148.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU gives out BEd PINs||Ahmedabad: The admission committee has started the PIN distribution process for BEd courses in Gujarat University. This year, the admissions will be conducted only for 4,250 seats in self-financed colleges affiliated to the university. The grant-in aid and government colleges offering BEd courses have been linked to Indian Institute of Teacher Education (IITE).“There are 4,250 seats across 38 self-financed BEd colleges at Gujarat University for which admissions will be conducted. The process of PIN distribution and registration has been initiated for admission to these seats only,” said sources in GU. The results for third year undergraduate courses are pending, hence the admission committee has decided to conduct only the PIN distribution and registration round, said sources. Once the results are out in the next ten days or so, the admission process will begin in full swing, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-gives-out-bed-pins/articleshow/78244947.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Posters ridiculing Karnataka govt spring up in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hours before the legislature session was to commence on Monday, posters ridiculing the state government and levelling corruption allegations against ministers were clandestinely erected in different parts of Bengaluru. The posters resembled film ones and had text in Kannada. One line read ‘Rs 2,000 crore looted; story of state government which pushed state into hardship’, an obvious reference to the government’s handling of the pandemic. Top functionaries of opposition parties had levelled similar allegations against the BS Yediyurappa-led government over the purchase of N95 masks and personal protection equipment for Covid-19 warriors not long after the pandemic hit. The posters also contained names sounding similar to that of a few ministers in the BJP government. They were seen on walls on prominent roads in the central business district. Senior police officers said they have not registered a case as yet, but are on the lookout for the people who had pasted the posters. “These posters were pasted after midnight on Sunday,” one officer said. “We will collect CCTV footage installed at various traffic junctions near the places where these posters have come up and trace the culprits soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/posters-ridiculing-karnataka-govt-spring-up-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78242208.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Top cop warns against statue installation||Aurangabad: Superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil, in order to discourgae people from illegal installation of statues and flags representing castes and communities in remote villages and towns, has ordered senior officers to reach out to all the 1,978 villages and make people aware of the consequences of such acts. While asking the village sarpanch and gramsevaks to ensure that no illegal installation takes place, the SP has warned that in case of any violation, the sarpanch and gramsevaks would also be named as suspects in the FIR. Taking cognizance of the increaseing number of such incidents, Patil had last week issued an ultimatum to police station chiefs and beat amaldars, asking them to ensure that no such illegal installations take place in their respective jurisdictions. Failing to keep a check on such acts will lead to suspension and departmental inquiries. “Rigorous maintenance of law and order is our practice and we have set an example. Hence, no devious efforts to ruin peace at large will be tolerated,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/top-cop-warns-against-statue-installation/articleshow/78241133.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow youth held for importing marijuana from US||LUCKNOW: Joint units of Delhi and Lucknow Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a Lucknow youth from Gomtinagar on Sunday night. The 25-year-old was arrested for importing 2.7kg marijuana from the United States via courier. Cherish Gidwani, an IT engineering graduate and the son of an Indian Revenue Services (IRS) officer, had been importing marijuana (cannabis) from the United States for over one-and-a-half years. This was revealed after his arrest. NCB sleuths said that on the basis of specific inputs, they had intercepted a parcel at Delhi airport on August 31. The parcel was found containing 2.7kg premium quality marijuana imported from the United States. “Marijuana was concealed in an air compressor machine which was delivered via courier,” said an NCB sleuth. NCB further said that a detailed investigation was carried to trace the consignee who was found to be in Lucknow. The team of Lucknow NCB was also alerted. “Cherish admitted that he had been importing such parcels on a regular basis for the past one-and-a-half years for himself and also for further distribution among his friends,” an NCB official said. The narcotics were ordered from the US through Instagram or Wickr, while payment for the consignment was done through Bitcoins. Gidwani disclosed that he also used to get ‘charas’ and marijuana from Delhi and Bangalore-based suppliers. NCB zonal director Prashant Srivastava said that further investigation of backward and forward linkages of Gidwani were under way. “All contacts of the youth on social media networks are being scanned,” he said. NCB sources said that Cherish had been a topper throughout his academic career and was currently enrolled in a government engineering college in Lucknow. This is not the first case of a Lucknow youth using the web to trade and deal in narcotics and drugs. In February, Dipu Singh was arrested by NCB for selling contraband drugs via the ‘dark web’ and taking money in crypto currency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-held-for-importing-marijuana-from-us/articleshow/78244951.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents’ body seeks mass promotion||Ahmedabad: All Gujarat Parents’ Association have written to chief minister, Vijay Rupani, to consider mass promotion of students from playgroup to class VIII for the academic year 2020-2021. Schools in the state are closed from the last 180 days due to coronavirus pandemic and only 40% students have been able to attend online classes, the association claimed. “About 60% students in the state have not been able to attend classes from last six months so we have requested the government to declare mass promotion for schools,” said a member of the association. The association has also demanded waiver in tuition fees for the period the schools remain physically closed due to Covid-19. In the letter, the members have also demanded that the government should declare schedule for conducting board exams so that students can prepare in advance. The association has demanded that the fee regulatory committee should come up with tuition fees for the next academic year beginning from June 2021 and that the school fees till then should be waived off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-body-seeks-mass-promotion/articleshow/78243811.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Customs seeks details from govt about dates distribution||T’puram: Social justice department (SJD) has embarked on a comprehensive stock taking in all its district offices to trace the packets of dates distributed by UAE consulate in orphanages, rehab centres, special and Buds schools under it. The exercise was launched following the receipt of a notice from Customs on September 16, seeking details of dates distribution at the institutions. SJD also decided to issue a notice to ABT Parcel service for sharing the details of the consignment of dates it delivered in each district. Customs is probing the import of 17,000kg of dates by UAE consulate in 2017 as part of its probe into gold smuggling case. Customs asked the government to furnish all details by September 30. The probe is based on the suspicion that the consignment of dates was a cover for gold smuggling. The agency is already probing the consignment of Quran that was supplied by the consulate. Minister KT Jaleel was questioned by ED and NIA as part of this probe. After being inaugurated by CM in the presence of UAE consulate officials, including the key accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh, the dates were taken to districts for distribution. SJD had in May 2017 issued a circular instructing all district officers that dates should be distributed to all the care homes in their districts. "However, there are no records in many of these homes because of which the department has decided to issue a notice to the parcel service seeking consignment details and where they distributed the cartons containing dates," said a senior government official. There were over 2,000 homes under the government and orphanage control board functioning in 2017 (many of them had to be closed down later after The Juvenile Justice Act with stringent regulations came into force in 2018). Of these, barring 619 old age-homes, dates were meant for distribution at remaining institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-seeks-details-from-govt-about-dates-distribution/articleshow/78242250.cms||KP Saikiran
September 22, 2020||Patna||Internet connectivity for every village in 1,000 days: Narendra Modi||PATNA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said his government was committed to taking the country’s over six lakh villages into 21st century and, therefore, providing digital infrastructure (optical fibre) to link every village with internet connectivity and increased road communication network. The PM said this after launching from Delhi the project to link over 6 lakh villages in the country, including 45,945 in Bihar, with optical fibre, besides laying the foundation stones for nine road and mega bridge projects worth Rs14,260 crore as part of his Rs1.65 lakh crore “PM package” announced for Bihar during electioneering in 2015. It included Rs54,000 crore for the roads – four-laning of national highways and construction of mega bridges. He said it was only the Atal Bihari Vajpayee led NDA government at the Centre and his own that has stressed on the development of infrastructure in the country. Accordingly, coming a day after the passage of the agriculture reform Bills by Parliament on Sunday, PM Modi hailed the launch of the digital infrastructure project to be completed in the country in the next 1,000 days and the laying of foundation stones for the road and bridge projects in Bihar. He called it a “historic day”. “The previous governments did not think in totality. They just believed in constructing one road here and one bridge or railway station there. That was their vision with regard to the development of infrastructure,” Modi said. “Today, the stress is being given on multi-model connectivity. When the road or any infrastructure is laid, the underlying focus is to link it with ports and airports, besides giving connectivity to the villages, as it will help the farmers to get fast access to markets to sell produce,” he added. The PM also dwelt at length on the farm Bills and said what the opposition has been saying to the farmers is just “anaap sanaap (nonsense)”. Accordingly, he asked the farmers not to get persuaded by them. He also assured them that their right to the possession of land would prevail, while the mandis and the minimum support price (MSP) would also not be done away with. Without mentioning the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, Modi said, “The agriculture reforms Bills had become a necessity to take Bihar into the 21st century. The old laws had kept enchained the hands and feet of the farmers. The powerful people took advantage of them, but now the same powerful people have been eliminated from the scene, as the farmers will be able to assess the market through internet to sell their produce anywhere in the country and get right price. He said the agriculture Bills were not against farmers and asked them to constitute farm producers organisations (FPOs) and enter into agreements with the companies to get higher income on the produce. There have been instances of farmers of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan getting 20-30% more money on their produce, while those in MP, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal had got 25-30% more money on pulses, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/internet-connectivity-for-every-village-in-1000-days-modi/articleshow/78242264.cms||Abhay Singh
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Suspended PSI moves HC for bail in graft case||Ahmedabad: Suspended PSI Shweta Jadeja has approached the Gujarat high court seeking regular bail after a special anti-corruption court refused to release her on bail in connection with the bribery charges slapped against her and her brother-in-law. The HC is likely to hear her plea on Wednesday. Jadeja had earlier approached the HC for bail but withdrew her application only to file a fresh bail application after filing of chargesheet. On September 11, additional sessions judge S H Patel had rejected her plea for regular bail and said that the accused was working in the police department for last four years, and the way she has allegedly committed the offence with the help of her brother-in-law reflects criminal mentality. The SOG crime branch has filed a chargesheet against Jadeja and her brother-in-law Devendra Odedara for accepting Rs 35.12 lakh towards bribe from two brothers for sparing them from PASA.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suspended-psi-moves-hc-for-bail-in-graft-case/articleshow/78243797.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Meerut||Power corporation employees warn strike against privatization PuVVNL||MEERUT: Power sector employees in Meerut zone have threatened a strike against the state government’s proposed plan to privatize its power distributor Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam (PuVVNL), which supplies electricity in eastern UP. The strike in western UP districts stems from the fear that Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (AVVNL), the discom which supplies electricity in the region, may also be privatized. A large number of power corporation employees participated in a symbolic strike at the headquarters of PVVNL in Meerut on Monday, announcing a tough stance on the issue in the coming days. Senior officials said the agitation will take place between September 25 and October 2. It will start with a presentation of memorandum to all MPs, MLAs. And if the privatization doesn’t stop, an agitation will be launched “If even a single step is taken by the government in the direction of privatization of the discom, we (power corporation contractors, junior engineers and engineers) will initiate a full-fledged strike, and then senior management and state government will be responsible for the consequences. We urge the chief minister to consider us also Covid-19 warriors, repose faith on us and terminate this plan of privatization of the eastern UP discom,” said Shailender Dubey, convenor, Vidyut Karmchaari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti—a workers’ union. Notably, the UP government had given its approval for the disbanding and privatization of the PuVVNL, one of the five power distribution companies under UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL), in July this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/power-corporation-employees-warn-massive-strike-if-proposal-to-privatize-puvvnl-is-not-withdrawn/articleshow/78240065.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 22, 2020||India||Farm bills will end rule of ‘powerful gangs’, says PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday kept up his offensive on opponents of agriculture trade reforms and said those were meant to end the rule of "powerful gangs" which have been exploiting farmers. “Powerful gangs emerged in the country who used the shield of existing laws to cash in on the helplessness of farmers all these years. How long could this be allowed to go on? It was necessary to change this system and our government has shown these changes,” he said, adding that recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee calling for liberalisation of trade in agricultural products had been shoved into the deep freezer because of the resistance of vested interests. The PM also rebutted the allegation that the reforms measures would spell the dismantling of the scheme to provide minimum support price for farmers and the existing mandis under Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees. His hard-hitting remarks came during his speech at a web-based function to mark the laying of optical fibre network and launch of highway projects in poll-bound Bihar and just a few hours before the government announced an increase in MSP for Rabi crops: the near-overlap being seen as meant to be a refutation of the allegation of MSP's demise. Modi also said how during the coronavirus pandemic, record purchase of wheat was made from farmers and over Rs 1 lakh crore was given to farmers at MSP, which was more than 30% over last year. He said the old laws dealing with the system of production and sale of farm produce rendered farmers captive of mandis and stressed that they would now have the option to sell their produce to anyone at any rate and anywhere he wished to. “Now, he has got many more options besides the mandi of his area. Now, if he gets more profit in the market, then he will go to the market and sell his crop. Apart from mandi, if you get a profit elsewhere, then you will go there and sell, it will be possible due to the freedom from all bonds,” he said. The PM dismissed as lie that mandis would become extinct in the wake of the reforms. "They will continue to operate as usual," he said as he emphasised the efforts under his government to improve the functioning of APMCs with computerisation. He said the soon-to-be-enacted laws started giving benefits since being promulgated as ordinances and gave the example of bulk buyers of potatoes sourcing their requirements directly from cold storages. He added that ground reports from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan showed that oil mills there had purchased mustard by giving 20-30% more directly to farmers. Similarly, in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal, farmers had received 15-25% more price for pulses than last year directly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-bills-will-end-rule-of-powerful-gangs-says-pm/articleshow/78245933.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Mizo siblings repay debt of life to elder brother in City of Joy||Kolkata: Lalrinngheta, a PWD employee with the Mizoram government, stared at certain death when doctors told him that both his kidneys and liver were failing and only a multiple organ transplant could save him. But before he could despair, his two younger siblings — a sister and a brother — came to his rescue, offering to donate their organs. On Monday, Lalrinngheta was discharged from RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) in Kolkata, 12 days after he underwent the surgeries. This was also eastern India’s first simultaneous transplant surgeries on the same recipient. “After we lost our father at a tender age, my brother — being the eldest — assumed his role. Despite not much difference in our ages, he took it upon himself to protect us. So when he needed my liver, I did not think twice before donating a portion of mine to save him,” said his sister Lalrinawmi. Lalrinngheta, an accounts officer at the PWD department, had been on dialysis at an Aizwal hospital till the end of 2019. But his doctors said that kidney transplant was the only option and advised him to go to Kolkata for the surgery. He flew to Kolkata in December. During thorough investigation, doctors at RTIICS found that the patient was also suffering from end-stage cirrhosis of liver. “My younger brother accompanied me to Kolkata to donate his kidney. I was at a loss when doctors said that my liver, too, was failing and that I would need to undergo a liver transplant surgery as well. When my sister heard about it, she asked me not to lose hope and took the next available flight to Kolkata. I am blessed to have such siblings,” said 44-year-old Lalrinngheta, a resident of Lunglie. Doctors found that the two sibling donors’ organs matched that of the recipient. The preparation for the surgery, including obtaining permission from health departments of both Mizoram and Bengal, was interrupted by the pandemic and there was an advisory to stall transplant surgeries for the time being. “My brother had always thrown his protective arms around us. So it was a time for us to give back the love and care he had showered on us. Our only concern was the outcome of the surgery. We are happy that our organs are functioning well in him,” said Lalrinpuia (40), the kidney donor. The three siblings were wheeled into the OT around 6.30am on September 9. Once the liver was transplanted, the kidney transplant surgery followed. The entire process ended a little before midnight. “We took the recipient off ventilation after a day. But for post-transplant care, we had to be extra careful with the immunosuppressant drugs as he was a recipient of two organs,” said Deepak Shankar Ray, nephrology head at RTIICS, whose team conducted the kidney transplant. In addition to modifying dosage of immunosuppressant drugs and changing induction therapy, the medical team had to ensure that each healthcare worker in the team was Covid negative so that the recipient, as well as the donors, did not contract the infection. The liver transplant team was led by gastroenterology head N P Bohidar and transplant surgeon Sanjay Goja. “This is the first time a simultaneous transplant has happened in eastern India. Arrangement for donors for two different organs and to synchronise and maintain three of them pre- as well as post-transplant was the major challenge during the pandemic,” said Bohidar.. “Well-matched siblings are the best donors as far as living-donor transplants are concerned. For example, in this case, we found the recipient and the kidney donor 100% matched,” added Ray. Both the donor brother and sister were discharged in a few days. Even though the recipient was discharged on Monday, doctors have advised him to stay put in Kolkata for a few more days as he would require regular follow-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mizo-siblings-repay-debt-of-life-to-elder-brother-in-city-of-joy/articleshow/78242261.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Woes mount for those struggling with Alzheimer’s||BENGALURU: The pandemic has not only disrupted lives of those who contracted the infection — and their families — but also others too. Among the worst hit are those who suffer Alzheimer’s disease. Forced into reverse quarantine, these elderly patients have had their routines disturbed, leading to behavioural changes including heighted aggression, agitation and sleeplessness. Lakshminarayana Gupta, 90, from South Bengaluru, for example, spent most of his time at a daycare centre run by Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT) meant for patients with dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. He was forced to change his routine as the centre closed due to the pandemic. Gupta, a retired engineer, walks twice a day for a total of two hours inside his apartment complex. Well aware of the Covid situation, he fears contracting the virus. Like several others, he sorely misses the cognitive enhancement games and activities conducted at the daycare centre. “He reads newspapers and is very aware of the severity of Covid,” said Nagesh Bysani, Gupta’s son. “He worries all the time. It’s also stressful for us as we have to keep him engaged, like he was at the daycare centre, with memory games and exercises. We tried to engage him in online sessions with his therapists, but he was not comfortable. We are not confident of sending him to the daycare centre even if it reopens.” NMT runs four daycare centres and two residential facilities for people with Alzheimer’s and dementia. While the residential centres are functioning, S Premkumar Raja, co-founder and secretary, NMT, said it’s a challenge to reopen the daycare centres since the stress levels of dementia caregivers is high. On Monday, World Alzheimer’s Day, NMT together with Gupta and his family members, launched DemConnect, an app that provides free consultations between dementia and Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers. Neera Sharma, 56, also an Alzheimer’s patient and housed at a residential unit of NMT, hasn’t met her family for five months as visits were barred. Recently, the centre allowed visits on weekends for an hour and Neera met her daughter. Neera could not recognise her daughter as she was wearing a mask. “We fear she would catch the infection. My mother developed Alzheimer’s when she was 54 and her memory loss was rapid. She probably does not know much about Covid,” the daughter said. Nimhans’ telemedicine services reached out to over 100 Alzheimer’s patients in its database during the lockdown and found close to 3/4th of them were unable to access physicians or procure medicines. These patients could not venture out and their cognitive stimulation declined compared to pre-Covid days. “Their brains have to be kept active, as they are fragile. Since their routine was abruptly disrupted, it led to increased behavioural problems including agitation, aggression, and sleeplessness,” said Dr Suvarna Alladi, professor of neurology, Nimhans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-reverse-quarantine-has-hit-alzheimers-patients-hard/articleshow/78242277.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 22, 2020||Kozhikode||One injured in blast at Mattannur||Kozhikode: One person was injured when an explosion ripped through a house under Mattannur police station limits at 11.30pm on Sunday. Rajesh, who was injured in the blast, was admitted to Pariyaram Medical College by neighbours who rushed to the spot. The house sustained heavy damages in the blast. Mattannur police registered a case against Rajesh as explosive substances were found at the spot. Meanwhile Congress leadership alleged that Rajesh is a CPM activist and that its leaders were blocked by CPM workers when they went to the blast site. “We came to know about the incident only around 10.30am. We proceeded to the spot that is located in the interior part of Mattannur,” said DCC president Satheesan Pacheni. Around 100 CPM workers prevented the Congress delegation from reaching the spot. Pacheni said policemen were recovering weapons from the house at that time. “We suspect that we were blocked to prevent us from seeing the weapons that were recovered from the house. We were pushed back by a gang of CPM workers,” he added. KPCC working president K Sudhakaran claimed that policemen were playing second fiddle to CPM which is storing explosives to target political opponents. He alleged that police force in the district is completely paralysed. Earlier, three CPM workers were injured when country bombs exploded at Ponniam near Thalassery on September 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/one-injured-in-blast-at-mattannur/articleshow/78242287.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Corona sets back family planning programme in UP, hits 8 procedures||Lucknow: The coronavirus -induced pandemic foiled the hard work put in by foot soldiers over the past two years on the family planning front, with at least eight crucial family planning activities, including male and female sterilization, declining by an estimated 55% during the lockdown period. The adverse impact of lockdown on male and female sterilization has led to a decline of 77% on total sterilization. Between April and August 2019, over 51,800 procedures were performed which was reduced to just 12,041 for the same period this year. Likewise, the demand for popular injectable contraceptive Antara went down from 1,67,000 in 2019 to 53,000 this year – a fall of about 68%. Highlighting the trend at a webinar organized by social organization Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), officials at National Health Mission UP believe that the decline is expected to show up as a higher number of child births over the next one year. On an average, 5.5 million babies are born in UP each year. “Now as a result of this, naturally, more babies will be born next year,” said Dr Alpana Sharma, general manager, family planning, NHM UP. In addition to this, a UNICEF report released ahead of Mother’s Day in May projected that an estimated 4.1 million new moms in Uttar Pradesh will have to face the challenges created by strained health systems and medical supply chains on account of global pandemic Covid-19. Additional Mission Director, UP NHM, Heera Lal attributed the decline to restricted movement of health workers during the lockdown. “When movement of people was restricted and pandemic control became the first priority of the health workers, the targets were bound to suffer. But now the department has improvised its strategy by increasing the flow of condoms and oral contraceptive pills, the methods which have become preferred as people fear going to hospitals,” he told TOI. Citing cumulative data, Lal said: “Patterns indicate that demand for non-invasive FP methods such as condoms, oral pills, emergency contraceptive pills has seen a rise. For instance, an 81% increment in distribution of the weekly contraceptive pill Chhaya has been recorded.” He added that the government is also launching a behavior change exercise to remind people that family planning was no less important an issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-sets-back-family-planning-programme-in-up-hits-8-procedures/articleshow/78244960.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Robbers pose as cops to loot migrant labourers; nabbed||Rajkot: Five fraudsters were arrested on Monday for allegedly looting migrant labourers by posing as cops in Rajkot.Police said the accused, Naitik Sangani (26), Mahesh Chudasma (33), Rakesh Ranesara (40), Amit Gohel (29) and Vijay Bawaji (36), would target unsuspecting labourers in Chunaravad on Bhavnagar Road in Rajkot.“The accused had zeroed on migrant labourers outside from Gujarat, thrash them and, asked them to come to the police station with them, robbed them of their cash,” said G M Hadia, inspector with Thorala police station. On August 28, one of the complainants, Sagram Dhoria (40) and his friend Vallabh Valani (42) had driven down to Rajkot from Vichhiya of Rajkot district to drop former’s daughter at her exam centre. After leaving his daughter at the centre, Dhoria drove to Chunaravad to meet a relative of Valani. While both of them stood near their parked car, two of the arrested accused arrived on a two-wheeler. The accused identified themselves as cops and started interrogating Dhoria and Valani, asking them to come to the police station. As Dhoria was in a hurry to go back to pick his daughter from the exam centre, he told them to take a fine from him.“However, when Dhoria took out his purse, the accused snatched the purse containing Rs 9,000 from him and vanished from the spot. However, they and their two-wheeler were caught in the CCTV camera installed at the spot. On the basis of their two-wheeler’s number, which Dhoria had noted down, we tracked down the accused duo who gave the names of their other gang members, leading to their arrests,” added Hadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/robbers-pose-as-cops-to-loot-migrant-labourers-nabbed/articleshow/78242285.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Submit NDCCB scam probe report, HC to special court||NAGPUR: In a setback to animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court directed the special court hearing the multi-crore Nagpur District Central Cooperative Bank (NDCCB) scam case to submit a progress report. While hearing an application moved by petitioner Omprakash Kamdi and others through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryawanshi on Monday directed chief judicial magistrate (CJM) SR Totla to complete formalities at the earliest. Following stern directives by a division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Rohit Deo on November 8 to resume case hearing pending since 17 years, the special court had started trial on day-to-day basis. This bench had told the CJM to start proceedings by December 3 and finish hearing within three months. He was also asked to submit a progress report every 15 days. However, the hearing was halted following Covid-19 outbreak. On Monday, the judges were informed that the special court had started recording testimony of key witnesses from September 19 following new standard operating procedure (SOPs) and it will conduct cross examination on September 24. The bench allowed respondents, including Kedar, who was then bank chairman and chief executive officer (CEO), Ashok Chaudhary, to file their responses. Stressing for resuming inordinately delayed trial, Bhandarkar contended that majority of witnesses had testified before the designated court and therefore, proceedings could be completed while strictly following SOPs and taking all precautionary measures. The HC then directed additional government pleader Deepak Thakre to inform its Monday’s order to CJM and seek a progress report from him. The scam surfaced back in 2002 after the NDCCB lost Rs125 crore in government securities (G-Secs) scandal, where Kedar was accused of blatantly flouting rules to invest bank funds, which were routed through investment firm M/s Home Trade Securities owned by main accused Sanjay Agrawal. The firm neither bought securities nor paid back money. As a result, Kedar was suspended from the NCP and joined Congress later. Even NDCCB’s board of directors was sacked and an administrator was appointed to run the bank. Subsequently, offences were lodged against Kedar and 11 others in 2002. They included former general manager KD Chaudhari, then chief accountant Suresh Peshkar, Mahendra Agrawal, Shreeprakash Poddar, Subodh Bhandari, Kanan Mewawala, Nandkishor Trivedi, Amit Verma and stock broker Ketan Seth from Mumbai. All of them were charged under sections 406, 409, 468, 471, 120-B and 34 of IPC. The amount has now gone over Rs150 crore due to accumulating interests. On December 23, 2014, similar directives were issued by the HC to complete the trial within a year while hearing the plea from the same petitioner, but nothing moved further. Again on March 14 last year, a bench led by justice Bhushan Gavai issued similar orders, but nothing progressed except the CJM conducting a couple of hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/submit-ndccb-scam-probe-report-hc-to-special-court/articleshow/78243863.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Loan fraud: RBI to brief Telangana HC about master circular today||HYDERABAD: State Bank of India on Monday informed the high court that it questioned BS Company and its owner Rajesh Agarwal about discrepancies in the way he used loans, worth thousands of crores availed from it, obtained his replies and hence it need not give him another opportunity before declaring his bank account as a fraudulent one. Appearing for SBI, advocate general BS Prasad said that RBI had issued a master circular and certain directions asking all banks to declare such suspicious accounts as fraud accounts and circulate the message to other banks immediately to prevent similar frauds happening in other banks. In fact, the master circular and directions of RBI ask the banks to verify such loan accounts and declare them as fraud if enough material was there to do so and it did not specify any hearing opportunity to be given to the evader, the counsel told a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, which was hearing pleas by Rajesh Agarwal and a few others who described the RBI circular as arbitrary. The bench sought to know from the AG whether the circular was depriving the borrowers of an opportunity under principles of natural justice. The AG argued that those who defrauded the bank in an unnatural way, need not be given any opportunity under natural justice principles. In fact, RBI brought out its master circular with this objective in mind and this declaration of a particular account as fraud was only an internal communication and it does not result in any penal consequences automatically. “We conducted a forensic audit of Agarwal’s loan account and we sought clarifications from him on certain discrepancies found in the forensic audit. He furnished his replies too. Though the circular envisages no such opportunity, we had indeed given him an opportunity,” the AG said, while urging the court to dismiss the plea. According to BS Prasad, SBI alone lost over Rs 1,500 crore in the loan fraud and if the amount lost by some other banks too was included the extent of fraud might have crossed more than Rs 4,000 crore. RBI counsel Nalin Kumar said he would explain the essence of and the objective behind the master circular on Tuesday. Earlier, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi argued the case on behalf of Agarwal and questioned the validity of RBI circular. The case was posted to Tuesday for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-fraud-rbi-to-brief-hc-about-master-circular-today/articleshow/78243824.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Con calls: Americans hit by Covid-19 were prime targets||AHMEDABAD: Five days after city police caught two men tring to cheat US citizens using the lure of payday loans, it has now emerged that they mainly targeted Americans in states most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, as they were easier to cheat because they would be more likely to need loans due to the financial troubles caused by the pandemic. Investigators found that the price the scammers paid for personal information data has been doubled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said police. “During the custodial interrogation of the two persons nabbed for allegedly making con calls to Ameicans — Riyaz Shaikh, 30, of Shah-E-Alam, and Swapnil Christian, 22, of Hatkeshwar — we learned they were working for a man named Devesh Radhani, who was earlier accused of running a con call centre in Meghaninagar,” said a cop from Sabarmati Riverfront (East) police station. The two men were caught on the Sabarmati riverfront near Jamalpur when they were calling US citizens while sitting on their scooter. He further said, “They told us that they mainly targeted US citizens living in states most affected by the pandemic. This is because people there were either avoiding going out or were facing financial troubles due to the current economic slowdown and could be preyed on using the lure of easy loans.” The accused duo promised loans of $500 to $1,000. “They would call the US citizens pretending to be bankers and offer them payday loans. If the target took the bait, they would make them buy ‘I-Tunes’ saying it was the processing fee for loan, and would redeem the money from these cards through their money processors and stop all contact with the victim,” added a police officer. The officer said that if such scammers procured contact and personal information of 50 Americans for Rs 2,500, the price for it has risen to Rs 5,000 after Covid-19. “If they managed to cheated 25 of these 50 persons, they would make between $12,500 and $25,000,” said the officer. Police said Shaikh has completed his Class X, while Christian is a nursing student. “They had a script given to them by the price accused Radhani and underwent training to get an American accent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/con-calls-americans-hit-by-covid-19-were-prime-targets/articleshow/78243843.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||ATMs broken into, Rs 22L stolen||Ahmedabad: Two burglaries were reported in Dholakuva and Parbatpura villages in Mansa taluka of Gandhinagar district during the wee hours on Sunday. Burglars first snapped wires of ATMs, cut them and then decamped with Rs 22 lakh cash. Inspector S S Pawar of Mansa police said that the first incident was reported at around 2.45am on Sunday when four burglars broke into an ATM of Indian Overseas Bank and took away Rs 3.26 lakh from it. They then moved to another ATM of Bank of Baroda in Dholakuva village. “They cut doors of the ATM machine and stole Rs 19.06 lakh from it and fled away,” said Pawar. He said that the burglars were well versed with the alarm system so they had first cut the wires of alarm and then started cutting the ATM with a gas cutter. Pawar said that they did not get clear visuals from CCTV and just came to know that there were four persons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atms-broken-into-rs-22l-stolen/articleshow/78243894.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid recovery rate 80%, but risk looms: Govt||Lucknow: Health officials on Monday said that the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate crossed the 80% mark, but warned against the pandemic, saying that the risk of suffering and death due to the coronavirus still loomed large. “Against 4,703 fresh cases, 6,320 persons recovered in the past 24 hours. While the number of cases crossed 3,58,000, the recovery rate has climbed up to 80%. However, the pandemic continues to pose risk to life as there is no specific medicine or vaccine to control it. Prevention is the only tool we have at hand,” stated additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Reiterating that a little carelessness can prove fatal, Prasad said: “By wearing masks and following social distance, we are not only saving our skins, but also fulfilling our bit for the safety of all.” A look at the Covid bulletin suggests that the situation in the rest of UP has improved marginally, but it continues to remain serious in the state capital. Of the total 4,703 cases reported in the past 24 hours 22% were reported from Lucknow alone. The next big chunk of nearly 28% came from Kanpur (295), Prayagraj (329), Gorakhpur (105), Ghaziabad (169), Varanasi (184), Bareilly (102) and Meerut (118). As per the bulletin, 88 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, including 13 in Lucknow and nine in Kanpur. This took the total deaths to 5,135. Officials stated that after adjusting recoveries and fresh cases the number of active infections fell to 64,164 of which over 53% were under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-covid-recovery-rate-80-but-risk-looms-govt/articleshow/78244971.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two days, 3 deaths: CTM bridge turns into suicide platform||AHMEDABAD: The CTM Crossroads bridge has been the site of three suicides over two days. Two people jumped to death off the bridge on Monday afternoon; on Sunday, a Krishnanagar man had leaped from the same bridge and died. A Ramol police official said that Nana Indai, 55, a resident of Shankhalpur chawl in Amraiwadi, jumped from the bridge at about 2.15pm on Monday. “Indai lived alone and was apparently frustrated with life,” said the official. “Some local residents called the 108 ambulance service but by the time paramedics arrived, he was dead.” About an hour later, another man — as yet unidentified — jumped from the same bridge and died on the spot, the official said. Police did not register an accidental-death case till late on Monday evening as they were verifying the details of the deceased. A massive traffic jam built up on Monday on the busy crossroads after the two suicides. “It took two hours for the jam to clear,” a local resident said. A shopkeeper, Amit Thakur, said that people of the area were rattled by the series of suicides. Sources in police said that cops are being deployed at both ends of the bridge to avert such tragedies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-days-3-deaths-ctm-bridge-turns-into-suicide-platform/articleshow/78243874.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Detained workers in Saudi likely to return soon||Hyderabad: As many as 450 Indian workers, who have been detained at the Shumaisi detention centre in Saudi Arabia, found a ray of hope when the Indian embassy in Riyadh said it was looking at facilitating their return to India. In a report on September 19, TOI had highlighted the plight of the Indian workers who were detained by Saudi authorities. The workers were rendered jobless because of Covid-19 pandemic and were forced to beg at mosques. Their visas had also expired. Social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the external affairs ministry about the plight of these workers in the Shumaisi detention centre in Jeddah and how they wanted to return home. The workers also made videos explaining the difficulties they were facing as they were unable to return to India. The Indian embassy said it had been trying to resolve the issue in consultation with the ministry of external affairs for sometime now. The mission said the first batch of around 500 deportees were sent back to India in May this year. It said multiple agencies were involved in getting clearances that were needed, besides strictly following health protocols to avoid the spread of Covid-19 in India. “Currently, the mission in Riyadh, consulate in Jeddah and MEA are arranging flights and quarantine facilities for the second batch of deportees,” the embassy said. The first flight, from Riyadh to Chennai, is scheduled to depart on September 24. There will be more flights on this route later. “The mission and consulate officials are in touch with deportation authorities,” the embassy said. The 450 workers are from various parts of the country, including Telangana, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Kashmir, Bihar, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/detained-workers-in-saudi-likely-to-return-soon/articleshow/78243878.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Courts hear only urgent matters||Jaipur: Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, majority of the courts including the Rajasthan high court in the state heard only urgent cases. Courts wore a deserted look while the counsels appeared in their cases through video conferencing. There were no litigants and no regular hullabaloo. At the high court’s Jaipur bench, one double bench and four single bench courts were active in which the counsels appeared through video conferencing in their cases. Only urgent matters were heard by the court at the Jaipur and Jodhpur benches. “It is better to be safe. Lawyers participated in the proceedings through video conferencing. Since we had witnessed Covid-19 cases in the court earlier, too, it is better to take precautions,” said Anshuman Saxena, general secretary, Rajasthan High Court Bar Association. Even at the lower courts, only a few including Pocso court, woman atrocity court and MV Act were active. There was negligible amount of vehicles and crowd at the lower courts. Taking cognisance of rising Covid cases in the state, the high court decided to hear only emergency cases through video link from Monday till October 1. With this system, counsels were asked to participate in proceedings through video conferencing; judges will have to be in the court from 10.30am to 1pm on certain days. Also the entry of law students and interns in the high court was banned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/courts-hear-only-urgent-matters/articleshow/78243881.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Girish Bapat for central force to fight Covid in Pune||PUNE: Member of Parliament Girish Bapat on Monday urged the Centre to deploy a task force in Pune to coordinate Covid-19 mitigation efforts. The Pune MP also met Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to discuss the pandemic. Bapat said 20 IAS officers have been appointed in Pune for Covid-19 work, but there is lack of coordination among them. “Pune is worst-affected in the country. Covid cases have been rising here and there has been a shortage of ventilators, oxygen beds and ambulances,” he said at the ongoing monsoon session in Parliament. “A task force appointed by the Centre will coordinate the efforts which will help provide health services to the people and save lives,” he added. With 1,500 to 2,000 cases and about 70 deaths every day, there is fear among citizens, he said, adding that the state government and municipal corporations have been making efforts to control the spread. “I do not want to make any allegations. But Pune’s citizens should be saved from this (disease). Pune is at the top position in IT, education and industry. We do not want the city to be in the first spot for Covid-19, we want it to be at the bottom,” he said at the session. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said there was no lack of coordination among the officials. “A central task force will be of help. There are a few at the divisional and state levels working to help Pune. They include experts and senior doctors. Their guidance is sought for matters like treatment protocol against Covid-19,” he said. Rao said four IAS officers were working in direct active roles against the pandemic in Pune division while the others are in a supporting capacity. “There may have been some problems in coordination four-five months ago. Now, we have regular meetings and follow-ups on hospital bed management, private hospitals’ involvement in dealing with the pandemic, and for better communication and coordination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bapat-for-central-force-to-fight-covid-in-city/articleshow/78243876.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Board students should not lose year for fee default: Calcutta high court||KOLKATA: No candidate about to appear for board exams should lose a year because parents could not afford to pay fees due to the economic situation following the pandemic, the Calcutta High Court said in an order on Monday. It directed schools not to prevent students from completing paperwork related to board exams and ensure that all steps are taken even if they have failed to pay their fees. In the two-page order, Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya, who have been hearing a PIL filed by Vineet Ruia seeking school-fee relief for parents because of the financial stress they are going through, said, “It is hoped that for students who are to be put up for the Board examinations, no school will stand in the way of requisite paperwork being completed or appropriate steps being taken notwithstanding the non-payment of fees by such students. The issue will be specifically addressed at a later point of time; no student should lose a year merely because the parents could not afford to pay the fees due to the current economic situation.” A total of 145 schools have joined as petitioners and there are 12 minority unaided institutions, 11 of which are run by the Church of North India, who are being heard separately. The court said that the CNI schools and another linguistic minority school have indicated broad concessions without committing to any general waiver across the board. The order has asked such schools to give details about concessions they have given by Tuesday. The matter will be heard again on September 24. The HC also urged parents who can afford the fees not to take advantage of the waivers proposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/board-students-should-not-lose-yr-for-fee-default/articleshow/78242286.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish flays opposition over ruckus in Rajya Sabha||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar was on the same page with PM Narendra Modi with regard to the agriculture reforms Bills passed by Parliament on Sunday. Nitish strongly condemned the opposition members for creating ruckus in the Rajya Sabha during the passage of the Bills. “The opposition have a right to put across their viewpoints and stand on the Bill, but what they did in the Rajya Sabha was not right,” Nitish said. He said the opposition members had tried to resort to similar tactics in the state when his government abolished the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in 2006. “We told them all the benefits that the farmers of the state would get once the Act is abolished,” Nitish recalled and also narrated the bitter experience of a farmer when he had gone to the marketing yard at Hajipur with his banana. Nitish said his government abolished the APMC Act when the NDA government came to power in the state in 2005. “Now, what we did then is being also implemented in the country. Farmers will benefit from contract farming. He will get the return at the minimum support price (MSP) and he can also get it at the higher market rate,” he said. Nitish also expressed happiness at the launch of the digital infrastructure, besides pointing out that the roads and mega bridges whose foundation stones was laid by the PM should be completed in time. “So much has been done in the road sector. The roads have also been taken up as part of the PM package. One gets the feeling what more can be done,” Nitish said, adding that the road constructed along the India-Nepal border should also be converted to four-lane. He assured the PM that people would support him for the work done in favour of the state. “I can assure you that people of the state are happy, because they want the work to be done,” Nitish said, adding that those who are in the habit of criticizing would continue to do so. Among others who also spoke on the occasion were Union ministers V K Singh and Raj Kumar Singh, as well as deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo). Raj Kumar Singh presented the work done under the Union power and other ministries, adding that people were happy at the improved power supply in the state and “are with you.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-flays-oppn-over-ruckus-in-rs/articleshow/78242290.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi's KIMS decides to enhance oxygen storage facility||HUBBALLI: Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (KIMS) in Hubballi, which not only tends to Covid-19 patients in the twin cities but also from neighbouring districts like Haveri, has decided to build a 20kl-capacity liquid medical oxygen (LMO) storage facility on its premises. The hospital already has a 20kl -LMO tank, but with cases rising, authorities do not want to take any chances. Since most patients being admitted suffer severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), the new facility is aimed at meeting growing demand for oxygen. Currently, the hospital has 500 oxygen beds including 220 ICU beds. Over the past 20 days, many hospitals not only in the twin cities, but across the state have suffered short supply of medical oxygen. Dr Ramlingappa Antartani, director, KIMS, said the new tank will be built on a war-footing. On an average, the hospital uses about 11kl of oxygen. Even accounting for the mandatory storage of 6kl, the hospital would still have 3kl of oxygen at a given point of time, but KIMS authorities say they plan to augment bed capacity. The hospital has 80 ventilator beds and sources say it plans to add another 35 ventilators beds in the next one week. So far KIMS has treated almost 5,000 Covid patients, 430 died (as of September 16). Doctors say bed occupancy is more than 80% daily and the fatalities is because most patients arrive at the hospital late. Most develop severe complications, which is why it is necessary to build a LMO storage facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-hubballi-decides-to-enhance-oxygen-storage-facility/articleshow/78242303.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire at Anandiben’s house, Mafat Patel unhurt||Ahmedabad: A fire broke out at the house of former Gujarat chief minister and Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, in the Memnagar area of the city. Her husband, Mafat Patel, was unharmed, said a fire officer. Mafat Patel was on the first floor of the house when the fire broke out. An officer of the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) said they received a call at around 12.47pm on Sunday saying that a fire had broken out in an air conditioning duct at the ex-chief minister’s house, which the caller said was locked. “When we got there, we found that it was not a big fire but there were flames and smoke coming out of an AC duct and a part of a verandah was charred,” said an AFES officer. The fire was controlled about 10 minutes. “The caller told the fire control officer that the fire had broke out in the locked bungalow of the ex-CM (Anandiben Patel), but when we got there and began operations, we found that Mafat Patel was on the first floor of the house. He told us that on Sunday he had got refrigerant gas refilled in the AC system and this may have been a factor in the fire,” said a fire brigade officer. The officer said the outer walls of the house had got blackened by the smoke and some furniture was damaged. The losses were estimated to be worth about Rs 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-at-anandibens-house-mafat-patel-unhurt/articleshow/78243920.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Sikar pvt labs stop collecting samples||Jaipur: Private labs and hospitals in Sikar have stopped collecting samples for Covid tests after the state government slashed test rates from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,200. The load of testing is now completely on government labs. Providing relief to people, the state government had put a price cap on Covid tests charged by private labs on Tuesday. On the day the state government issued the orders of slashing test rates, 660 tests were done in Sikar. On September 20, only 296 samples were collected for tests. Chief medical health officer (Sikar) Ajay Chaudhary said, “Private labs are not collecting the samples for Covid tests after the state government reduced the prices.” Patients admitted to private hospitals are also facing difficulties in getting their tests done after private labs stopped collecting samples. Private hospitals also submitted a memorundum to the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sikar-pvt-labs-stop-collecting-samples/articleshow/78243907.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Molecular testing at Manipal hospital||PANAJI: Manipal Hospitals, Goa, has been accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), for molecular testing in its medical laboratory. It has started conducting antigen test and True NAT COVID 19 test with the approval of NABL, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and directorate of health services (DHS). Head of molecular testing at the Manipal Hospitals, Dr Marzook Shaikh, said the NABL team carried out its inspection in August. “The NABL team evaluated us based on the parameters of ISO 15189: 2012 Medical Laboratories- Requirements for quality and competence,” Shaikh said. Head of laboratory at Manipal Hospitals, Goa, Dr Ashwini Kshirsagar said their laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art technologies and infrastructure to attain the highest degree of precision, efficiency, and accuracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/molecular-testing-at-manipal-hosp/articleshow/78243906.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Housing loan EMIs: Govt depts to submit compliance||Panaji: Days after the state government directed the accounts department to monitor the repayment loans taken under the House Building Advance scheme (HBA), the accounts department has asked all government departments and agencies to submit self-certification showing compliance. Earlier this month, it was noticed that several departments deducted the EMIs from the salaries of employees for repayment of HBA home loans but failed to deposit the funds with the bank. The government has now said that every department head is responsible for the repayment of the HBA loan while the accounts department will ensure compliance. “Salary bills are prepared at the division level or at the department level, and as per the directions of the finance department, the EMI has to be deducted from the salary and this has to be done by the department or the division officer,” said director of accounts Dilip Humraskar. “The departments will deduct the amount and give it to us. Whatever amount is deducted, we will credit it to the bank.” Starting with the salary for September, every department’s pay audit section will have to submit a statement along with the salary bill certifying that recovery towards HBA has been deducted from the employee’s salary, said the accounts department in a circular issued to all departments. In the first week of September, Goa Forward Party had accused the state government of deducting monthly instalments from the salaries of government employees but keeping the funds with the state treasury. GFP office bearers had said that banks were asking employees to pay Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 as additional interest and were also threatening to declare the loan accounts as non-performing assets. Humraskar said that henceforth, monthly instalments deducted from the salaries of government employees will be paid to the banks on a regular basis as long as departments comply with the finance department’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-loan-emis-govt-depts-to-submit-compliance/articleshow/78243902.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer’s son highlights flood woes, video viral||Hyderabad: Heavy rains that have battered the state for several days have resulted in crop damage. Highlighting the misery of farmers in this light, a child from Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district made a video that has gone viral. “It is not like what you watch in the movies. Farmers’ problems are more than what they are projected and are different,” the boy said, who is seen standing in neck-high flood water in his field. Varun from Arrur village in Valigonda said the place where he was in was not a lake but the family’s six-acre land. The crops got submerged due to the continuous rains for a week. “We would have been able to reap a harvest in 15-20 days but it has got completely damaged,” he said. The boy made an appeal to the district collector to respond to his video. “What we really want is that this situation should not repeat. We do not need financial compensation. Measures should be taken so that these problems do not arise again,” Varun said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-son-highlights-flood-woes-video-viral/articleshow/78243914.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Molten iron falls on Bhavnagar factory workers, one dies||Rajkot: One labourer was killed and four injured after hot molten iron fell on them at an iron manufacturing unit in Bhavnagar on Monday morning. Police said the incident occurred at Akil Steel Factory in Mamasa GIDC on Ghogha Road in Bhavnagar. The factory converts iron scrap into iron rods. “On the fateful day, while the labourers were carrying a trolley filled with molten iron, the trolley’s wire got snapped and it overturned, following which the molten iron fell on the labourers. “While Rahul Yadav (22) was killed on the spot, the other labourers identified as Anuj, Ravi, Jer Singh and Dilip received serious burn injuries. The injured labourers were rushed to Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar where they were admitted in the burns ward. Their conditions is said to be serious. All the labourers including the deceased are from Bihar,” said A V Chudasma, head constable with Ghogha police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/molten-iron-falls-on-bhavnagar-factory-workers-one-dies/articleshow/78242306.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Basic edu dept sets ball rolling for 54k teachers’ transfer||Lucknow: A day after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath gave nod to inter-district transfer of 54,120 government primary teachers on compassionate grounds, the basic education department on Monday released the schedule for further proceedings. The process of inter-district transfer of teachers was put on hold on March 27 due to coronavirus outbreak. Additional chief secretary (basic education) Renuka Kumar has issued an order directing district-level committees to dispose of all objections raised by candidates by September 28 after which the basic shiksha adhikaris (BSA) will reset the data with amendments by September 30. Teachers seeking transfer will have to complete the application form with corrections from October 1-3. In the next two days, the BSA concerned will lock the forms after verification. On October 11-12, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) will hold User Acceptance Test (UAT) and upload the final list on October 15. After transfer, the teachers will have to join duty latest by October 24 and take over academic activities through online mode by October 26. The transfer policy came into being on December 2, 2019 after which the department sought applications from the teachers in January this year. Over 70,000 applications were received from primary and upper primary teachers. The basic education department had also invited objections from candidates but the transfer process had to be deferred due to Covid-19 pandemic. The department received 1,04,317 registrations of which 71,662 teachers submitted applications. Of these, 54,120 applications were approved and 16,715 applicants were rejected. At least 827 applications were pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/basic-edu-dept-sets-ball-rolling-for-54k-teachers-transfer/articleshow/78244987.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Private firm got Rs 2.5 crore to train fake workers in Goa: GFP||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Monday alleged that the labour and employment department extended a contract with a private firm without approval of the Labour Welfare Board and despite the firm’s failure to fulfil the agreement conditions. Citing RTI information, GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said the department paid Rs 2.5 crore to LabourNet, a private company, to register and train construction workers. The payment, some of which was released on June 12, was made while the Goa Lokayukta was conducting a hearing into corruption allegations pertaining to the contract. Documents obtained through RTI show that the department signed an MoU on January 19, 2019, with LabourNet and subsequently extended it for another year this January. The approval of the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Board was not taken. In the RTI reply, the labour department said that because of the pandemic, BOCW Board could not meet to approve the extension. “What pandemic is the department talking about in January? The janta lockdown was on March 22,” Kamat said.  LabourNet had to register and train 500 workers within a month of signing the contract and 10,000 workers in six months. Failure to adhere to these norms would result in the MoU being declared null and void. This January, when the MoU was coming to an end, LabourNet wrote to the department requesting that the contract be extended. The letter, signed by LabourNet’s chief operating officer Ram Kolavennu, said 5,452 workers had been registered and trained since the MoU was signed. Kamat had filed the complaint on behalf of GFP before the Goa Lokayukta alleging that the government has diverted financial aid meant for labourers during the pandemic to BJP karyakartas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-firm-got-rs-2-5cr-to-train-fake-workers-gfp/articleshow/78243935.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur, Jodhpur report 713 new Covid infections||JAIPUR: Jodhpur and Jaipur collectively reported 713 new Covid-19 infections, while Jaipur reported its biggest single-day spike of 389 cases on Monday. State too reported its biggest-single day jump of 1,892 cases bringing the overall tally to 1,16,881. As many as 16 persons died, taking the state’s toll to 1,352. Jaipur and Jodhpur reported 38% cases reported on Monday across the state. While the city witnessed surging Covid-19 cases, health minister Raghu Sharma said that the state-level war room has been set up. It will be functioning round-the-clock at the Secretariat and will help in getting medical facilities for the Covid-19 infected patients in just 30 minutes. The helpline number of this war room is 181. Sharma said that all the problems of the corona patients or their family members will be resolved in maximum 30 minutes through this and its related district-level war room. He said that names and mobile numbers of employees and officers deployed at the district-level war room will be available at the state-level war room. Similarly, information of all testing centres related to Covid-19, list of private and government Covid dedicated hospitals with telephone numbers will be made available from the war room. The district-level war room will function under the chairmanship of the district collector 24 hours. It will have an administrative officer, two doctors and other personnel working in three shifts. Real time information of available beds at all the Covid dedicated hospital and information related to ambulances will be available here. A telephone number and a computer with net connection and CCTV cameras are being installed for monitoring the war room. All war rooms have been directed to provide information about all kinds of beds in Covid-dedicated hospitals. The patients in isolation or their family members can contact the state-level war room on 181 for any query. The official on duty will inform the district-level war room and will also put it on the Rajasthan Sampark portal to resolve the problems at the earliest. If asymptomatic patient demands for any medical advice, then the doctor present at the help desk will address the patient’s problem. If any medicine is demanded, then it will be provided under Chief Minister Free Medicine Scheme. Ambulance will be arranged for symptomatic patients to admit them to Covid dedicated hospital, on their request. The district-level war room has been entrusted with responsibility to provide ICU, ventilator and other medical facilities at the earliest to serious patients and to get them admitted in Covid hospital by ferrying them through government referral transport facilities. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (389), Jodhpur (324), Pali (110), Udaipur (105), Bhilwara (98), Alwar (92), Bikaner (85), Ajmer (79), Jalore (75), Kota (70), Bharatpur (47), Nagaur (42), Tonk (40), Churu (39), Chittorgarh (29), Sriganganagar (28), Dungarpur (22), Sikar (22), Sirohi (20), Rajsamand (20), Dausa (16), Jaisalmer (16), Jhalawar (15), Dholpur (14), Barmer (13), Jhunjhunu (12), Hanumangarh (12), Pratapgarh (11), Banswara (10), Bundi (10), Sawai Madhopur (9), Baran (9) and Karauli (9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-report-713-new-covid-infections/articleshow/78243930.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: At 62, West Bengal logs highest single-day toll||KOLKATA: Bengal reported 62 Covid deaths on Monday, the highest single-day fatalities so far. The case fatality rate (CFR), however, remained 1.9%. Bengal had reported 61 Covid deaths a day earlier, on September 20, as well as on September 16 and August 5. Experts pointed out that though the jump in fatalities was not dramatic, there was urgent need to curb the transmission rate. Of the 62 deaths, Kolkata reported 19, while North 24-Parganas and Howrah recorded seven deaths each. According to the state health department data, Kolkata has reported 1,600 deaths till date, recording 36% of Bengal’s toll of 4,421. At 3.1%, Kolkata’s CFR remained a cause for concern, said experts. “This is a matter of concern as the number of positive cases and that of deaths are yet to slide. Though the jump is not dramatic, it shows transmission has remained unchecked. Till we can arrest transmission and pull down the number of affected people, deaths will continue to rise. So far, the rate of transmission has shown an occasional drop but it has been far from a consistent plunge. This indicates the virus remains active and spread continues to be rapid. We need to check the transmission rate and pull it down,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant Arindam Biswas. “While there has been a proliferation in the number of mild cases, the number of serious cases is yet to plunge appreciably. This is evident from the packed ICUs in hospitals. We have a large number of co-morbid patients. Unless this number comes down, deaths will happen,” said Belle Vue Clinic consultant Rahul Jain. An analysis by the health department on Covid fatalities in Bengal indicated that 85.5% of the deceased had comorbidities, the major ones being hypertension, diabetes, cardiac ailments and kidney problems. In an age-wise analysis, it shows people above 75 were the worst affected in Bengal, registering 13.4% of all the Covid deaths. The next most-impacted agegroup was 61-75 years, reporting 6.2% deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-62-state-logs-highest-single-day-toll/articleshow/78245432.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Water levels in dams up following heavy rainfall||PANAJI: After Goa received heavy rainfall through Sunday and Monday, the reservoirs in the state and the Tillari dam in its border area with Maharashtra saw their water level rising rapidly. The monsoon season is drawing to an end and the state has already received excess rainfall causing dams to touch over 80% of their capacity. The Selaulim reservoir, which has already been releasing excess water through its duck bill spillway, was at 113% of its capacity on Monday. This is 10% higher than the levels recorded just two days ago. Water level in the Tillari dam was seen swelling to 92% on Monday, up from 84% on Saturday. Before the heavy rainfall that the state received in 2019 and 2020, the highest average water level for Tillari reservoir stood at around 60%. Due to heavy rainfall received in Goa and surrounding regions this monsoon, already excess water from the Tillari reservoir had to be released at least on two occasions — in mid-July and in the first week of August. The released water flows into the Tillari river, known as the Chapora river once it enters Goa. Chapora winds its way through Pernem and Bicholim talukas. Anjunem, where the water level was recorded at 99% two days ago, was filled to capacity on Monday. It is the only reservoir in the state whose gates need to be opened manually. In the case of Anjunem reservoir too, excess water has already been released around July 15 and August 6 this monsoon following heavy rainfall. Since last week, Chapoli and Gaunem reservoirs already have their water level up to capacity at 100% full. As per Water Resources Department records for Monday, the reservoir at Panchwadi is filled beyond capacity at 101%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-levels-in-dams-up-following-heavy-rainfall/articleshow/78243922.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur, Jodhpur report 713 new Covid infections||JAIPUR: Jodhpur and Jaipur collectively reported 713 new Covid-19 infections, while Jaipur reported its biggest single-day spike of 389 cases on Monday. State too reported its biggest-single day jump of 1,892 cases bringing the overall tally to 1,16,881. As many as 16 persons died, taking the state’s toll to 1,352. Jaipur and Jodhpur reported 38% cases reported on Monday across the state. While the city witnessed surging Covid-19 cases, health minister Raghu Sharma said that the state-level war room has been set up. It will be functioning round-the-clock at the Secretariat and will help in getting medical facilities for the Covid-19 infected patients in just 30 minutes. The helpline number of this war room is 181. Sharma said that all the problems of the corona patients or their family members will be resolved in maximum 30 minutes through this and its related district-level war room. He said that names and mobile numbers of employees and officers deployed at the district-level war room will be available at the state-level war room. Similarly, information of all testing centres related to Covid-19, list of private and government Covid dedicated hospitals with telephone numbers will be made available from the war room. The district-level war room will function under the chairmanship of the district collector 24 hours. It will have an administrative officer, two doctors and other personnel working in three shifts. Real time information of available beds at all the Covid dedicated hospital and information related to ambulances will be available here. A telephone number and a computer with net connection and CCTV cameras are being installed for monitoring the war room. All war rooms have been directed to provide information about all kinds of beds in Covid-dedicated hospitals. The patients in isolation or their family members can contact the state-level war room on 181 for any query. The official on duty will inform the district-level war room and will also put it on the Rajasthan Sampark portal to resolve the problems at the earliest. If asymptomatic patient demands for any medical advice, then the doctor present at the help desk will address the patient’s problem. If any medicine is demanded, then it will be provided under Chief Minister Free Medicine Scheme. Ambulance will be arranged for symptomatic patients to admit them to Covid dedicated hospital, on their request. The district-level war room has been entrusted with responsibility to provide ICU, ventilator and other medical facilities at the earliest to serious patients and to get them admitted in Covid hospital by ferrying them through government referral transport facilities. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (389), Jodhpur (324), Pali (110), Udaipur (105), Bhilwara (98), Alwar (92), Bikaner (85), Ajmer (79), Jalore (75), Kota (70), Bharatpur (47), Nagaur (42), Tonk (40), Churu (39), Chittorgarh (29), Sriganganagar (28), Dungarpur (22), Sikar (22), Sirohi (20), Rajsamand (20), Dausa (16), Jaisalmer (16), Jhalawar (15), Dholpur (14), Barmer (13), Jhunjhunu (12), Hanumangarh (12), Pratapgarh (11), Banswara (10), Bundi (10), Sawai Madhopur (9), Baran (9) and Karauli (9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-report-713-new-covid-infections/articleshow/78250625.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Patients dying after recovery not in list of Covid casualties||Jaipur: A 65-year-old retired army personnel, who tested positive for Covid-19 on August 26, was discharged on September 11 from JLN hospital in Ajmer. But his condition started deteriorating after reaching home and he died at a private hospital two days later. He was brought to the JLN hospital with complaint of difficulty in breathing. The doctors put him on ventilator support. He remained there for 15 days. He was tested negative and was shifted from ICU. He thanked the doctors in written and nursing staff for the care they provided him. When he reached home, his condition started deteriorating. “We rushed him to a private hospital, where doctors admitted him, but he died within two days,” the patient’s son told TOI. He is not the only person who died after getting recovered from Covid-19. An orthopedician in his 60s from SMS hospital had died recently after being recovered. Health department officials are not counting such deaths as Covid-19 deaths. “If a patient is tested negative, he gets out of our system. Once the patient is tested negative and recovered, we don’t keep a track. If a recovered patient dies after being discharged from hospital, it is not a Covid-19 death for us,” said a senior health department official. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients have observed that even if a patient is tested negative after treatment, he needs care for post-Covid complications. “Covid damages lungs and it can cause lung fibrosis due to cytokine storm. The post-Covid complications are thromboembolism, defect in coagulation profile, renal failure. Moreover, patients suffering from pre-existing diseases (comorbidities) should also remain alert as Covid-19 can worsen comorbidities,” said Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor (respiratory diseases), SMS hospital. Realising that many such patients require intensive care after being recovered, the health department has set up a 32-bed ICU at SMS hospital. “Such patients will be shifted from RUHS to SMS for post-Covid complications and treatment of comorbidities,” said an SMS hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patients-dying-after-recovery-not-in-list-of-covid-casualties/articleshow/78243963.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||No mention of MSP for several crops in new agri bill, says min||Hyderabad: Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy on Monday said Telangana, with 92% marginal farmers, Telangana will face a lot of difficulties with the new agri legislations in force. In a statement, he said the bills do not specify anything on providing MSP for several crops. “If there is no control of government on farm produce, will it not lead to private companies taking advantage of the situation and dictating the farmers. If any disputes arise between corporates and farmers, who will protect the latter,” he wondered. “As per the Constitution, agriculture business, supply system and price control of farm produce come under the common list, but the Centre went ahead with its decision to have the farm bills passed unilaterally,” he said. He wondered how will the Centre make up for the income lost by the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-mention-of-msp-for-several-crops-in-new-agri-bill-says-min/articleshow/78243969.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Complex off Southern Ave new in C-zone, north Kol lane exits||Kolkata: The containment list for the city was revised this weekend, merely three days after it was updated by KMC and Kolkata Police. Umesh Dutta Lane in Girish Park, which had been a containment zone for three weeks, was dropped off the list after reporting no more cases, while a housing complex from south Kolkata was added, keeping the total number at three. The complex on Dr Sarat Banerjee Road currently has 10 positive cases and is close to a slum off Southern Avenue. All three containment zones in the city are now in south Kolkata, the other two being in Tollygunge and Sakherbazar. KMC officials said they went by inputs from KMC doctors. Police and KMC sources said there are three reasons for tagging Sarat Banerjee Road as a containment zone, the primary being its proximity to popular restaurants around Southern Avenue and Deshapriya Park. Secondly, the complex is near a populous slum, from where several residents work in various households. The final reason, said cops, was the virus was now mainly restricted to one family and the KMC did not want it to spread. “The residents are cooperating with us. We have decided not to set up barricades,” said an officer.Cops from the Rabindra Sarobar police station said the new containment zone was decided at the borough level about three days ago. “Unlike the other times, we were not consulted. The coordinating officer is herself down with Covid. But when the decision was taken, we did not object, as many people visited the eateries. If we can keep the patients at home, we can ensure the zone can continue with their new-normal routine,” an officer said.KMC ward coordinator and former MMiC Baiswanor Chatterjee told TOI the primary objective was to keep the virus from spreading to the nearby camp. “Covid had been affecting the area in July and August and we have had to put in a huge efforts to minimise its spread in the slums of Dhakuria and Lake. Now, very few cases are being reported from the slums every week, but the number from flats has been considerable,” Chatterjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/complex-off-southern-ave-new-in-c-zone-north-kol-lane-exits/articleshow/78245457.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Caught in the act, thieves open fire at minor girl in Moradabad||Bareilly: Unidentified miscreants opened fire at a minor girl in UP’s Moradabad, leaving her severely hurt. She had apparently spotted the thieves hiding inside her house. The 13-year-old, a resident of Gurera village under Mainather police station, was admitted to the district hospital, police said. An FIR has been registered against unknown persons. According to the girl’s mother, the incident occurred on Saturday night when her daughter went downstairs to drink water while everyone was asleep on the terrace. The family woke up after hearing a sound of gunfire following which they rushed to see the girl lying in a pool of blood. “The thieves, who couldn't be unidentified yet, had shot my daughter in her right leg and fled,” she said. Mainather SHO Ramvir Singh told TOI, “The girl - undergoing treatment - initially informed the police that she first saw one man hiding inside the house. Later, she was attacked by two individuals. A probe has been ordered and efforts are underway to apprehend the accused.” The SHO added, “Based on the family’s complaint, an FIR has been lodged against unknown persons under sections 452 [house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint] and 307 [attempt to murder] of the IPC. Other details related to the family are being collected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/caught-in-the-act-thieves-open-fire-at-minor-girl-in-moradabad/articleshow/78240213.cms||Maria Khan
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Showers bare poor quality of roads in Nashik city||Nashik: Heavy rain lashed the city and parts of the district for the fourth consecutive day on Monday, leaving many roads with large potholes. Corporators have sought the civic administration to repair the potholes on the roads immediately. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has directed the officials concerned to immediately start filling up the potholes once the rains reduce. The civic officials said they are temporarily filling up the roads with paver blocks and construction debris and the monsoon is they would start tarring of the roads. The administration also claimed that they have already filled over 9,000 potholes. But the opposition parties have levelled allegations of corruption in the pothole-filling work. They alleged that the claim of filling potholes in such a large number is false. The condition of roads has deteriorated in both Satpur and Ambad industrial estates of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Dwarka, Sarda Circle, Untawadi Road and other parts of the city. Recently, Shiv Sena corporator Santosh Gaikwad had staged sit-in agitations during the general body meeting, seeking filling of potholes on roads in Satpur division. The mayor had directed the officials to take serious cognizance of this and repair roads in the area. Gaikwad said the civic administration only filled the potholes temporarily with debris, but the condition is back to the same due to the ongoing rains. Local social activist Sachin Ahire, who had recently conducted a survey of potholes across the city, said the potholes are created every year during rains due to bad quality of the road works being done by the NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/showers-bare-poor-quality-of-roads-in-nashik-city/articleshow/78241223.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi seeks list, asks officials to fill vacant posts in 6 months||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over a meeting of the heads of all recruitment boards on Monday and asked the chief secretary and additional chief secretary (personnel) to present a verified list of vacancies in all departments and fill them up within six months. In the meeting with heads of UP Public Service Commission, Subordinate Service Selection Board, Higher Education Services Commission, Secondary Education Service Selection Board, UP Power Corporation Ltd, UP Police Recruitment and Promotion Board, the CM expressed satisfaction on filling up three lakh posts in last three years and told them to further expedite the recruitment process while ensuring total transparency and fairness. Social distancing and all Covid-19 protocols should be followed during exams and no irregularities or carelessness will be tolerated, he said. Among the three lakh hirings in the last three years, 1,37,253 posts were filled up in police department 54,706 in basic education department and 8,556 in the department of health and family welfare. Besides, 28,622 persons were recruited under the national health mission. An official said 26,103 hirings were carried out by the Public Service Commission, and another 16,708 through the Subordinate Service Selection Commission. The secondary education department filled up 14,000 vacancies while the higher education department recruited 4,515 individuals on vacant posts. Likewise, 1,112 posts were filled in health education department, 700 in urban development, 726 in cooperative, 614 in finance, 365 in technical education departments and 6,446 in UP Power Corporation. UPPSC is conducting recruitment for 5,421 posts, Subordinate Service Selection Board for 35,019 posts, Higher Education Services Commission for 290 posts and basic education department 69,000 posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-seeks-list-asks-officials-to-fill-vacant-posts-in-6-months/articleshow/78245003.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 30L seized; two bootleggers arrested||Rajkot: A total of 7,356 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 29.42 lakh were seized from a government waste land and two bootleggers were nabbed on Padavala-Lothada Road on the outskirts of Rajkot on Sunday night. “We had received a tip-off that a large cache of IMFL bottles was delivered at a government waste land where bootleggers were scheduled to gather to divide their share of bottles,” said M D Vala, sub-inspector with Aji Dam police station. “Acting on the information, when we raided the spot, while one bootlegger fled, two accused — Hemaram Rathod (22) and Anandsinh Rathod (28) — were caught,” added Vala. During their interrogation, the accused duo said that the liquor cache had been ordered by Firoz Sandhi, a history-sheeter bootlegger who was earlier arrested with an IMFL cache worth Rs 1 crore. Sandhi’s man Dhawal Sawalia had gone to the spot and had fled during the raid. The police also seized an MUV in which Hemaram and Anandsinh had arrived at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-30l-seized-two-bootleggers-arrested/articleshow/78242412.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Goa Shipyard begins production of stealth frigates for Navy, delivery likely by 2026||PANAJI: Goa Shipyard Ltd on Monday commenced production of the two guided missile frigates, which are being built in collaboration with Russia’s Yantar Shipyard for the Indian Navy. GSL expects to deliver the first ship to the Navy by 2026. Though the frigates are based on a Russian design, they will have significant indigenous content, including an Indian-built radar, sonar systems and sensors, communication suites and anti-ship BrahMos missile systems. Initiating the production process, vice chief of naval staff, vice admiral G Ashok Kumar said that the frigates would help the Navy meet maritime challenges. India and Russia entered into a government to government agreement for four stealth frigates, with two being built in Russia and two at Goa Shipyard. The stealth frigate project is the largest contract in GSL’s history and represents a quantum leap in the shipyard’s capabilities. “These two frigates will put GSL in a different league because this is the first time that frigates are being constructed at the yard,” said Kumar.  Once completed, the two frigates will be advanced variants of the Talwar-class stealth frigates that are already in service with the Indian Navy. “The project will provide a significant boost to the indigenous shipbuilding sector in Goa and across the nation creating employment opportunities. We are expanding our vendor base three-fold to over 1,000 entities to encourage MSME participation in the project,” said chairman and managing director of GSL B B Nagpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-shipyard-begins-production-of-stealth-frigates-for-navy-delivery-likely-by-2026/articleshow/78243966.cms||---
September 22, 2020||India||We had the numbers, says Prasad, slams Opposition conduct||NEW DELHI: The government claimed on Monday that it had a majority in Rajya Sabha when the two farm bills were passed and accused opposition leaders of “irresponsible and shameful” conduct. “We had a clear majority in Rajya Sabha on farm bills," law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, adding that 110 members supported the bills and a little over 70 opposed them. He was addressing a press conference with fellow ministers Pralhad Joshi and Piyush Goyal on the pandemonium in RS on Sunday and Monday. Opposition Rajya Sabha members did not leave the House despite being suspended on Monday which was an open violation of rules, Prasad said. On certain opposition members standing on the table in the House, he said people of Bihar were pained at the treatment given to Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh on Sunday. Citing Congress's election manifesto and statements by chief ministers of states governed by it, Prasad accused the opposition party of double standards on issues like contract farming and Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees. Joshi and Dharmendra Pradhan said the incidents in Rajya Sabha were akin to “goondaism” and an extension of the ongoing “tug of war” among Congress factions — “the Group-23 and the Group R (Rahul Gandhi)”. “When the chairman names a member, then that member has to leave the House. Never before has a member defied the order of the chair. Eight suspended MPs misbehaved, it was a type of 'goondaism'. They have proved that they have no trust in democracy," Joshi told reporters. Pradhan said the violent behaviour of opposition MPs with the deputy chairman was a fight of one-upmanship among the loyalists of Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. “The incident was an unceremonious way to impress one family,” Pradhan said. The minister said some of the architects of the G-23 in Congress, who are demanding change in the leadership, resorted to unparliamentary behaviour, which made it evident that for them, “democracy means pampering of a single family” and addressing their self-interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-had-the-numbers-says-prasad-slams-opposition-conduct/articleshow/78245939.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP leaders in T attack TRS, Cong for opposing farm bills||Hyderabad: Continuing their tirade against the TRS regime, BJP state units leaders said TRS is unnecessarily opposing the farm bills, while Congress, despite having it in their manifesto, was making a hue and cry Speaking to the media at separate conferences, BJP MPs D Arvind and Soyam Babu Rao said the new farm bills would be able to clear all issues of farmers. They said regional parties were levelling unnecessary allegations against the bills. “The bills in fact will do away with control of middlemen, but opposition parties are confusing the farmers. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is scared that the farmers will become strong. Congress is not in a serious opposition in the state, it is a friendly opposition,” Arvind alleged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-leaders-in-t-attack-trs-cong-for-opposing-farm-bills/articleshow/78244011.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Cong corporator dies from Covid||Rajkot: Congress corporator Harun Dakora (56) of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC)’s ward number 16 succumbed to Covid infection on Monday. He was under treatment at the Rajkot civil hospital for the past 10 days. Dakora’s ward falls in city’s Jangleshwar area which was a hotspot in the early days of the pandemic outbreak. Leader of opposition in RMC Vashram Sagathiya said, “Dakora was working tirelessly with RMC officials and police to serve the people of his ward Jangleshwar, which was a Covid hotspot. Congress lost a sincere worker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-corporator-dies-from-covid/articleshow/78242485.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Nusrat Jahan files complaint for use of photo on dating app||KOLKATA: Actor and Trinamool Lok Sabha MP from Basirhat Nusrat Jahan has lodged a complaint with Kolkata Police and also threatened legal action against a video dating app for using her photo “without consent”. Jahan took to Twitter on Monday morning to complain about the “misuse of her photograph” after a Twitter user tagged her and wanted to know whether she had given her consent for the use of her photograph or not. “This is totally unacceptable—using pictures without consent. Would request the Cyber Cell of @KolkataPolice to kindly look into the same. I am ready to take this up legally,” Nusrat tweeted, tagging the Kolkata Police and Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma. Sharma asked the detective department to look into the complaint. “We have taken note of the matter and the same is being looked into by our concerned section for necessary action,” the detective department, led by joint CP Murlidhar Sharma, tweeted. This is totally unacceptable - using pictures without consent. Would request the Cyber Cell of @KolkataPolice to ki… https://t.co/tDK2QurAld— Nusrat Jahan Ruhi (@nusratchirps) 1600668114000A Twitter user, Bhaswati, who tagged Jahan, wrote: “The face of an MP-heroine is being used in a video chat app, without her permission. How is that possible?” The app, claimed users, allowed people to video chat with strangers they connected with globally. In its poster, the app used Nusrat’s photo with a caption: “Make new friends sitting at home during lockdown”. In the first two months of lockdown, the app reportedly recorded over a million downloads in India. Nusrat said she lodged a strong protest against the incident. “ My face was used by them without my consent. I informed commissioner Sharma about it. I am in touch with the Kolkata Police cyber cell,” she said. By evening, she emailed her complaint to OC, cyber cell. “This is to bring to your notice an advertisement that is being circulated on Facebook in the form of a sponsored post using my picture in an unauthorized manner without my consent. I have attached the screenshot...” Nusrat wrote in her complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nusrat-files-plaint-for-use-of-photo-on-dating-app/articleshow/78245470.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP to launch special policy for SC & ST industrialists||LUCKNOW: To provide special assistance to investors and industrialists from the SC/ST communities, the state government has announced that a special policy will be introduced for them. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that an exclusive investment policy will soon be introduced for the SC/ST community which will ensure that the community becomes a 'provider of jobs'. Sehgal has asked officials to study various policies adopted by other states for SC/ST industrialists and business owners and take the best aspects of each to prepare a robust policy for UP. To prepare a policy framework, a three-member committee headed by the president of the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (UP chapter) has been set up. It will have commissioner industries and joint commissioner MSME as its members. The directions were issued after Sehgal met a delegation of DICCI on Monday. He said that UP has the highest population of persons from the SC/ST community and has asked the committee to prepare a proposal on land allotment for Dalit industrialists, margin money subsidy, interest subsidy, capital invest subsidy, venture capital fund, direct funding for SC/ST investors, business facilitation centre, reservation in government purchases etc. DICCI national working president Ravi Kumar Narra presented a proposal titled ‘Dr BR Ambedkar Atmanirbhar’ and said that land should be provided to SC/ST industrialists on subsidised rates, along with easy loan facilities and special assistance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-launch-special-policy-for-sc-st-industrialists/articleshow/78245018.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nashik||Rain batters kharif crop on 45,000 hectares||NASHIK: The heavy rainfall over the past few days has left a trail of destruction on the farmland in Nashik district. Standing kharif crop of onion, soybean, maize, paddy on around 45,000 hectares has been damaged. The state agriculture department has already started assessment of the losses and it will take a couple of days to calculate the exact damage. Seven of the total 15 talukas in the district are worst affected, including Dindori, Kalwan, Chandvad, Satana, Malegaon, Yeola, Sinnar among others, said an official. In August, the incessant rain had damaged over 4,500 hectares, but the crop damage was more in September due to heavy rainfall, said another official from the state agriculture department. According to Maharashtra state onion growers’ association, around 50% of total 35,000 hectares of onion crops have been damaged due to heavy rains in past few days. Chandvad, Yeola, Sinnar, Deola and Nandgaon are the major talukas in the district where kharif and late kharif onions are planted at large. The losses of crops under onion plantations are huge and overall losses are around 50% in the district, said Bharat Dighole, president, Maharashtra state onion growers’ association. “We want the state government to immediately start panchnama of the crop damage in the district and provide adequate relief to the farmers who have lost their kharif crops,” said Dighole. “I have planted kharif onions on over 5 acres, but all the plantation has been badly damaged due to heavy rains in the past three four days. It badly damaged all my crops,” said Nivrutti Nyaharkar, a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-batters-kharif-crop-on-45000-ha/articleshow/78241243.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||A week on, 44k ride north-south Metro but only 112 take E-W line||Kolkata: On a day Metro Railway further raised the cap for downloading e-passes, 43,700 people rode the north-south corridor against 70,000 bookings. Only 112 on Monday took the East-West Metro, where frequency was increased to half-hour from last week’s 20-minute.E-passes are needed to access the congested and mostly underground north-south stations and not for the truncated East-West Metro, which is a 5km elevated stretch in Salt Lake.Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state government has appointed to develop the “pathadisha Metro e-pass”, said: “The gap between actual ridership and passes downloaded was slightly lower on Monday. On Friday, even as 62,000 e-passes were issued, 40,728 rode the north-south corridor.” On Friday, the percentage of travellers vis-à-vis passes generated was 63% while on Monday it was 62%.“But the fact remains that around 3,000 more passengers took the train, thus clocking more ridership,” Chatterjee said. On Monday, the e-pass boarding system was tweaked further to accommodate more commuters. The cap for booking e-passes was increased from 20 % to 30 % for busy stations from Monday. On Thursday, Metro Railway had raised the cap for booking e-passes through the URL https://pathadisha.com/metro, for the busiest of the 24 north-south corridor stations to have more people generate passes. On Monday, Manoj Joshi, GM, Metro Railway, convened a meeting at Metro Bhavan to review services, which resumed on September 14 with new norms. Joshi stressed on sanitization of station premises, coaches, escalator hand rails and all other surfaces, which commuters may touch while using the Metro. He asked station staff to be vigilant and constantly refill sanitizer bottles. RPF personnel were told maintain social distancing among commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-week-on-44k-ride-north-south-metro-but-only-112-take-e-w-line/articleshow/78245484.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||‘Revenue collection in Sept good’||Lucknow: In some further relief to the state government, its revenue collections in September are likely to be same as or may even exceed those in the same month last year. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said on Monday that the collections for September till now have been robust and are indicative of a good corpus. However, he added, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked all departments to ensure even higher collections as funds are required for development. The CM has given strict instructions to officials during daily reviews of various divisions to ensure better revenue collection this year. “The CM has asked all departments to prepare a plan for increasing their revenue collection. There will be regular, close monitoring of revenue collection at both state and district levels. The CM said that he will personally monitor GST collections,” Awasthi said. The CM directed all DMs and commissioners to review the increase in revenue under all heads and departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/revenue-collection-in-sept-good/articleshow/78245034.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong, farmers to hold protests||Hyderabad: Congress along with the farmers’ organisations will hold agitations in Telangana on September 25 against the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. Congress members and farmers will stage protests in all the district headquarters and assembly constituencies. Addressing a media conference on Monday, N Uttam Kumar Reddy and A Revanth Reddy said the farmers’ bills would only benefit corporates. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-farmers-to-hold-protests/articleshow/78244054.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Troubled with financial crisis during Covid, UP man writes to the President||Bareilly: Battling acute financial crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a man in UP’s Bareilly has written a letter to the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, to grant him permission to "sell his kidney to pay the school fees of his two children". Javed Ansari, an artist by profession, said that his work has taken a hit due to lockdown in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic. And now, he has been struggling to make the ends meet. The man alleged that he has to pay school fee dues of around Rs 80,000 and there is no source of income in the family. The 44-year-old resident of Shahbad in Bareilly, whose daughter in Class IX and son in XII are studying in a private school, said, “I used to make portraits and do painting. My work was going fine. I used to work on orders and even used to get contracts for drawing/painting in government offices. I was working on a contract at Pilibhit Collectorate premises before the Covid-19 struck us all. We have a small daily needs shop near the house. We hardly earn anything from there.” “Now, I have no other source of income. I am not getting any new contracts. Till now, we were surviving on little reserves I had, but now, I am struggling to earn a living. We have six months' school fee arrears of around Rs 80,000. School authorities are putting pressure on me to pay. To continue with my children’s education, I am willing to sell my kidney in order to meet the expenses, and therefore, I have sought permission from the President,” the man added. Ansari further appealed to the Centre to allow him to sell his kidney or support financially. The family said that they will be meeting Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar in this regard, soon. “We requested the school administration to give us some fee relief, but we were denied,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/troubled-with-financial-crisis-during-covid-up-man-writes-to-the-president/articleshow/78241244.cms||Maria Khan
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Three of family arrested for harassing, beating up woman||Pilibhit: Three members of a family were arrested on Monday for allegedly harassing a woman, 30, living in a neighbouring house, and thrashing her and her husband for complaining. The woman claimed that key accused, Rakesh, 27, a sanitation worker in the panchayati raj department at Gajraula, made obscene gestures and passed derogatory remarks when she would come out of her bathroom after bathing every morning. The bathroom, on the ground floor, was visible from the man's window on the first floor, she said. She and her husband went to Rakesh's house to complain against him. Instead, the man's father, Nand Lal, 55, and younger brother, Anil, 25, joined Rakesh to beat up the couple. The woman, who sustained head injuries, has been shifted to the distrist hospital. Jai Prakash Singh, SHO, Gaujrala police station, said the trio was booked under IPC section 354 A (making sexually coloured remarks), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation). They have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-of-family-arrested-for-harassing-beating-up-woman/articleshow/78239006.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||'Prepping care centre at Taleigao stadium was no mean task'||PANAJI: The 250-bedded Covid care centre at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium in Taleigao was readied and commissioned in just 15 days in August, when Goa began witnessing a rapid spike in Covid-19 cases. While the task of placing beds in the empty stadium may have appeared simple, government officials said it was quite a task. North Goa collector R Menaka, who was at the helm of affairs as the state rushed to create Covid-related infrastructure over the past two months, said the establishment of a Covid care centre at the stadium was even more challenging than converting residencies of the Goa Tourism Development Corporation and the SAI girl’s hostel in Mapusa into such facilities. It meant starting from scratch — right from arranging 250 beds and linen while protecting the stadium’s wooden flooring, to roping in various service agencies and motivating staff to work with infected patients. The challenges at the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium, Menaka said, were similar to those faced while the Keshav Seva Sadhana in Bicholim was being converted into a Covid care centre. “At both places, basic infrastructure was missing. Beds and linen had to be arranged for in a short time and by following codal procedures,” she said. As the government’s requirement was large and no one supplier in the state had stock in large quantities to meet its demand, Menaka said beds were procured from different suppliers who sourced them from Karnataka. While the beds were being purchased, the government set out to conduct repair works at the stadium. Maintenance is usually done during the monsoon, when activity at the premises is minimal. “Non-functional taps were repaired. To protect the wooden flooring of the stadium, a protective layer of veneer was laid. If the steel beds rubbed against the flooring, they would have damaged it,” Menaka said. The second biggest task was deploying manpower for various duties. “We have five different agencies providing various services such as laundry, housekeeping, collecting biomedical waste, catering and security at all Covid care centres,” the collector said. Engaging cleaning staff required that they be motivated and trained to work while wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). Initially, many of them were reluctant to work at Covid care centres due to fear of contracting the virus. Improvements, such as the installation of fans, were done at a later stage when the need was felt. Similarly, an in-house laundry service was set up when a surge in Covid-19 cases rendered the earlier system of distributing linen to patients impractical. When the centre was started, patients were given certain quantities of linen to last till their discharge. This linen was then sent for washing for reuse by new patients. “But when the number of patients rose, we felt a shortage of linen, prompting us to set up a laundry on the premises,” Menaka said. Where catering was concerned, she said the government had to appoint an agency that would adhere to the menu given by the health department and also serve meals in a single, disposable packet. The other agencies contributing to the functioning of the Covid care centre at the stadium include the police and personnel of the Goa Human Resource Development Corporation. Patients are provided with mini-heaters to boil water for drinking and gargling. A kit containing toothpaste, brush, soap, and a hand towel is also given at the time of admission, Menaka said, adding that the government has tried to provide all basic services at Covid care centres across the state. But have complaints by patients ceased? “Apparently not,” said the collector. “Some will complain even if tea is served a few minutes late.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prepping-care-centre-at-taleigao-stadium-was-no-mean-task-north-goa-collector/articleshow/78244162.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 22, 2020||Goa||Khandepur: On first day of school reopening, most parents keep children home||PANAJI: On Monday, MIBK High School, Khandepar, was among the rare schools to see its Class X students coming to the institution’s premises to voluntarily seek guidance from teachers. The central government’s unlock guidelines allow schools to call students from Class IX to XII with parents’ consent from September 21. Chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant had said the state would take a decision on opening schools for senior class students after October 2. However, till then, institutions that have consenting parents can extend the guidance to Class X and XII students, Sawant said. On Monday, however, most schools did not see students coming in as a large section of parents wanted to wait in view of the current rise in Covid-19 cases in Goa. “We have 197 students studying in Class X, but only 15 parents have given their consent. Accordingly, these students came in for guidance on Monday. We sat them in four classrooms to be able to maintain sufficient distancing. We have also set a pre-condition that students should not come if they are going to use public transport. Only those whose parents can pick and drop them in their own vehicle are allowed,” said headmaster of MIBK High School, Gangaram Naik. Naik said that the classes are being held by the school on a trial basis for a week to observe if the arrangement is feasible. “We have given a format to the parents, which they have to fill and give their consent separately for each day that the students attend class,” said Naik, adding that classes were held from 9am to 11am on the first day. Nearby, in Ponda town, a prominent school carried out a survey among parents of the close to 700 students enrolled with them in Class IX and X. “Not even one parent responded saying that they want to send their child to school,” said a teacher. Many schools said that after the new guidelines were out earlier this month, they had held consultations with parent teacher associations. Here, parents were largely not in favour of allowing students within the school premises at present. “Parents have expressed their unwillingness to send students to schools as yet. They want to wait for a couple of weeks and decide as per the situation of Covid-19 cases in Goa,” said Vithoba Desai, member of managing committee of Shishu Vikas School, Margao. Head of a rural school in South Goa said that institutions have no record of the health conditions of their students and therefore she decided against risking calling students to school. “Annually, a health check-up is carried out in schools, but it is only a record of their vaccination history and their haemoglobin levels. We do not have any record of any preconditions the children may have. And the way in which Covid cases are being found even in remote areas, I decided to wait till the CM comes out with his decision on October 2,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-first-day-of-school-reopening-most-parents-keep-children-home/articleshow/78244083.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 22, 2020||Goa||As red alert plays out, trees fall, rivers and dams swell to capacity||Panaji/Bicholim/ Poinguinim: Heavy rain lashed the state on Monday leading to tree falls, rise in water levels in reservoirs and rivers, and inundation in many parts. The fire services control room received 17 calls for tree falls from 7am to 9pm and two calls for flood rescue. While one was rescued in Cotigao, the second call was for two people trapped inside their car in Paroda. “No casualties were reported,” fire services personnel said. The India meteorological department (IMD) issued a red alert for Goa for Monday. “The intensity of rainfall will reduce from Tuesday evening onwards,” the IMD said. Heavy to very heavy rainfall was forecast at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall was forecast at isolated places. In Chapora, Bardez, a tree fell on a house, causing loss of 30,000 while fire services managed to save Rs 50,000. In Caranzalem, a tree fell on a rickshaw but the damage was nil. No other cases were reported although the rains continued through the day and night. Fearing that vulnerable regions, like Pernem and Bicholim, which had experienced flooding in July-August, will be affected again, IMD has issued an alert to the state disaster management authority to take precautions. Water from the Tillari dam was discharged into the Chapora river causing the river to swell. People living along the river’s banks were been alerted by the disaster management cell not to venture into river water. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit told TOI that the situation was under control. “Since all three rivers are flowing only a few metres below the danger levels, the disaster management cell at Bicholim is on high alert,” said Pandit. Heavy rains on Sunday and Monday had caused the levels of the Valvanti river, the Bicholim river, Par river and Nanora river to rise, which led to inundation of low lying areas along the rivers. In South Goa, Canacona mamlatdar and disaster management cell incharge, Vimod Dalal, visited several flood prone areas along the Talpona river which rose beyond the danger mark. People living in the river’s vicinty have been alerted. Water is presently static but if it continues to rise some residents will have to be shifted, he said. “The river is at 8.5m, while the danger level is 7.9m,” Dalal said. Low lying areas were totally flooded and many have already moved to their relatives’ houses fearing a repeat of the October 2, 2009, flash floods in Canacona. The residents of Ardhofond fearing water might enter the Our Lady of Fatima chapel have emptied it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-red-alert-plays-out-trees-fall-rivers-and-dams-swell-to-capacity/articleshow/78244064.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Only 6 family members can escort corona victim’s body||Kolkata: Not more than six close relatives of a person, who had died of Covid, would be allowed to accompany the body for the last rites and funeral, the Calcutta High Court ruled on Monday. Chief Justice T B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee modified their September 16 order and specified that people handling the body would go directly from hospitals to crematoriums/burial grounds as indicated by the authorities and not anywhere else, including home.The HC last Wednesday ruled that the family of a Covid-19 victim should be allowed to perform last rites but stressed that infection-limiting measures must be strictly adhered to. The court said the state and local administration must “strike a fine balance” while exercising their powers to impose restrictions, in the wake of an outbreak like Covid 19, to ensure such rights were not curbed, unless there was a compelling circumstance for it. The HC gave its order on a PIL, filed by Vineet Ruia. State advocate general Kishore Dutta represented the state. The HC on Monday said in case a post-mortem was not required, the body should be handed to the “immediate next of kin of the deceased i.e. the parents/surviving spouse/children; which shall be not more than six persons; after completion of hospital formalities, for being taken to the burial ground/crematorium directly”. The HC said the body should be secured in a body bag, the face end of which should be transparent and the exterior of which would be sanitized and decontaminated to eliminate and minimize the risk to the people transporting the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-6-family-members-can-escort-corona-victims-body/articleshow/78245500.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||No gold, diamonds in two T dists: Centre||Hyderabad: Union ministry of mines has revealed that Geological Survey of India (GSI) reconnaissance surveys in Mahabubnagar, Jogulamba Gadwal, Wanaparthy and Nalgonda districts of Telangana yielded no gold resource. Also, kimberlite rocks in the area were not fit for diamond mining. Mines and coal minister Pralhad Joshi, in a reply to Chevella MP G Ranjith Reddy on Monday, informed Lok Sabha, “GSI has carried out reconnaissance surveys for gold in parts of Mahabubnagar, Jogulamba Gadwal, Wanaparthy and Nalgonda districts of Telangana. However, no gold resource has been estimated.” “As regards diamond, GSI carried out exploration to search for source rock for diamond, kimberlite and lamproite rocks, in Mahabubnagar, Vikarabad, Jogulamba Gadwal, Wanaparthy and Nagarkurnool. However, no indicator minerals for identification of source rock of diamond have been found in these surveys,” he said. He added that National Mineral Development Corporation has not been tasked with any gold or diamond exploration by the state government. Earlier, based on radiometric studies and satellite data, Osmania University Centre of Exploration Geophysics had identified 21 kimberlite pipes (source of mined diamonds) in Mahabubnagar district. Kimberlite pipes are located in Narayanpet, Maddur and Kotakonda. GSI had identified 45 kimberlite intrusions in Mahabubnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-gold-diamonds-in-two-t-dists-centre/articleshow/78244069.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 22, 2020||Bareilly||Farmer, 46, dies of snakebite in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A marginal farmer, Chandra Pal (46), of Ajit Dandi village under Jahanabad police station died of a snakebite on Sunday night while undergoing treatment at the district hospital here. He was bitten earlier in the day when he was working in his farm land. “We will refer Chandra Pal's case for compensation on receipt of autopsy report as deaths caused by snakebite are eligible for financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh," said Vivek Kumar Mishra, tehsildar, Pilibhit sadar tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-46-dies-of-snakebite-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78239032.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Liquor sales fall by 38%, but revenues up 7%||JAIPUR: Liquor sales by volume in Rajasthan may have fallen 38% in the first four months of the current financial year, but the revenues have expanded by over 7%, thanks to the tax increase the government has undertaken on multiple occasions. While the industry always argued that higher rates of liquor will reduce volume of sale and thereby will lead to lower tax realisation, the government now can point out that because of rate increases, it can reach closer to its revenue targets. The lockdown was in force throughout April. The calculations from May to August show that IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor) sales fell to 90 lakh cases from 151.56 lakh during the same four months in 2019. On the contrary, revenues for the same four months are estimated to be Rs 3,156.36 crore which is 7% higher compared to the revenues from May to August in 2019. The government has increased rates three times since March this year in order to boost revenues and contribute to the depleted state exchequer. That’s why despite the sales falling drastically, the revenues remained in the positive territory. However, the high tariffs raise the risk of bootlegging. Some shop owners said that the government does not have wherewithal to track or check the liquor brought to the state illegally from neighbouring Haryana where the rates are lower by over 20%. Even the CAG has flagged that the infrastructure and the personnel required to check liquor illegally coming to the state have fallen woefully short. But Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Association said that Rajasthan is a tourist state and rates should be cheaper here to add to the attractiveness of the destination. “Cheap rates create an attractiveness which people talk about. It becomes a pulling factor for tourists. Keeping the broader picture in mind, the state should lower the taxes,” added Mewara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-sales-fall-by-38-but-revenues-up-7/articleshow/78244073.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Kin, private hospitals hunt for plasma, threatening GMCH research project||NAGPUR: A critical Covid patient’s relative rushed to Nagpur on Sunday to collect plasma from a private blood bank. Mid-way back, the relative got a call that the patient had passed away, making all efforts futile. On Monday, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Platina project team received 11 applications in one hour seeking plasma from a hospital in Wardhaman Nagar. On the other hand, recovered patients have complained of getting calls almost daily from multiple private hospitals seeking their plasma. They alleged the callers told them the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had shared their data with private hospitals. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar denied any leakage of recovered patients’ data. “In fact, we have been asking recovered patients to donate plasma only at government medical colleges,” he said. However, sources said two datasheets have been cleverly leaked to about 40 private hospitals treating Covid patients. Against the backdrop of an ICMR study raising doubts on convalescent plasma as a remedy in cutting mortality rate or progression to a severe case, the rush to administer plasma without assessing the actual need may jeopardize the project, feel medical college doctors. Prodded by hospitals, relatives are on wild goose chase unaware that not every patient can be cured using convalescent plasma. The unmonitored off-label plasma use has also led to its shortage for mild to moderate Covid patients, who are under constant threat of slipping into severe category. Doctors feel this could also be one reason for higher number of Covid deaths than expected. The GMCH has tied up with two NGOs – Help for Good and Together We Can- to streamline plasma donation and counsel eligible recovered patients. It is paying Rs2000 compensation for plasma extraction and offering it for free to other government hospitals while Rs7000 is charged from private ones. The private banks are allegedly selling the plasma for upward of Rs10,000. The major difference between GMCH, private banks and private hospitals directly calling donors is justified use of the natural resource. Shoeb Memon, volunteering for both the NGOs, said some relatives were hoarding more than two bags assuming it will save their patient’s life. “We have been counseling such people that plasma can be given only twice with a gap of 72 hours. It is of no use to patient on ventilator as seen in outstation cases,” Memon said. A recovered patient said he had been getting calls from numerous private hospitals. “Initially, I donated hoping it may save someone’s life. With frequent calls, now I am in doubt if my plasma is being used in a justified way,” said the patient who recovered in April. State plasma project coordinator Dr Mohammed Faisal said, “Plasma is a precious asset and must be used judiciously. Both, relatives and private hospitals must understand that convalescent plasma is not panacea for Covid. It works under specific conditions and on specific patients. Its misuse amounts to depriving the scarce resource to a needy patient. As seen in Gondia patient’s case who was on ventilator, plasma doesn’t work in severe cases,” he said. On Sept 13, TOI had reported about alleged plasma racket as hospitals are asking relatives to arrange it on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kin-pvt-hosps-hunt-for-plasma-threatening-gmch-research-project/articleshow/78244081.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 22, 2020||Nashik||1,061 cases in Nashik district||Nashik: The district reported 1,061 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 595 from Nashik city, taking the tally of positive cases to 65,063. A total of 17 people succumbed to the infection on Monday, including eight from the city. The death toll stands at 1,190 in the district, including 650 in the city. As many as 1,400 patients were discharged from across the district on Monday, of which 1,137 patients are from Nashik city. There are 9,272 active cases in the district, of which 5,098 are in the city. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of the city has also increased from 84% to 87.06%, in the last three days while the recovery rate of the district is 83.92%. NMC officials said though the number of Covid-19 patients has increased, the death rate has reduced below 1.5% due to the increase in tracing and testing suspected patients of Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1061-cases-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78241279.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers trash Rs 50 wheat MSP hike||Bathinda: Amid raging opposition against the three farm sector bills, the Union government on Monday increased the the MSP of 6 rabi crops for marketing season 2021-22. This included an increase of Rs 50 per quintal in the MSP of wheat. The government has put the production cost of wheat at Rs 960 per quintal. The MSP of wheat has been increased from Rs 1,925 per quintal to Rs 1,975 per quintal. However, the farmers have trashed the hike and termed it as meagre, demanding fixing of price as per Swaminathan Committee recommendation with 50% profit over input cost through C2 formula. They claim as per C2 formula, the MSP of wheat should be around Rs 3,000 per quintal. They also said that as the MSP announced by Modi government for rabi crops is based on the formula of A2 + FL (family labour) which is less than the demand of C2 + 50% profit which was promised by the Prime Minister. Under C2 formula, the entire cost, including family labour and rent of the land, is added while calculating the input cost the crop. Farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said the formula of Union government in calculating the input cost is faulty as it does not include the rent of the land and many other expenses. In this way, the farmer doesn’t get remunerative price. We are fighting against this anomaly.” He said the government has wrongly claimed that it had included rent for leased land in calculating input cost of Rs 960 for wheat. BKU Ekta Dakonda general secretary Jagmohan Singh said the increase in MSP is meagre. Besides, the government should give a guarantee of procuring all the crops on MSP, which is not the case for crops like maize, moong and cotton.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-trash-rs-50-wheat-msp-hike/articleshow/78245505.cms||Neel Kamal
September 22, 2020||Kolkata||Busiest weekend in six months for bars, thanks to IPL, Puja shopping||Kolkata: Fueled by IPL and Puja shopping, footfall swelled across restaurants over the weekend making it the most crowded ever since lockdown. Dozens of restaurants across central and south Kolkata along with those on Park Street had a full house during lunch and dinner hours on both Saturday and Sunday, even as some unofficially extended their seating capacity beyond the permitted 50%. The high turnout trend is set to persist during the weekends leading up to the festival in late-October, believes the Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI). Even as Dhoni’s Chennai crossed words with Rohit Sharma’s Mumbai at the IPL on Saturday evening, reviving live cricket action on TV after a six-month hiatus, a serpentine waiting queue formed outside Amber that had reopened less than a week ago. Both the floors of the restaurant remained packed on Saturday and Sunday evening, something that has left owner Sanjay Khullar pleasantly surprised. “I had expected a gradual rise in footfall but this was crazy. We had families walking in for lunch on Sunday, a sure sign of things returning to normal,” said Khullar.Footfall never dipped below 100% at Songhai in central Kolkata between Friday and Sunday evening. The restaurant had a waiting crowd for the first time since it reopened in June, said owner Sudesh Poddar, also the president of HRAEI. “The IPL has given people some excitement to look forward to. Also, the puja shopping crowd is swelling and it has started spilling into restaurants,” said Poddar.Park Street restaurants, too, remained busy during the weekend. Kolkata’s party hub saw a bigger turnout than the last weekend of August when some had a full house. “It was unexpected but has signaled a revival, which we were waiting for. The turnout was especially good during the evenings and we were packed to capacity for the first time since the lockdown was imposed in March,” said Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis. Oasis has been offering a starter free with two drinks.Even those without TV had a high footfall. Mughlai chain Oudh 1590 had a full house across its four outlets and had people waiting. “This was easily the best weekend and had nothing to do with IPL. It indicates that people are finally ready to get out of the lockdown mode,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury.In malls too, restaurants registered the highest sales in three months this weekend. Restaurateur Anjan Chatterjee, who has standalone restaurants as well as units in malls said sales soared this weekend to 50% of pre-Covid revenues as people walked in to shop and then dine ahead of the festive season.Rishi Bajoria, who also has restaurants in multiple malls, confirmed this weekend has been the best so far with the fast food brand recovering 70% and casual dining 50% to pre-Covid figures. Restaurants like Songhai, for instance, also cashed in on the situation and offered a special IPL spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/busiest-weekend-in-six-months-for-bars-thanks-to-ipl-puja-shopping/articleshow/78245504.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 22, 2020||Mysuru||NHAI completes 50% land acquisition for Mysuru-Madikeri Expressway||Mysuru: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has completed 50% of land acquisition process and boundary stone marking for road widening in Srirangapatna, Hunsur and Periyapatna to build six-lane Mysuru-Madikeri Expressway. NHAI, which had taken up development of a stretch of National Highway-275 from Kengeri near Bengaluru to Madikeri till Bantwal in different phases and packages, has expedited the process of development of expressway after coordinating with Mysuru, Mandya, and Kodagu district administrations. Despite the Covid crisis, the works are on track and the project is expected to be completed within the stipulated deadline of September 2022. The current travel time between Bengaluru to Madikeri is around 7.5 hours. NHAI officials claimed that the travel time will be reduced to 5 hours once the new road is operational along with the proposed 10-lane Bengaluru-Mysuru Highway. The project from Madikeri to Mysuru is estimated to cost Rs 3,120 crore including land acquisition and civil works. The expressway which would start with a deviation at Paschimavahini, near Srirangapatna, on Mysuru-Bengaluru highway, would actually skip Mysuru. A part of the project, a bridge will be constructed across the river near Guddehosur, bypass roads will come up at Suntikoppa, Kushalnagar, in Kodagu district, Bylakuppe, Koppa, Kamplapura, Periyapatna and Hunsur in Mysuru. Superintendent of NHAI, Sridhar, who is overseeing the implementation said revenue department will invite objections from farmers on land acquisition, fix the price and starts distributing compensation to them. “Once the land acquisition process is completed, works will be expedited by setting up workers base camps for every 20 kms along the stretch,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nhai-completes-50-land-acquisition-for-mysuru-madikeri-expressway/articleshow/78242638.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Notice to govts on plea to establish bone bank at GRH||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea which sought to establish a bone bank at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai district.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam also directed the director of medical education (DME) to appear before the court through video conferencing to assist the court about the status of the proposal to set up the bone bank, which is pending since 2017.The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by M Vetri Selvan, a law student and a resident of Madurai.The petitioner stated that he obtained information through RTI Act from the dean of GRH stating that the latter had sent a proposal for the establishment of a bone bank to the DME in 2017. He stated that the objective behind setting up a bone bank is to replace the metallic implants which are normally used in orthopaedic surgeries, which are not affordable by the poor.Bone banks would be of great use to patients who are affected with cancer and those who undergo replacement surgeries. He stated that if a bone bank is set up at GRH, then it would be of great benefit to the people of the southern districts.Though a proposal was sent to the DME with regard to setting up of a bone bank at GRH three years ago, no steps were taken by the government in this regard so far. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.The case was adjourned to October 15 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/notice-to-govts-on-plea-to-establish-bone-bank-at-grh/articleshow/78244094.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Pregnant woman dies in accident||Hyderabad: A 24-year-old pregnant woman died, while her brother and another man were injured after two bikes collided head-on at Thirmanpally village of Nizamabad district. The deceased, Bollaram Rajitha, was nine months pregnant. She was travelling with her brother, Gangadhar, to a hospital. A negligently driven pulsar bike dashed into their two-wheeler at Thirmanpally SC colony. “They fell and Rajitha sustained injuries on her stomach. Meantime a tractor without registration number drove over them,” said cops. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-woman-dies-in-accident/articleshow/78244090.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Varanasi to be developed as tourism hub, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Varanasi, the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be developed as a model of tourism and development, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Monday. The CM said that while several development projects have been taken up in Varanasi over the past three years, special interest of the PM and coordinated efforts by the Centre and state “have helped in unprecedented infrastructure development in Varanasi”. During a review of development works of Varanasi division on Monday, the Chief Minister pulled up officials over the delay in work due to an SIT probe into corruption complaints against 55 construction projects in Ghazipur, 11 in Jaunpur, eight in Chandauli and seven in Varanasi. “In case of corruption, recovery will be done from the guilty person. Work on any project should not suffer under any circumstances, and especially not charges of corruption,” he said. The CM reviewed development works taking place in Varanasi, Chandauli, Jaunpur and Ghazipur. There are 28 on-going projects in the division worth over Rs 50 crore each, out of which 24 in Varanasi, two in Jaunpur and one each in Chandauli and Ghazipur. The total cost of these projects is Rs 8,409 crore. The CM said that major development works in Varanasi were in the tourism sector, including heritage signages, revitalisation of ghats, facade improvement of 84 ghats, cultural upliftment of Kashi Vishwanath Temple and the ghats, tourism facilities at Dashashwamedh Ghat and development of market complex. The CM has directed officials to expedite the construction work of medical colleges in Ghazipur and Jaunpur and to start the construction of the Chandauli Medical College at the earliest. He also said that sewer projects under AMRUT scheme should be fast tracked in Varanasi, Jaunpur and Ghazipur. Other work being taken up under AMRUT scheme includes the construction and beautification of parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/varanasi-to-be-developed-as-tourism-hub-says-yogi/articleshow/78245042.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||Case filed as 3 fake profiles of teacher created||THANE: A teacher has complained to police that someone has created three fake Facebook profiles with her photographs and even chatted obscenely with her contacts. Police said the 30-year-old junior college teacher from Mumbai had for few months been taking tuitions, and her students told her about it. A friend said the profiles had all her details and she told police she suspected a relative. Her cousin, an engineer in UAE, could be behind it as she had rejected his marriage proposal, she said. A case has been registered with Rabodi police and investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/case-filed-as-3-fake-profiles-of-teacher-created/articleshow/78244241.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||DBHPS supersedes Karnataka Province Managing Committee||Dharwad: Gross violation of rules, by-laws and Constitution of the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha’s Karnataka Provincial Sabha, Dharwad, has led to the Central Sabha superseding the managing committee of Karnataka Provincial Sabha and taking over the administration. There were charges of rampant corruption, financial irregularities and violation of rules, by-laws and Constitution by the managing committee of Karnataka Provincial Sabha, Dharwad which runs schools, B Ed and M Ed courses, homoeopathy and Ayurvedic colleges and hospital. In a bid to revamp the administrative setup, the Central Sabha appointed retired IPS officer and former DGP (Karnataka) Raghavendra Auradkar as special officer of DBHPS in May this year. A probe into the affairs of Karnataka Provincial Sabha of Dharwad revealed that there were gross and blatant violation of rules, by-laws and Constitution of the KPS in the functioning of the unit and also in election of members to the managing committee for the term 2020-2024. The Central Sabha issued two notices to KPS, Dharwad, in May this year seeking explanation to the charges of violation of rules. The main charges were that due procedure was not followed in electing the members of the managing committee and salaried employees of KPS and non-voters were elected to the body which was illegal. However the reply from the managing committee of KPS was allegedly vague and it was general denial of specific charges. Not accepting the explanation offered, the Central Sabha in its meeting on May 23, 2020, decided to supersede the KPS managing committee and issued an order to this effect asking the General Secretary of Central Sabha to take over the administration of KPS. It also appointed S B Hinchigeri, a retired professor as the Special Secretary of KPS. He will be the administrator of KPS, Dharwad and will handle all responsibilities related to finance, administration, property and educational institutions under KPS. The Central Sabha has constituted an advisory committee with BJP leader Iresh Anchatageri as chairman and advocate Arun Joshi and Manjunathgouda Patil as members. The special secretary will function on the advice of the advisory panel. Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha (DBHPS) with headquarters at Chennai was founded by Mahatma Gandhi in1918 to popularise Hindi in South India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dbhps-supersedes-karnataka-province-managing-committee/articleshow/78242589.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Cops stage flag march urging people to follow Covid rules||Ajmer/Jaipur: Police personnel across the state held a flag march on Monday requesting people to follow Section 144, which prohibits gathering of more than five people in public places. Police warned people would be penalised for not following the rules and guidelines of Covid-19. In Ajmer, the flag march started from Patel Stadium and it went through the main markets of the city and reached Kesarganj Gol Chakker. Police used loudspeakers to follow the guidelines issued by the state government and not to gather in markets. SP Kunwar Rashtradeep said Covid cases were increasing in the district and it was not possible to impose curfew for a long time. Therefore, it is the duty of every citizen to follow norms of social distancing and wear masks. CO North Priyanka Raghuvanshi said it was not only a flag march but also an awareness rally for people to understand the demand of such times. At many places, market associations and NGOs welcomed the move. The associations assured police officials that they will follow the guidelines and norms. Officials said there will be complete ban on public gathering at bus stands, markets and religious places. In Ajmer, over 200 people died due to the virus till date and over 6,000 cases have been registered. The number of beds at JLN Hospital, which has a Covid ward, has been increased as patients from nearby Nagaur and Bhilwara are coming in critical condition. The district administration has also launched a 24-hour war room from Monday and deputed officials to provide services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-stage-flag-march-urging-people-to-follow-covid-rules/articleshow/78244115.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Citizens save 2 stuck in car at Paroda||Margao: A couple was rescued by citizens at Paroda after the car they were travelling in got caught in dangerously high levels of water. The car was passing through the flooded road at Paroda. Incessant rains caused the water level of the Kushawati river to rise, submerging the road. Fire and police said it several locals waded through waist deep water and pushed the car and its occupants to safety. A local said raising the level of the road by one meter would help the situation. Vehicles were diverted through alternative roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-save-2-stuck-in-car-at-paroda/articleshow/78244091.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP to hold state-wide awareness campaign on Centre’s farm bills||Mangaluru: Raitha Morcha of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will undertake a state-wide campaign about important farm bills. The three bills were approved in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday amid opposition fury. BJP is planning to distribute pamphlets, hold press meets and meetings with farmers. It will explain the salient features of the bills to counter the opposition, BJP state spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said here. “The three bills have been an important point in the BJPs manifesto. The opposition, bereft of any issues to counter the government, has indulged in acts that have sullied the image of the Indian parliament. The bills will aid the fortunes of around 86% of Indian farmers who have land holdings of less than 2.5 acres. The opposition have resorted to political one-upmanship in sheer desperation rather than express their concerns on the bills, he said. Referring to the media briefing that Union ministers led by Rajnath Singh held after the passage of bills, Karnik, a former MLC, said the government has asserted that the minimum support price (MSP) for crops will continue. “The government is mulling to bring more crops under the ambit of MSP from the current 22 crops,” he said adding the market intervention scheme will continue and farmers will receive MSP for the crops grown. “The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill will further strengthen interest of farmers. The contract is for produce from the land and not for the land,” he said. Agriculture scientists and agriculture economists will be used to disseminate information, he added. The bill aims to settle any dispute that arises between the farmer and the capitalist who invests in the land within 30 days. Investors under any circumstance will not be able to leverage their investment for the land in case of crop failure. The removal of hurdles of excessive regulatory influence will enable investment in the agriculture sector. Investments will bring in cold storages and food processing units, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-to-hold-state-wide-awareness-campaign-on-centres-farm-bills/articleshow/78243478.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mangaluru||3 boats wash ashore as rain lashes Karwar||Karwar: Heavy rain lashed coastal part of Uttara Kannada district on Monday. Many low-lying areas in different taluks marooned. A large number of fishing boats are anchored in Karwar, Tadadi and other fishing harbours. Two fishing boats from Malpe were washed to the shore in Karwar around 2.30am on Monday due to strong winds and volatile sea. Luckily little damage was done to the boats. A traditional boat too was damaged in the wind and washed to the shore and the fishermen escaped unhurt. A red alert has been sounded by the district administration banning fishermen from venturing into the sea. The meteorology department has warned that there will be more rain and wind for next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/3-boats-wash-ashore-as-rain-lashes-karwar/articleshow/78243428.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Goa Lokayukta orders probe into ‘mysterious’ dustbin arrangement||PANAJI: Slamming the state government for a “mysterious” ad-hoc arrangement with Drishti Life Saving Pvt Ltd, the Goa Lokayukta has directed the anti-corruption branch (ACB) to conduct an inquiry into the purchase by the tourism department of dustbins deployed for beach-cleaning by the agency. A complainant, Inacio Pereira, alleged that the government passed the bills submitted by Drishti without proper scrutiny. He also alleged ithat the tourism director authorised the agency to provide dustbins even though there was no such provision in the contract. Justice P K Misra (retd) said that prima facie, the allegation appears to be true, and that it appears that “without any specific arrangements or terms and conditions, the government has blindly allowed Drishti to make its purchases of dustbins and claim reimbursement from the government, which has apparently been done without proper scrutiny”. Misra ordered the ACB to probe whether or not the dustbins have been deployed, and to find out whether they have been returned to the government, which paid for them. The Lokayukta remarked it was “mysterious” why such an ad-hoc arrangement was allowed to continue for more than two and a half years. “A high-ranking ACB police officer should make an enquiry in the light of observations made in this report, and thereafter, appropriate action, including initiation of prosecution, should be taken,” Misra observed. The Lokayukta also said that no specific recommendation can be made to take action against any particular public functionary, as the complainant has not impleaded any particular officials by name to fix individual responsibility. “However, if the ACB, in the course of its inquiry, finds the liability... on any individual person, it would be free to take any action, including criminal action, in accordance with law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-orders-probe-into-mysterious-dustbin-arrangement/articleshow/78244109.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Corona response spurs hot debate||GANDHINAGAR: On the first day of the monsoon session of the Gujarat assembly on Monday, the ruling BJP and opposition Congress engaged in an intense exchange over the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress alleged that the Covid crisis was a result of gross mismanagement by the government. The government said it has handled the pandemic in the best possible way. Leaders of both parties spoke on a government resolution to laud the efforts of corona warriors. State Congress president Amit Chavda said: “The BJP government in Gujarat is responsible for the Covid-19 crisis in the state.” Chavda went on to say: “Although there were clear WHO guidelines in December 2019 regarding the pandemic, the government did not act in time.” Chavda also alleged that the lockdown was imposed without any preparations. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said, “The Gujarat government has managed the crisis in the best possible manner under the guidance of the central government.” Patel went on to say: “Organizations such as WHO and NITI Aayog have appreciated our efforts.” He added: “We should all work together in this battle against Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-response-spurs-hot-debate/articleshow/78245053.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||Parents booked under Pocso granted bail||MUMBAI: Parents of a now 17-year-old girl, arrested for allegedly solemnizing her marriage two years ago, were granted bail after the court found that she had run away from home many times and married twice. The child had returned home and alleged that her “second husband” and his friend had raped her. Along with the two accused, her parents were booked under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The parents, in their 50s, had sought bail as they had been “falsely implicated”. They cited age and said they were at a greater risk of contracting Covid-19. The parents said their other children were young and dependent on them. The prosecution opposed the bail as, if released, the parents will threaten prosecution witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parents-booked-under-pocso-get-bail/articleshow/78244256.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 22, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi to be developed as tourism hub, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Varanasi, the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be developed as a model of tourism and development, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Monday. The CM said that while several development projects have been taken up in Varanasi over the past three years, special interest of the PM and coordinated efforts by the Centre and state “have helped in unprecedented infrastructure development in Varanasi”. During a review of development works of Varanasi division on Monday, the Chief Minister pulled up officials over the delay in work due to an SIT probe into corruption complaints against 55 construction projects in Ghazipur, 11 in Jaunpur, eight in Chandauli and seven in Varanasi. “In case of corruption, recovery will be done from the guilty person. Work on any project should not suffer under any circumstances, and especially not charges of corruption,” he said. The CM reviewed development works taking place in Varanasi, Chandauli, Jaunpur and Ghazipur. There are 28 on-going projects in the division worth over Rs 50 crore each, out of which 24 in Varanasi, two in Jaunpur and one each in Chandauli and Ghazipur. The total cost of these projects is Rs 8,409 crore. The CM said that major development works in Varanasi were in the tourism sector, including heritage signages, revitalisation of ghats, facade improvement of 84 ghats, cultural upliftment of Kashi Vishwanath Temple and the ghats, tourism facilities at Dashashwamedh Ghat and development of market complex. The CM has directed officials to expedite the construction work of medical colleges in Ghazipur and Jaunpur and to start the construction of the Chandauli Medical College at the earliest. He also said that sewer projects under AMRUT scheme should be fast tracked in Varanasi, Jaunpur and Ghazipur. Other work being taken up under AMRUT scheme includes the construction and beautification of parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-to-be-developed-as-tourism-hub-says-yogi/articleshow/78249336.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||78% patients got Covid ICU beds by using clout: Survey||NAGPUR: With the rise in critical cases due to Covid-19 infection, availability of ICU beds has drastically reduced, compared to a month ago. Amid complaints across the country about patients not being able to find beds in government or private hospitals, a survey has found that only 4% of the patients were able to get a Covid ICU bed through the routine process, while 78% had to use “connections” and clout. After receiving many complaints from citizens, LocalCircles, an online social portal followed by government agencies, conducted a survey to get citizen’s pulse on the issue, and received over 17,000 responses from over 211 districts. Citizens were asked about their experience with regard to getting a Covid-19 ICU bed. In response, 78% of respondents said they had to use clout/connections to secure an ICU bed while 7% said they had to follow up extensively to secure a bed. Another 7% said they had to bribe (cash or kind) to hospital or government officials to secure an ICU bed, while only 4% said they got a bed without any of the above. Another 4% said they did not get an ICU bed at all. “This shows that only 4% of those who needed a Covid ICU bed were able to get it through the routine process, while 78% had to use “connections” and clout. In Delhi, for instance, patients complained that government’s app Delhi Corona shows ICU beds available in some hospitals. However, when they call that hospital, they were told no bed available,” said Akshay Gupta, general manager of LocalCircles. When citizens were asked about the ICU bed shortage for Covid-19 and whether it should be made mandatory for all hospitals to list on their websites and entrance real-time bed availability, a whopping 92% responded in its favour while only 7% voted against it. According to a lot of citizens, those with clout and “connections” are able to get an ICU bed even if they have mild symptoms, while many common citizens, including health care workers, with severe symptoms are being denied a bed or being granted the same much later. Several examples were also shared by the respondents. According to people, the ministry of health & family welfare and the state health departments must issue the right SOPs so that hospitals make ICU bed availability more transparent by displaying this information in real-time on their website and building entrances. This will ensure the only criteria to be followed for who gets an ICU bed is the patient’s condition. Also, given the spurt in number of Covid cases in India over the last two months, people feel it is imperative that states work toward increasing number of ICU beds as the need for them will rise further in the coming weeks as India goes into the festive season in most parts of the country. “LocalCircles will submit a copy of this report to senior members of the ministry of health and family welfare and chief secretaries of all states for their urgent consideration,” said Gupta. Taken for a ride Number of Covid-19 cases in India has crossed 55 lakh and the country has been recording over 90,000 cases daily for the last two weeks 92% people say it should it be made mandatory for all hospitals to list real-time ICU bed availability on their websites and building entrances 17,000-plus responses were received across 211 districts. 65% respondents were men while 35% of respondents were women||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/78-patients-got-covid-icu-beds-by-using-clout-survey/articleshow/78242556.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 22, 2020||India||Govt to table in Rajya Sabha bill on essential commodities today||NEW DELHI: Undeterred by the aggressive resistance by opposition parties to the farm sector bills, the government has decided to push for passage of legislation meant to facilitate trade in farm goods by amending the Essential Commodities Act. Late on Monday, BJP issued a three-line whip directing its Rajya Sabha members to be present in the House to facilitate passage of the bill which seeks to do away with the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. The law will allow the central government to regulate the supply of certain food items only under extraordinary circumstances (such as war and famine). Stock limits may be imposed on agricultural produce only if there is a steep price rise. The bill is the the last piece of the trifecta of legislations planned by the government as part of its Aatmanirbhar Bharat push. The government’s move comes amid confrontation with opposition parties over the farm bills, which were passed on Sunday amid unruly scenes which led to the suspension of eight opposition party MPs. The suspended MPs are on a sit-in in the Parliament complex after Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu announced their suspension for one week. Discussion and passage of the bill is likely to bring clarity on the stand of various parties like NCP, Shiv Sena and BSP, which were ambiguous about their stand on the two farm bills passed on Sunday. The government has decided to push for passage of legislation meant to facilitate trade in farm goods by amending the existing Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-table-in-rajya-sabha-bill-on-essential-commodities-today/articleshow/78245942.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Tasmac watchman’s body found in well||Madurai: The watchman of a Tasmac shop was found dead in a well in Madurai district on Monday. The victim was identified as Ganesn. Police received a complaint on Sunday regarding a liquor theft committed at a Tasmac shop located on the road connecting Semminipatti to Kutladampatti. The watchman of the shop had also gone missing. Police said that the body Ganesan, was subsequently found in a well, half a kilometre away from the Tasmac shop. According to police, Nandhakumar, who is the supervisor at the Tasmac shop locked it on Saturday night, while Ganesan was on duty. On Sunday morning, when Nandhakumar went to the shop, he noticed a hole on the wall of the shop and found that 10 liquor bottles were stolen. He also noticed that Ganesan was missing. Based on his complaint, the Vadipatti police registered a case and during the investigation found the watchman’s body in the well on Monday. Police suspect that Ganesan was murdered as his hands were tied. They recovered his body from the well and sent it to the Government Rajaji Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tasmac-watchmans-body-found-in-well/articleshow/78244130.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||HC grants anticipatory bail to Selvan’s brothers||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to the brothers of Selvan, in a case registered against them by the Thattarmadam police over a property dispute. The court was hearing the petitions filed by T Bangaru Rajan alias Rajan, T Selvan and T Peter Raj alias Peter. The government informed the court about Selvan’s murder and that a case was registered against the Thattarmangalam inspector of police Harikrishnan and an AIADMK functionary M Thirumanavel for their involvement in the murder. Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice V Bharathidasan granted anticipatory bail to Rajan and Peter. The petitioners were apprehending arrest in a case registered against them on August 22. The case of the prosecution was that the petitioners had damaged the water pipeline in a farm owned by the complainant Thirumanavel. The petitioners stated that the complainant had encroached their land and a civil suit was pending before the Sathankulam munsif court. They stated that Rajan who was assaulted by the complainant was admitted at the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. They said they were not involved in any offence and that a false case was registered against them by the inspector who was supporting the complainant. Stating that they were innocent, they had submitted representations to the Tuticorin SP and also to the state human rights commission as a false case was registered against them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-selvans-brothers/articleshow/78244124.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai campaigns against use of face masks with valves||Navi Mumbai: It is not only failure to wear face masks that is leading to a rise in Covid-19 cases. Health officials said some people were wearing face masks with valves. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Monday posted messages on social media, urging residents not to wear face masks with valves. The valve does not have a filter for exhalation, making it ineffective in containing spread of the virus, said NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar, adding, “The air inhaled is filtered, but not when exhaled.” In August, American Center for Diseases Control said that while respirators with exhalation valves protect the wearer from SARS-CoV-2, they may not prevent the virus spreading from the wearer to others. Private hospitals like Fortis in Navi Mumbai and Mulund have put up posters stating that people with valve masks will be told to change to regular ones. “Masks with valves may not be effective in controlling the spread of Covid-19. People should wear masks that are not only safe for them but also to others in front of them,’’ said a doctor. A new study in US has shown that even a cloth mask is effective in preventing a Covid infection. NMMC has been sending messages and videos to office-bearers of housing societies, besides uploading them on its website and Facebook. NMMC, which has been registering around 350 cases every day, has seen a rise in cases due to increased testing in the last one month. It has brought down the death rate drastically with aggressive testing, tracing of contacts and early treatment. NMMC officials said youngsters huddle together outside eateries, without masks or gloves. A squad of former Army jawans will be formed soon to conduct awareness campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-campaigns-against-use-of-face-masks-with-valves/articleshow/78244265.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||On reopening day, most city schools remain shut||Jaipur: Most of the schools in the state remained shut on Monday even though the government had issued guidelines to reopen. A few schools, however, took consultation sessions for students from class IX to XII. Tagore Public School, Jaipur opened for two hours from 11.30am to 1.30pm on Monday, but only 12 students had appeared. “We had slots for two subjects. Students with due permission from parents were allowed,” said Ruchira Solanki, CEO, Tagore Public School. Similarly, Madhu Public School on Agra Road, Jaipur opened, but only 15 students were present. School authorities are expecting that the number will rise with time. In New Maharishi Vidya Mandir School, Alwar a few students turned up in low numbers for doubt clarification. Teachers maintained distance between students and guided them for board exams. Compared to CBSE, schools affiliated to RBSE, especially in rural areas, witnessed more number of students. Jai Bharti Vidya Mandir, School, Shahpura, principal Bhanwar Singh Kasana said, “Of the 100 students in class IX and X, 80 appeared on Monday. Most of the students do not have online class facility, as a result board class students seemed to be really worried about their future. The syllabus has not been completed and board exams will start in March.” Principal of Government Sr. Sec School Kolyana in Jamwa Ramgarh, Ramnath said, “Many students came to school from nearby hamlets and villages to clarify their doubts. More than six months without school is a big deal for students in rural areas who don’t have internet facilities and android phones,” Ramnath said. In Kota city, however, parents have not shown any inclination in sending the kids to school on the first day of unlock 4.0 on Monday. A few students did come to school but for transfer certificate, scholarship forms and other works not for subject consultancy or guidance, principal, girls senior secondary school at Mandana in Kota, Davesh Goyal said. Similarly in Bundi district, Suman Sharma a government teacher said that the students did turn up to school but not for guidance and doubt clarification but for collecting books and for submission of documents for admission or scholarship. President of Rajasthan School Shiksha Pariwar Anil Sharma said, “Majority of the schools remained shut on Monday. Parents are apprehensive to send their children to school and moreover in CBSE schools online classes are efficiently catering to students’ needs. But in RBSE schools, especially in rural areas, students do not have internet or android phones. So, they prefer to come to school for consultation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-reopening-day-most-city-schools-remain-shut/articleshow/78244142.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lawyer offers to become witness in Dubey case||Lucknow: A Kanpur-based lawyer has written to the judicial commission looking into the Vikas Dubey case and expressing his willingness to become a witness. The lawyer, Saurabh Bhadauria, claimed that he is in possession of all evidences related to illegal investments of the gangster and his financier Jaikant Bajpai. The Supreme Court had mandated a three-member inquiry commission, headed by Justice (retd) BS Chauhan, to investigate the encounter of Dubey in the first week of August. Bhadauria said Dubey used to invest money in Bajpai’s business ventures and claimed to have the record of property amassed by the duo in recent years. The lawyer said many police officers had been supporting Dubey and Bajpai in running illegal businesses. Bhadauria said he had already provided records of 29 complaints which he sent to the judicial commission. “I have been asked to appear before the commission in October,” the lawyer said. He alleged that many cops used to stay in illegal properties constructed by Bajpai and he had shared a report with the commission. He said the Bikru carnage, in which eight policemen were killed by the don and his henchemen, was planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lawyer-offers-to-become-witness-in-dubey-case/articleshow/78245055.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||‘Overhanging branches pose risk’||Panaji: Several complaints have been filed with the South Goa Collector, deputy conservator of forests and PWD Works Division XIV (NH) over branches hanging precariously over the stretch of NH66 between Margao and Canacona posing a serious threat to citizens. Green Goa Foundation, a public trust, has been making the request since last year. On Monday, it again demanded immediate trimming of the branches which are likely to fall on the highway. The most recent accident was on Sunday when a tree fell on electric wires and branches on NH 66 at Pazorconi near the petrol pump due to heavy rains and strong winds. “Some of its branches were precariously hanging on electric wires causing grave danger to life of citizens passing through NH66,” chairman Raison Almeida stated. “It is necessary that the overhanging branches are regularly trimmed and dead trees are cut and cleared. It is seen that the authorities come to clear the roads of timber and dead wood only after an accident has happened. It would be proper to take preventive action by identifying all trees which are weak or which are traffic hazards,” the foundation stated, adding that its volunteers are willing to render assistance if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overhanging-branches-pose-risk/articleshow/78244164.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Cruel joke, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday described Centre’s hike in MSP for wheat and five other Rabi crops as paltry and a cruel joke on farmers amid growing apprehensions that the MSP regime would be abolished once the three agriculture marketing bills, passed in Parliament this month, are implemented. “This is callous. They have made a mockery of the farmers’ protests over the farm bills, which by all accounts will eventually pave the way for ending the minimum support price (MSP) system and abolish the Food Corporation of India,” he said in a statement. Amarinder said if the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre thought it would appease agitating farms with the hike, they did not understand the situation. “You can’t just throw crumbs at someone who may be on the verge of losing his livelihood as a result of your shameful actions,” he told the Centre. The farmers have been asking for a written guarantee that MSP will not be tampered with, but, instead, the Centre has handed out to them a measly offering, said Amarinder, adding that this once again showed how little the BJP and its allies, including SAD, knew farmers and their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cruel-joke-says-punjab-cm/articleshow/78245507.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||SOPs for safety of migratory birds at Sambhar ahead of their arrival||Jaipur: After witnessing the country’s worst avian catastrophe at Sambhar Lake in 2019, the state government has released a SOP for maintenance and monitoring the habitat of winged guests before their arrival this season. According to the draft, temporary rescue facilities, veterinary medical staff and rescue vehicles are set to take charge along the periphery of the waterbody, India’s largest inland salt lake, in October as the season for the arrival of migratory birds begins. The avian visitors are on the priority list of the state government and have drawn concerns from chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the recent state wildlife board meeting where a direction was issued to initiative measures to prevent the reoccurrence of the tragedy. It was an outbreak of Avian Botulism caused by Clostridium botulinum that caused mass mortality (over 18,000) at Sambhar in 2019 winter. A senior official said, “The state government has released the SOP to combat any such mass mortality event. The department of forests, department of animal husbandry, state pollution control board, district administration and Sambhar Salt Ltd have been assigned duties under the SOPs to monitor and act in accordance with the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sops-for-safety-of-migratory-birds-at-sambhar-ahead-of-their-arrival/articleshow/78244169.cms||Ajay Singh
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Threat to my life from Prajapati, says ex-employee||Lucknow: Former director of a company run by Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, Brij Bhawan Chaubey on Monday alleged that there was threat to his life from the former cabinet minister. Addressing the media at a press conference in Lucknow, he said an FIR has already been lodged with the Lucknow police in this regard. Chaubey said he would now move the income tax (I-T) department seeking a probe into Prajapati’s financial transactions and income along with that of the Chitrakoot-based woman who had first accused Prajapati but now referred to him as ‘father figure’. “The Chitrakoot-based woman has acquired property worth Rs 4.3 crore in the last three years by forcibly grabbing it, which also includes my Rs 2.3 crore land,” he alleged. Chaubey claimed that he has a list of 20 aides of the minister who were involved in the mining scam with the former minister. Chaubey said that at first the contract deal for mining of a particular land was given to a contractor, but the deal was suddenly revoked and given to another contractor who gave a higher amount to the minister. “No rules and regulations were followed in allotment of tenders by the minister,” he added. He claimed that he had details of all movable and immovable properties of the minister along with names of people they were registered for. Chaubey added that if he remained alive after recording his statement with the ED then he would share the details with newsmen. Chaubey hogged the limelight after he lodged an FIR against Prajapati, his son and the Chitrakoot-based woman on September 17. In his FIR, Chaubey had alleged that Prajapati, his son Anil and his men forced him to get a land, currently worth approximately Rs 2.5 crore, registered in the name of the woman who had accused Prajpati of rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/threat-to-my-life-from-prajapati-says-ex-employee/articleshow/78245065.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Alliance can be reconsidered, but not party policy: Minister||Virudhunagar: Comparing an alliance to a shawl worn over the shoulder and a party’s policy to the dhoti, minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajendra Bhalaji on Monday, referring to the three-language policy, said it is the latter which is more important. “The AIADMK believes in the two-language policy, so if the need arises, an alliance could be reconsidered but not the policy of a party,” Bhalaji said and added that a party would always be strong in its policies. The minister participated in a meeting to distribute applications to students for the new government college coming up in Srivilliputtur in Virudhunagar district on Monday. Later, speaking to reporters, he said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would oppose the farm bills if it was against the welfare of the farmers. He also hit out at DMK leader M K Stalin for making it a habit to criticize anything that is done in the state. Asked if the AIADMK differed with the stand of its ally BJP on the three-language policy, he said alliance dharma and a party’s own policy are two different things. Answering a question on the expected release of V K Sasikala and if there would be any impending change, he said that the chief minister and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam would take a decision on any situation, and the AIADMK cadres would abide by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alliance-can-be-reconsidered-but-not-party-policy-minister/articleshow/78244170.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Gates separate for nCov, others||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) opened a second gate in Ramnath Para crematorium on Monday to allow cremation of non-Covid bodies. The move follows rise in number of bodies that are to be cremated with Covid protocol and will help others get a separate safe passage.The crematorium has two electric furnaces and Covid bodies are being strictly cremated in these only. There are also four traditionally wooden fire platforms while the crematorium also has a gas furnace. In a statement,RMC said, “Now there wil be no waiting at the main gate for Covid bodies and can be directly taken to the electric furnace for cremation. A second gate, after some construction work and repairs, have been opened for non-Covid bodies.According to official figures, prior to July on an average five to seven bodies were cremated here daily, while since August the average has risen to around 25 bodies per day. The crematorium is also working round the clock as cremation of Covid bodies as per protocol takes nearly two hours time. Trustee of the crematorium, Gunvant Delavala said, “We try to keep waiting time to the minimum, but if the number of Covid bodies increases, the waiting period also increases. We have another structure ready for one more electric furnace. RMC officials are in talks to make that furnace operable soon.” Patients of Rajkot rural and other districts who die during treatment in the city also have to be cremated in the city with all protocols. Ramnath Para crematorium is the biggest and closest to the civil hospital, which sends most of its bodies to be cremated here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gates-separate-for-ncov-others/articleshow/78241309.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Road accidents claimed 39k lives in Gujarat in 5 years||Gandhinagar: As many as 39,072 persons lost their lives in the past five years in road accidents, the state government informed in the assembly on Monday.The figures were tabled in the ongoing assembly session in the form of a written reply by the minister of state for home in reply to a question by Bhagabhai Barad, MLA of Talala assembly constituency. Barad had sought information on the number of deaths in the state because of vehicular accidents and steps being taken by the government to reduce road accidents.In the past five years (between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2019), the highest number of deaths in accidents were recorded in 2018 (8,040 deaths), while the lowest were recorded in 2019 (7,409 deaths).The minister, in his reply, said that cities and districts have been assigned targets to ensure reduction of deaths in road accidents and regular follow-ups are being done in this regard. He added that joint teams of officers from RTO, police, R&B and other agencies visit accident spots to check if flawed road engineering is the cause of accidents.He added that traffic education and awareness drives are carried out across the state regularly to create an awareness about road safety. In his reply, the minister also said that police commissioners and district collectors routinely issue notifications about speed limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/road-accidents-claimed-39k-lives-in-gujarat-in-5-years/articleshow/78244226.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||3 Covid deaths in Wardha; 50 new cases detected||WARDHA: A 55-year-old woman from the city, 79-year-old woman from Hinganghat and 62-year-old man from Pulgaon died due to coronavirus on Monday. Also, 50 new Covid patients were detected while 56 persons were discharged from hospital. Of the 422 test reports received on Monday, 50 tested positive taking the total Covid cases in the district to 3,440. The cases detected on Monday are Wardha 31, Hinganghat and Karanja 6 each, Ashti 4, Arvi 2 and Deoli 1. Of the new patients, 14 are women. With three Covid deaths on Monday, the toll in the district reached 92, while 1,689 patients have been discharged so far. In all, 1,659 patients are undergoing treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-covid-deaths-in-wardha-50-new-cases-detected/articleshow/78244176.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to provide subsidy on purchase of fodder choppers||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has decided to provide subsidy on fodder chopper machines to increase use of modern machinery in the field of dairy farming. Under this scheme, milk producers from general categories would get Rs 50,000 and milk producers from scheduled caste categories would be getting benefit of Rs 63,000 on fodder chopping machines. Animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said due to outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the farmers had been facing shortage of labour for their daily routine works. The modernised machines would reduce the hardships of farmers by directly chopping the fodder from farms, he added. Meanwhile, dairy development board director Inderjit Singh appealed to farmers to visit their nearest office of his department to avail benefits under this scheme. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-provide-subsidy-on-purchase-of-fodder-choppers/articleshow/78245508.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Cotton farmers forced to sell below MSP says SAD||Bathinda: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) activists on Monday protested at the cotton purchase yard at Bathinda saying farmers were complaining of being forced to sell their cotton crop at Rs 1,000 less than the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 5,725 per quintal. Nearly 7,000 quintals of cotton have arrived by now at the purchase yard. The Rs 5,725 per quintal cotton MSP is for moisture content of 8% with 1% price cut for every 1% more moisture content up to 12%. SAD leaders asked the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to start purchases at the MSP and asked state government to compensate the farmers who have sold crop at lower prices. They warned state government that the party “would not tolerate exploitation of farmers”. Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla said the Akalis would launch a state-wide agitation on this issue in case farmers did not get their dues. CCI purchase season starts from October 1 and they can start purchases only after that date. The cotton crop arriving in mandis is having much more moisture content with bit lower quality, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cotton-farmers-forced-to-sell-below-msp-says-sad/articleshow/78245510.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Stranded Goans return home from London, many fly out||PANAJI: International flights under the air bubble arrangement continued to bring home stranded Indians while also allowing several Indians to return to the United Kingdom for studies and work. Early on Monday morning, an Air India flight with 159 passengers landed at Goa International Airport. The flight from London under India’s air bubble arrangement with UK brought in 156 adults and three infants. The flight is the 16th Vande Bharat flight to Goa. The flight departed an hour later with 139 passengers for London, including many Goans who returned to continue their studies or report to work in the UK. All passengers flying out of Goa underwent thermal screening while international passengers arriving at Goa had to undergo a rapid antigen Covid test and submit a self-declaration form. As per norms, international passengers have to undergo 14 days home quarantine even if they negative. “Passenger movement is picking up. On Sunday, domestic passenger arrivals touched 2,000,” said Goa airport director Gagan Malik. On Sunday, a relief flight took off for Malaysia with 101 medical students who were studying at USM-KLE Medical College, Belagavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-goans-return-home-from-london-many-fly-out/articleshow/78244228.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Covid puts spanner in education works at remote Bhamragarh||NAGPUR: Gadchiroli was perhaps the only district in the state where offline school education never stopped. Zilla Parishad school teachers in its remote Bhamragarh taluka kept visiting students’ homes conducting group studies right till the last month. But first the floods and now the first few Covid-19 cases in Bhamragarh have put a temporary halt to their initiative. Ashwini Sonawane, block education officer, said they will take a call on resuming their activities next month. “We were forced to stop our home study visits because villages were inaccessible due to floods. Issues such as closed roads, parts of terrain submerged and incessant rains made it logistically impossible for teachers to travel,” said Sonawane. Though the plan was to resume as soon as monsoons subsided, Covid put a spanner in the works. “Now that positive patients have been found in Bhamragarh, we have to be more careful. I have asked my teachers to stay put at their homes for the moment,” said Sonawane. Offline education was more of a necessity in Bhamragarh because of the demographics and terrain. Internet speed in towns is not something to boast of while there is no network at all in many villages. To counter this, Sonawane had started the study group concept. In this, teachers visited villages once or thrice a week and taught all students living there. The seniormost student was given the responsibility of helping with assignments till the teacher came for the next visit. Schools in Gadhciroli and Chandrapur had reopened for a few days before being shut down again to comply with the central government’s orders. Sonawane said, “Stopping education completely is not an option. The dropout rate is very high in these parts and a prolonged disconnect with education will make it worse. So, we have to restart offline teaching the moment things come back on track.” Since many teachers of ZP schools come from outside, there is an increased threat of infection. “Many travel daily from Gadchiroli town to the interior talukas. And that poses a big challenge because virus transmission can happen at a faster rate,” Sonawane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-puts-spanner-in-edu-works-at-remote-bhamragarh/articleshow/78244207.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||100 MSRTC buses to ease Mumbai rush from Wednesday||MUMBAI: MSRTC on Monday evening partnered with BEST to ferry office-goers and reduce rush at bus-stops during peak hours. It will hand over 100 buses to BEST to operate on feeder routes and north-south corridors from Wednesday morning. Services for around 50,000 office-goers will operate at BKC, Churchgate and other places, sources said. The buses are being procured on lease and MSRTC will earn revenue from BEST. “This is the first lot of buses, 100 more will be pressed into service in few days. Eventually, we will give BEST 1,000 buses to ferry around five lakh passengers daily. It will help reduce queues at bus-stops as office-goers have increased during Mission Begin Again,” a senior MSRTC official said. BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde said they were looking at increasing the capacity of red buses from 50% to 100%. The buses are being procured from various MSRTC depots. “We are getting more buses from other depots as many were lying idle during Covid. The buses are road-worthy and have been inspected. Our drivers and conductors will operate the buses,’‘ the official said. Sources said the buses were being given to BEST for a rent of Rs75 a km, and each may cover 150-200km daily. Drivers will be given shorter routes initially, and they will be trained by BEST drivers. MSRTC buses can operate with full occupancy (44 seats, but no standees).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/100-msrtc-buses-to-ease-mumbai-rush-from-wednesday/articleshow/78244267.cms||Somit Sen
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||CMRS inspects four Metro stations||Nagpur: Janak Kumar Garg, commissioner of Metro rail safety (CMRS), and his team inspected four stations of Nagpur Metro on Monday — Rahate Colony, Ajni Square, LAD Square and Bansi Nagar. According to Metro officials he was satisfied with the arrangements and is expected to issue safety certificates for these stations soon. At present Nagpur Metro has eleven working stations (twelve if Sitabuldi interchange is considered as two). After CMRS clears the four stations, the number of functional stations will increase to sixteen. Right now Metro services are suspended because state government is yet to allow it, even though central government has allowed it. According to Metro officials, Garg and his team inspected the automatic fare collection (AFC) gates, emergency call point, emergency stop plunger, lift, escalators, amenities like drinking water, toilets, baby care room, special rest room for handicapped persons etc. They also inspected the signalling room, telecommunication equipment room, transformers and station control room. The Metro staffers presented mock drills of various types to the team, which was satisfied. Later, Garg also visited the Rani Jhansi Square 132 KV receiving sub station (RSS) of Nagpur Metro. This RSS will ensure uninterrupted power supply to the east-west corridor. It has been connected to the main sub station on Old Morris College ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cmrs-inspects-four-metro-stations/articleshow/78244181.cms||Ashish Roy
September 22, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Move shows BJP cares for farmers’||Chandigarh: BJP Punjab president Ashwani Sharma on Monday said Union agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s announcement of a minimum support price (MSP) for procuring rabi crops demonstrated the Centre’s commitment to provide protection to agriculture sector by not withdrawing the MSP. During the day, Tomar declared MSP for six rabi crops in the Lok Sabha. The MSP for wheat increased by Rs 50, taking it to Rs 2,975. The Minister made the announcement on the floor of the House after a CCEA headed by PM Narendra Modi took the decision. Hailing the decision, Sharma said, “It’s an unprecedented move that the MSP price has been declared prior to the sowing session. The announcement is always made in the second week of October.” Sharma dubbed opposition parties as anti-farmer and said the farm bills passed bthe Parliament were visionary bills to make agriculture remunerative for the farming community.“||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/move-shows-bjp-cares-for-farmers/articleshow/78245511.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda breaches 8k-mark with 274 new Covid cases||CHANDRAPUR: With a surge of 274 new patients on Monday, the district has crossed the 8,000-mark and reached 8,090 Covid-19 cases. Four deaths were added to the tally during the last 24 hours pushing the Covid toll to 118. The day also saw discharge of 143 patients and recoveries have now climbed to 4,627. Presently, there are 3,345 patients under treatment, including 789 in home isolation and 15 critical in ICU. Latest 1,000 patients came in just three days. The surge is so high that the district has added 6,000 patients to its tally in just 23 days. Four deceased include 83-year-old woman from Durgapur, 65-year-old woman and 78-year-old man from Ballarpur, and 43-year-old woman from Ghugus. All four deceased had comorbidities and they died at Chandrapur GMCH. Newfound patients include 172 from Chandrapur, Bramhapuri 33, Bhadrawati 16, Nagbhid 15, Pombhurna 6, Mul 8, Gondpipri 4, Korpana 11, Rajrua 4, Saoli 1, Sindewahi 2, Warora 1 and one from Gadchiroli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-breaches-8k-mark-with-274-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78244208.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 22, 2020||Pune||Will Covid-19 last years? TOI webinar discusses the big questions||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: SARS-CoV-2 will very likely remain with us like the H1N1 virus — which causes swine flu, an expert panel told citizens during a TOI Covid-19 webinar organized on Sunday. Public health expert Subhash Salunke and infectious diseases specialist Parikshit Prayag were part of a wide-ranging discussion on safety measures, mask hygiene, virus mutations, vaccine availability and the outbreak’s trajectory in the Pune Metropolitan Region. “I say this with a fair amount of confidence: this virus is going to be with us. Simply put, it has decided to stay and it will be here for a while,” Salunke, an adviser to the state government on Covid-19 mitigation, said. “But will we have to stay home for those many years? The answer is an obvious no. We will have to learn to live with it,” he added. Prayag, a senior consultant with Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said at some point in time, the virus will “shift from a pandemic proportion to an epidemic” stage. “It will go from local clusters to sporadic cases. That’s how it goes for every respiratory infection. So, 12 months from now, when I receive a patient with fever or headaches, I’m not going to immediately assume it’s Covid-19. The chances of it being any other viral infection will be as high. That’s the stage we’ll finally reach. Covid-19 will integrate with the society,” he said. The conversation then turned to the continued use of masks. Resident Santosh Maskar sought to know if masks can be worn during exercise. “Masks don’t hamper your ability to exercise. Multiple treadmill stress tests have shown that wearing a mask does not interfere with pulmonary capacity, affect oxygen levels or heart performance,” said Prayag. He added that citizens can stick to cloth masks, instead of the more specialized N95 type. Salunke said masks offer protection not just against the new coronavirus, but against a number of other respiratory illnesses. “I 100%, recommend the use of masks. They should now become part of our daily attire,” he said. Questions then moved to vaccines. “The average Punekar will have to wait until beyond June 2021 for a viable vaccine. Some will have to wait longer,” said Salunke, who is also a former WHO regional head for Southeast Asia. “But the most important point, which is absolutely critical, is the fact that no vaccine offers 100% protection. For example, the H1N1 vaccine, which is very effective, offers about 70% protection. Let us not put all our eggs in one basket here. Even when a vaccine comes, it will not offer 100% protection. We should keep up our public health measures,” Salunke added. Prayag then discussed antibody formation in those who have recovered from Covid-19. “Waning of antibody levels does not mean the disappearance of immunity against infection. You can still have memory T cells which remember an infection event — they too play a role. So it’s not that we will always be protected by a detectable antibody titre. We still need more data to better understand lasting protection, which can influence herd immunity. There are still a lot of unknowns, which will become clearer as we progress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-covid-19-last-years-toi-webinar-discusses-the-big-questions/articleshow/78242645.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||651 cases in south TN, 615 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 651 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 615 cases taking the tally to 46,203, which include 5,259 active cases. More patients were from Thanjavur (136) and Tiruvarur (120) on Monday. Nagappattinam, Pudukottai and Trichy also reported considerable number of cases. However, the numbers in the southern region is the lowest since July 1. For the first time in three months, all the districts in the region recorded less than 100 cases. Over the last few weeks, Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli were the only districts to report more than 100 cases a day. On Monday, Kanyakumari recorded 97 cases, the highest in the region. It was followed by Tuticorin (96) and Tirunelveli (87). The least number of cases was recorded in Ramanathapuram (15), followed by Virudhunagar (35) and Sivagangai (41). With the number of active cases dropping to 962 in Tirunelveli district on Monday, all the 10 districts in the region now have less than 1,000 active cases. Tirunelveli is the only district to record more than 1,000 active cases since September 10. The three deaths in the region were in Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar. All of them are aged around 50 years and had comorbidities. Among the central districts, Thanjavur (1,143) has the highest number of active cases. Nagappattinam comes second with 944 cases. According to the medical bulletin, seven more people died of Covid-19 related issues on Monday taking the toll to 648. Thanjavur recorded four deaths, while Trichy registered two casualties. Perambalur recorded a casualty after a long gap. The region has been reporting at least a single case of casualty without comorbidity regularly. A 63-year-old woman from Trichy died at government medical college in Thanjavur on September 17. She tested positive on September 16 after getting admitted to the hospital the same day. Four patients died at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/651-cases-in-south-tn-615-in-central-region/articleshow/78244204.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||DMK cadres protest delay in setting up of Madurai AIIMS||Madurai: Members of the DMK on Monday planted saplings at Thoppur, the site selected for the setting up of AIIMS in Madurai, wearing T-shirts with slogans questioning the delay in establishment of AIIMS.The DMK members led by advocate Ila Mahilan from Thirunagar said that this was an attempt to bring attention to the delay in construction of AIIMS as two years had passed since the foundation stone was laid for this medical facility.DMK members wore the T- shirts with the words ‘Maduraikku AIIMS Varuma? Varatha? (Will AIIMS come to Madurai or not?) and planted hundred of saplings. The Union government had sanctioned the AIIMS for Madurai in 2018, to be built at a cost of Rs 1,264 crore.Speaking to reporters after planting the saplings, Mahilan said that even the minister for revenue, R B Udayakumar, who had said he would resign if the hospital was not established, was not doing anything to ensure that the hospital is being set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-cadres-protest-delay-in-setting-up-of-madurai-aiims/articleshow/78244210.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Guest workers back to Tamil Nadu in hordes, but not officially||CHENNAI: A majority of lockdown restrictions have been relaxed and guest workers are returning to the state in large numbers, but only very few show up in official records. There is a mismatch between the e-passes issued by the government for returning workers and those entering through Andhra Pradesh borders without the document, say activists and others. This is in contrast to the time just after the outbreak of Covid-19, when nearly 4.25 lakh guest workers were shown in official records to have left Tamil Nadu for their home states by bus and train. A few who walked or cycled home were not included. Data sourced by TOI shows that the government issued e-passes to nearly 2,100 workers from different parts of the country between August 1 and September 15 to enter Tamil Nadu. Bihar leads the list with 525, followed by West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, each accounting for an average of 370. However, inquiries by TOI show that thousands have been entering the state through the border with Andhra Pradesh in Nellore district — making their way into Chennai and its suburbs on private vehicles. While the construction sector estimates that as many as 50,000 workers have returned to Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts in the past two months, official data shows around 1,700 were issued e-passes to the four districts. Labour rights activists stress that the state labour department must register the returnees. Geetha of the Nirman Mazdoor Panchayat Sangam said that employers are responsible for registering workers as per the law. “How many employers are doing it and why is the labour department not coming forward to register them? The welfare board meant for construction workers can take up the task,” she said. Labour secretary Nasimuddin told TOI that there was a system to register guest workers at their places where they are employed. “Migrant workers are still returning only in trickles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-back-to-tn-in-hordes-but-not-officially/articleshow/78242660.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 22, 2020||Pune||Five members of a family killed as car rams truck||PUNE: Five members of a family from the city were killed when their car rammed a truck from the rear after it suddenly slowed down on the Pune-Solapur highway at Yavat around 3.30am on Monday. “All of them had gone to Solapur to meet a relative after opening up of lockdown and were returning to Pune when the accident occurred,” inspector Bhausaheb Patil from the Yavat police said. The deceased have been identified as Shobha Sharangowda Patil (38), her sister Anita Siddheshwar Barde (40), brother-in-law Siddheshwar Chandrakant Barde (55), who was driving the car, niece Shweta Siddheshwar Barde (23), all residents of Kondhwa, and her another relative Santosh Mallinath Patil (38) of Bhosari. Police said the truck was moving ahead of the car and its driver suddenly applied the brakes. The car driver could not anticipate it and crashed into the rear of the truck at full speed. Patil said all the five deceased had their roots in Solapur district and had started their return journey around midnight. The accident occurred in front of “Sheru Dhaba”. “There are no eyewitnesses to the accident, but a spot inspection prima facie indicates that the car rammed the truck after it applied the brakes suddenly,” he said. “We have registered an offence of rash and negligent driving against the truck driver based on the FIR lodged by deceased Shobha’s husband, Sharangowda Patil (45), who works with a private company and was in the city at the time of the accident. 3 killed in another accident on same highway The highway stretch between Yavat and Kedgaon witnessed two other accidents on the night intervening Sunday and Monday, claiming three lives. Around 6am on Monday, a speeding tempo hit a pedestrian crossing the highway at Kedgaon. In the other accident, two men from Pimpri Chinchwad died when a truck collided head-on with their car near Yavat late on Sunday night. The truck, heading towards Pune from Solapur, hit the median at a high speed around 10.30pm after its driver lost control over the wheel, went on to the other lane and collided head-on with the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-members-of-a-family-killed-as-car-rams-truck/articleshow/78242640.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Double disaster relief camps for ensuing NE monsoon: Min||Madurai: The number of disaster relief camps for this monsoon should be doubled to 200 to accommodate those in distress, minister for revenue, disaster management and information technology R B Udhayakumar said. after chairing a northeast monsoon preparedness drill here on Monday. The minister said that the number of camps should be doubled to ensure social distancing is maintained. The minister dwelt in detail on the pre-disaster, during disaster and post disaster preparedness to handle cases of emergencies. District collector T G Vinay said that order has been given to demolish 500 buildings in a dilapidated conduction in the rural areas ahead of the monsoon to prevent casualty or damage to lives. Efforts are underway to identify such buildings in the corporation, municipal and town panchayat areas, he added. Tangedco officials have been asked to identify dilapidated electric poles and replace them and carry out safety measures in electric poles in low-lying areas on a war-footing. Public can call the helpline numbers 1077, 0452-2546160 or 9597176061 round-the-clock to report emergency situations. Revenue officials said that of the 27 vulnerable areas in Madurai Corporation limits have bee affected by flooding. Nine of them – Munisalai, Anna Thoppu, Anna Nagar, B B Kulam, Tallakulam, Sellur, Vandiyur, Thathaneri and Iravathanallur – have been brought under the safe place category by constructing retaining walls. Officials from the revenue and public works department and local bodies have inspected the rest and carried out preparatory works. A total of 417 first responders and 11 snake-catchers are on alert to attend cases of emergency. A total of 117 teams comprising 753 officials from various departments have been formed. The teams include 33 early warning teams, 33 relief and rescue teams, 33 restoration teams and 18 shelter and food teams. This year, lighting strikes have claimed three human lives and two cows in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/double-disaster-relief-camps-for-ensuing-ne-monsoon-min/articleshow/78244222.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Woman tries to consume poison||Pune: The Chakan police on Sunday booked a 20-year-old woman under the charge of attempting to commit suicide after she tried to consume poison on the police station premises. Police claimed the woman made the attempt to prevent them from taking action against her acquaintance, who was caught without wearing a mask. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-tries-to-consume-poison/articleshow/78242670.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||7 more cops die of Covid in 3 days, Maharashtra toll 224||NAVI MUMBAI/THANE: Two Navi Mumbai cops died of Covid-19 during treatment at D Y Patil hospital in Nerul on Monday, taking the toll there to nine. Five from Thane, Solapur (rural), Bhandara, Gondia and Nashik (rural) died on September 19-20, taking the Maharashtra police toll to 224, of whom 23 are officers. Navi Mumbai’s NRI coastal police assistant sub-inspector Shantilal Koli, (55), admitted on September 15, died on Monday. Koli had comorbidities and was on special leave, senior inspector Tanvir Shaikh said. He is survived by wife and two children. Constable Vinod Pataskar (46), with Navi Mumbai police headquarters, also died on Monday after he was on ventilator support for three days. Admitted to hospital on September 9, he is survived by wife, a daughter and son. Constable Maruti Kadam (54), with Thane’s Shil-Daighar police, died while undergoing treatment on Sunday, taking Thane’s police toll to 23. Mumbai Police recorded most fatalities (78) till date. Assistant sub-inspector Balu Shinde (56), with Nashik (rural) headquarters, was the sixth to succumb from Nashik (rural). Constable Natu Sarve (51), with Jawahar police in Bhandara, and one from Gondia also died on Sunday. Solapur (rural) sub-inspector Shaukat Ali Shaikh (57), with wireless department, died on September 19. He was to retire in a year. A total of 159 personnel tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 21,311, of whom 17,434 recovered and 3,655 are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/7-more-cops-die-of-covid-in-3-days-maharashtra-toll-224/articleshow/78244269.cms||George Mendonca
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Officials resume evacuation of squatters from Cooum bank||Chennai: City corporation officials along with PWD and Chennai River Restoration Trust authorities on Monday restarted evacuation of squatters from the banks of Cooum River. A Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT) official said about 100 tokens will be issued every day to evacuate the remaining squatters from Sathyavani Muthu Nagar from the river bank. This is being done to maintain social distancing. “Within a week, we want to complete the evacuation work, as the city and its suburbs are already experiencing intermittent showers and the process cannot be delayed,” he said. The upstream portion of the Cooum, from Pudupet to Chintadripet, has already been cleared of encroachments and the stretch of the river widened, enhancing its flood-carrying capacity. A case of flooding could affect residents of Sathyavani Muthu Nagar. “This is why the evacuation has been restarted,” he said. The squatters have been occupying a 940-metre-long stretch of the river bank from near the Stanley viaduct on Pallavan Salai to opposite Island Grounds’ north gate on Anna Salai. A senior PWD official said the evacuation process was stopped in January after a section of residents appealed to the authorities, saying their children had to complete Class X and XII board exams. In March, the Covid-19 pandemic struck. Of the 2,092 families living on the river bank, 1,663 have been resettled in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Perumbakkam near Sholinganallur and the remaining 429 families are being rehabilitated now. While a few residents on Monday argued with officials, alleging that they were being forced out, the corporation official denied the charge. In order to restart the work, he said, a meeting was held on Saturday last and the residents of Sathyavani Muthu Nagar and officials from different government departments participated and the residents agreed to move out. Now, a few political party representatives were instigating some of the residents to protest, but the work cannot be stopped now, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/officials-resume-evacuation-of-squatters-from-cooum-bank/articleshow/78242682.cms||P Oppili
September 22, 2020||Pune||Organized crime on Pune rural SP’s radar||Pune: Instilling a sense of security among the people, women’s safety and cracking down on organized crime are at the top of the agenda for new Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh. A day after taking charge, the 2009 batch IPS officer on Monday said he would also focus on strict enforcement of the mask rule in his jurisdiction. “Currently, Covid-19 mitigation is our number one concern. We will intensify the action against people going out without wearing masks,” he said. Deshmukh said he aims to control the rising crime rate in the district. “By professional policing methods, I would like to instill a sense of security among people,” Deshmukh said, adding he would take preventive action against organized crime. “These criminals will face charges under MCOCA, MPDA and other stringent Acts,” Deshmukh said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/organized-crime-on-pune-rural-sps-radar/articleshow/78242659.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP thinks, other states follow: Min||Lucknow: “Gone are the days when it was said that what West Bengal thought, India followed. Now, under the Yogi regime, we can say what UP thinks today, other states follow it tomorrow,”MSME and export promotion minister Sidharth Nath Singh said in his tweet after the address of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at the Invest UP programme held here on Monday. He said the state has introduced several reforms to give a boost to the industry. In fact, UP was the first state to introduce labour reforms, formulate sector specific policies and initiate logistical initiatives as a flatted factory model, the minister added. ODOP campaign of the CM has not only been appreciated by prime minister Narendra Modi, but several states have also shown a keen interest in following it to promote MSME sector, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-thinks-other-states-follow-min/articleshow/78245075.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Two held for damaging MLA’s car||Tuticorin: The Tuticorin district police arrested two men for damaging the car of Tiruchendur MLA and DMK Tuticorin south district secretary Anitha Radhakrishnan. The arrested have been identified as Jinnah, 27, of Kayalpattinam and Selvanathan, 41, of Thandupathu. Inquiries revealed that previous enmity was the reason for the attack. Police provided security to the MLA’s house following the incident. The security arrangement will continue for a few days till situation comes under control. CCTV footage showed two men covering their face with handkerchiefs damaging the MLA’s four-wheeler with logs. The vehicle was parked on the roadside in front of the MLA’s house at Megnanapuram. Superintendent of police of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar visited the scene and conducted inquiries. A case was registered under sections 427, 294(b) and 506(ii) of the IPC based on a complaint lodged by the MLA’s driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-held-for-damaging-mlas-car/articleshow/78244216.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Municipal Corporation rolls back one-time urban development tax||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has rolled back the order that allowed residents to pay urban development tax at one go. In February 2018, the state government came up with a new order that a person could pay urban development tax at one go for eight years. This, however, was considered to be a big loss for JMC as people started misusing it. Deputy commissioner of revenue Naveen Bhardhwaj said, “People started altering their properties after paying tax for eight years. This was against our interests as people were avoiding paying taxes leading to revenue losses for us. Hence, we asked the authorities to roll back the order.” “If everyone started paying one-time urban development tax, than after few years the corporation will not be earning any revenue. We need revenue generation every year,” said Bhardhwaj. People who made alterations in their properties after paying the advance tax will be charged again accordingly as the order is now been rolled back. Any property that is still in the same form as it was when the advance tax was paid, will not be charged anything till the 8-year term expires. This order was issued because the collection of urban development tax was really poor in the JMC. The government wanted to motivate people to pay more tax even that included one-time payment. JMC was able to collect more than Rs 73 crore of urban development tax this year. After a gap of 15 years, the civic body will start its property survey to identify properties taxable for urban development tax. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage and Greater has given the contract to a firm. Taxable property survey was last conducted in 2005 and since then the population of the city has almost doubled. At present there are 1,32,000 properties taxable that were identified in the 2005 survey. Lack of updated survey of taxable properties has been a major economic blow to the revenue of the municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-rolls-back-one-time-urban-development-tax/articleshow/78244218.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Eight Covid deaths and 225 new cases in Amravati||AMRAVATI: Eight Covid deaths and a spike 225 new cases have taken the district’s toll to 239 and patient tally to 11,185 on Monday. With 121 getting discharge from Covid Hospital on Monday, the number of recovered patients has reached 8,510. This has left 2,436 persons under treatment, including 10 in Nagpur and 922 in home isolation. A report from civil surgeon’s office said eight persons, including three females, died during treatment on Monday. Females aged 65, 55 and 55 from Anjangaon Surji, Chandur Bazar and Talegaon Dashasar breathed their last today apart from males aged 66, 63, 65, 70 and 76 from Badnera, Achalpur, Karajgaon, Sindhunagar in city and Kohala in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil, respectively. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader and former deputy mayor Dr Rajendra Tayde tested positive along with two of his family members. Dr Tayde, who is a corporator now, has been admitted to Rangoli Covid Hospital along with the family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eight-covid-deaths-and-225-new-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/78244217.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Rajkot||Use PPEs, biomed waste dumped near police station||Rajkot: Biomedical waste including syringes besides used PPE kits were found near the dumping ground of A division police station of Rajkot. According to police sources, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) is, however, yet take any action on it. General people dump garbage on the spot near the A Division police station. Lalit Vanja, municipal health officer, said, “I have no knowledge of this kind of waste being dumped in the open.” According to sources, many a time even private hospitals and staff of civil hospital also dump medical garbage at the spot spiking risks of spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/use-ppes-biomed-waste-dumped-near-police-station/articleshow/78241328.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Gang of six in police net, 18 country-made pistols seized||Pune: The Hadapsar police on Sunday arrested six persons, all criminals on records, and recovered 18 country-made pistols and 27 live cartridges from their possession. Police said the gang of six procured these firearms a few days ago from a village on the Maharashtra–Madhya Pradesh border. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache said, “Apart from the firearms, we also seized a motorcycle and the total worth of the seizure is Rs5.68 lakh. All the firearms are of fine quality and have ‘Made in USA’ embossing on them, but actually they are made in the village on the Maharashtra–Madhya Pradesh border.”  Police identified the six men as Arbaz Rashid Khan (21), Kunal Namdev Shejwal (19), Sharad Bansi Mallav (21), Jayesh Raju Gaikwad (23), all residents of Shirur, Suraj Ramesh Chinchane (22) of Phursungi and Vikas Bhagat Taur alias Maharaj (28), a resident of Yerawada. Bawache said, “The suspects brought the weapons to the city for carrying out criminal activities and for selling a few of them to make some money. We are investigating their contacts and will track down a few more people involved in the arms trade.” “Khan and Maharaj are the ring leaders and have been previously arrested in cases relating to body offences and threats registered in the jurisdiction of Shirur, Manchar and other police stations, while Chinchane was arrested by the Airport police for opening fire at a Vimannagar-based man. He has been released out on bail,” he said. “Prima facie investigations revealed that the suspects wanted to use the firearms, threaten some people in the city to enable them to carry out criminal activities,” Bawache said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-of-six-in-police-net-18-country-made-pistols-seized/articleshow/78242665.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||RHB to launch flats for IAS, IPS and IFS officers||Jaipur: The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB), will develop high-end flats for the Rajasthan cadre, All India Services (IAS, IPS and IFS) officers in Pratap Nagar Sector-17. This scheme will be self-funded in which 192 flats will be built. The built-up area of a flat will be 3,211 sq ft. RHB commissioner, Pawan Arora said, “The flat will be 3-BHK, with a drawing room and a servant room. The estimated cost of a flat will be around Rs 91,58,000.”An official said, it will be mandatory for the applicant to produce a certificate and salary slip issued by the competent authority. Certification from IAS Group Housing Co-operative Society will have to be compulsorily submitted. In the application form, spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son/daughter, grandson and daughter-in-law could be the applicant nominee. Any flat allotted by lottery will not be changed, but if any two or more allottees want to exchange the allotted flat with mutual consent, it will be allowed. Applications registered under this scheme will not be able to get transfers to other schemes and cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhb-to-launch-flats-for-ias-ips-and-ifs-officers/articleshow/78244212.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Thane||7 more cops die of Covid in 3 days, Maharashtra toll 224||NAVI MUMBAI/THANE: Two Navi Mumbai cops died of Covid-19 during treatment at D Y Patil hospital in Nerul on Monday, taking the toll there to nine. Five from Thane, Solapur (rural), Bhandara, Gondia and Nashik (rural) died on September 19-20, taking the Maharashtra police toll to 224, of whom 23 are officers. Navi Mumbai’s NRI coastal police assistant sub-inspector Shantilal Koli, (55), admitted on September 15, died on Monday. Koli had comorbidities and was on special leave, senior inspector Tanvir Shaikh said. He is survived by wife and two children. Constable Vinod Pataskar (46), with Navi Mumbai police headquarters, also died on Monday after he was on ventilator support for three days. Admitted to hospital on September 9, he is survived by wife, a daughter and son. Constable Maruti Kadam (54), with Thane’s Shil-Daighar police, died while undergoing treatment on Sunday, taking Thane’s police toll to 23. Mumbai Police recorded most fatalities (78) till date. Assistant sub-inspector Balu Shinde (56), with Nashik (rural) headquarters, was the sixth to succumb from Nashik (rural). Constable Natu Sarve (51), with Jawahar police in Bhandara, and one from Gondia also died on Sunday. Solapur (rural) sub-inspector Shaukat Ali Shaikh (57), with wireless department, died on September 19. He was to retire in a year. A total of 159 personnel tested positive in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 21,311, of whom 17,434 recovered and 3,655 are being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/7-more-cops-die-of-covid-in-3-days-maharashtra-toll-224/articleshow/78248019.cms||George Mendonca
September 22, 2020||Madurai||No attempt should be made to misguide farmers on farm bills, says TN BJP chief||Madurai: Stating that the BJP government at the Centre is committed to the welfare of farmers, state BJP president L Murugan said that the Farm Bills 2020 passed in the Parliament would benefit the farming community immensely and no one should attempt to misguide them on these important bills. Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Monday, he said that farmers’ income would increase manifold due to these bills as it would do away with the middlemen in agricultural trade and help the farmers fix the income for their produce. He also said that the bills would do away with black markets and hoarding of goods. For instance, jasmine farmers in Madurai can reach out to scent factories and tie-up with them and sell their produce as per their choice. Similarly, if they tie-up with food processing industries, it would help them have a fixed price even when there is a larger production and hence they would not suffer losses. The price fixed at the time of agreement would continue throughout the agreement period. The agreements would be made in the local language, and the agricultural board that would be constituted would resolve any disputes within a stipulated period which would reduce any danger of land parcels being attached due to the agreement rules. “These bills would facilitate the use of technology by farmers. It will encourage the growth of the agriculture sector in many ways. It would also reduce the cost of transport and the farmers can sell their produce in a place of their choice. Farmers would also get an opportunity to sell their produce online,” Murugan said. He also said that in Tamil Nadu alone, 41 lakh farmers were benefiting from the Prime Minister’s Kisan Scheme and added that the action taken by the state government into the PM Kissan scam, was satisfactory. Answering a question on the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly elections, he said that for now the NDA alliance would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-attempt-should-be-made-to-misguide-farmers-on-farm-bills-says-tn-bjp-chief/articleshow/78244230.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||PM urged to reconsider implementing new tax collection at source||Madurai: The Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited has submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to reconsider implementing the new tax collection at source (TCS) Section 206 C (1H) on October 1, considering the complexities in it and lack of clarity on the same among the stakeholders. This new section will cause hardship to stakeholders who are struggling to bring business to normal and in paying and submitting new forms every month in addition to already available procedures. “During this period of crisis, stakeholders are facing hardship in paying interest, loan liabilities and getting receivables from the debtors. We feel that new section is highly unwarranted,” association president S P Jeyapragasam said.There are existing concrete measures like stakeholders compliance with GST, TDS provisions, tax audit, not permitting cash payment more than Rs 10,000 and restriction in cash withdrawal from bank accounts in a year among many others to prevent tax evasion. “There is no need for TCS at the point of sale as just another check mechanism for tax evasion,” he said.The association pointed out that according to the section assesses with turnover exceeding Rs 10 crore in the financial year 2019-20 has to collect TCS from a buyer making a purchase that is exceeding Rs 50 lakh in a financial year. Assesses would have difficulty at the point of collection, they said and added that complete details of this section are not clear to many stakeholders.It is not clear whether TCS is applicable for advance payment for sale of goods and whether it can be refunded in case of sales return, credit and debit notes issued due to quality difference of goods, they said.Instead of implementing such new cumbersome taxation, they urged the government to announce stimulus packages to revive crippled business, trade and industry activities as it could take a whole year to get back to track for businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pm-urged-to-reconsider-implementing-new-tax-collection-at-source/articleshow/78244239.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||This crooner sings for Bhojpuri pride||LUCKNOW: For 23-year-old Neha Singh Rathore, a Bhojpuri crooner whose self-composed songs are packed with rusticity and rebellion, the rise to fame has been quite mercurial. From a few hundred fans on Twitter a few days ago, Neha today has over 26,000 followers in her kitty and more than 64,000 followers across social media platforms. भादो आषाढ़ चाहे जेठ के घाम, केहू बूझे नाहीं... (किसान गीत)गीतकार - स्वयं मैं.#धरोहर#कृषि_अध्यादेशमैंने हमेशा… https://t.co/8Ug5p4cL9E— Neha Singh Rathore (@NehaFolksinger) 1600663200000Her followers include politicians, film-makers, bureaucrats and eminent journalists and activists. Some prominent film-makers are looking for her after listening to her songs. According to her Twitter bio, Neha is “fighting to restore the honour of Bhojpuri that has been ripped off by the sleazy movie songs (sic)”. Hailing from Jandaha, a remote village in Kaimur district of Bihar which is less than 500m away from Chandauli on Uttar Pradesh border, she took to singing about two years ago. Talking to TOI, she said her inspiration is her mother Champa Devi. Talking to TOI over the phone, Neha, a BSc graduate from Kanpur University, says: “I started singing taking inspiration from my mother Champa Devi, a homemaker. However, unlike my mother, who sings old repetitive folk songs in wedding ceremonies as part of our culture, I developed inclination towards Bhojpuri folk songs to restore its honour.” Her father, Ramesh Singh, is an architect at a private firm in Lucknow. “We all have seen how Bhojpuri songs have become vulgar, misogynist and full of abusive content. Non-Bhojpuri speakers take such songs as obscene content made for quick money. Initially, I had no idea how to showcase the real beauty of Bhojpuri but eventually with the help of my family and friends, I started including political, social, cultural and linguistic issues in my lyrics and posted my songs on YouTube, Twitter, Instagram and WhatsApp,” she says. She was helped in her endeavour by her elder brother Vijay Singh and close friend Himanshu Singh Suryavanshi. “Most of my songs are satirical in nature but I do not target any individual but the entire system,” says Neha who aspires to become a trained folk singer. Forthcoming Bihar elections and the issue of unemployment are some of his favourites themese. Her songs 'Rojgar deba ki karba drama'(Will you give jobs, or just indulge in theatric) ‘berojgari ke alam me thariya pita bani, Bihar se berojgar bolat bani (Banging plates amid unemployment, a jobless youth calling from Bihar), and ‘Jaane ke hoke tah jaan le Bhojpuri maai ke’ (If you want to know mother tongue Bhojpuri) are some of songs which have been viewed and liked the most. “I started using Twitter just a few months ago but got most of the followers just a couple of days back. I believe people have started understanding the cause. I’m not a social activist but a common citizen, who is using her talent to bring about a change,” she adds. “I come from a village where girls are not even allowed to put up a display picture on social media accounts. There are restrictions on girls but I believe my songs will someday liberate them, as they worked for me,” says Neha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-crooner-sings-for-bhojpuri-pride/articleshow/78245092.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 22, 2020||Mumbai||Wetlands must be protected: Court panel||NAVI MUMBAI: Bombay high court-appointed wetlands and mangroves protection panel on Monday ordered district authorities to maintain wetlands and transfer mangroves to forest department. Committee members met after six months to decide on wetlands conservation. Green activists hailed directions of the committee headed by Konkan division commissioner A B Misal, as it will now clearly label disputed wetlands sites which are not recognized by Cidco, such as at Seawoods and Uran. Member D Stalin said, “We have told tehsil officials to geotag natural and man-made wetlands so they can get a status and be conserved. If there is a dispute about any wetlands site, members can visit ground zero to decide. There are around 60 wetlands sites in Navi Mumbai and Raigad district that need geotagging.” The panel also ordered shifting of Uran garbage dump from Bori Pakhadi. Till then, Uran municipal council must not damage more mangroves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-panel-orders-protection-of-wetlands/articleshow/78244271.cms||Vijay Singh
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Record 16 Covid deaths in Yavatmal in a day||YAVATMAL: The district reported highest single-day spike of 16 Covid deaths on Monday, of which nine are from Yavatmal city and tehsil alone. Among the Covid casualties are eight men of 39, 43, 51, 52, 59, 64, 67 and 64 years of age and a 57-year-old woman. Among the dead include 47 and 58-year-old men from Wani, 24 and 48-year-old men from Arni, 70-year-old man from Ralegaon, 61-year-old woman from Ner and 61-year-old man from Pusad. Also, 126 new Covid cases were detected on Monday of which 56 are women. As on Monday, there are 586 patients under treatment. There are 457 persons in home isolation while 256 are in isolation wards. The number of patients recovered on Monday was 190, while the total number of deaths has gone up to 223. The district administration has launched ‘My family; my responsibility’ campaign under which a door-to-door survey is being carried out to detected Covid patients as well as spreading awarenesss about the preventive measures to be followed, says GMCH dean Dr RP Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-16-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal-in-a-day/articleshow/78244223.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Pune||Khed NCP MLA stands by Bhama Askhed protesters||Pune: Opposing the Bhama Askhed project, NCP legislator from Khed Dilip Mohite on Monday said water supply through a 48-km pipeline from the dam to a water treatment plant in eastern Pune would not be allowed unless the compensation and rehabilitation concerns of project-affected people from 25 villages were addressed and adequate water from the dam was assured to them. “We have decided to launch an agitation at the dam site in the days ahead and our protest will continue until the concerns of the project-affected farmers are properly resolved,” Mohite told TOI on Monday. The Rs380.16 crore project, approved in July 2013 by the Centre under the JNNURM, envisages 200 million litres per day (MLD) water from Bhama Askhed dam to the eastern parts of the city through a direct pipeline. Annually, the city is expected to get an additional 2.64 TMC water from the dam having an overall storage capacity of 6.74 TMC. The project has faced multiple protests of farmers over the years, stalling the work. The latest being in August, when farmers from Chakan and 24 surrounding villages agitated against the resumption of the 1-km last leg of the pipeline work at Karanj Vihire village. The administration prevailed over the protesters and work is since in progress. Mohite said, “Villagers will be deprived of water once Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) starts lifting water from the dam, and a similar project is on the cards for Pimpri Chinchwad. I have taken this up with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, but he has not responded to me so far. If the state can make water available to Baramati and Indapur from the Khadakwasla dam, why can’t Khed get a share of water from a dam located in the tehsil I represent?” On why he was going against his party line now, Mohite said, “I am answerable to people I represent. Second generation people from the affected villages are now protesting and this shows, the government is not keen on resolving their issues. I have consistently voiced the affected farmers’ concerns. In between, the BJP-Sena government in the state pushed the project work.” Mohite claimed that the storage capacity of Bhama Askhed dam had been affected by excessive accumulation of silt on the reservoir bed. Thus, he said, people from Khed tehsil would get less water once the pipeline water supply started to Pune and, in future, to Pimpri Chinchwad. A senior official from the state water resources department dismissed the these fears. “The silt is at the dead storage level of the dam and never comes above the Minimum Draw Down Level (MDDL). It will take at least four to five decades before the silt reaches the MDDL,” he said. Sudesh Kadu, the PMC’s project in-charge, said, “We have completed the crucial one-km raw water pipeline project under police protection. We are hopeful of conducting a dry run in the weeks ahead.” On the price escalation, Kadu said, “We shall come to know about it once the appointed contractors submit their work bills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khed-ncp-mla-stands-by-bhama-askhed-protesters/articleshow/78242689.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||JDA seeks directions from state govt to allot land to RCA||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has sought directions from the state government to allot land to Rajasthan Cricket Academy (RCA) on concessional rates.The academy has demanded around 40.6 hectares to develop a stadium at Chop village on Jaipur-Delhi national highway. An official source said, “The empowered committee has decided to allot land at a rate of 40% of district lease committee (DLC) rates.Directions have been sought to lay the conditions of the allotment. Sources said as per the proposal, the RCA was expecting land allotment on 10% of DLC rates. However, after the land allotment policy 2015 was formulated, the JDA on its own cannot decide land allotment at concessional rates. “DLC rate in Chop village is Rs 29.85 lakh per bigha. Also, institutional rate is Rs 7,500 per sqm. Permission from the state government is required to allot the prime land on concessional rates,” said a source.According to a senior JDA official, during the previous Congress tenure, the civic body had allotted nearly 18.16 hectares to RCA in Chop village in 2012. However, then BJP government cancelled it in 2017 claiming that the academy did not adhere to the terms and conditions. An official source said, “The state government has directed to revoke the cancellation. It has also identified adjoining 17 hectares to develop a stadium. Now, the total land is 40.6 hectares.”Sources said, according to the previous agreement, the land to RCA was allotted with a condition that the academy will hand over the club house (situated in SMS Stadium) to JDA. However, the RCA refused to honour the agreement. On the proposed land, RCA has proposed a cricket stadium with a seating capacity of 75,000. The academy claims this will be the third-largest stadium after the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad and the Melbourne cricket stadium. Motera has a seating capacity of 1.10 lakh while the Melbourne stadium can host 1.02 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-seeks-directions-from-state-govt-to-allot-land-to-rca/articleshow/78244227.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||Unmarried mother of ‘sold’ baby accuses man of rape||Vadodara: The case of a new-born baby boy being sold to a couple by a midwife has led to registration of a rape case against a man residing in the Savli taluka of Vadodara district. It has come to light that the woman who gave birth to the baby was raped by the accused Pankaj Parmar. Parmar used to allegedly follow the girl to her school and farm. He allegedly had physical relations with her against her wish. According to the Kalol police, the girl became pregnant because of this relationship with the youth. When the girl realised that she was pregnant, Parmar allegedly told her that he would take care of her. He used to assure the girl that he was there for her and she should not worry. According to the police, when the girl had labour pains on September 1 her family first went to a private hospital that was not willing to take her in. A midwife at the hospital agreed to conduct the delivery and suggested that the baby be given to the couple that was looking for a baby boy. She took Rs 12,000 for the delivery and another Rs 15,000 from the couple that took the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/unmarried-mother-of-sold-baby-accuses-man-of-rape/articleshow/78241349.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Unable to repay loan, man commits suicide||AJMER: An employee of the state veterinary department committed suicide on Tuesday. He left a suicide note saying that he under threat as he was unable to pay back a loan and the interest. He is survived by his wife and three children, one of them is only 6-month-old boy. Police have begun investigating the case. According to Civil Lines police, Prahalad Singh (37), resident of Pratap Nagar on Tuesday morning was found hanging in his room when relatives opened the door. Police was informed and body was taken to JLN Hospital for autopsy. The deceased’s relatives said that Prahalad was under depression from last few days. The family members also handed the suicide note that was found in the room. The suicide note also mentioned some names including those of relatives and co-workers in the veterinary department. The suicide note further said that there was continuous pressure on him to repay the loan he had taken last year and the interest had increased. As he was unable to pay the debt he was taking this extreme step. Police have registered a case under Section 306 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unable-to-repay-loan-man-commits-suicide/articleshow/78244232.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Chennai||Ex-MP moves court against mining in Dharmapuri||Chennai: Former DMK MP R Thamaraiselvan has moved the Madras high court seeking direction to the state to stop permitting indiscriminate mining of minerals in Dharmapuri district and quash a tender floated for the same recently. The former MP stated that for mining such minerals the state has to obtain clearance from the central government, however, it has not followed any mandatory procedures before calling for the tender. According to the petitioner, also the district survey report for Dharmapuri prepared by the department of geology and mining 'large range of minerals are reported from this district such as apatite, corundum, copper, gold, iron, ore, molyb-clenum, lead, limestone, karkar, vermiculite, black granite and rough rock and that dimensional stones of the district are unique and possess multi-coloured and black granite. "Despite several conditions imposed by the central government for awarding tender and mining clearances, the state did not follow rules," he alleged. The petitioner also wanted the court to pass an interim stay against permitting such mining pending disposal of the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-mp-moves-court-against-mining-in-dharmapuri/articleshow/78242732.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||One more accused arrested in Alwar woman’s rape||Alwar: Police arrested the sixth accused in the rape of 45-year-old woman in Tijara police station on September 14, the case for which was registered on Thursday. With this arrest on Monday, cops have all the accused in their custody including two juveniles. The arrested person was identified as Imran Khan (26). Cops had previously arrested Aasam Meo (35), who is the main accused, along with Warish Meo (24) and Sahud Meo (19). The two minors are aged 16 and 17 years. The woman was raped in Alwar district’s Tijara police station area when she was returning from a village along Haryana border with her nephew. The accused forced the woman’s nephew to rape her, the video of which they uploaded on social media. In her statement, the woman said that the accused beat up her nephew when he tried to intervene. After the assault, the accused forced her nephew to rape her to ensure that she would not report the matter to police, she said. They made a video of the act as well which had apparently surfaced in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-more-accused-arrested-in-alwar-womans-rape/articleshow/78244266.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Thattarmadam murder case involving cop, AIADMK functionary transferred to CB-CID||Tuticorin: Director general of police (DGP) J K Tripathy on Monday ordered transfer of the Thattarmadam murder case involving an inspector and an AIADMK functionary to the CB-CID. The murder of S Selvan, 30, of Chokkankudiyiruppu near Thattarmadam in Tuticorin district last Thursday was probed by the Thisayanvilai police in neighbouring Tirunelveli based on a complaint lodged by his mother Elizabeth, 77. Thattarmadam police inspector Harikrishnan and AIADMK’s Tuticorin south district traders’ wing secretary A Thirumanavel were among those booked under sections 302, 364, 120b, 148 and 147 of the Indian Penal Code for the murder that was a fallout of a property dispute between Thirumanavel and Selvan’s family. Selvan, a member of the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK), was on his bike when the he was knocked down with a car by the accused. He was abducted and murdered by them. Demanding arrest of the accused and suspension of the inspector, his kin, villagers and NTK cadre staged protests refusing to receive his body. Even as six special teams were on the lookout for Thirumanavel and his accomplices, he and his brother Muthukrishnan surrendered before the Saidapet court on Monday. Soon after the development, AIADMK organiser O Panneerselvam and joint organiser Edappadi K Palaniswami announced removal of Thirumanavel from the primary membership of the party. Thirumanavel was the party’s trader wing secretary for Tuticorin south district. The party cited the functionary’s acts that tarnished the image of the party as reasons for his expulsion. Harikrishnan was placed under suspension by deputy inspector General of Police (DIG) for Tirunelveli range Praveen Kumar Abinapu on Monday. It may be recalled that on Saturday the superintendent of police for Tuticorin district S Jayakumar transferred Harikrishnan to the armed reserve unit of the district. The inspector facing charges under 3(b) of the Tamil Nadu Police subordinate service (discipline and appeal) rules, apart from the probe will be asked for an explanation in connection with the incident, based on which departmental action will be initiated. On Monday, Selvan’s kin gave up the protest and received his body from Tirunelveli Government Medical College and Hospital to perform the final rites. After talks with the kin, collector Sandeep Nanduri said that efforts would be taken to fulfil the demands of the kin that include a government job for Selvan’s widow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thattarmadam-murder-case-involving-cop-aiadmk-functionary-transferred-to-cb-cid/articleshow/78244270.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Covid deaths in all 11 Vid dists, recoveries more than +ve cases||Nagpur: As many as 97 deaths were reported from all 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday — the second highest in a day — taking the toll of the region to 3,288. Nagpur continued to record highest deaths with 50 patients succumbing to the virus. Almost equal number of patients (47) died in other districts. Covid-19 deaths from all 11 districts in Vidarbha were reported for the first time on September 11. The increased death toll took the case fatality rate of Vidarbha to 2.7% which is equal to Maharashtra’s. The deaths outshone a positive achievement of the region. Vidarbha reported more recoveries than new cases for the second consecutive day. Total 3,054 patients recovered as against 2,620 new cases. Now, the total cases in Vidarbha have reached 1,22,027, including 93,581 recoveries. Total 25,158 patients are under treatment in the region, which means just above 20% of the total cases. This number of under-treatment patients is least this month. The improved recovery rate of almost 77%, which is more than state’s 75% and close to national average of 80%, is an indicator that the Covid situation is improving gradually in Vidarbha. However, increasing number of deaths remains a concern. On Monday, Nagpur reported 50 deaths including 35 from the city and 8 from the district. It was followed by Yavatmal (16), Amravati (8), Gondia (4), Chandrapur (4), Washim (4), Wardha (3), Gadchiroli (3), Bhandara (2), Akola (2), and Buldhana (1). Total 2,620 new cases on Monday were the lowest after September 6. These include Nagpur (1,350), Chandrapur (274), Amravati (225), Gondia (219), Yavatmal (132), Akola (118), Buldhana (103), Washim (89), Wardha (50) Gadchiroli (36), and Bhandara (24). The recoveries include Nagpur (1,994), Yavatmal (190), Chandrapur (143), Bhandara (133), Gondia (129), Amravati (121), Washim (106), Buldhana (81), Gadchiroli (72), Wardha (56), and Akola (29). YAVATMAL: The district reported 16 deaths — the highest ever — in a single due to Covid. Eight of the deceased were from Yavatmal city alone. They include seven men of 43, 64, 52, 59, 39, 67, and 64 years of age and a 57-year-old woman. Other deceased include 2 men from Vani (58 and 47), two from Arni (48 and 24), a 70-year-old man from Ralegaon, a 61-year-old woman from Ner, a 61-year-old man from Pusad and a 51-year-old man from Yavatmal district. This took death the toll of Yavatmal to 222. Total 132 new cases were detected during the day. On the other hand, 190 patients went home after recovery. Now, the district has 1,043 patients under treatment. Of them, 586 are in hospitals and Covid Care Centres while 457 are in home isolation. BHANDARA: Two deaths took the toll of Bhandara district to 86. Against 24 new cases, 133 patients got recovered and were discharged. This took the total case count of Bhandara to 3,896 and recoveries to 2,481. Total 1,329 patients are under treatment in the district. GONDIA: As many 219 new cases surfaced in Gondia. It was the third consecutive and fifth overall single-day 200+ spike. Total 129 patients were given discharge after recovery. Four patients died during treatment on Monday. This took the death toll of the district to 70. All four deceased were men aged 62, 67, 74 and 79 years. Gondia now has 4,781 cases as against 2,961 recoveries and 70 deaths. Total 1,750 patients are under treatment here. Reports of 1,804 samples are awaited. GADCHIROLI: Three Covid positive patients died in the district including a 33-year-old man from Aheri, a 36-year-old woman SARI patient and a 65-year-old man of chronic kidney disease. This took Gadchiroli’s death toll to 13. Total 72 patients recovered while 36 new patients were detected during the day. This took Gadchiroli’s case count to 1,993, recoveries to 1,526 and recovery rate past 76%. Currently, 454 patients are under treatment in the district, the least in Vidarbha. WASHIM: Death of three men and a woman patient during treatment took Washim’s toll to 68 on Monday. The deceased woman was 78 years old while the men were 46, 60, and 72 years. For the second day in a row, the number of patients recovering from Washim (106) was more than the number of cases (89). With 3,644 total cases, 2,725 recoveries and 68 deaths (including a suicide), Washim district has 851 patients under treatment. AKOLA: A 54-year-old man and a 64-year-old woman patient died here taking the total deaths in the district to 211. Including rapid antigen tests, 118 new cases were detected in a day while 29 patients recovered to take the total recoveries to 4,761. Now, Akola has 1,678 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: A 76-year-old woman from Deulgaon Raja died during treatment on Monday in Buldhana the toll to 75. Of the 537 test reports received during the day, 103 tested positive taking the total case count of the district to 5,951. With 81 patients recovering in a day, total 4,726 patients have beaten Covid so far. Buldhana has 1,150 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-deaths-in-all-11-vid-dists-recoveries-more-than-ve-cases/articleshow/78244250.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 22, 2020||Meerut||Over 28,000 govt schools in UP still without power connections||MEERUT: More than 28,000 government schools in Uttar Pradesh do not still have power connections and the main reason for which is the “distance of electricity poles from these schools”. This was brought to fore by a review of the details submitted by state-run schools to the government authorities. The authorities have, meanwhile, directed the schools to make use of the unused funds provided by the Election Commission for the electrification during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “During the review of the details submitted by the schools for Prerna portal, it was found that 28,360 government schools in the state do not have power connections and the main reason for which is attributed to the distance of electricity poles from these schools being too far. It was found that in a majority of cases, electricity poles are situated at least 40 metres — even more distant in a few cases — away from these schools,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP. “During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Election Commission had provided certain funds to the state-run schools to get power connections for converting them into polling booths, following which an amount of Rs 32.67 crore was released, out of which Rs 4.7 crore is still with them. The schools have been instructed to use the pending amount to get power connections and inform the officials concerned of the electricity department to get the work done by October 15,” said Anand. Anand, however, added that the schools that did not have the 2019 funds left with them should provide the details of the money required by September 30. “Once the requirement of funds is listed, the money will be released to the schools concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-28000-govt-schools-in-up-still-without-power-connections/articleshow/78240403.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: 9 more Covid deaths, but active cases drop||PANAJI: For a second consecutive day Goa reported nine casualties, pushing its Covid-19 death count to 361. The state’s tally of active cases dropped to 5,667 on Monday with there being more recoveries than new cases detected. As many as 429 people were cured and 324 new cases detected. Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital reported six deaths and ESI-Covid hospital three. There wasn’t much difference in trend as people continue to report late for treatment. On Monday, six patients died within a few hours of admission, said the hospital bulletin. The deceased – eight men and one woman – were in the age group of 50 to 90 and except one, all had comorbid conditions. Design: Sharmila CoutinhoSource: Psychiatric Society of Goa and Institute of Psychiatry and Human BehaviourA 62-year-old man from Siolim who had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease died within an hour of admission. Most of the patients who are brought late for treatment, have either florid pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome, at the time of admission which makes their treatment difficult. Dr S M Bandekar, dean GMC and Covid hospitals, said in some cases it was noted that the patients tested positive on the day they were taken to hospital. Those patients suffered at home until they could not tolerate it any longer. On Monday, new cases detected were slightly less than the previous day. On Sunday, 429 people were found positive as against 324 new cases reported on Monday. Dr Utkarsh Betodkar, state epidemiologist said until they do not see a consistent drop in cases for a week or more, less cases for one or two days, cannot be construed as the virus is retreating. He said, on weekends, normally testing drops as compared to weekdays, with some testing centres remaining closed. However, tests pick up after Monday when a higher number of people are found positive. On Sunday, 1,411 samples were tested and on Monday 1,145.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/9-more-covid-deaths-but-active-cases-drop/articleshow/78244275.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Over 3,000 pvt candidates to take exams in Madurai dist||Madurai: Total 3,679 private candidates will be taking up the exams for eight standard public examination (ESLC), Class X board exams and supplementary board exams for Class XI and XII in Madurai district in the next few weeks starting Monday. To ensure sufficient space for social distancing, a total of 31 centres have been allotted. According to district education officials, all Covid-19 safety precautions are to be followed at the centres, including wearing masks, hand sanitisation and maintaining social distancing. A total of nine flying squads have also been constituted to ensure smooth conduct of the exams. Activists had sought for an alternative way for private candidates to be allowed to be passed in Class X board exams just like regular candidates, who were allowed to pass Class X board exams but were awarded marks based on their scores in quarterly and half yearly exams. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-3000-pvt-candidates-to-take-exams-in-madurai-dist/articleshow/78244278.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Meerut||Chetan Chauhan’s wife visits his assembly constituency just ahead of bypoll||BIJNOR: Sangeeta Chauhan, wife of deceased state cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan, visited his Vidhan Sabha constituency just ahead of the bypoll for Naugawan Sadat seat in Amroha that her husband held until his recent demise due to Covid-19. Former Indian cricketer and UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan was admitted to hospital on July 17 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He breathed his last in the hospital from multiple organ failure on August 16. He was 73. Although the central election commission is yet to announce whether bypolls to eight UP seats will be held along with Bihar assembly polls, speculation about the nomination went rife, after Sangeeta, accompanied by her son Vinayak and other family members, met BJP workers and booth presidents at a local college in Taharpur area on Sunday. She told the booth-level BJP workers, “Along with my son, I met people of Amroha to get ourselves acquainted with them. Our visit is a message that Chetan Chauhan’s family will stand with the people of Amroha and always serve them irrespective of caste and religion. It’s not a poll visit. We’ll respect and follow our party’s decision for the bypoll.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/chetan-chauhans-wife-visits-his-assembly-constituency-just-ahead-of-bypoll/articleshow/78240413.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 22, 2020||Meerut||Samajwadi Party leaders under house arrest in Bijnor to prevent them protesting against farm bills||BIJNOR: Bijnor police placed Samajwadi Party leaders, including Nagar Palika chairman Shamshad Ansari, under house arrest on Monday to prevent them from protesting against the farm bills passed amid protests by opposition members in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The bills were passed by the Lok Sabha earlier. Samajwadi Party held tehsil-level protests across Uttar Pradesh on Monday against the two bills — Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. They also protested against "deteriorating" law and order and unemployment in the state. In Bijnor, police stopped Noorpur SP MLA Naemulhasan, district president Rashid Husain and Shanshad Ansari from staging a protest. Some leaders were put under house arrest during the protest time. Talking with TOI, SP's district unit president Rashid Husain said, "Government through police wants to crush the voice of public. It is a murder of democracy." He added, "Our party workers are staging protests peacefully but police are not letting them to do so. Our leaders have been placed under house arrest."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sp-leaders-placed-under-house-arrest-in-bijnor-to-prevent-them-from-protesting-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78240418.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 22, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor admin imposes section 144 in view of ‘political activities’ amid Covid-19 outbreak||BIJNOR: The Bijnor district magistrate has imposed curfew in the district as continuous protests have been taking place, breaking social distancing norms in the midst of the Covid-19 outbreak. Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has been imposed to ensure that social distancing is maintained, and people do not gather for protests. According to officials, 2,690 people have tested positive for Covid in the district. Out of which 441 are active cases and 35 patients have died. On an average 50 people are being tested positive. “Section 144 will be in force till October 5. We have decided to impose the law in view of the Covid outbreak and upcoming festivals. We have got a tip-off that a lot of political activities are high in the district. Apart from these, some unsocial elements may spoil peace and communal harmony in the district. If anyone violates rule, he will be booked under section 188 of the CrPC."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-admin-imposes-section-144-in-view-of-political-activities-amid-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/78240407.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Sai Mandir Trust to help NMC run Covid hospitals at Imambada||NAGPUR: Sai Mandir Trust will help Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) start operations at the new Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) in the Isolation Hospital at Imambada from Wednesday. The civic body had completed all works by mid-June but could not start it for want of manpower. The trust will pay salary of some staff, all three meals for patients and staff, and also manage the operations. On behalf of NMC, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi on Monday executed an agreement with Sai Mandir Trust represented by president Omprakash ‘Munna’ Yadav, secretary Avinash Shegaonkar and trustee Dr Ravindra ‘Chotu’ Bhoyar, also corporator. Yadav told TOI, “Sai Mandir Trust has always been working for the welfare of people. The trust’s money belongs to the people.” The trust served food to 10,000 people every day during the 41-day full lockdown, and also donated Rs31 lakh to CM Relief Fund. “We were worried about complaints of people not getting beds. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis advised us not to be dependent on existing system and stressed on the need to increase beds,” said Yadav. The trust requested divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and collector Ravindra Thakre to allow it to operate an abandoned hospital on North Ambazari Road for only Covid-19 period. But the process was getting delayed. “We were eager to start operating a hospital soon. So NMC asked us to operate the hospital at Imambada. We are ready to spend Rs5 lakh or more every month to run the hospital and save lives,” Yadav said. In May and June, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe along with Dr Yogendra Savai and Dr Praveen Gantawar had developed five DCHCs at abandoned hospital buildings, with funds sanctioned by guardian minister Nitin Raut. NMC could not start the hospitals due to shortage of staff. One DCHC at LAD Square with 110 beds began only in mid-August. A few days ago, NMC started a DCHC at Pachpaoli specially for pregnant positive patients, but limited intake to 25 of 110 beds. Joshi told TOI, “With the help of Sai Mandir Trust, we will be able to run Covid Hospital at Imambada from Wednesday. There are 32 beds, all with oxygen supply. The trust will facilitate ventilators on four beds. Initially, we will take mild symptomatic cases referred from GMCH and IGGMCH. Later, we will admit patients from NMC war rooms.” Joshi added, “We are planning to start Covid hospital at Sadar with the help of doctors from railways. The railways too are planning to start their own Covid hospital. We will appoint our own staff before the railway hospital work is completed and Covid services begin.” NMC sources told TOI a team of Indian Medical Association (IMA) visited Covid hospital at KT Nagar on Monday to explore the possibility of running it. “IMA said many works are required at the hospital. A decision will be taken later,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sai-mandir-trust-to-help-nmc-run-covid-hosp-at-imambada/articleshow/78242754.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 22, 2020||Surat||Surat’s old RTO junction to be closed permanently||Surat: As part of redesigning and redevelopment of two important crossroads in the city — the Athwa Gate (AG) and Old RTO junction — commuters from T&TV School road will have to travel two km extra reach the opposite side of the traffic junction. The actual distance between these two spots is less than 50 metres. While it may require pedestrians a few seconds to cross the AG crossroads from Nanpura side to Athwalines, it will take motorist coming from T&TV School road more than five minutes. Redesigning of AG had started a few years ago and the vehicles from T&TV School road were being diverted towards Mahavir Hospital. Earlier these diverted vehicles could take a U-turn from near the Old RTO junction, but that too has been closed for sometime now. Hence, these vehicles have to go to Majura Gate (MG) to take a U-turn. The vehicles coming from Jivan Bharti School road at Old RTO junction also have to go to MG crossroads to go to the opposite side of the road. The redevelopment plan is being executed by Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) with support of traffic police. “Both AG and Old RTO crossroads are under redevelopment and so, the Old RTO crossing has been blocked and vehicles are being diverted,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. “The diversion from T&TV School road has existed for many months and will continue to maintain smooth flow of traffic from AG junction. For a few vehicles we cannot block movement of the entire junction,” Sumbe said, adding that Old RTO junction is being closed permanently to allow smooth traffic flow on Ring Road from Adajan to Railway Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-old-rto-junction-to-be-closed-permanently/articleshow/78241398.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai hosps witness more footfall as transport resumes||Madurai: Hospitals in the city across various speciality departments are witnessing more footfalls, especially from other districts, than the previous weeks after the resumption of public transport and government announcing more relaxations. Being a hub of medical care in south Tamil Nadu, Madurai often see patients from other districts such as Ramanathapuram, Dindigul, and Theni, etc.,At Government Rajaji Hospital, one of the state’s largest tertiary care centres, doctors said that the footfall of patients has increased. “We have started seeing more patients now, coming even from outer areas of Madurai and even other districts. The number of outpatients is returning to normal and surgeries are also slowly resuming,” said a senior doctor.Patients who require dialysis and cancer treatment, from other districts, are finding it much easier to travel now. “We are seeing 80% of normal strength in case of outpatients. Dialysis patients from other districts are able to come easily now. But there remains a 10% drop in patients, as a few prefer to choose a centre closer to their homes. We don’t discourage that,” said Dr T Dhinakaran, chief nephrologist and director of a private hospital.A general practitioner and cancer specialist, Dr B K C Mohan Prasad, said that many of his patients who were facing difficulties due to getting e-passes are now able to easily come for treatment.At a famous eye care in the city, officials said that they are now seeing footfalls of patients as that of the pre-Covid days. Dr B Kannan, medical administrator at a private multi-speciality hospital, said that the footfall is nearly back to normal. “Further, being a Covid-19 care hospital, we are also taking in Covid-19 patients who require treatment such as dialysis or even surgery. Covid-19 testing is being done for all patients who have symptoms,” he said. Many private hospitals said that telemedicine service, which they opened during lockdown, is attracting only few patients now.As Covid-19 precaution, attenders are restricted in all hospitals, besides masks and fever screening have made mandatory. Many private hospitals have also set up separate waiting areas to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-hosps-witness-more-footfall-as-transport-resumes/articleshow/78244281.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Any delay in recruitment process unjust: Priyanka||Lucknow: In a series of her virtual meetings with youths, Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to students preparing for various competitive exams on Monday. The list included candidates who took the village development officer (VDO) and sub-inspector recruitment examinations held in 2018 and 2016 respectively. Later, tweeting about her interaction, Priyanka said: “The youth is angry and disheartened. The UP government has woken up after the agitated youngsters took to streets. But candidates do not want assurances. They want that recruitment processes be evaluated in a time bound manner.” Cornering the UP government for sitting over the appointment and demanding justice for aggrieved youths, Priyanka added: “Wonder why recruitments get stalled in UP. The government must answer. Also, any further delay in appointment and making applicants run from pillar to post was unjust. This must be stopped immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/any-delay-in-recruitment-process-unjust-priyanka/articleshow/78245108.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Contractors should maintain roads for 5 years: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday directed officials to incorporate a provision for maintenance of roads constructed by the Public Works Department by a contractor for five years as against three years at present. Gehlot was holding a review meeting of the PWD through video conference from the chief minister’s residence. Gehlot said some roads do not need repairs for a long time while others get damaged quickly. Provision should be made to put the onus of maintaining quality on the contractor, he added. He directed officials that there should not be any compromise with quality control in construction of roads. There is a provision for quality check of roads funded by World Bank and Asian Development Bank and National Highway Authority by independent engineers. Third party inspection of road construction should be done by implementing the same system to maintain the quality of roads constructed under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) and NABARD. He said many a times people’s representatives demand a road connecting villages in which the work of rural development path or missing link could be made according to their demand and specific needs of the area. Gehlot directed to work on budget announcements on priority basis. He directed to prepare the list of worst roads. He said such list a should be prepared after a survey. Additional chief secretary, PWD, Veenu Gupta gave a detailed presentation about the ongoing road construction and repairs. He informed that under the budget announcement for 2020-21, work of 67 worst roads has been approved. He informed that the department has created a quality control wing and quality control labs have also been set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contractors-should-maintain-roads-for-5-yearscm/articleshow/78244276.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||205 confirmed cases but 21,000 sero positive in Wardha dist on August 1||WARDHA: An antibody survey conducted by Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) and the district health department in the district in August has revealed the real spread of Covid-19. When there were only 205 confirmed cases of Covid in the district on August 1, about 21,000 people were already infected with the coronavirus, said the sero survey. However, the rate of infection is only 1.50% and the study shows that it will take a long time for the population to develop herd immunity. To find out the exact number of people infected with coronavirus in the district, it was necessary to study whether antibodies were present in the population. This is because rate of infection is always higher in the population than in patients confirmed by actual testing. The community based sero-survey in the district was conducted by MGIMS, Sewagram, with the support of the district administration. The survey, conducted between August 10 and 17, estimated the actual prevalence of infection in adults (18 years or older). In addition to the general population in all eight talukas of Wardha district, people living in containment zones and those at risk of infection were included in the study. The survey team comprising of district health system as well as MGIMS health care staff, visiting 30 villages, 10 urban wards and 20 containment zones. It collected blood samples from 2,430 individuals. They tested for presence of antibodies against SARS-Cove-2 in the microbiology department of MGIMS. Of the 2,437 individuals surveyed, 1,468 were from the general population, 562 were from high-risk groups and 407 were residents of containment zones. The high-risk groups surveyed included health care workers, police and security personnel, government employees, vegetable and milk vendors, industrial workers and media personnel. A seroprevalence of 1.5% (1.2% in rural areas and 2.34% in urban areas) was observed in the general population. The seroprevalence in the containment zone was 2.70%. Seroprevalence was 1.42% in the high-risk groups, which was similar to the general population. It takes about 1-2 weeks for the level of antibodies to rise in the blood. This survey reflects the actual transition rate from the last week of July to the first week of August. Considering the 1.5% seroprevalance in general population, Wardha district had about 21,000 patients infected with the coronavirus till August 1. At that time, there were only 205 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in the district. This means that for every patient confirmed in the laboratory, about 100 people were infected. There are two main reasons for this. First, people without symptoms have a higher rate of infection (asymptomatic infection). Second, patients with symptoms due to fear and stigma about the disease have refrained from seeking medical treatment and testing for Covid-19, said the administration. This suggests the district needs to continue its aggressive stance against the disease and provide facilities for the growing number of Covid-19 cases, which can be expected to increase further. The capacity building effort should include increasing number of beds in Covid Care Centers and Covid Hospitals to care for moderately and critically ill patients. At the same time, people have to play their role by not travelling unnecessarily, wearing masks outside the house, washing hands frequently, and getting medical care in case of fever and cough. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar has appealed to patients suffering from fever, cough and shortness of breath to come forward and seek medical treatment immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/205-confirmed-cases-but-21000-sero-ve-in-wardha-dist-on-august-1/articleshow/78244286.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||Why setting up a Film City in UP is a good idea||Lucknow: The idea of setting up a film city in Uttar Pradesh is not new. With the number of Hindi films being shot in the state rising significantly in recent years, there was a need for developing logistics for film production to attract film makers. Here chief minister Yogi Adityanath has struck when the iron was hot and the film fraternity was questioning the monopoly of Mumbai over the trade following Covid-induced lockdown and the Kangana Ranaut-Shiv Sena spat. There are two reasons for film-makers flocking to UP to shoot — First, Hindi films increasingly have themes from UP, Bihar, for which the hinterland provided an ideal and natural backdrop. Secondly, the policy of UP government to offer a subsidy up to Rs 2 crore for the films shot 75% in the state. It also offers entertainment tax waiver for such films. Why some Bollywood stars have welcomed the move for political reasons, there has been a growing number of artists and film-makers who have been demanding UP to have its own film production hub — not only to promote the regional language cinema, but also attract the B-town A-lister to shoot here. “It was during Mulayam Singh Yadav’s regime that an attempt was made to establish a film city in Noida but the idea never took shape. We are confident that the Yogi government will deliver,” said Vimal, a veteran theatre artist. Of late, there are many producers who have shot their almost entire film on UP’s locations like Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Shoojit Sircar’s ‘Gulabo-Sitabo’, Satish Kaushik’s ‘Kagaz’ and Ajay Devgn 'Raid'. Besides Akshay Kumar’s Jolly LLB 2, Ayshman Khurana’s Bala and Bareilly ki Barfi, Ajay Devgn’s Raid, Kangana Ranaut’s ‘Tanu Weds Manu’ series and Salman Khan’s Dabangg and Sultan are some of the prominent movies shot recently in the state. All of them have been not only critically acclaimed but commercial successes as well opening a new window for filmmakers who are always looking for better and fresher options in terms of outdoor locations. The idea of a dedicated township for film production that was floated in 1988 ended up in establishing a Film City in Noida’s sector 16 during the Mulayam Singh Yadav regime in the early 90s. It was apparently owing to the location’s proximity with Prasar Bharti headquarters in New Delhi that the film city became the first choice of almost all major news channels and even some from the entertainment industry. But the lack of infra-structure for shooting films never gave the Film City the opportunity to attract Bollywood productions. It is now primarily a hub of TV channels. During the Akhilesh Yadav’s regime, a corporate house announced its plans for setting up a film city off Agra Expressway but the idea never took off. Later Akhilesh Yadav invited veteran actor Sanjay Khan to set up a theme park in Agra and along with it develop a Film City to attract production houses from the tinsel town to set up base in UP. But the idea never took off again. This time the government seems all set not only to establish the country’s biggest Film City in UP but also develop its satellite units in Lucknow and Varanasi to cater to regional film industry like Bhojpuri which has a vast market in UP and Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/why-setting-up-a-film-city-in-up-is-a-good-idea/articleshow/78245118.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||700-bed jumbo Covid hospitals to be set up in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: In the light of rising number of patients, Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) has sanctioned a 700-bed private jumbo Covid hospital in city. On the other hand, pointing out that hefty treatment charges of private hospitals are unaffordable for many, Chandrapur MLA Kishor Jorgewar has demanded 50% beds in the proposed jumbo Covid hospital be reserved for the poor. Jorgewar, in a letter to municipal commissioner Rajesh Mohite, has claimed there is mayhem at government hospitals and people are not getting beds in those facilities. He suggested that municipal corporation should bear the expenses of reserved beds in the proposed jumbo hospital, while the expenses on medicines can be taken care of under MLA development fund and mineral development fund. The MLA claimed that such a move would be in the public interest and people from weaker sections of the society will be benefited from it. Meanwhile, guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Monday held a meeting with people’s representatives and representatives of traders’ unions and decided to promulgate strict weeklong janata curfew in the district from September 25 to October 1. Wadettiwar claimed that Covid pandemic situation in Chandrapur district has turned very serious and the decision to observe janata curfew has been taken in consultation with stakeholders in the larger interest of people. He claimed the curfew will help in breaking the chain of coronavirus spread and hoped that number of cases would drop to half after the end of the curfew. Earlier, a four-day public curfew was imposed in Chandrapur city, suburbs and Ballarpur town during the second week of this month. However, the efforts had failed to curb the rise in the number of Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/700-bed-jumbo-covid-hosp-to-be-set-up-in-chandrapur/articleshow/78242764.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Goon, aides stab man repeatedly over rivalry||Nagpur: Aniket Angalwar, 29, was repeatedly stabbed at Chourasiya Chowk on Sunday by a goon and his two minor aides following an old enmity. The three had first sprinkled chilli powder on Angalwar before stabbing him multiple times. Police said Umesh Paisadeli, having several offences against him, was miffed with Angalwar following a spat between them around four days back. Angalwar, who has a street food business, was talking to a friend when Paisadeli and others zeroed down on him. Sadar police, which had registered an offence against the three, rounded up the minors and are now trying to nab Paisadeli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-aides-stab-man-repeatedly-over-rivalry/articleshow/78245956.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Madurai||Woman seeks relief after hubby’s death||Madurai: A woman from Dindigul on Monday submitted a petition to Madurai district collector T G Vinay seeking aid to support her three daughters after her husband died while undergoing treatment in to Government Rajaji Hospital. In her petition, T Revathy stated that her husband, T Vadivelu, 33, fell ill one month ago and was admitted to GRH. “Doctors there told us he had to undergo dialysis. A few weeks later, he was referred to Dindigul government hospital where he continued dialysis. He was referred to Madurai GRH again on September 6,” she added. However, he died on September 7 in GRH after showing symptoms of Covid-19. The hospital declared it a Covid-19 death. “It was shocking to see that after a few days, we received a message from Madurai Medical College saying he tested negative for Covid-19,” Revathy said. The couple have three daughters. Stating that the family was in financial distress, Revathy sought help from the collector to provide her with a government job or financial support. The collector assured to help her.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-seeks-relief-after-hubbys-death/articleshow/78244283.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP, Cong spar over condition of panjrapol cows||Gandhinagar: The ruling BJP and opposition Congress sparred over issues faced by ‘panjrapols’ or cow shelters of Banaskantha, with Congress alleging that many cows died because of negligence by the government.Speaking on the opening day of the monsoon session of the assembly on Monday, Congress MLA Kanti Kharadi asked, “What were the circumstances that led panjrapol managements to release 500 cows on the road and why did the government not take any action?” He further said, “It is because of government negligence that many cows died in the state.”Responding, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, education and cow welfare minister, alleged, “Cows used to die in Congress’ regime during times of scarcity, but the BJP government has not allowed such a situation to happen. Our government has given all assistance to Panjrapol managements to take care of cows.”This was followed by an uproar in the assembly from both sides, making the speaker to intervene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-cong-spar-over-condition-of-panjrapol-cows/articleshow/78244294.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||As cases rise, plasma bank in Goa faces shortage||PANAJI: With a rising demand, plasma bank at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, which receives six to seven donors a day, wants more recovered patients to come forward to donate plasma. The plasma bank dispatches around 20 to 25 plasma packs a day to GMC and ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, a GMC doctor said. An official said that every day a number of potential donors are screened including employees from the private sector, but not all who meet the eligibility criteria turn up to donate plasma. “Nonetheless, the response has improved,” he said. After receiving poor response, GMC been running a campaign since last month to encourage potential donors to donate plasma. To cut down mortalities, the state government has been aggressively promoting convalescent plasma therapy for Covid patients having a greater risk of virus infection aggravating in them.  The government has also been conducting camps to screen plasma donors. The donors are presented with a certificate. The government has declared that plasma donors will get one-year free medical check-up and complimentary treatment. Goa’s mortality count climbed to 361 with nine deaths reported on Monday. There have been cases where patients were brought late to the hospital after the virus was aggregated while some patients have died within a few hours of hospitalisation. A medical official said for effective result, plasma has to be administered on the third day of the infection and though it is also given on the fifth day, or a little later, the patients are warned that the result may not be favourable. Health minister Vishwajit Rane has more than once stated that a combination of plasma and Remdesvir, has proven effective, and they would continue with it. Union Ayush Minister Shripad Naik and director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa, who have recovered from Covid, were also given the convalescent plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cases-rise-plasma-bank-faces-shortage/articleshow/78244284.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Administration to acquire Meghe & Mangeshkar hospitals for Covid patients||NAGPUR: After the government’s notification to explore marriage halls and other big places for treating Covid-19 patients before starting the proposed jumbo hospital, the city administration has decided to acquire Shalinitai Meghe and Lata Mangeshkar hospitals at Hingna for the purpose. In coming days, more such facilities would be taken over for treating such patients who are not finding beds. In Monday’s meeting convened by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, who had proposed jumbo hospital at Mankapur indoor stadium, it was decided that Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) would make both these hospitals ready as dedicated Covid Health centres (DCHCs). The agency would appoint a project management consultant (PMC) for both projects. Meghe hospital is already being used as Covid Care Centre (CCC). “As per the government’s directives, we’ve decided to use facilities at these two hospitals instead of jumbo centre. The NIT would invite expression of interest (EOI) on Tuesday for PMC’s appointment. We will talk with the management of both these hospitals about acquiring them. We will also appoint an agency for supplying doctors and paramedical staff for these DCHCs,” Kumar told TOI. The meeting was also attended by NIT chairman, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and others. “The creation of jumbo hospital would have taken a couple of months for us to arrange all facilities and manpower there. Both are already present in Meghe and Mangeshkar hospitals and therefore, they can be started without further wastage of time. It will save time and also patients’ lives,” Radhakrishnan B told TOI. Earlier, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis held a meeting with NMC’s top brass for reviewing the city’s condition. He was informed that the NMC administration had decided to acquire smaller hospitals and other centres for treating Covid patients. “These jumbo hospitals turned out to be a big failure in Mumbai and Pune. Therefore, it’s better to acquire smaller centres for patients’ treatment as they’re easily set up and less manpower is required,” he told the media. Kumar clarified that the main purpose of jumbo hospital was to treat a growing number of patients and therefore, the objective would be served through such smaller centres, which would be easy to manage. “The PMC would check facilities at both the hospitals and submit its report. The funds for both projects would be sought from the District Planning Committee (DPC) and State Disaster Relief Funds (SDRF), while NMC and NIT would also contribute. In acquiring both the facilities, we will require less effort, manpower and funds, and those can be started quickly than jumbo hospital,” Kumar said. Though the jumbo hospital’s proposal was submitted on August 9 by the divisional commissioner, the government failed to act on it for nearly a month. It was only after censuring received from the Nagpur bench of Bombay HC that the government granted its green signal but with many riders, including exploring marriage halls and other such big centres where Covid patients can be treated. A notification by secretary, disaster management, revenue and forest epartment, Kishor Raje Nimbalkar directed the commissioner to certify that all existing medical facilities in the city are being utilized for patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admn-to-acquire-meghe-mangeshkar-hosps-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78242775.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 22, 2020||Surat||71-year-old artist lives in ‘unknown art planet’||SURAT: These days, 71-year-old renowned painter Rohit Zaveri lives on an ‘unknown planet’ — one that he has adopted ever since his soulmate and wife of 40 years, 63-year-old Bharti, departed to an astral plane in March last year.Losing his muse, the bereaved artist set out on a quest thereafter, on a new artistic journey that has taken him off on a different esoteric tangent and one that has never let him look back. Making sculptures and paintings on the theme of ‘unknown planets’ for the past seven months, Zaveri has achieved most during the lockdown. Now, armed with a bevy of his artworks, the artist is set to showcase his work at the upcoming International Art Expo New York-2021 in April — a rare tribute to his beloved partner in absentia. “After 54 years of experience in the field, my recent series of sculptural paintings titled ‘unknown planet’ is a landmark creation from all perspectives. Inspiration, selection of medium, subject treatment are unparalleled. It is a personal, emotional story that is the inception of this series,” the artist confided. Recalling the emotional connection, he said: “My wife and soulmate, Bharti, who was a graphic designer herself, was critically ill in March last year. On her last day, I was compelled by my children to rest at home. Within a few seconds of her death ( I was at my home), I could feel the presence of her soul in my vicinity and I went into trance. After that, our souls travelled in the universe. What I saw and felt there got manifested in the form of Unknown Planet,” said Zaveri, recalling the painful journey. Zaveri, who has won various awards including the Pablo Picasso International Award in the field of Fine Arts, says he tried to present the unknown planets, beyond the boundaries of our galaxy, in this series created on high-density polystyrene. “These series of paintings represent the surface and formation of planets from other galaxies (about 80) I have in my vision,” he explained. "During the lockdown, I received some inspiration and I created almost 50 sculpture paintings during that period. I am also working on the Asteroids series moving into space. Its impressions are so freshly carved on my mind and heart that it took me some time to represent this in painting. Canvas was out of the question and so thought of using polystyrene foam commonly known as ‘thermocol’. I selected 75-85 kg density which was perfect for me to create,” Zaveri said sharing details about his creation. “I go into a ‘trance’ to see a particular surface — as close as from 100 metre distance — to create the same textures of the plains. Many a time, I even go 20 to 30 feet close to see its soil or stony surfaces — a uniquely surreal experience. And those 3D surface images are created in nearly four months’ time without any help,” said the alumni of the Fine Arts Faculty of MS University. Zaveri, also a graphic designer, photographer, and sculptor hopes to sell some paintings in the New York expo in April next year. “This will be my biggest tribute to Bharti,” he concludes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/71-yr-old-artist-lives-in-unknown-art-planet/articleshow/78241417.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Minor girl ends life after two youths enter her house with ‘intention to rape’ in Rajasthan's Dholpur||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old girl committed suicide in wee hours of Monday after two youths entered her house with the ‘intention to rape her’. While the family alleged rape in the FIR, cops claimed that it is yet to be determined as the medical report was awaited. One of the youths was caught by the family when he was at their house though both the accused are now in police custody. The incident is of Baseri police station in Dholpur district. Dholpur SP Keshar Singh Shekhawat said, “On Sunday night, two youths allegedly entered the girl’s house and when the family realised their presence, they caught one of the youths. In the meantime, girl went to her room and hung herself while the rest of the family were busy in catching the youth. It appears that the girl was embarrassed or ashamed because of which she took her own life though it cannot be said with certainty as she did not leave behind any suicide note.” The family informed the cops about the incident at 7 am on Monday after which the local police reached the house and took down the body. The person caught by the family was also handed over to the police. “In the FIR, the family has registered a case of rape against the two youths but we cannot confirm it till the medical report is ready. One of the youths claimed that he never went inside the house at all and the other one was acquainted with the girl. Both the persons arrested are adults and we ae questioning them to get more clarity into the case. One of them also had injury marks on his body”, added the SP. The girl’s post-mortem was done on Monday and her body handed over to the family who cremated her the same day. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girl-ends-life-after-two-youths-enter-her-house-with-intention-to-rape/articleshow/78244296.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Police arrest one for stabbing teenager to death||JAIPUR: Sodala police arrested one person and detained another for the murder of a teenager committed late Sunday evening. The stabbed teenager succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital. According to police officials, an old rivalry between the accused and the victim is the motive behind the murder. The deceased was identified as 18-year-old Adnan Khan while the cops arrested 20-year-old Karan Sindhi and detained another accused. Sub-inspector Chaman Lal said, “We have found that around a week ago, Adnan and few others had beaten up one of the accused. They had also made a video of the altercation and apparently were humiliating the accused by sharing it. Following this the accused were looking for a chance to vindicate themselves.” On Sunday evening, the accused found that opportunity when they found Adnan at a tea stall. “When they saw Adnan, the accused got into an argument with him which turned violent and one of the accused stabbed him with a knife and though he was rushed to the hospital, he did not survive,” added the official. The deceased’s post-mortem was done and body handed over to the family though cops are still looking for the murder weapon used and the SI said, “We are interrogating the accused to find the weapon used in the murder, but it is yet to be found. We will continue to look for it.” According to officials, the victim and the accused were unemployed. A case of murder has been registered against the accused. More arrests are likely to follow and the official added, “We are looking for the remaining accused and they will be arrested soon. They all lived in the same neighborhood and there are negligible chances that they will escape arrests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-one-for-stabbing-teenager-to-death/articleshow/78244298.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||7-month pregnant doctor dies of Covid in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Dr Pratiksha Waldekar (32), a pathologist from Amravati, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Nagpur during treatment on September 20. Dr Pratiksha was serving in the pathology department of Irwin Hospital, a Dedicated Covid Hospital at Amravati when she got infected. Dr Pratiksha, who was seven-month pregnant, is the youngest doctor to die in the fight against Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Doctors from Amravati told TOI that Dr Pratiksha served in the pathology department until recently. Hers was a precious pregnancy — a term for pregnancies that come after a long wait and have a history of prolonged medical treatment. After she was infected, Dr Pratiksha was admitted to a local hospital in Amravati for a few days. Ten days ago, she was shifted to Nagpur’s Kingsway Hospital. Here, her health deteriorated and she lost her unborn baby five days ago. After this, her health continued to deteriorate further and she succumbed on September 20. Dr Pratiksha was an alumnus of GMCH Nagpur, where she completed MBBS. She completed her post graduation — MD in pathology — in 2006 from Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Sawangi. Dr Pratiksha’s brother Thangaraj said that his sister was a dedicated doctor and kept serving patients despite being pregnant. “As a family, we have suffered a great loss. I appeal to people not to take Covid-19 casually. Please wear masks and maintain physical distancing,” he said. The family has made it clear that Dr Pratiksha was given all necessary medical care at Amravati and Nagpur as well, but she could not be saved despite all efforts by her fellow doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-month-pregnant-doc-dies-of-covid-in-nagpur/articleshow/78244299.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Government retracts ‘oxygen rationing’ as stunned doctors go blue in the face||NAGPUR: After doctors in Vidarbha opposed the health department notification on ‘medical oxygen rationing’ issued on September 18, the government had to issue a clarification on Monday. Fresh guidelines will be issued in a day or two. Earlier, on September 18, the government had capped oxygen use at 12 litres per minute for Covid patients. Vidarbha has seen a multifold increase in demand of medical oxygen following the high number of Covid-19 patients here, especially in the last three weeks. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) had termed the government order as ridiculous. “Does the government desire doctors to stop oxygen supply once a patient has crossed the ration limit,” asked VHA in an official statement. According to VHA, such absurd order came just because private doctors raised a hue and cry about dismal oxygen supply. “As per recent government rate regulation for Covid-19 patients, oxygen charges are not to be billed. Private hospitals in Nagpur are following the capped charges for Covid patients as on date, and we are not charging anything for oxygen so far,” said Dr Anup Marar, convener of VHA. Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, national secretary of Indian Chest Society, had termed this order unscientific. “By giving this diktat of limiting oxygen therapy, government is dishing out a death sentence to Covid-19 patients on High Flow Nasal Oxygen (HFNO) therapy, which is being utilized effectively to save lives of many patients,” he said. Vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council Dr Vinky Rughwani said the notification on consumption of medical oxygen was absolutely unprofessional and incorrect. “Inadequate supply of oxygen was to be addressed by such wrong and unethical notification. The curb on oxygen use was itself unprincipled. It is unwarranted to question clinical acumen of doctors,” he said. Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of IMA, termed this decision as a direct assault on the professional autonomy of clinicians. “It was a silly attempt to cover up bad governance in supply. It was the most horrible notification and was a clear indicator of unprofessional management of the pandemic, with no interest in well-being of citizens,” he said. Veteran paediatrician Dr Satish Deopujari has suggested a solution to this issue. “Instead of giving a cut off point for oxygen at 12 litres per minute, it should be use of oxygen as percentage. Using oxygen beyond 50% is not beneficial and in fact could be harmful. I feel we should immediately constitute an expert committee for defining judicial use of oxygen and take this important issue forward,” Dr Deopujari said. Following these opinions, the health department issued a clarification in which it has clearly stated that an expert group was meeting in New Delhi on judicious use of oxygen. “A policy or protocol on consumption and use of medical oxygen in Covid-19 patients and guidelines are expected in a day or two. These guidelines will be circulated to all,” the statement reads. “Till that time, let us all work on improving logistics and minimizing wastage in transportation and delivery,” the statement concludes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-retracts-oxygen-rationing-as-stunned-doctors-go-blue-in-the-face/articleshow/78242785.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cop kills self with gun over marital discord in son’s life||JAIPUR: A head constable posted in Samod police station committed suicide early on Monday by shooting himself with own service revolver. The head constable left behind a suicide note addressed to his son in which he mentioned that he was taking own life as he could not resolve the marital discord that his son was facing. Police are investigating the matter, though no case of abetment of suicide has been registered against any person so far. This is the seventh suicide by a policeman in the state in the last three months. The deceased head constable was identified as 45-year-old Sri Ram who hailed from Paota. Jaipur Rural SP Shankar Dutt Sharma said, “The reason behind this suicide appears to be a personal issue which the policeman was facing. On Sunday night, he went to his son in-laws’ house to pick up his daughter-in-law, but her family refused to let him take her. Even his nephew was married in the same family but they refused to let even his wife return.” Dejected with the outcome of his visit, the head constable, who lived in the police quarters, went to his room around 2 am. When his roommate returned around 5 am, he found the door locked from inside, claimed officials. When the door was broken, they found Sri Ram on the bed holding his service revolver which he had used to shoot himself in the head. “In the suicide note, the deceased mentioned that he was unable to get his daughter-in-law back and that appears to be the reason behind the suicide though investigation is underway. He was a very efficient worker who had been in the police force for last two decades,” added the SP. May 23: Rajgarh SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi killed himself in Churu district-investigation handed over to CBI May 26: Constable Jaswinder shot himself with service revolver in Sri Ganganagar May 29: Constable Giriraj Bairwa committed suicide in Dausa May 31: Constable Mayaram Meena killed himself in Jaisalmer July 5: Constable Premlal Gurjar committed suicide in the sessions court premises in Tonk August 10: Constable Yogendra Singh committed suicide in Sikar due to depression||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-shoots-self-to-death-over-marital-discord-in-sons-life/articleshow/78244292.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 22, 2020||World||Opposition forms alliance to oust govt||ISLAMABAD: The focus of Pakistan’s Imran Khan-led government remained on praising and defending the country’s powerful military establishment on Monday, a day after former PM Nawaz Sharif vowed that the opposition’s struggle was not against the “selected PM and government” but against the system (military establishment) that had imposed it upon the nation through a manipulated electoral process. “By criticising the army, he has made India happy. His speech was celebrated in India. At India’s behest, he is doing a disservice to the country’s national interest,” minister for planning and development Asad Umar said at a press conference. He was accompanied by the foreign minister, information minister and minister for science and technology. Staying silent for over two years, Sharif took the military establishment head-on on Sunday, describing its “unconstitutional” role in politics as the root cause of the country’s problems. “This is not a state within a state but a state above the state,” Sharif said in a bold and scorching speech against the military establishment. He was addressing a multi-party conference (MPC), hosted by the opposition Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and attended by all opposition parties, through a video link from London. At the conclusion of the MPC, the opposition parties gave a formal shape to their alliance, naming it the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) and demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Imran Khan. The MPC announced it would launch a three-phased anti-government movement under an “action plan” starting from next month with countrywide public meetings, protest demonstrations and rallies in December and a “decisive long march” towards Islamabad in January 2021. The opposition leaders announced that they would use all political and democratic options, including no-confidence motions and en mass resignations from parliament, to seek “the selected prime minister’s resignation and an end to the role of the establishment in politics”. Maulana Fazlur Rehman of the Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam-F (JUI-F) presented the details of the “action plan” before the media in the presence of PML-N president Shahbaz Sharif and vice-president Maryam Nawaz, PPP chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and other prominent opposition leaders. Before announcing the “action plan” aimed at ousting the present government, the JUI-F chief also read out a 26-point declaration in the form of a resolution containing various demands, including “end of the military’s interference in politics, new free and fair elections after formulation of election reforms with no role of armed forces and intelligence agencies, release of political prisoners, withdrawal of cases against journalists, implementation of the National Action Plan against terrorism, speeding up of projects under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and across-the-board accountability under a new accountability law”. Maulana Fazl said a special committee would soon be formed to give final shape to their programmes under the action plan and announce dates for public meetings and other activities. Through the resolution, the opposition parties also demanded the sacking of the chairman of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Lt Gen Asim Saleem Bajwa (Retd), and a transparent investigation into the media report about his offshore businesses and properties. They said that investigation must be carried out in the way it was done with the politicians. The resolution called for accountability of all those belonging to the judiciary, defence forces, bureaucracy and parliament under a uniform law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/opposition-forms-alliance-to-oust-govt/articleshow/78245947.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
September 22, 2020||Hubballi||Body of washed away youth recovered||Kalaburagi : The body of a 28-year-old youth who was washed away on Sunday evening was found on Monday evening. Beershetty Bodanawadi was crossing a bridge at Shrichand village in Kamalapur taluk on his bike when he toppled over and fell into the raging waters. Villagers who saw him falling rushed to his help and threw him a rope. Unfortunately, he was washed away. Police and fire personnel recovered his body on Monday morning. This is the second death in Kalaburagi after an assistant engineer at Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company was washed away in Bommanalli village on Thursday evening. His body was found on Friday morning. Following heavy rain in Bhima river basin in Maharashtra, heavy amount of water was released in to the river from Ujani reservoir in Maharashtra which led to a flood-like situation in the villages on the banks of the river in the district. More than one lakh cusecs water has been releasing in to river since Sunday which made water to flow over the Ghattaragi bridge delinking the Afzalpur-Jevargi taluks. Low laying areas in the district have been filled with water as well residential areas in city and villages also facing trouble in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/body-of-washed-away-youth-recovered/articleshow/78242593.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Goa||Netravali girl writes to panchayat about network issue, sarpanch says will petition PMO||Poinguinim: In Netravali, students Vaibhavi Prabhu, her brother and 20 other school friends, have to walk nearly three kilometres every day searching for a spot with suitable internet connectivity to be able to access their online classes. Sometimes the “suitable spot” is tree by the roadside. Fed up, Prabhu, who hails from the Nunem ward, has written to the Netravali panchayat requesting it to get the authorities concerned to improve internet connectivity in their village. Recently, TOI had highlighted how, due to the issue of poor internet connectivity in the Netravali village, three teachers from Canacona were undertaking a journey of nearly 90km three times a week to ensure uninterrupted education for at least 30 of their students living in the more remote reaches of the Sanguem taluka. In the letter, Prabhu has stated that even students from the neighbouring wards are facing the same problem. “Teachers have been sending online lessons, but we who reside in interior areas of the village have to miss them because of poor net connectivity.” Netravali sarpanch Archana Gaonkar told TOI that she has received Prabhu’s letter and that she will forward it to the PM’s office and to the authority concerned at the Centre to bring to their attention the plight of students in this area. “When the government started online classes, shouldn’t it have looked into the connectivity issue first and then begun the classes? It is mockery of online education and the initiative taken by teachers,” deputy sarpanch Abhijit Desai said. Earlier, a social worker from Netravali, Amit Naik, had even travelled all the way to the BSNL office in Panaji to request them to redress the grievances of the villagers. “If the department had acted promptly, the connectivity would have improved and the students would not have to go through this harrowing experience,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/netravali-girl-writes-to-panchayat-about-network-issue-sarpanch-says-will-petition-pmo/articleshow/78244347.cms||Albert Fernandes
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP is an idea whose time has come: CM to investors||Lucknow: After UP jumped to second spot from 2017's 12th position in all-India ‘Ease of doing business’ rankings released recently, chief minister Yogi Adityanath is now focussing on bringing the state to the first position. On Monday, while chairing a meeting of Invest UP, formerly known as Udyog Bandhu, Yogi declared that “UP is an idea whose time has come and it is poised to become an industrial state very soon”. Interacting with industry representatives, the CM said several major decisions have been taken by his government to ease industrial investment. This includes reduction of conversion fee from agriculture to industrial from 35% of the circle rate to 20% and to 14% for large land parcels. Housing and urban planning department will have to dispose of applications by industrial units for change in land use in 90 days. Industrial units in industrial and rural areas will be free from paying double tax.It has also been decided that Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) will develop land of a closed mill in Meerut as an industrial estate. All district magistrates have been directed to hold Udyog Bandhu meetings every month to resolve issues being faced by investors locally. Yogi said UP is working towards a $1 trillion economy to help the country realise the goal of becoming a $5 trillion economy. He said that MoUs worth Rs 2 lakh crore have already been implemented and the state has received over 50 investment proposals worth over Rs 7,000 crore from 10 countries which include Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany and South Korea. Among major initiatives taken by the state include the Nivesh Mitra portal, the largest single window system mechanism in the country where around 146 services are being provided on a single platform. A massive land bank of 20,000 acres is ready with the government which can be availed of by investors as soon as the project is finalised. UP contributes 8% of the country’s GDP and with a population of about 24 crore, is a huge market, the CM said. He added that sectors like electronics, IT, food processing, dairy, textiles, tourism and films are preferred investment hubs while other sectors like solar power, bio-fuel and civil aviation are coming up as attractive options. The state is also promoting sectors like defence and aerospace, especially in light of the upcoming defence corridor, warehousing, data centres, electrical vehicles and pharma. Along with a vast network of highways and expressways, UP will also be getting an airport in Jewar near Noida, which will be the largest in North India, and in Kushinagar, to cater to east UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-is-an-idea-whose-time-has-come-cm-to-investors/articleshow/78245139.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE starts online portal for schools seeking affiliation||Ajmer: Schools seeking affiliation from Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education will have to apply online. On Monday, the board launched a new portal for affiliation which is likely to benefit around 30,000 schools.Board chairman DP Jalori said this would bring transparency and save schools from approaching the board office in Ajmer. He said the affiliation portal will also have a 24x7 helpdesk. Board secretary Arvind Kumar Segawa said schools seeking affiliation will now have to apply online on the portal. To get double affiliation from the state education department, the portal is also attached with the directorate of secondary education of state government. The details of those schools that will apply for affiliation from the board will be verified through documents provided to the directorate during registration.The board said now schools have to apply once for affiliation and will no longer have to reapply after five years for permanent affiliation. If schools face problems while applying online for affiliation, they they can contact the help desk. On Monday, there were 1,879 complaints lodged with the helpdesk related to affiliation. Board sources said 98.50 per cent of the complaints will be solved in two days. Till now, schools affiliation from the board had to apply manually and also provide registration papers of the school from the directorate of secondary education in Bikaner.CBSE supplementary exam starts todayAjmer: Supplementary exams of CBSE will start in Ajmer region from Tuesday. Around 12,000 students from the region which include Rajasthan, Gujarat and Dadar Nagar Haveli will appear in the exam. According to official sources, students have to bring their transparent water bottles and sanitisers and wearing of masks is compulsory. Board said guidelines of Covid have already been sent with the admission cards to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-starts-online-portal-for-schools-seeking-affiliation/articleshow/78244304.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||Home quarantine or ‘imprisonment’?||DEHRADUN: A little over a month after Uttarakhand allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, residents in several areas of Doon alleged they felt “virtually like prisoners”, with houses heavily barricaded and no facility to get daily essentials. Most people in home quarantine said that even though officials called to check in on them, they were dependent on neighbours for supply of daily necessities. Some residents have alsotaken to social media to highlight their plight. A couple of days ago, a woman under home quarantine at Ankit Vihar, Kaulagarh road posted on Facebook, saying she urgently needed some essentials and had written to officials to help her out. A family in Dalanwala, where all four members recently recovered from Covid-19, said, “Even though officials would follow up on our health condition, we depended on the local RWA for the supply of necessities. Also, the guidelines of the state government (on home quarantine) weren’t clear and the helpline number was also mostly unavailable.” Speaking on the issue, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “The facility of delivering food is only for those under institutional quarantine. For those in home quarantine, we are sending mobile vans carrying necessities. Supplies can be ordered online as well by residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/home-quarantine-or-imprisonment/articleshow/78241436.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tide turns for universities in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In a reversal of trends, a large number of students from other states have begun the process to enrol in government-run engineering and pharmacy colleges of Gujarat. As many as 1,500 applications have been received by the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) from candidates outside Gujarat for undergraduate engineering and pharmacy course in government-run colleges for 2020-21 academic year. The state which has seen exoduses of students to states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in the past, is now seeing an influx of candidates from other states. In an attempt to bring more diversity in universities and college campuses, the government had earlier this year rolled out its ‘Study in Gujarat’ initiative. It aimed to woo students from other Indian states as well as from foreign countries. The government had held roadshows in several parts of the country as part of this initiative. Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education, said the roadshows have reaped rich results. The roadshows were held in multiple states including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, among others. The state government has reserved 5% seats in all government-run colleges for non-Gujarat students. Hailing the new initiative of the government, M N Patel, former vice-chancellor Gujarat University and ex-member secretary of ACPC said, “For a long time we have seen Class XII science students leaving Gujarat to pursue further studies elsewhere. This initiative will bring diversity in colleges.” The two main reasons cited for students choosing to study in the government-run colleges in Gujarat are nominal tuition fees that range from Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 per annum and the overall image of the state where students feel safe and secure, said sources. In other states, the college fees including the capitation fees can be as high as Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 4 lakh per annum. For about two decades, from the early nineties up to 2010, Gujarat colleges had lower number of seats than candidates enrolling for engineering and pharmacy courses. The seats were quickly filled, leaving the students with no other option but to turn to colleges in other states. “Every year more than 5,000 Class XII science students ventured to states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and students from Gujarat spent hundreds of crores for studying in other states till 2009,” said a source. This amount was mainly towards tuition fees and capitation fees, sources added. Over a period of time, the number of seats in Gujarat gradually increased from an estimated 12,000 in the nineties to 20,000 in 2009. In the academic year 2010-11, for the first time, the engineering colleges saw 168 seats remaining vacant. The situation is such that about 32,000 engineering seats of the total 73,345 engineering seats were vacant last year. This year,five self-financed colleges closed down and there was reduction of seats in government colleges in faculties like EC, IC, power electronics, mining and production engineering. In all, there are 64,782 seats this year of which ACPC is given the task to fill 50,051 seats. The remaining seats are to be filled by the self-financed colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tide-turns-for-universities-in-state/articleshow/78244415.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 22, 2020||Surat||SGCCI VP’s poll on Oct 4||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Monday announced the election for the post of vice-president on October 4. Office-bearers of the SGCCI stated that the last day of submission of the candidature was on Monday. About 12 candidature forms have been received by the SGCCI from the members who have filed their nominations for the post of SGCCI VP. Unlike every year, this time around, the VP’s election will be closely-contested with three strong candidates in the fray. These include Ashish Gujarati, a textile powerloom weaver and president of Pandesara Weavers’ Association (PWA), Mitesh Modi, a chartered accountant and Vijay Mevawala, a textile trader.On September 13, the managing committee election was held after four members demanded polls. However, the 44 candidates supported by majority of the members from the SGCCI were declared winners, while the four candidates who had opposed the selection had to taste a bitter defeat. Modi is trying for the second consecutive year for the VP’s post. Last year, Modi was defeated by the present president of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya. “SGCCI has over 10,000 members and we have kept the postal votes valid to discourage members thronging to the SIECC. The last date of withdrawal of the candidature is September 26,” said chairman of the SGCCI’s election committee, Hetal Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-vps-poll-on-oct-4/articleshow/78241435.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||Singoli–Bhatwari hydroelectric plant gets ready but is environmental clearance in place?||DEHRADUN: On the day when private engineering and construction firm Larsen & Toubro announced 100% completion and readiness for commissioning of the 99 MW Singoli-Bhatwari Hydroelectric Power Plant near Rudraprayag, the deputy director of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) wrote to the secretary of Union environment ministry informing that the environmental clearance for the hydroelectric project had expired on August 23 but the project work was carried on nonetheless. The official cited a petition filed by a Tehri resident in the letter, also marked to chief secretary Om Prakash, asking the secretary of Union environment ministry to take appropriate action in this regard and provide “updated status of the project and the action taken”. Notably, the environment clearance was initially issued for ten years and was subsequently extended for three years and ended on August 23 this year. Bharat Jhunjhunwala, the petitioner, said, “The clearance, the techno-economic concurrence issued by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), and the agreement with the government of Uttarakhand states the end date as ‘commercial operation date’. And, according to their (L&T’s) Monday’s statement, clearly the project has not been commissioned or commercially operated.” He also expressed his disappointment as the L&T didn’t construct fish ladders (structures to facilitate movement of fishes) as required under the agreement with the government of Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, L&T, in its statement, said that the plant, situated along the Char Dham route, will be a major boost to the state of Uttarakhand as it has the capability of providing over 400 million units of renewable energy per annum. SN Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, Larsen & Toubro, said, “Given the development imperatives of the state of Uttarakhand, this plant will be a key infrastructure ingredient for the region to become Atma Nirbhar (or self-reliant).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/singolibhatwari-hydro-plant-gets-ready-gets-ready-but-is-environmental-clearance-in-place/articleshow/78241475.cms||Shivani Azad
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-R to treat HIV/AIDS cases after recognition from ART centre||DEHRADUN: All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, will now treat HIV/AIDS cases after getting the recognition from Antiretroviral Therapy Centre (ART). AIIMS-R will now become the third government facility for treatment of AIDS cases after Government Doon Medical College and Hospital and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Professor Ravikant, director of AIIMS-R, informed that the treatment facility for HIV-infected patients will soon start in AIIMS as the institution has got the recognition from the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO). “Till now, only Doon Hospital and Haldwani Medical College has the ART facility. The ART therapy increases the quality of life and longevity. Our ART centre will be able to cater the patients from Tehri, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, and Pauri district apart from neighbouring towns of Uttar Pradesh like Saharanpur, and Muzaffarnagar, among others,” he added. Dr Meenakshi Khapre, nodal officer and assistant professor of community and family medicine department, said, “This therapy increases the immunity power of the body. Besides free medication, lab diagnostic procedures, counselling, management of other infections and every needed support is provided to the patient in the ART Centre.” According to Uttarakhand HIV/AIDS Control Society data, the state has 11,105 HIV/AIDS patients who were registered from April 2002 to June 2019. Among these registered cases, 1,294 patients have already lost their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-r-to-treat-hiv/aids-cases-after-recognition-from-art-centre/articleshow/78241465.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Cricket fever grips city bizmen after cycle firm become Kings XI sponsor||Ludhiana: Amid the tension and stress and other related problems in the wake of coronavirus, cricket fever has gripped city businessmen, specially those associated with bicycle industry. Even those businessmen who are not big cricket enthusiasts have started watching the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL), the reason being a city-based bicycle giant has bagged the principal sponsorship of IPL team Kings XI Punjab and the team is playing with the jersy engraved with the name of the Ludhiana company, which according to the businessmen is a big booster for them. Even though the team could not win its first match on Sunday, but the industrialists are sharing the pictures of the team in official jersy on social media platforms, along with slogans ‘Ludhiana’s name shining’, ‘Proud of Ludhiana Inc’ etc. Meanwhile, company owners are overwhelmed with the response from the industrialists to the development. Speaking to TOI , Onkar Singh Pahwa, chairman-cum-managing director of Avon Cycles said, “We are getting amazing reaction to the sponsorship. More than anything else what I am most overwhelmed about is how many people, including bicycle industry leaders, Ludhiana industrialists, our dealers, friends are calling me day and night just to say that Ludhiana’s name has been shone worldwide with this. There are so many industrialists who are sharing the pics of the team players with jerseys on social media along with different slogans.” According to Charanjit Singh Vishivkarma, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, “I am not a big cricket enthusiast myself but even then I could not stop myself from watching Sunday’s match of Kings XI Punjab as the team jersy carried name of the Ludhiana-based manufacturer with which not only me but hundreds of other local companies and thousands of people are connected. It is really a great feeling and the match too was very exciting and the finish was a nail biting one since it went into the super over.” According to Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), “This is a big achievement for Ludhiana that a local firm is the principal sponsor of a team in such big tournament. Moreover, the team represents Punjab as well. So, everyone, be it a small bicycle parts manufacturer or trader, all are so happy over the development and suddenly people have stopped talking about corona and only topic now a days is IPL.” Meanwhile, the company owners are getting several requests from industrialists and residents to organise live streaming of the matches on a big screen. According to Rishi Pahwa, joint managing director of the company sponsoring Kings XI Punjab, “We are getting requests for organising live streaming of matches of the teams too, which we have politely refused in the wake of coronavirus. But we will certainly think of some alternatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cricket-fever-grips-city-bizmen-after-cycle-firm-become-kings-xi-sponsor/articleshow/78242957.cms||Mohit Behl
September 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bus services struggle, receipts at 34% of pre-lockdown levels||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS) are still struggling to find passengers. With bus capacities being limited by the authorities as part of Covid protocols, both services combined are seeing just 1.5 lakh to 1.7 lakh passengers a day. The majority of current users are office goers. Senior officials said there is a rush from 9am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm, while for the rest of the day each bus has barely three or four passengers. Daily ticket receipts of both services combined is barely Rs 15 lakh, against Rs 44 lakh before the lockdown, a 66% fall. Atul Bhavsar, chairman of the AMTS committee in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), said, “Before the lockdown, the AMTS had an average of five lakh passengers a day and daily ticket receipts was about Rs 25 lakh. After services resumed — limited to 50% of bus seating capacity and no standing passengers — AMTS is now seeing about one lakh passengers a day, with daily ticket receipts averaging Rs 9 lakh, or Rs 9 per person.” Officials said this indicates that those travelling longer distances are using buses. They added that ridership is much below optimal and this is mainly because schools and colleges are closed. In the case of the BRTS, daily passenger traffic averages between 50,000 and 57,000 and daily receipts are about Rs 9 lakh. Before the lockdown these figures were 1.5 lakh and Rs 19 lakh. Officials said when both bus services did not cross the river and had limited routes operational, average combined daily ridership was about 90,000. Now, with all routes are operational, about 60,000 passengers travel across the river everyday, mainly during office traffic hours. Officials said the number of women passengers, the large proportion of whom usually travelled between 11am and 5pm, has fallen dramatically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bus-services-struggle-receipts-at-34-of-pre-lockdown-levels/articleshow/78244400.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Cops use force against farmers seeking aid||Jaisalmer: Police used force against farmers of Bithuja village in Balotara sub-division in Barmer district for staging protest. They were demanding to increase the remaining compensation amount of the houses, trees etc. on their field, on Monday. The road under the Bharatmala project is being constructed and farmers, for a long time, were demanding to increase the compensation. Later a meeting was called under the chairmanship of Balotara SDO in which farmers were persuaded to call off the protest. They were assured that those who were deprived of compensation will be given soon. Police detained three farmers who were released later. On Monday the company contractor started the work on the proposed route in Balotara sub-division against which the farmers protested. The contractor tried to persuade the farmers but they did not agree. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-use-force-against-farmers-seeking-aid/articleshow/78244387.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Protest against farm bills: Cong MLA fries pakoras, makes tea for supporters||Ludhiana: Several Congress MLAs from the city on Monday organised protests against the central government’s farming bill. Meanwhile, opposition BJP has demanded that the Congress MLAs and their supporters should be booked under disaster management act for flouting social distancing norms during the protests. The most interesting protest was held by the MLA from Gill constituency, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, who fried pakoras and made tea for his supporters and protesters during the protest. Speaking about the protest, Vaid said, “We got big public support to our protest in Gill constituency as people participated in large numbers. During the agitation we fried pakoras and sold tea as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has left every citizen of the country only with these two tasks and nothing else, because whether it was business or jobs or farming, everything has been destroyed by the BJP government. It has become a common phenomenon for the saffron party to crush people’s voice like this and forcibly impose their will on the public. But now people have woken up and the farm bills will prove to be the last nail in the coffins of the BJP and it is matter of days that this government will be uprooted from the Centre.” MLA Surinder Dawar who staged a protest in centre constituency said, “By passing the anti-farmer bills, BJP’s real face has been unmasked in front of the farmers, whom the party has been projecting to be their biggest well wisher. Huge protests have erupted all over India even amid coronavirus and I think the BJP should now realise that it has committed a blunder and party’s days are outnumbered. The Congress will keep up with the agitations all over Ludhiana and in Punjab till the time these anti-farmer bills are withdrawn by the Centre.” Meanwhile, the protests which took place on Monday have given ammunition to the opposition party BJP to attack the Congress. Speaking to TOI, district BJP president Pushpinder Singhal said, “These agitations of the Congress were nothing but big drama and only their supporters participated in these. There was no member of the public among them since everyone knows that the bills are for the welfare of the farmers whose suffering will now end due to these decisions taken by the Centre. As far as Congress is concerned, it’s the party which has become private property of one family and their leaders are left with no issue at all as they are free for the past six years and will remain so for decades.” Singhal added that, “During the agitations a large number of Congress leaders and workers had a free run and no social distancing norms were followed. At so many places many Congress men gathered and openly flouted the norms by having large gatherings. We dare the administration and police to show impartial attitude and book those who violated the rules and lodge an FIR against them under same sections as it was done against the opposition during their protests, which were held by following complete Covid norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protest-against-farm-bills-cong-mla-fries-pakoras-makes-tea-for-supporters/articleshow/78242947.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP targets to jack up power generation four times by 2022||LUCKNOW: The UP energy department on Monday set the target of increasing its power generation capacity by four times — from the existing 3,200 megawatt (MW) to 12,734MW — by 2022. Setting the target in a review meeting of the power generating units, state power minister Shrikant Sharma said UP would add 1,320MW by the end of this year. This would include a 660MW unit each in Meja and Harduaganj. The Meja unit is being constructed under a joint venture with the NTPC at an estimated cost of 12,176 crore. A 660MW unit in Meja was fired up in April last year. Sharma claimed that two units of 660MW each in Obra-C are expected to start wheeling out power by March 2022. Two units of 660MW capacity in Jawaharpur will also become functional, Sharma said. A 660MW unit in Panki, being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 5,816 crore, would also start generating power by December 2021 while the Ghatampur power project is expected to become functional by May 2022, he added. This way, UP would generate 12,734MW power — 9,434MW from the state-owned plants and 3,300MW in the joint venture. “This will help the government in fulfilling its resolve of providing uninterrupted power supply in the state,” Sharma said, adding that for the first time the government was obtaining environmental clearance before executing the projects. In a first, the minister said, the environment department has given its consent to operate the Anpara and Obra power projects. Also, the state would be making power plants in Anpara, Obra, and Paricha in accordance with the directives of the National Green Tribunal, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-targets-to-jack-up-power-generation-4-times-by-2022/articleshow/78245165.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||China encroaches upon Nepal land, builds infra||PITHORAGARH: The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China has constructed at least nine buildings on the Nepal side of the Nepal-China border in the remote Humla district in Karnali province of Nepal. Sources confirmed to TOI that the encroachment - which happened around 2 km from the border in the Lapcha-Limi area of Namkha gaupalika (rural municipality) of Humla - was first spotted almost a month ago by Vishnu Bahadur Lama, chairman of the Namkha municipality. The sources said that Lama was not permitted to visit the area by PLA soldiers who were also stopping local Nepalese villagers from entering the area where the buildings are located. He thereafter reported the matter to local district officials who constituted a team to visit the area between August 30 and September 9. The team recently submitted its report to the Nepalese ministry of home affairs and ministry of foreign affairs. TOI tried to contact the chief district officer of Humla, Chiranjeevi Giri to ascertain the contents of the report but he could not be reached. Sources said that China has been making inroads into the Lapcha-Limi area for several years. “The area borders the Tibet Autonomous Region and is a strategic location which offers a clear view of Kailash Mansarovar. Almost 10 years ago, when a road in the area was being built, China had constructed a building in Lapcha-Limi. When Nepal objected, China said that it was a veterinary centre that was being built for goods-carrying animals and would benefit people on both sides of the border,” a source said. He added that “since Lapcha-Limi is in a remote area and Nepalese administration does not have a very effective presence here, no one knows when the one building mushroomed into nine buildings.” Another Nepal-based source who is familiar with the socio-economic landscape of the area told TOI that most people in the Lapcha-Limi area as well as other parts of Humla are dependent on work at the Taklakot mandi in the Tibet Autonomous region. “The Taklakot mandi, situated at an altitude of 17,500 feet, is the epicentre of the cross-border trade between India and China which happens for around five months from June to October every year and many Nepalese go to Taklakot during the trading period and work for the Tibetan traders there. So they have been primarily dependent on China for employment,” he said. Since the past few months, there have been reports of China allegedly diverting the course of rivers while constructing roads in the Tibet Autonomous Region as a result of which some of the rivers flowing into Nepal have altered course, allowing China to occupy the land near these rivers claiming it to be part of its territory. Meanwhile, a leader of the Nepalese Congress who hails from the Humla area told TOI on phone that his party will be putting pressure on the Oli government to take back the land occupied by the Chinese. “We have urged them to resolve the matter with China by holding talks with them and will continue to put pressure on them,” said the leader who did not wish to be named. Watch China's PLA encroaches upon Nepal land, builds infra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/china-constructing-buildings-encroaching-on-land-in-remote-humla-dist-of-karnali-province-in-nepal/articleshow/78241480.cms||Prem Punetha
September 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid effect: Ram Lila actors miss their performances on stage||Ludhiana: This year coronavirus has not only spoiled the social lives of residents but also has created a void for them, especially in the festival season. Usually most of the organisers used to be very busy in making arrangements for Dussehra fair and Ram Lila before the onset of Navaratras, but this time there is complete silence on their part. The participants of Ram Lila are feeling as if something is missing from their lives. Though they believe that they must follow the guidelines issued for prevention of Covid-19, they also feel that if the disease had not hit the world they might be celebrating the festivals with full enthusiasm. 61-year-old Vijay Kapoor who has been performing the role of Ravana for the past 35 years in the Ram Lila being staged at Sham Nagar is missing his week-long stage performance. While talking about the same, he said, “I used to take one week leave from office, especially for taking part in Ram Lila, and we used to start practice at least two months in advance from Navaratras. But this time organisers are not doing it due to Covid-19.” About his selection for the role of Ravana, he said, “I had gone to give the audition for the role of Lord Rama but the director told me if I can sing and when I said no, he refused to give me the role of Rama. He told me I can become Ravana and I accepted it,” he said while adding that even his age does not allow him to go outside where there is public gathering. He said he wanted to do Ram Lila for as long as years he has the ability but this year everything had been spoilt. A resident of Dugri, Dr Surinder Jindal, who gave almost his entire life to the stage of Ram Lila and performed important roles during the days of terrorism in Punjab also, said, “Even in days of Emergency our club had organised Ram Lila in the city when no other organiser could dare to do the same. At that time there was complete denial for organising such events but we took the responsibility and organised Ram Lila even then. I used to play the role of Lord Rama then and now I used to play King Dashratha. Till last year we never missed Ram Lila.” He said but this coronavirus proved even worse than Emergency days and now this time they would have to miss it. “I am feeling something important is missing from my life but we can only remember the good old days as the situation was critical,” he said. For Ganga Ram Pandey’s family, this year is not that exciting as most of the family members used to take part in Ram Lila. Retired from powercom department Ganga Ram said, “We have been doing Ran Lila in Rajguru Nagar for the past 25 years and almost 12 artists were from my family while some outside actors also used to join us. My elder son is a teacher and lives in Ayodhya and he used to come to Ludhiana for performing in Ram Lila every year. But this time the organisers have refused to do anything as gathering is not allowed.” He said some groups in other cities are planning to go ahead for live telecast of Ram Lila through Facebook but here nobody is thinking on these lines as of now, so it is not going to possible this time. The president of Sarvhitkari Sabha Sri Ram Lila Committee at Machhiwara, Davinder Baweja, said, “We want to perform Ram Lila without audience and its live telecast can be made through Facebook page or through local cable network. We are going to meet the SDM with this request and if we get the permission we will definitely go ahead with same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-effect-ram-lila-actors-miss-their-performances-on-stage/articleshow/78242964.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Vadodara||CHARUSAT engineering student bags Rs 30 lakh package in Covid times||VADODARA/ ANAND: Layoffs and salary cuts have become new Covid-19 norms. But the pandemic-induced gloom has not affected job prospects of engineering students at Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT). In fact, a student of computer engineering department of Chandubhai S Patel Institute of Technology (CSPIT) has bagging highest salary package of Rs 30 lakh per annum, which is a record for the institute. Ahmedabad-based Kaivan Shah, who has been picked up by Amazon India is first student to bag such a package in the two decades old institute. “It was never planned. In fact, I wanted to pursue masters. But due to Covid-19, I applied for internship and based on my performance, I got selected,” said Kaivan, whose father Jayesh Shah is a government employee, while mother Neepa Shah is a homemaker. The 21-year-old who currently works from home has been picked up as software development engineer. Last year, the highest salary package at the institute was Rs 12 lakh per annum. “We have had students who have bagged maximum Rs 17 lakh to Rs 18 lakh per annum package. It is for the first time that a student has bagged Rs 30 lakh per annum package,” said Divyang Purohit, training and placement officer of CHARUSAT’s career development and placement cell. “In all 157 students from computer engineering, information technology, computer science and engineering, electronics and communication and computer applications (MCA) have been placed till now,” he said, adding that the students have been offered packages in the range of Rs 3 lakh per annum to Rs 5.50 lakh per annum. “If we compare the stipulated time period in which the batch of engineering students got placed this year, the placements are higher compared to last year. Usually, by mid-September, 100-125 students get placed. But this year, we began the process from August 1 and 157 students have already been placed even as the recruitment process is on,” he said. The young recruits have received placements in firms including Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Crest Data Systems, Meditab Software (India) Pvt Ltd, Gateway, Bacancy Technology, VOLANSYS Technologies, One-advanced, eInfochips, Jeavio, Cybercom, Softnautics through online placement process. “Many other companies including Infosys, White Hat Jr. and Evosys among others are lined up for placements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/charusat-engg-student-bags-rs-30l-package-in-covid-times/articleshow/78241511.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 22, 2020||Jaipur||Cong protests against farm bills, mandis shut||Jaipur: The Congress on Monday organised protests across Rajasthan against the contentious farm bills passed in Parliament and submitted memorandum to the district collectors. As many as 247 grain mandis in the state remained closed in protest against the bills, which after being passed in both houses of the Parliament, will now go for the President’s assent, before they are notified as laws. A Congress delegation led by the party’s state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra submitted a memorandum to the Jaipur district collector addressed to governor Kalraj Mishra. “The Centre has brought the anti-farmer bills in a hurry. The government neither discussed the bills with officials nor any opposition parties. But the Congress party will not allow injustice with the farmers,” Dotasra told reporters. With the passage of the bills, farmers will become labourers and big companies will take over their land and produce. Hoarding will be encouraged through the new law, he alleged. “As many as 2.25 crore people lost their jobs due to the Covid-19. Now the Centre is working to suppress the voice of farmers by bringing black laws,” the Rajasthan Congress chief claimed. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). This, the government says, is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. It seeks to transfer the risk of market unpredictability from farmers to sponsors. Revenue minister Harish Chaudhary accused the Centre of worsening the condition of farmers. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “Parties have lost power whenever they attacked farmers. The Centre can get the bills passed in Parliament but cannot win the hearts of farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-protests-against-farm-bills-mandis-shut/articleshow/78244425.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||Demanding financial assistance, chairman of Nainital’s municipal council sits on hunger strike||NAINITAL: The chairman of the Nainital municipal council, Sachin Negi, sat on a hunger strike on Monday alleging that the state government has not helped the Lake Town in any way despite the devastating effect of Covid-19 lockdown on council's finances. Speaking to TOI, Negi said that the council owes more than Rs 9 crore to its present and ex-employees in salaries and pensions. “We owe money to our workers who clean the town every day. However, none of them have received their salaries or pensions because of the lack of funds,” Negi said. The council’s budget has been strained ever since the lockdown began. Major sources of revenues like toll fees, parking, and other charges dried up and it didn't receive any monetary help from the state government either. The officials of the council say that they have been urging the state government for help for weeks now. Receiving no help from the state government, Negi sat on protest outside his office a week ago. The strike has also received support from the workers as well as other ward members who say that they too will sit on hunger strike if the state government does not help. “There is no money to function at all. All revenue sources have dried up and tourists are still not coming to town. If the state government does not come for help even now, the ward members will join me in the hunger strike as well,” Negi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/demanding-financial-assistance-chairman-of-nainitals-municipal-council-sits-on-hunger-strike/articleshow/78241505.cms||Prashant Jha
September 22, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 phase should not slow down recruitment process in state: CM||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday reviewed the progress of the ongoing recruitment process on various posts in the state. He directed authorities concerned to ensure that the Covid-19 phase doesn’t slow down or act as a stumbling block in the recruitment process in the state. He directed authorities that all recruitment should be done within the stipulated time span. During the meeting, the CM was told that 3,047 posts have been filled up by the State Public Service Commission in the last three years and the recruitment process is on for 1,145 more posts. Similarly, Uttarakhand Subordinates Services Commission has provided jobs to 6,000 people since 2017 and hiring for 7,200 posts is underway. Additionally, the Uttarakhand Medical Service Selection Board has provided employment on 1,282 posts and the recruitment process is underway for 1,351 posts. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday approved a fund of Rs 1 crore each for all the legislators under their MLA Local Area Development Fund. The amount of Rs 1 crore has been approved for 71 legislators – 70 elected and one nominated – for financial year 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-phase-should-not-slow-down-recruitment-process-in-state-cm/articleshow/78241490.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 22, 2020||Nagpur||Despite ST allowing 100% occupancy, people scared to travel||NAGPUR: Even as the state government has allowed Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to operate with full capacity, figures show that people are still reluctant to travel owing rising Covid cases in the district and Vidarbha. The MSRTC is operating its buses since August 20 with 50% capacity (22 passengers). However, on September 17, the state government allowed buses to operate with 100% capacity. It was expected that the decision would benefit the biggest public transporter to overcome its heavy losses by increasing the number of passengers. However, Anil Amnerkar, depot manager of Ganeshpeth’s main bus stand, said, “The flow of passengers is sluggish even now. We started implementing the decision from Saturday but due to the two-day janata curfew, traffic was poor. We expected good traffic from Monday but there was no crowd.” Amnerkar said, “On Monday till evening, of the 300 trips from depots in the region, 1,800 passengers travelled. If one considers even 22 passengers per bus, then over 5,500 passengers should have travelled. With 100% capacity, it would be over 10,000 passengers.” Amnerkar cited the spread of Covid-19 cases in the region as the prime reason for people’s reluctance. “There are no social events like marriages. Besides, a major chunk of the passengers are teachers and students but as colleges and schools are closed, there is no crowd. Due to virus spread, people are not visiting their relatives too.” As per official figures, on September 18, 2,300 passengers travelled from Ganeshpeth bus stand, followed by 1,085 on September19, 1,100 on September 20, and 1,800 on September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-st-allowing-100-occupancy-people-scared-to-travel/articleshow/78242963.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 22, 2020||World||Trump could face tax fraud probe, Manhattan prosecutor says||NEW YORK: Manhattan's district attorney said on Monday he might have grounds to investigate President Donald Trump and his businesses for tax fraud, as he seeks to persuade a federal appeals court to let him obtain Trump's tax returns. Lawyers for District Attorney Cyrus Vance made the assertion in a filing with the 2nd US Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan, four days before it considers Trump's request to block Vance's August 2019 subpoena for the tax returns. The lawyers said the "mountainous" public allegations of misconduct, including misstatements about business properties, could justify a grand jury probe into possible tax fraud, insurance fraud and falsifying business records. "Even if the grand jury were testing the truth of public allegations alone, such reports, taken together, fully justify the scope of the grand jury subpoena," Vance's lawyers wrote, without accusing Trump or his businesses of wrongdoing. Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Trump, declined to comment on the filing. Among the reports Vance's office cited were allegations that Trump routinely sent lenders financial statements that inflated his assets and omitted debt-laden properties, and from 2004 to 2014 paid $400 million in cash for "five houses, eight golf courses and a winery" despite billions of dollars in debt. They also included the case of Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen, who pleaded guilty to campaign finance and other charges, and testified to Congress it was common for the Trump Organization to falsify records when seeking loans. Vance had previously said his probe also related to reports of "possibly extensive and protracted criminal conduct" at the Trump Organization, including possible insurance and bank fraud by the company and its officers. Trump, a Republican, has said the subpoena from Vance, a Democrat, to his accounting firm Mazars USA for eight years of his personal and corporate tax returns was "wildly overbroad" and issued in bad faith to harass him. The president made that argument after the US Supreme Court in July rejected his earlier claim of immunity from criminal investigations while in the White House. Trump is now appealing US District Judge Victor Marrero's Aug. 20 ruling allowing the subpoena's enforcement. But lawyers for Vance said Trump's arguments, including that the Mazars subpoena largely copied an earlier subpoena from Democrats in the US House of Representatives, were "recycled" from when he claimed immunity. The lawyers called Marrero's review "meticulous," after Trump had accused the judge of dismissively rejecting his arguments as a "back-door" means to immunity. Oral arguments are set for Sept 25 before a panel of three judges, all appointed by Democratic presidents. Though the appeal was fast-tracked, it is unlikely the public will know what's in Trump's tax returns before the Nov. 3 election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-could-face-tax-fraud-probe-manhattan-prosecutor-says/articleshow/78245972.cms||---
September 22, 2020||India||Congress, BJP leaders trade barbs on social media||NEW DELHI: A war of words erupted between BJP and Congress leaders on social media over the two farm bills passed by Parliament. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav took on senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh, who said passage of the bills and the susoension of eight MPs was “murder of democracy”. “Eight MPs unilaterally suspended from Rajya Sabha without hearing them, without a vote on the suspension resolution and without giving the leader of opposition a chance to speak. Murder of democracy in India rolls on,” Ramesh tweeted. Yadav reacted to the Congress leader’s remarks and said, “Dear Jairam Rameshji, it will be better if MPs don’t jump into the well, heckle the chair, disrupt proceedings and create hooliganism in the House. Decency and decorum must be maintained in the House for democracy to thrive and flourish.” To this, Ramesh responded, “Of course, Bhupenderji. But then your leader must give up his 'my way or the highway' approach towards the opposition.” Continuing the conversation, Yadav said, “Dear Jairamji, my leader and my party have a tradition of following democratic principles. We were in the House and debating the bills, following the point of order set by the chair. Who started the hooliganism is for everyone to see.” Earlier, Anand Sharma had tweeted that democracy was shamed. “Deeply pained by developments in Rajya Sabha today as all rules and traditions of parliamentary democracy were pared by the ruling party. Deputy chairman Harivansh has disgraced his office by his unpardonable conduct,” he said. Yadav questioned the Congress leader, “You, Anandji, are a senior MP, well-versed with rules. How do you justify MPs sabotaging the chair’s mike, tearing the rule book and stopping Harivanshji from discharging his duty? Will politics override parliamentary procedures?” The BJP leader said division of vote was not possible when MPs sabotaged public property in the House and threw rule books at the chair. Opposition hooliganism in Parliament to grab eyeballs is the real threat to democracy,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-bjp-leaders-trade-barbs-on-social-media/articleshow/78245944.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Asst police protest instigated by opposition, says Hemant||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday assured the members of Jharkhand Assembly that his government is sensitive towards the assistant police personnel and is working to deter them from their ongoing dharna at Morhabadi ground here. Hemant claimed that his government was not acting tough on the assistant police personnel who resorted to stone-pelting and even violating the government orders that prohibit assembly during the ongoing pandemic. He, in fact, accused the opposition parties of taking undue advantage of the government’s patience and deceiving the protesters. “Paap vipaksh ke saathiyo ka hai (The sin was committed by friends of the opposition),” Hemant said in the assembly. “There have been instances where after a fruitful talk with the administrative members or with representatives of the government, they have turned back on their stand almost immediately. But now they are being misled by the opposition, who are even arranging food for them. It has also come to our notice that whenever anyone from the government goes to meet the agitators, workers, office-bearers and MLAs from the opposition camp are seen loitering around the area, waiting for the government representatives to leave the spot. The moment our representatives return, they go in and brainwash the protesters,” he added. He also handed over a copy of the 2016 notification, issued by the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led government, to speaker Rabindranath Mahto, which consisted of the service period, remuneration, educational criteria and physical ability based on which the 2,500 assistant police personnel were hired on a two-year contract across 12 districts. “We are sensitive towards them and looking into all the aspects,’ he claimed. BJP’s Ranchi MLA C P Singh refuted the chief minister’s claims that the opposition members are hanging around the protest site and said that they visit Morhabadi for fresh air and exercise. Singh demanded an immediate solution to the policemen’s woes. “The government must find a solution to end this impasse at once,” he said. BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi said the government must make necessary amendments so that the assistant police personnel’s service tenure can be extended or they can be regularized. “On several occasions, the government has regularized contractual workers. It's nothing new,” Marandi added. Meanwhile, BJP legislators on Monday demanded that the government rolls back the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, which was passed by the state cabinet on September 8. Led by Sarath MLA Randhir Kumar Singh and Bhawanathpur MLA Bhanu Pratap Shahi, BJP lawmakers descended to the well and resorted to sloganeering such as “Kala Kanoon Wapas Lo”, prompting parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam to issue a statement on behalf of the government. Stating that the bill has several flaws, Alam said the government is going through it again. But this did not deter BJP MLAs, who then descended to the well, forcing the speaker to adjourn the House proceedings for 20 minutes in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/asst-police-protest-instigated-by-opposition-says-hemant/articleshow/78243016.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Shipping company’s NOCs cancelled||Visakhapatnam: The Vizag police commissioner, who is the competent authority for issuance of no-objection certificates, has cancelled the NOCs issued to Sravan Shipping company that handles ammonium nitrate at Vizag port. The order of cancellation of the NOCs was issued to the company on September 18 after the company failed to give a proper reply to the show-cause notice issued to it by police chief Manish Kumar Sinha within a week’s time. It may be recalled that the police commissioner had issued the show-cause notice after an inspection of the shipping firm’s warehouse at Chukkavanipalem was carried out by a police team on September 11. During the inspection, police officials found many safety violations in the warehouse following which the notice was issued. As per the show-cause, officials found gross violation of safety provisions and also related maintenance of records and submission of returns. There was also violation of licence conditions in constructing the warehouses with different dimensions and without keeping safety distance as specified in the rules and as proposed by the shipping firm in the site plan enclosed with the application to district authority based on which the NOCs were given, the police commissioner mentioned in the cancellation order. The police chief, in his order, said Sravan Shipping in its response has sought more time to offer their reply citing inconveniences and difficulties due to Covid-19, because of which the agency has been working with skeletal staff. Earlier, Sinha had clearly mentioned in the show-cause notice that the company’s response be given within seven days, failing which action would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/shipping-companys-nocs-cancelled/articleshow/78241523.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand high court scraps jobs of 8,400 teachers||RANCHI: As many as 8,423 government primary school teachers from 13 Scheduled Districts of the state are now rendered jobless after the Jharkhand high court on Monday struck down their appointments as null and void, saying 100% reservation for the jobs violates the key principles of Fundamental Rights. A full bench of the court comprising Justice H C Mishra, Justice S Chandrashekhar and Justice Deepak Roshan passed the 63-page verdict during an online hearing of a series of writ petitions filed by rejected candidates. The petitions were filed in 2017 challenging the former Raghubar Das government’s vacancy notice for 17,572 posts of Class III and IV teachers and reserved only for candidates residing in the Scheduled Districts. The notification had also said candidates from a Scheduled District can only apply in his or district and the reservation of teachers’ jobs in these districts would continue for 10 years till 2026. The government then conducted the appointment process through the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) and around 9,000 teachers were appointed in phases in both scheduled and non-scheduled areas during a two-year period from 2017 to 2019. This is the second time that courts have recently scrapped the works taken up by the erstwhile Das government. Earlier this month, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ruled that the assembly and high court complexes were constructed in violation of the environmental norms and directed the Central Pollution Control Board to make an assessment of the fine to be imposed on the Jharkhand government for the structures. In the teachers’ appointment case, the government’s vacancy notice deprived candidates of non-Scheduled Districts from their right to equal opportunity, said L K Singh, the counsel of a rejected candidate, Soni Kumari from Ranchi. The Scheduled Districts mentioned in the notice are — Ranchi, Khunti, Gumla, Simdega, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Latehar, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara and Shahebganj. The HC had completed the hearing of arguments from both the petitioners and the defendants in the case on August 21 this year and had reserved the verdict, Singh said, adding that the court had rightly pointed out that the notice violated the cardinal principles of the Fundamental Rights enshrined in the Constitution. “Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment is a Fundamental Right and is fully protected under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. Even the right to livelihood is protected as a Right to Life,” Singh said quoting from the court’s verdict. He stressed that though the HC order will currently affect only the appointments made in the 13 districts, it will have a larger impact on all future appointments of teachers in the state. During the hearing, the government counsel had defended the notification, saying it was issued in exercise of the state’s powers within the Constitution to make laws for the scheduled areas to promote the residents who are economically backward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-hc-order-over-8k-trained-graduate-teachers-lose-jobs/articleshow/78244927.cms||Chandrajit Banerjee
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Guv’s intervention: Cop held for gang-rape of minor after a mnth||RANCHI: Ranchi Police on Monday arrested assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ram Kumar Sharma for his alleged involvement in the gang-rape of a minor girl in a police guesthouse under Lower Bazaar police station limits on August 12. City SP Saurav said, “The ASI has been arrested and forwarded to jail.” The ASI’s arrest comes a day after governor Draupadi Murmu summoned DGP M V Rao and directed him to take swift action against the personnel concerned. Murmu had expressed concern over police’s inaction in the case after she was apprised of the case by the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Sunday. When asked why it took so long for the police to arrest Sharma, Saurav said, “There were differences in the girl’s statements made before the CWC and the police which prevented us from clearly identifying the accused. Moreover, her parents had sent her to their native village in order to protect her name in the society and this further delayed the verification of the third accused. It was after much insistence that we were able to talk to the girl on Monday and subsequently, we arrested the ASI.” CWC chairman Rupa Verma said, “In my report, I had mentioned the name and designation of Sharma.” Earlier, two accused in the case — identified as Vipul and Karan — were already arrested. On August 12, the girl had gone to the guesthouse to meet her boyfriend Vipul, who has a relative working in the force, where Sharma later came and raped her, along with her boyfriend. Vipul later sent her to his friend Karan’s house in Daltonganj. On August 14, the girl was rescued from Karan’s house after her father lodged a missing complaint the day before. The girl was produced before CWC on August 18 where she recorded her statement alleging gang-rape. The CWC chairman then forwarded the copy of her statement to the police upon the latter’s request. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guvs-intervention-cop-held-for-gang-rape-of-minor-after-a-mnth/articleshow/78243142.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Space for yoga, music, books at Dhanbad Covid care centre||DHANBAD: In probably the first such facility in any semi-urban area of the country, a dedicated 300-bed Covid care centre equipped with a music room, library and yoga centre was opened in Dhanbad on Monday for treatment of asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. Located in the PG Hospital block at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), the centre has been developed with corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds from Maithon Power Limited (MPL), a joint venture of Tata Power and Damodar Valley Corporation. The centre was inaugurated by MPL’s human resources head Mritunjay Rai and PMCH’s orthopaedics department chief Dr D P Bhushan, who is also the nodal officer of the centre. Bhushan said, “The aim is to dispel the negativity that fills Covid patients once they test positive. Yoga, music and books will bring positivity and play a crucial role in their treatment.” He added, “In the well-ventilated and airy music room, patients can connect their mobile phones to a Bluetooth speaker and listen to music of their choice. One of our employees, Amit Vishal Sinha, who runs a gym at the hospital and is also a yoga expert, will run the yoga centre as exercise can provide help the patients get a break from the mundane routine and keep them occupied." “The library is primarily for elderly patients as the younger ones are more attached to their gadgets. We will be keeping literary classics, comics and non-fiction books about religion and history among others. While most books will be provided by the administration, we will also appeal to the people to donate for the library, which will become a permanent facility at the hospital once the pandemic is over. As of Monday morning, Dhanbad was the third on the list of most affected districts behind Ranchi and East Singhbhum with a cumulative caseload of 4,450. Of these, 891 are active cases, 3,505 have recovered and 54 have died. Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh hailed MPL, led by CEO, Sanjay Jha and said the district administration is committed to provide the best treatment to patients. He said only 100 beds were available for the Covid patients at the dedicated Covid hospital at Jagjivan Nagar in Dhanbad until two month ago and the number has been increased to 1,005 at nine facilities till date. Singh said plasma therapy for serious Covid patients is likely to be launched at PMCH next week as all necessary infrastructure and arrangements, including training of doctors, nurses and lab technicians, is complete. A license for the formal launch of plasma therapy is pending, he said He said rapid antigen test camps for suspected cases are being organized at 59 vulnerable areas of the district on a daily basis since September 15 and it was extended to 15 new zones on Monday. He also appealed to the residents to participate in testing drives and help the administration identify patients for timely treatment. Notably, two blocks of the PG Hospital block have been used to develop the centre while two other blocks are reserved for development of more facilities during the time of need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/space-for-yoga-music-books-at-dhanbad-covid-care-centre/articleshow/78243081.cms||Praduman Choubey
September 22, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Covid surges, but casualties contained||RANCHI: While Jharkhand has recorded more Covid-19 cases in 21 days of September than the whole of August, the number of deaths has fallen sharply in comparison. Last month, Jharkhand diagnosed 30,403 new infections and recorded 313 deaths, the figures for September (till date) stood at 30,904 and 203 respectively. In another indication that the state has been somewhat successful in stopping the pandemic from spiraling out of control, Jharkhand has recorded 31,363 recoveries this month compared to 22,837 in the whole of August. The cumulative recovery rate in the state, which stood at 65% in the end of last month, has jumped to 80% in just three weeks. While the number of active cases has fallen from 15,043 on September 1 to 13,504 on Monday, the seven-day growth rate for the infection has halved from 4.53% to 2.12 % in the same period. The number of new cases being detected everyday also appears to have hit a plateau, allaying fears of a massive outbreak after more than 5,000 cases were reported on August 31 and September 1, when about 2 lakh people were tested in a special statewide drive. Since then the state has been averaging around 1,300 cases a day, marginally more than 1,000 cases a day in August, but significantly lesser than what health experts has predicted. The average for this month has also been slightly distorted by the 2,652 cases detected on September 8, the second highest single-day spike till date. While none of the 24 districts barring Jamtara (51 cases on September 18) have recorded their highest one day- figure in new cases since September 8, health authorities will be concerned by the fact that the virus is now spreading evenly across all districts, rural and urban, even though Ranchi and Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) continue to account for about 40% of the new cases. While these are the only two districts with more than 10,000 cases each, only three other districts — Pakur (651), Jamtara (693) and Dumka (903) and Lohardaga — had less than 1,000 cases until Monday night. Jharkhand has significantly scaled up the rate of testing in the past three months as well. The bottom-ranked state in terms of diagnosis with 8,837 tests per million in August 2, more than 35,000 per million have been tested now, taking the state to eighth from the bottom ahead of Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. As on September 9, the number of samples tested for Covid-19 stood at 18.09 lakh compared to 4.48 lakh people tested as on August 15. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “The unexpected numbers are a result of focussed testing of targeted populations who might turn out to be superspreaders. We are identifying possible patients and providing them with treatment at the earliest, which has led to a fall in positivity rate. Constant monitoring of patient’s at all covid care centres has also helped us and we have instructed all officials to ensure that no laxity is tolerated as far as patient management is concerned. This has improved our recovery rate.” Kulkarni added: “We are holding weekly video conferences with all the DCs and they have been asked to maintain a balance between antigen, RT-PCR and TrueNat tests. Anyone testing negative on antigen kits will have to mandatorily undertake RT-PCR if he is symptomatic.” (With inputs from Gaurav Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/covid-surges-but-casualties-contained/articleshow/78253527.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Covid surges, but casualties contained||RANCHI: While Jharkhand has recorded more Covid-19 cases in 21 days of September than the whole of August, the number of deaths has fallen sharply in comparison. Last month, Jharkhand diagnosed 30,403 new infections and recorded 313 deaths, the figures for September (till date) stood at 30,904 and 203 respectively. In another indication that the state has been somewhat successful in stopping the pandemic from spiraling out of control, Jharkhand has recorded 31,363 recoveries this month compared to 22,837 in the whole of August. The cumulative recovery rate in the state, which stood at 65% in the end of last month, has jumped to 80% in just three weeks. While the number of active cases has fallen from 15,043 on September 1 to 13,504 on Monday, the seven-day growth rate for the infection has halved from 4.53% to 2.12 % in the same period. The number of new cases being detected everyday also appears to have hit a plateau, allaying fears of a massive outbreak after more than 5,000 cases were reported on August 31 and September 1, when about 2 lakh people were tested in a special statewide drive. Since then the state has been averaging around 1,300 cases a day, marginally more than 1,000 cases a day in August, but significantly lesser than what health experts has predicted. The average for this month has also been slightly distorted by the 2,652 cases detected on September 8, the second highest single-day spike till date. While none of the 24 districts barring Jamtara (51 cases on September 18) have recorded their highest one day- figure in new cases since September 8, health authorities will be concerned by the fact that the virus is now spreading evenly across all districts, rural and urban, even though Ranchi and Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) continue to account for about 40% of the new cases. While these are the only two districts with more than 10,000 cases each, only three other districts — Pakur (651), Jamtara (693) and Dumka (903) and Lohardaga — had less than 1,000 cases until Monday night. Jharkhand has significantly scaled up the rate of testing in the past three months as well. The bottom-ranked state in terms of diagnosis with 8,837 tests per million in August 2, more than 35,000 per million have been tested now, taking the state to eighth from the bottom ahead of Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. As on September 9, the number of samples tested for Covid-19 stood at 18.09 lakh compared to 4.48 lakh people tested as on August 15. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “The unexpected numbers are a result of focussed testing of targeted populations who might turn out to be superspreaders. We are identifying possible patients and providing them with treatment at the earliest, which has led to a fall in positivity rate. Constant monitoring of patient’s at all covid care centres has also helped us and we have instructed all officials to ensure that no laxity is tolerated as far as patient management is concerned. This has improved our recovery rate.” Kulkarni added: “We are holding weekly video conferences with all the DCs and they have been asked to maintain a balance between antigen, RT-PCR and TrueNat tests. Anyone testing negative on antigen kits will have to mandatorily undertake RT-PCR if he is symptomatic.” (With inputs from Gaurav Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-surges-but-casualties-contained/articleshow/78243024.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Birhor girl gang raped in Hazaribag, one arrested||HAZARIBAG: A minor girl belonging to the protected Birhor tribe was gang-raped at Barsot village last week, police said, adding that one of the two accused were arrested on Monday. Barhi SDPO Manish Kumar said the 13-year-old was raped by Sonu Kumar and Sandeep Kumar on September 17 while she was in the forest to graxe goats. In her statement to the police, the girl said the two threatened to kill her if she informs the police or her parents about the incident. Later, she refused to take out the goats for days but broke down and narrated the incident to her mother. The mother and daughter then went to the police station and filed a complaint. An FIR was filed at the Barhi police station on Sunday evening based on a complaint filed by the survivor and her mother. He said, “We have arrested one of the accused and a hunt for the other is on. We are taking the matter seriously as the girl is a minor and belonged to a community on the verge of extinction.” Barhi police station officer-in-charge Uttam Kumar Tiwary said the girl has been handed over to the mahila police station for a medical examination and her statement will be recorded before a judicial magistrate. Tiwary said a case under IPC Section 376 and Pocso Act was filed against the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/birhor-girl-gang-raped-in-hazaribag-1-held/articleshow/78244967.cms||Abhijit Sen
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||JMM to launch stir against BJP’s ‘financial irregularities’ at CIP||RANCHI: The ruling JMM on Monday said it will launch a massive campaign against the alleged violation of financial norms by the city-based Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP), which is run by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. CIP authorities claimed that they have not violated any rules. Addressing the media, the party’s central general secretary, Supriyo Bhattacharya, said the internationally renowned institute for mental health has become a pocket organisation of BJP leaders and charged the Centre with ignoring the objections raised by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). He sought the Centre’s immediate intervention to stop the irregularities He said, “CIP has been taking the services of a private firm, Security and Intelligence Services (SIS), owned by BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP R K Sinha on nomination basis without floating tenders and paying it Rs 4 crore annually. Hiring of the agency and paying a huge amount without floating tenders is a complete violation of norms.” Bhattacharya pointed out that the CAG in its report for the 2012 to 2017 period stated that apart from the security services, SIS has also been awarded the work of housekeeping without any tender process. Stating that the agency is engaged by several other central establishments on nomination basis in other parts of the country, he said, “We are not concerned about the agency’s work in other places but since CIP is in our state, we are not ready to accept the violation of financial norms.” The JMM leader said the party’s district unit has started a dharna against the “violation” on Monday and it would be officially backed by the state unit. Responding to the allegations, CIP director Dr Daya Ram said they had to hire SIS as efforts to hire an agency through the tender process turned futile. “We are paying mandatory daily wages as fixed by the Centre. The tender process is on and if we get eligible parties, we will hire their services,” he said. Dr Ram said SIS has been providing its services to CIP for the last 20 years and each security guard is paid between Rs 10,000 and Rs 13,000 per month depending upon their attendance. “The guards do not work all 30 days of a month, so they are paid as per their attendance,” he said. However, JMM charged the director of mismanaging funds by showing a salary of around Rs 24,000 per guard. “There are 120 security guards and gunmen in the institute on a pay-scale of Rs 16,000 to 18,000. In addition, the institute pays for their ESI and EPF whereas the guards get merely Rs 10,000 to Rs 13,000 in hand indicating that every month there is a bungling of Rs 10,000 per head,” Bhattacharya said. He also pointed out that the institute ignores local people while making appointments and prefers residents from Uttar Pradesh, the home state of the director. “There was a vacancy for a cook in the institute and a person from Chennai was selected. Is nobody from Jharkhand eligible to qualify as a cook,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-to-launch-stir-against-bjps-financial-irregularities-at-cip/articleshow/78243114.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Two arrested for Dumka minor’s gang-rape, accomplice on run||DUMKA: Two men accused of raping a 16-year-old girl at her home at Dholkatta village under Ramgarh police station on September 2 were arrested on Monday.  The survivor visited the police station along with her parents to lodge the FIR on Monday and accused two of her relatives of raping her. In the FIR, the girl said was raped by her uncles, both 20 years old, while another one stayed outside to keep an eye on the arrival of her parents. The three threatened her not reveal the incident to anyone and she told her parents about the crime only after she developed abdominal pain, Ramgarh police station officer in-charge Rajiv Rakesh said, adding both the accused will be forwarded to jail on Tuesday. He added that the third person accused of helping the rapists is on the run and police are searching for him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-arrested-for-dumka-minors-gang-rape-accomplice-on-run/articleshow/78244955.cms||---
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Amid opposition walkout, supplementary demand of over 25,000 cr passed||RANCHI: The Jharkhand assembly on Monday passed the state government’s first supplementary demand of the 2020-21 fiscal year through voice vote, even as the BJP MLAs walked out of the floor of the House after expressing dissatisfaction with the answers given by the government to their questions. In the Rs 2,584.82 crore first supplementary demand, which was tabled by state parliamentary affairs minister on September 18, the government had sought Rs 299.66 crore for Covid-19 management and infrastructure development, among other demands. CPI-ML’s Bagodar legislator Vinod Kumar Singh, Ajsu Party’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto and independent legislator Saryu Rai had initiated a cut motion to set up a debate on the supplementary demands. Debating for the cut motion, Singh pointed out that seeking supplementary demands would be unjust as the government was unlikely to be able to spend more than 50% of the main budget due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “So far, the government has only managed to spend 16% of the main budget in the past six months,” Singh said. Speaking for the motion, BJP MLA Bhanu Pratap Shahi drew attention to the state government’s poor revenue collection record after the lockdown and the latter’s failure to provide jobs to the returning migrant workers, among others. Although debating against the motion, Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav underlined that the farmers were complaining about the shortages of urea. He also claimed that 60% of all saplings planted under Birsa Harit Yojana have died already due to lack of upkeep. Mahto pointed out that the government did not have any word about reviving the rural economy and providing stimulus to the micro, small and medium enterprises that are reeling due to the lockdown. Suggesting that the government must ensure the availability of liquidity in the state’s economy, Rai underscored the need to rework the priorities of this year’s annual budget and have an open-minded discussion with the Centre, if necessary. BJP’s Godda MLA Amit Mandal criticised Hemant Soren for purchasing a high-end SUV costing Rs 90 lakh at a time when the state was cash-strapped owing to the pandemic. Delivering the government’s response, finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said: “The supplementary demand would not create any adverse effect on the state’s economy. The fiscal condition of the state was affected by the pandemic. The government will bridge the fiscal gap through better fiscal management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/amid-oppn-walkout-supplementary-demand-of-over-25k-cr-passed/articleshow/78244945.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||In relief to power consumers, JSERC announces moratorium||RANCHi: In a significant order, aimed at providing relief to consumers on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) on Monday ordered a waiver of monthly fixed charges for all industrial and commercial consumers for the months of April, May and June this year, along with a moratorium of three months for payment of electricity bills that were due between 01.04.2020 and 30.06.2020, without levying any delayed payment surcharge (DPS) for all categories of consumers throughout the state. “Some respite needs to be given to electricity consumers who have been adversely impacted by the lockdown. In order to mitigate the difficulties being faced by electricity consumers, the Commission (JSERC), after careful consideration of the situation at hand, has decided to provide some relaxations,” the JSERC order, signed by member (engineering) R N Singh and member (legal) Pravas Kumar Singh, said. The JSERC said it was recommending a moratorium of three months for payment of electricity bills that had fallen due for payment between 01.04.2020 and 30.06.2020, without levying any DPS for all categories of consumers of all the power distribution licensees in Jharkhand, till September 2020. It added that in the event power distribution companies have, meanwhile, received any amount by way of DPS or fixed charges from industrial and commercial consumers, for the period from 01.04.2020 to 30.06.2020, the said amount should be allowed as adjustment by way of reduction in the bills of the subsequent month after the issuance of this order. In July this year, the state department of energy had directed that in view of the extraordinary situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, some relief by way of a three-month moratorium on payment of energy bills along with waiver of fixed charges be allowed to consumers as a special case. Following the energy department’s letter, the JSERC had taken suo motu cognizance and published a general notice, in public interest, inviting comments from Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd, Damodar Valley Corporation, Tata Steel Limited, Tata Steel Utilities Infrastructure and Services Company Limited, Bokaro Steel and trade and industry bodies. While the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Deoghar Chamber of Commerce and Industry, DVC, Jharkhand Small Industries Association said that commercial and industrial consumers throughout Jharkhand needed to be granted adequate relief to enable them to cope with the pandemic, power distribution companies claimed that any moratorium on bill payments would lead to reduced cash inflows and increased fiscal hardships. The JSERC, however, on Monday decreed that relief to consumers was needed and directed all power distribution companies in Jharkhand “to strictly comply with the aforesaid decision of the Commission and further directions, if any, to be issued from time to time”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-relief-to-power-consumers-jserc-announces-moratorium/articleshow/78244935.cms||Tapas Biswas
September 22, 2020||Ranchi||9 Covid deaths, 1,321 new cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded nine Covid casualties, 1,321 new infections and 1,599 recoveries in 24 hours until 9pm on Monday. The cumulative caseload stood at 72,673, of which 13,504 are active, 58,543 have recovered and 626 have died. Less than 4% of the 37,483 samples tested returned a positive result. Among the casualties, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported three each followed by Ranchi and Deoghar reporting one casualty each. While TOI on Monday reported that the state rexorded zero deaths on Sunday after several weeks, the state government added one casualty in Garhwa in a revised bulletin issued on Monday morning. East Singhbum continued to dominate numbers of fresh infections on Monday with 361 new cases followed by Ranchi with 176 cases. Hazaribag reported 141 fresh cases followed by Dhanbad with 111.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-covid-deaths-1321-new-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78244904.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Many schools plan shift to blended module||VISAKHAPATNAM: It’s been almost three months since most private schools in the state started online classes. However, some schools seem to have realized that the current module is not a full-proof system to impart education, and have tied up with software companies to design digital classrooms that can cater to all resources for students online. They are even thinking of continuing with a module of blended learning system even after the schools reopen. Following the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19, schools across the country have been conducting online classes. “But the system in not full-proof and a digital classroom environment is absolutely necessary. We have created an app through which we can track down the performance of every individual student. A dedicated team of IT experts and faculty members monitor this app round the clock,” said Satadru Roy, principal of a private school that has branches all over India. The app, called ‘Parents Alarm’ connects parents, students, teachers and principals. “Such apps are necessary because from regular classes to study materials, from extracurricular activities (like inter-class competitions, prayers, yoga classes) to attending exams, everything can be done and monitored through the app,” added Roy. School authorities say the blended form of learning is the most advanced form of school education. The module combines online educational materials besides creating opportunities for interaction online with traditional place-based classroom methods. It requires the physical presence of both teacher and student. “We have been exploring the idea of blended learning for quite some time, which is why we designed this digital classroom module. We envisage that in the coming months, some children will come to school physically, whilst others will stay at home. That’s why getting online learning working is important,” said Biju Baby, principal of an international school that has branches in Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/many-schools-plan-shift-to-blended-module/articleshow/78241576.cms||Arpit Basu
September 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Nine skill development courses at Adikavi Nannaya University||RAJAHMUNDRY: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has approved nine skill development courses at Adikavi Nannaya University (ANU) for the 2020-21 academic year. ANU vice-chancellor Prof Mokka Janardhanna Rao made the announcement on Monday. Prof Rao further informed that the university skill development centre had applied for the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF), part of UGC, to start nine courses for PhD, PG diploma and certificate programmes which have been approved keeping in mind the 12B recognition of the varsity and efficient administration. The courses that have been approved are: PG diploma in hydrocarbons/ mud logging, certificate course in life sciences, PG diploma in chemical, petrochemical, pharmaceutical industry techniques, PhD in chemical and petrochemicals, PG diploma in chemical and petrochemicals organic synthesis, certificate course in IT fundamentals and certificate courses in English language skills, counselling and cultivation of mushroom. The vice-chancellor said that UGC will release funds for some of these courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/9-skill-development-courses-at-anu/articleshow/78241596.cms||Samson Raj
September 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Aqua university project on fast track in bid to bolster industry||VISAKHAPATNAM: Come 2021, the state government is likely to set the foundation for an aqua university at Narsapuram in West Godavari district. The institute is expected to cater to the needs of the aqua industry in the state, which requires nearly 4,000 postgraduates in fisheries science, 12,400 graduates and 22,000 diploma holders in the stream by 2030, said state fisheries minister Seediri Appalaraju. At present, the state has only one fisheries institute—the College of Fisheries Science at Muthukur in Nellore district. The college annually produces 40 graduates and has produced only 600 graduates so far, the minister added. The government has taken up the aqua university project as top priority, the minister said, as it is not possible to reach the 2030 target of skilled manpower from the existing institute. Andhra Pradesh is listed among the top 10 states in the country in aquaculture and aqua products from the state are in demand abroad for their quality and taste, the minister said. Speaking to TOI about the project, the minister said the previous TDP government had planned a marine university through public private partnership (PPP) mode at Bhimavaram, but the YSRC government scrapped the proposal as it would require land acquisition. Instead, the government has opted for Narsapuram where the government has nearly 400 acres of land. “The government has already issued an administrative sanction of Rs 100 crore for the project, the total estimated cost of which is Rs 280 crore. We will hopefully lay the foundation stone for the project in December or January next year,” the minister said. On the other hand, West Godavari collector R Mutyala Raju told TOI that a fishing habour has also been sanctioned for the district apart from the aqua university. The fisheries minister recently visited the district to check the feasibility of the project, the collector added. Arjili Dasu, executive secretary of AP Fisherfolk Foundation, said the state has nearly 20 lakh fisherfolk of which nearly nine lakh are youths. “If the government properly guides and trains fisherfolk youth through this institute, it will be a boon to all of us,” Dasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aqua-university-project-on-fast-track-in-bid-to-bolster-industry/articleshow/78241613.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Capital bills: AP HC grants time to govt to file counter||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Monday heard a batch of petitions filed opposing the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act and the AP Capital Region Development Authority repeal bill. The counsel for the petitioners argued that the farmers gave their valuable lands to the CRDA after they were promised that the new capital would be developed on those lands. But the current government has reversed the decision, which is against the promise given to the farmers, he said. The advocate general sought some more time to file counter affidavits to the petitions filed by different petitioners. After hearing the arguments of both the parties, the high court accepted the AG’s request to give some time to the state government to file counters and posted the case for further hearing to October 5. Meanwhile, Amaravati Mahila JAC members met leaders of various political parties in the national capital on Monday. They also met the ruling party’s rebel MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju and sought his support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/capital-bills-hc-grants-time-to-govt-to-file-counter/articleshow/78241626.cms||Venu Lanka
September 22, 2020||Amaravati||Capital bills: AP HC grants time to govt to file counter||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Monday heard a batch of petitions filed opposing the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act and the AP Capital Region Development Authority repeal bill. The counsel for the petitioners argued that the farmers gave their valuable lands to the CRDA after they were promised that the new capital would be developed on those lands. But the current government has reversed the decision, which is against the promise given to the farmers, he said. The advocate general sought some more time to file counter affidavits to the petitions filed by different petitioners. After hearing the arguments of both the parties, the high court accepted the AG’s request to give some time to the state government to file counters and posted the case for further hearing to October 5. Meanwhile, Amaravati Mahila JAC members met leaders of various political parties in the national capital on Monday. They also met the ruling party’s rebel MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju and sought his support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/capital-bills-hc-grants-time-to-govt-to-file-counter/articleshow/78253137.cms||Venu Lanka
September 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Tobacco auctions to begin in Karnataka on Sept 30||Guntur: The Tobacco Board has decided to launch the first phase of auctions in Karnataka from September 30. The board has authorized a crop size of 99 million kg for Karnataka for the current crop season which is 1 million kg less than the previous year’s crop size. Given the gloomy global markets, it has to be seen how the traders are going to respond to pick up the stocks from the Karnataka platforms as they have not displayed keenness to pick the stocks from Andhra growers. Although the Karnataka leaf is considered to be high-quality when compared to the Andhra produce, the poor global demand due to Covid-19 is likely to influence the overall market. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy’s decision to purchase the stocks by pressing the state marketing agency, Markfed ,to bailout the Andhra growers is likely to act as litmus test for the BJP government in Karnataka. Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu, chairman, Tobacco Board, a BJP functionary, will be under pressure as he could do little in getting the Centre’s support to provide relief to the growers in AP. After seeing the poor response from the traders to pick up the stocks, Jagan had pushed AP Markfed into service and started purchase of stocks. This is the first time in the history for the state government to purchase tobacco through its own marketing agency. In the past, the state governments used to look towards the Centre for the assistance as the tobacco is a Centre’s regulated crop and entire revenues from tobacco exports are going into the Centre’s kitty. The entry of Markfed had changed the situation to some extent as the low-grade varieties were finally purchased by the government and traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-auctions-to-begin-in-karnataka-on-sept-30/articleshow/78241637.cms||Samdani MN
