September 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Sandalwood drug scandal: We are interrogating people to nab the source and not consumers: Bhaskar Rao||There seems to be quite an interest in ensuring a drug-free Bengaluru with as many as three different agencies working with a common agenda. After the Narcotics Control Bureau and Central Crime Branch, the Internal Security Division's probe has made headlines, given that several television and film actors are being called in for inquiry. ADGP Internal Security Division Bhaskar Rao spoke to us exclusively about this probe. "We are not behind small-time party-goers or actors. We are looking at the source for drugs, gambling or even hawala, which is a greater threat to the nation at large. The current probe is being done under Section 67 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (which empowers an authorised officer to summon and examine any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of a case). This is all part of the preliminary inquiry and we have no interest in arresting any of them. We are not looking at consumers, as there would be many. Instead, we are looking at using them to get to peddlers and, eventually, the source," he explained. Bhaskar Rao added that the names that have come up so far for interrogation are based on their investigations. "These are names that have figured as regular consumers and this was why we called them. It is inconsequential to list the number of people being summoned," he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sandalwood-drug-scandal-we-are-interrogating-people-to-nab-the-source-and-not-consumers-bhaskar-rao/articleshow/78262334.cms||Sunayana Suresh
September 23, 2020||Guwahati||Assam celebrates World Rhino Day||GUWAHATI: Assam celebrated World Rhino Day on Tuesday as home to the biggest population of Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros ((rhinoceros unicornis) in the world. According to official records, the global estimated population of Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros is 3,641 of which 2,993 are in India and Assam alone hosts 2,657 of them –2,413 in Kaziranga National Park, 43 in Manas National Park, 101 in Orang National Park and 100 in Pobitora Wild Life Sanctuary. Apart from Assam, 237 Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros are in Jaldapara wildlife sanctuary and 53 in Gorumara Wildlife Sanctuary in West Bengal and 39 in Dudhwa National Park in Uttar Pradesh. Outside India, this species is only found in Nepal where their population is 645. On the occasion Union forest and environment minister Prakash Javadekar said in a tweet, “India is home to the largest number of Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros in the world with its population in the range of 3000 animals in the States of Assam, West Bengal & UP.” India is home to the largest number of Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros in the world with its population in the range… https://t.co/9Jm0cHCjL6— Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) 1600743950000Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya in his tweet said, “World Rhino Day has been solely dedicated towards highlighting the extensive efforts for the conservation & protection of our precious rhinos worldwide. Preservation & conservation have been our two firmly implemented visions for the precious rhinos of Assam since the advent of Hon'ble CM Shri @sarbanandsonwal led government in Assam.” Sailendra Pandey, PRO to the state forest minister, said, “Celebrating the five species of Rhinoceros, on the occasion of World Rhino Day, chief wild life warden of Assam, Mahendra Kumar Yadava today submitted a report on the Assam Perspective for the Greater One Horned Rhinos to the Union Minister for Environment and Forest on behalf of the State of Assam.” “The Union minister spoke about the protection of the Rhinos in Assam and also appreciated the steps taken by the State Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya and State Forest Department in order to protect the World Famous One-Horned Rhinos of Assam and further urged them to continue this in the future,” Pandey added. As per the report presented by Shree Mahendra Kumar Yadava, there are around 2657 Greater One Horned Rhino (Rhinoceros unicornis) in the state, of which Kaziranga National Park has 2413, Manas National Park has 43, Orang National Park has 101 and Pobitora Wild Life Sanctuary has 100. The World Rhino Day is observed every year on September 22 to celebrate the conservation of world’s estimated population of 28,740 rhinos of five different species—White Rhino (Ceratotherium simum), which is the largest group with an estimated population of 20,000, Black Rhino (Diceros bicornis), which has an estimated population of 5000, Javan Rhino (Rhinoceros sondaicus) having an estimated population of 60 and the smallest group of Sumatran Rhino (Dicerorhinus sumatresnsis) with an estimated population of 30 along with the Greater One Horned Rhino species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-celebrates-world-rhino-day/articleshow/78263776.cms||Prabin Kalita
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey takes voluntary retirement from service, likely to contest election||PATNA: Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey took voluntary retirement from service. The state government granted benefit of voluntary retirement scheme to Pandey effective from Tuesday evening. His premature retirement came hardly five months before completion of his service tenure on February 28 next year. Speculations were rife from past few months that he might shed his uniform untimely in order launch himself in political arena. Pandey’s batch mate Sunil Kumar, who retired from post of DG on July 31, recently joined JDU and is also likely to context election. Pandey has been in national limelight till recently after speaking vehemently in media over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case and seeking justice for him in which state police lodged an FIR in Patna. Home department issued a notification much late in the night on Tuesday mentioning that Pandey has been granted voluntary retirement effective from Tuesday evening as per his application under provisions of All India Services (Death-cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958. The condition of making application at least three months prior from date of seeking voluntary retirement was also written-off for Pandey, as per the notification. Home department simultaneously issued another notification giving additional charge of Pandey’s position to DG (home guard and fire services) SK Singhal. Pandey, a 1987 batch Bihar cadre IPS officer had took DGP’s charge on evening of January 31 last year. He had succeeded KS Dwivedi. TOI tried contacting Pandey over his personal cellphone but IVR said that it was switched off. Incidentally way back in 2009 too, Pandey had opted for voluntary retirement but had took this application back after few months and continued to be in service. Sources said that time also he had put hard effort to get ticket but could not. Watch Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey steps down from service, may contest upcoming polls from Buxar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-takes-voluntary-retirement-from-service-likely-to-contest-election/articleshow/78264127.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 23, 2020||Goa||Six ISL players test positive for Covid-19||PANAJI: Six players from Indian Super League (ISL) clubs have tested positive for Covid-19 before they were to enter the bio-secure bubble in Goa. The players are from defending champions ATK Mohun Bagan, league champions FC Goa and Hyderabad FC. Two of the players have now recovered, according to the club, while the other four are isolating themselves at home. According to ISL regulations, any player who tests positive for Covid-19 has to isolate himself for 14 days in accordance with local government guidelines. He will then mandatorily undertake three tests — Day 10, Day 12 and Day 14 — and only travel to Goa if he has two negative results from Day 12 and 14. The fitness certificate to travel, provided by the health authorities, should be shared with the League. “The players have been told to take every possible precaution, but sometimes it’s beyond the club’s control,” a source who has been tracking the development told TOI on Tuesday. “One player tested positive for Covid-19 when he had gone to the hospital for a test. He had conducted two previous tests, both negative, but the third test turned out to be positive.” While ATK Mohun Bagan, FC Goa and Hyderabad have had to deal with positive cases, all Bengaluru FC players stationed in their home city have tested negative. They did the third test on Tuesday and will move to their training centre in Ballari within the next 48 hours, or sooner, if they get the clearance. Outstation players will join them at a later stage. Kerala Blasters players have also tested negative during the first test conducted when they have been at home. Players in Kerala will travel by bus to Goa for pre-season, while others will have no option but take a flight. There are separate isolation rules for those traveling by bus and flight to Goa. Jamshedpur FC, Chennaiyin FC, Odisha FC, Mumbai City and NorthEast United FC have not started testing their players as yet. “We are waiting for some more clarity from the league (about) when we can start pre-season in Goa,” said a club official. “The third test has to be timed in such a way that it’s less than 48 hours before the player reaches Goa. We should start the tests later this week.” According to ISL’s health and safety guidelines for 2020-21, there should be a seven-day isolation prior to travel with three negative RT-PCR tests (in isolation area). The third negative test should not be more than 48 hours prior to departure. Clubs have been advised to assemble the players in a different city for seven days prior to their departure for Goa. The seventh season of ISL will be played entirely in Goa, with the opening match scheduled for November 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-isl-players-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78262825.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 23, 2020||India||Labour reforms will bring ‘one licence, one registration, one return’ regime, boost ease of doing business||NEW DELHI: The new Codes on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions, Social Security, and Industrial Relations passed by Lok Sabha on Tuesday will cut down the web of paperwork and switch to a “One Licence, One Registration, One Return” mechanism to ramp up ease of doing business in India. The labour reforms, which Minister of State for Labour Santosh Gangwar described as “game changing reforms” in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, will bring down the number of registrations required under existing labour laws from eight to 1, licenses from four to one and the number of returns filed under the labour laws also down from eight to one. The move, which labour ministry officials said will put India among the Top 20 countries on the Ease of Doing Business, also entails provisions such as the setting up of a Social Security Fund for unorganised, gig and platform workers, a formal grievance redressal mechanism, and the end of what is referred to as “Inspector Raj”. Under the new labour codes, inspections of business establishments will be conducted through a “randomised, web-driven system”, a step towards faceless checks like in the case of Income Tax assessments, which will mean that labour inspectors will conduct physical checks only upon being prompted by the web-driven system. Key provisions of the new codes also include extension of benefits such as leave, social security and gratuity to all persons engaged under ‘fixed-term employment’ – which were not available in the earlier law. Under the OSHWC Code, workers who sustain injuries while on the job, will also receive 50% of the penalty imposed on the establishment by Court, in addition to the compensation the worker is due to receive. Government officials said while the Codes have widened the expanse of social security benefits to cover all kinds of workers, to help businesses, the Codes have reduced the maximum jail term possible under labour laws from the existing 7 years to 3 years. Under the new codes, the definition of working journalists has been expanded to include electronic and digital media, which was not covered under labour laws earlier. The codes also mandate issuance of appointment letters to workers, payment of wages through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and an annual medical check-up, free of cost. Acknowledging the lack of comprehensive data on migrant workers, an issue that has put the government in the dock especially after the coronavirus-induced lockdown, government officials said the power to enumerate migrant workers, and to map their skills, has now been written into the codes. Since Labour is a concurrent subject, this will mean it will now be binding on states to collate the data and share it with the Union ministry. Amid boycott from major opposition parties, including Congress, Lok Sabha passed the three labour code bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/labour-reforms-will-bring-one-licence-one-registration-one-return-regime-boost-ease-of-doing-business/articleshow/78264896.cms||Swati Mathur
September 23, 2020||Business||Mistrys seek to sell Tata stake, but valuation seen as challenge||MUMBAI: The Pallonji Mistry family on Tuesday announced its decision to exit Tata Sons – the holding company of India’s largest conglomerate in which it is the largest minority shareholder with almost 18.4% – after a bitter and protracted four-year battle in courtrooms and outside. In a 700-word-plus statement accusing the Tatas of “value-destructive business decisions” and of “oppressive” and “vindictive” actions aimed at “suppressing and inflicting irreparable harm to the SP Group”, the Mistrys said “the family believes that a separation of interests would best serve all stakeholder groups,” and that it was “crucial that an early resolution is reached to arrive at a fair and equitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets.” While there has been talk - ever since Cyrus Mistry was ousted as chairman of Tata Sons in 2016 - of a separation, the final straw appears to have been the Supreme Court’s order curtailing the family’s ability to raise fresh funds against their stake in Tata Sons. But separation will be far from easy – primarily because the Mistrys peg the worth of their stake at around Rs 1.78 lakh crore, while a 2016 valuation of Tata Sons by renowned chartered accountant Y H Malegam estimated it at about a third – Rs 57,600 crore. Also, for the Tatas to raise money to buy out the Mistrys could be a challenge, especially at a time like this. Read AlsoSC restrains SP group, Cyrus Mistry from pledging Tata Sons shares till October 28The SC on Tuesday restrained Shapoorji Pallonji group &amp; Cyrus Mistry from pledging or transferring Tata Sons shares till October 28. The top court said that it won't take any further action on the shares they have already pledged. On September 5, Tata Sons had moved the SC seeking to restrain theTata Sons will have to work out the details of the share-purchase proposal including valuation, source of funding, and deal structure amid the financial difficulties caused by the pandemic and its debt obligations. Tata Trusts, the controlling shareholder of Tata Sons with 66% stake is restricted by law from investing in equities. Tata Sons may have to tap sovereign wealth funds and other long-term investors for a possible funding tie-up to buy out the Mistrys. Read AlsoMistry family says it’s ‘time to separate’ from Tata GroupThe billionaire Mistry family, the largest minority shareholder of the Tata Group, said it needs to separate its interests after the conglomerate took steps to block the family’s attempt to borrow money against Tata shares. Tata Sons Pvt informed the SC on Tuesday said that it is open to buying outWhile the Mistrys haven’t offered any detail on the process of such a separation, it is expected to be court-driven as the two sides have spelt out their intentions before the SC. If the Mistrys need funds to retire debt, Tata Sons is willing to purchase their shares, the holding company of the Tata group told the apex court on Tuesday. SP argued that if a sale notice is given, then shares would have to be valued at fair market value. Malegam had valued Tata Sons at Rs 3.14 lakh crore, and proportionately, the Mistry’s 18.4% stake at about Rs 57,600 crore. But SP’s court filings revealed a valuation of over Rs 1 lakh crore for its Tata Sons shares. The family estimates that Tata Sons, which owns shares in unlisted and listed companies including TCS, and as well as the Tata brand, is currently worth Rs 9.7 lakh crore, thus assigning their stake a value of Rs 1.78 lakh crore. The Mistry-controlled Shapoorji Pallonji Group has been looking to raise Rs 11,000 crore by pledging Tata Sons shares to tide over the financial crunch caused by the Covid pandemic after economic activity across the world came to a standstill early this fiscal. This move was opposed by Tata Sons in the SC, which on Tuesday restrained pledging or selling any Tata shares until October 28, when it starts hearing final arguments in the matter. The separation, should it take place, will bring to an end a relationship between the two Parsi business families that goes back to 1965. Watch After bitter courtroom battle, Mistrys decide to exit Tata Sons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mistrys-seek-to-sell-tata-stake-but-valuation-seen-as-challenge/articleshow/78265354.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 23, 2020||Business||Home loan inquiries top last year’s level||MUMBAI: The strict lockdown in the first quarter of the current fiscal resulted in creating pent-up demand for home and auto loans, which is finding expression now. According to TransUnion Cibil data, home loan inquiry volumes in July and August have recovered to exceed last year's levels but are still below January and February 2020 levels. The revival is being led by public sector banks, which were the first to recommence operations. Personal loan inquiries from public sector banks are 118% of last year and 102% of the pre-Covid months in 2020. Private banks are still doing only three-fourths of last year while NBFCs and finance companies are seeing half as many applications as the pre-Covid months. TransUnion Cibil data shows that home loan inquiries have rebounded the most and are 112% of what was seen in July-August 2019 but only 92% of January-February 2020 (pre-Covid). Auto loans are 88% of last year’s levels and 84% of pre-Covid level while demand for loans against property are at 90% of last year but 72% of pre-Covid. Lenders send a query to the credit bureau whenever a borrower seeks to know his loan eligibility. Although credit inquiries may not match loan disbursements, they are a good indicator of demand in the market. Also, inquiries get triggered whenever a borrower seeks to shift his loan from one lender to another to avail of lower interest rates. Around half a dozen public sector banks, including State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, and Union Bank are offering home loans below 7%. In the private sector, HDFC and ICICI Bank are also offering loans below 7%. Also, the Maharashtra government is giving incentives on home loans in the form of reduced stamp duty of 2% instead of 5% between September and December 2020. Where demand is still very subdued is in the personal loan segment, where inquiries are only 40% of pre-Covid and 47% of last year. Credit cards, which are sold largely through direct selling agents at kiosks and in stores, are seeing subdued demand. Inquiries for cards are only 61% of January and February 2020. “With larger metro locations witnessing increased cases of Covid-19 and intermittent lockdowns, there was also a shift in the mix of inquiries away from these urban locations to more rural and semi-urban areas,” said TransUnion Cibil in a report released here on Tuesday. According to a report by Macquarie Research on credit cards, new additions are likely to slow because of fewer job creations. " Since March 2020 gross job addition has seen a significant reduction – a drop of around 60%. Further, lockdowns have resulted in lower branch footfalls and near-complete stoppage in kiosk-based canvassing of customers in malls and airports," the report said. Watch Covid-19 effect: Home loan inquiries top last year’s level||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-loan-inquiries-top-last-years-level/articleshow/78265825.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hits 1L cases, 85k in 53 days||CHANDIGARH: In the battle against Covid-19, things have gone from bad to worse in 53 days for Punjab, a state which appeared to be in control of the situation in the initial months of the pandemic, even getting a pat on the back from the Prime Minister for containment efforts.However, as the caseload mounted, Punjab crumbled and, in the process, achieved undesirable milestones, one after another, exposing the chinks in its response.In a matter of just over seven weeks, the state attained some of the most unwanted milestones: cases per million population, deaths per million population, fatality rate and active cases of the state were higher than the national average, while the recovery rate was below the country’s overall rate.The state which is home to about 2.25% of the country’s population accounts for 1.77% of the country’s total case tally. So far, the virus has infected 1,01,341 and claimed the lives of 2,926 people.In the first 153 days—from March 1 to July 31 – Punjab managed to keep a check on spread with a caseload of 16,119 and 386 deaths, or 105.35 cases and 2.52 deaths a day on an average. The alarming surge in cases, thereafter, broadsided Punjab. In a matter of 53 days, from August 1 to September 22, it got 85,222— 84% of total cases — and 2,540 deaths, accounting for 86.80% of total fatalities. (See graphic)During this period, Punjab posted a higher growth rate of cases than the national average. It varied between 2% and 6% against the national growth rate of 2%-3%. In the last 53 days, only on five occasions -- August 3, 4, 8, 12, 31, September 4 and 15– the growth rate was equal to the national rate. On other days, the caseload increased at a higher rate than the national average. There were days when the state’s growth rate was up to 3% higher than the national rate.The high growth rate pushed down recovery and doubling rate, while a number of active cases recorded a significant jump. The recovery rate stands at 76% -- fifth lowest among the 20 worst-hit states – which at one point was 88%, highest among these states. The rapid surge in cases has also pushed active cases in the state higher to 22%, against the national average of 18%, while doubling rate is 24.7 days, against the national average of 42.2 days. During this period, there was a rise in positivity rate, pointing to a faster spread of the virus in the state. From 2.97% on July 31, the number of people testing positive went past 6.5% in the ongoing month.Covid-19 has now picked up pace in the least populated districts of Punjab, which were earlier comparatively less affected by the pandemic outbreak, leaving health experts worried as these areas lack required health infrastructure, especially in rural areas.The heavy caseload has stretched limited resources such as beds, especially at Level-III facilities equipped with intensive care units, ventilators and oxygen support system. As on September 22, only 415 beds at Level-III hospitals– 94 in government and 323 in private – were available. To meet the growing demand for Level-III beds, the government is persuading private health facilities to increase capacity, besides planning to increase the strength of beds in its medical colleges.The rise in cases has also led to a steep surge in demand for oxygen, which the state health authorities are grappling to meet. This has forced the government to impose restrictions on medical oxygen manufacturers in the state not to supply oxygen to other states.State health officials attributed the surge in cases to lifting of restrictions and people not taking precautions. The government has been issuing health advisories. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, on several occasions, has expressed displeasure over people not taking precautions.What is adding to troubles is that some elected representatives have been spreading rumors and asking people not to wear masks. Punjab Police recently booked Lok Insaaf Party (LPA) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains for allegedly inciting people against wearing masks and misleading them on Covid-19.Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar held that people not behaving responsibly, easing of restrictions and rumors being spread by anti-social elements were the key reasons for the deteriorating situation. He said due to rumors, health teams were facing problems in conducting tests in rural areas. “These are the couple of factors which has led to the situation getting worse,” said Dr Bhaskar. He, however, said the government had taken several corrective steps in consultation with experts and was confident of bringing the situation back in control.High death rateHigh death rate has emerged as a major cause of concern in the state. Even as the fatality rate is on the decline nationally, the rate at which people are dying in Punjab is on constant rise.The national Covid-19 fatality rate had fallen from 3.36% in mid-July to 1.6% on September 22. In the same period, Punjab’s death rate went up from 2.41% to 2.88%, raising a question mark on the efficiency of patient care and detection.Experts attribute the high mortality rate to the high percentage of ageing population, high prevalence of co-morbidity and delay in treatment. Punjab has one of the highest percentages of population in the age group of 60 years and above in the country. According to the 2011 Census, 10% of the population is in the category of senior citizen. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the delay in reporting for testing/treatment at Covid facilities was the main cause of the high mortality rate. “As many as 67% of all deaths were due to late reporting,” said Sidhu. He said corrective steps had been taken to control mortality rate.Contact tracingPunjab is lagging behind in contact tracing, the most important process to identify the source of infection and track people with whom patients got in touch before testing positive. In about 22 % cases, teams of the health department were either late or failed to trace transmission of infection. People not cooperating with health teams is seen as one of the key reasons. There have been instances of teams being assaulted by villagers. Once lauded by ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi in June had lauded Punjab for measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 and had asked other states to replicate the measures for controlling the virus. However, by August end the situation changed, and Punjab made it to the list of states with high mortality rate and was directed by the central government to bring the fatality rate below 1% by focusing on testing, contact tracing and surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-hits-1l-cases-85k-in-53-days/articleshow/78265903.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Initially, patients faced stigma and adversity||HOSHIARPUR/NAWANSHAHR: Gurdeep Singh, 44, originally from Khanoor village in Hoshiarpur district, was the first Covid patient in Punjab. He came from Italy on March 3 along with his wife and son. He had fever and was isolated on suspicion, and later tested positive. He was treated and cured at Government Medical College, Amritsar.“Ours is a joint family and we took a separate house in the village for Gurdeep’s stay in isolation, but some residents strongly opposed it, citing danger to their lives. But, police and health officials helped him stay in the house for three weeks, after which he joined us. But he did not move out for three weeks till he returned to Italy in the second week of June,” said Ashok Kumar, his elder brother living in the village.“Our family also saw a change in behaviour of some villagers till Gurdeep was in quarantine, but all was normal later,” he said.Baldev Singh, 70, from Pathlawa village near Banga in Nawanshahr district, was the second patient in the state and first Covid casualty. He returned home on March 7 after a trip to Italy and Germany, fell sick on March 16, and died on March 18, a day later testing positive. It was his death which caused much scare in Punjab and a strong vilification campaign against him and the family. When 14 members of his family, including children and grandchildren, tested positive along with 13 other contacts (including his close friend Harbhajan Singh, who also succumbed), many netizens accused him of concealing his infection.Even Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta from his Twitter handle shared a song, titled Gwacheya Gurbaksh, which accused Baldev of concealing his infection. The song was produced by Sidhu Moose Wala in collaboration with Punjab Police. It was only after a group of village youths complained to CM against the vilification of a dead patient that the song was removed from DGP and Punjab Police handles. Posted on Moosewala’s YouTube channel on March 26 and opening with Punjab Police logo, the song got 4.2 million views.Baldev’s youngest son Fateh Singh said though they were pained by this, they never faced any issue in the village. “But, we were financially battered. As all of us remained in the hospital, underwent quarantine followed by lockdown, our cement shop went out of business. We could not repay the bank cash credit limit of Rs 12.5 lakh. As we are just able to make ends meet, we can’t repay the loan even as we have been receiving notices,” he said. “In September, I got an order of 100 cement bags. But business is too slow. Our family won the battle against coronavirus after losing our father, but it has left us in financial crisis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/initially-patients-faced-stigma-and-adversity/articleshow/78265941.cms||IP Singh
September 23, 2020||India||At UN, India slams Pakistan on terror as it rakes up J&K issue||NEW DELHI/NEW YORK: Following another attempt by Pakistan to raise the Kashmir issue at the United Nations, India described Pakistan as a country recognised globally as the epicentre of terrorism. During his address on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the UN, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had said Jammu and Kashmir and Palestine were the UN’s most glaring and long-standing disputes and the people of J&K still awaits “fulfilment of the UN commitment to grant them their right to self-determination”. Exercising India’s right to reply, first secretary in India’s permanent mission to the UN, Vidisha Maitra, said Pakistan was globally recognised as the epicentre of terrorism, which by its own admission harboured and trained terrorists, and hailed them as martyrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-un-india-slams-pak-on-terror-as-it-rakes-up-jk-issue/articleshow/78265931.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Rumours, negative propaganda took toll on efforts’||If one goes by the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, Punjab appears to be struggling to contain the spread of the virus, despite sustained efforts. Statistically speaking, the state is going through the roughest phase since the virus outbreak in March How would you assess the present Covid-19 situation in Punjab, which crossed one lakh cases?It is true that the number of cases in our country as well as in Punjab is increasing. One of the reasons is increased testing. From about 15,000 tests a day, we have reached about 30,000 tests per day. We are following a similar trajectory which we saw in other states, but our daily cases are still less. Even though the population of Delhi is only 1.8 crore, it has far more deaths and number of cases than Punjab. Though the cases are increasing, the situation in Punjab is well under control. Till July 31, Punjab appeared to be in control of the Covid-19 situation. Thereafter, it witnessed a surge in cases and is now among the worst-hit states.Government has issued advisories to maintain social distancing, wear face masks, follow hand and respiratory hygiene, and avoid large gatherings. There is laxity on the part of people as they are not following these advisories. With easing of restrictions, movement of people has increased and the public in general has violated such advisories and also avoided Covid testing even after having symptoms. All these things have added to the number of cases. But now with efforts of the Punjab government, 110 panchayats have passed a resolution in support of government policy and strategy and undertook to get tested as and when requested by the health department and extend support to medical teams visiting their villages. What will it take to bring the situation back in control?Making people follow health advisories religiously and timely testing are the only ways to check transmission of disease. There is also hope of a vaccine coming soon and some treatments are under evaluation. Punjab has the highest fatality rate in the country, which is a major cause of concern. What are the reasons for it?Punjab’s high mortality rate is mainly due to two reasons. Firstly, people come to health facilities very late after getting infected by the virus. Due to false rumors and fake negative propaganda, people avoid getting tested thus delaying their diagnosis and treatment. Secondly, high prevalence of comorbid conditions like hypertension, sugar, kidney diseases, liver disease etc. It is important to note that nearly 92% deaths are taking place at tertiary level hospitals, indicating that people are getting the best possible health care and are not dying for want of treatment. What is being done to bring down Covid-19 deaths?All specialists treating Covid-19 patients are guided by a committee of experts which include specialists from AIIMS, PGI, government and private medical colleges and experts from USA and UK. They conduct regular webinars with doctors providing Covid-19 treatment in state and keep them updated regarding latest protocols for management of patients and also discuss some challenging cases. Also, district hospitals and secondary care facilities have been attached with faculty from government medical colleges to monitor and guide day to day management of patients and advise the doctors at secondary care level. The Punjab government has also carried out an awareness campaign to encourage people for early testing. There’s been an emphasis on enhancing testing capacity. However, Punjab is lagging behind many other states and is ranked tenth among the worst-hit states.We have been enhancing our testing capacity. From 15,000 tests per day in June, we have reached 30,000 tests per day. To make sampling hassle free and reduce waiting time for people who want to get tested, we have established walk-in testing corners in government health facilities and increased the number of teams for testing. We have allowed private hospitals and labs to get free rapid antigen testing kits from the government and charge Rs 250 from patients who wish to get tested in a private facility. Recently, four new labs have been set up to increase capacity. The rise in the number of cases has stressed already limited resources — Level-III beds and medical oxygen. How are we building capacity to counter a further increase in cases?Presently, our Level-III facilities are 60-70% occupied and about 40-50% at Level-II. We have adequate facilities. We are increasing Level-III beds at government medical colleges and have persuaded large private hospitals to increase their Level-III beds. We have sufficient beds. There is no shortage of oxygen and the government has taken a few steps to ensure uninterrupted supply, including issuance of licences to units for manufacturing medical oxygen. Contact tracing of cases has not been up to the mark. The teams of the health department have so far not been able to trace the transmission of virus in about 22% cases. What are the reasons for the same and what is being done to address the issue?There has been improvement in contact tracing. Initially, when a case is positive, the source of infection may not be known immediately as the patient may not recall who all he or she met, and places visited. With repeated interviews, we have been able to trace infection in most cases. Government claims to be providing the best facilities in government hospitals, so why are politicians going to private hospitals for Covid treatment?I want to assure people that Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government is providing quality health services in all hospitals. Even my elder brother who tested positive for coronavirus is undergoing treatment at a government Covid care centre in Barnala. All medical and paramedical staff of the health department have been working round-the-clock since March and many of them have also tested positive. Some of them have even sacrificed their lives in the line of duty. Punjab is the only state where rumours were spread to discourage people from seeking treatment. Some elected representatives also allegedly played a part in spreading misinformation. How has this impacted government efforts?Rumors and systematic negative propaganda had an impact initially for 2-3 weeks. Legal action was taken and FIRs registered against propagators of rumors and negative propaganda about the disease and its prevention. Besides, an anti-stigma campaign was launched, and health workers and other staff were imparted training to destigmatise the disease. With concerted efforts and information campaigns, the government has managed to reverse the trend and people are getting tested voluntarily. This is reflecting in increased testing. A state-level 24X7 helpline is also available and district-specific control room numbers functioning round-the-clock to dispel myths and rumours. What steps have been taken to check the spread of misinformation?An extensive information education communication/behaviour change communication activities are being done on print, electronic and social media by the mass media wing of the health department and information and public relations department of the government. These departments conduct regular interviews of experts and coronavirus survivors to provide accurate information about the disease and ways to prevent it. Apart from such initiatives, various steps have been taken to remove the stigma attached with the disease, such as the practice of pasting stickers outside houses of Covid-19 patients has been stopped. Interviews of survivors are being uploaded on social media in which they share their positive experiences and motivate others to get themselves tested and seek timely treatment at government health facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rumours-negative-propaganda-took-toll-on-efforts/articleshow/78265952.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 23, 2020||India||Opposition walkout in Rajya Sabha gives govt walkover on 7 bills||NEW DELHI: With opposition benches in the Rajya Sabha empty — their occupants walked out on Tuesday saying they would boycott proceedings until the suspension of eight MPs was revoked — the House passed seven bills, including one for return to the Lok Sabha, in a record time of three and a half hours. Among the bills passed by voice vote, with the discussion and the minister's reply on each bill getting completed in a matter of a few minutes, was the Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill. Bill seeking to make taxation transparent returned to LSWhile the first six bills were passed by Lok Sabha earlier and will become Acts upon presidential assent, the last bill — seeking to provide various relief in terms of compliance requirements for taxpayers amid the coronavirus pandemic and also to make the taxation process more transparent — was returned to Lok Sabha. Apart from MPs from the ruling side, the only parties represented in the House at time of passage of the bills were BJD, TDP, YSR Congress and AIADMK. Though the chair repeatedly called out the names of opposition MPs as per the list of speakers given, none were present, leaving it to the handful of non-BJP MPs to debate the bills. Two resolutions listed in the names of CPI MP Binoy Viswam and Congress’s K C Venugopal and Digvijaya Singh — disapproving the Banking Regulation Ordinance and the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation of Central Provisions) Ordinance — could not be moved due to their absence. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act seeks to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI. The Companies (Amendment) Bill seeks to amend 48 sections to decriminalise various offences and 13 sections to ensure ‘ease of living’. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill seeks to ease the excessive regulatory regime and provide for imposition of stockholding limit on commodities only during calamities and famine. Two bills — the Rashtriya Raksha University Bill that seeks to upgrade the Raksha Shakti University in Gandhinagar as an institution of national importance; and the National Forensic Sciences University Bill that seeks to upgrade the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University were also passed. Watch Heated debate in Rajya Sabha, Opposition says 'revoke suspension of MPs'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-walkout-in-rajya-sabha-gives-govt-walkover-on-7-bills/articleshow/78265969.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||Monsoon session likely to end today||NEW DELHI: As decided in the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting last week, the monsoon session of Parliament is likely to conclude on Wednesday, eight days before it is scheduled to end, after several MPs and ministers tested positive since the session commenced. Sources said Rajya Sabha is likely to adjourn sine die after taking up five bills on Wednesday. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said the House will meet at 6 pm on Wednesday instead of the usual 3pm. It was learnt there will be two- hour Zero Hour in Lok Sabha after which it will be adjourned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monsoon-session-likely-to-end-today/articleshow/78265993.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||Harivansh offers tea to suspended MPs, PM hails ‘big heart’||NEW DELHI: On a day opposition parties decided to boycott Rajya Sabha proceedings until suspension of eight MPs was withdrawn, PM Modi led the BJP members in hailing deputy chairman Harivansh, who offered morning tea to the suspended MPs and later observed a 24-hour fast over the unruly behaviour of opposition when the farm bills were passed on Sunday. The PM said serving tea to those who insulted him showed Harivansh’s “humble mind and big heart”. Later, the PM shared on social media a letter penned by Harivansh to President Ram Nath Kovind in which the deputy chairman said the entire incident was so “disturbing” that he could not sleep at night. Harivansh made emotional remarks, saying he witnessed “murder of Gandhi, JP, Lohia, Karpoori Thakur in the House” and also highlighted his Bihar roots, saying he was born in the native village of Jai Prakash Narayan and had imbibed his values and that of other socialist icons. Modi urged people to read Harivansh’s letter, saying he had gone through and each word strengthened faith in democratic values. “The letter is inspirational and adorable. It has truth and emotions,” the PM said. Most BJP members followed suit and shared the letter on social media. Commending Harivansh for his morning tea gesture, the PM said, “To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Harivanshji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivanshji.” “MP from Bihar and RS deputy chairman Harivanshji’s inspiring and statesman-like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/harivansh-offers-tea-to-suspended-mps-pm-hails-big-heart/articleshow/78265985.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 23, 2020||India||Facebook VP moves SC over assembly’s summons||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday will hear Facebook India vice-president Ajit Mohan's petition challenging a Delhi assembly panel's summons to him to depose before it on the Delhi riots. The petitioner said it appeared to be a pre-meditated exercise as the panel chief had already made up mind about Facebook's complicity in the Delhi riots. Mohan's petition, which is listed for hearing before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Wednesday, said, "There is no law that empowers a state legislature, including a committee formed by that legislature, to take coercive action against any person unless the person obstructs or impedes its legislative functions. The rights and liberties of persons are protected by fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution, and coercive action cannot be taken against any citizen unless that action has been authorised by law." The petitioner said on August 31, even before issuance of the summons to him, committee chairman Raghav Chadha held a press conference announcing that “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused” in the Delhi riots and that there was a “premeditated conspiracy between Facebook, rioters and anti-social elements”. Shortly thereafter, the committee issued the first summons, which ordered the petitioner to appear on September 15 as a witness and render assistance to the committee for a “determination of the veracity of allegations levelled against Facebook in the complaints and depositions made before the committee”. The petitioner, in a communication on September 13, questioned the panel's authority to summon him as the issue was squarely within the domain of the Union government. On September 18, the committee issued fresh summons, directing the petitioner to appear before the committee on September 23. The second summons stated that non-compliance “will be treated as breach of privilege of the committee and necessary action, as deemed fit, shall be taken against you", the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/facebook-vp-moves-sc-over-assemblys-summons/articleshow/78266025.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 23, 2020||India||China attacked Indian satellite communications: US Report||"Computer network attack against Indian satellite communications in 2017” is one among a slew of counter-space activities carried out by China since 2007, listed in a new report by US-based China Aerospace Studies Institute (CASI), which provides China’s space narrative among other things. Isro, while conceding that cyber-attacks are a constant threat, maintains that its systems has not been compromised so far. The 142-page report notes that between 2012 and 2018, China carried out multiple cyber-attacks, but elaborates on the result only in one case. In 2012, a Chinese network based computer attack on the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), the report points out, “allowed ‘full functional control’ over JPL networks.” The report quotes multiple sources while listing out some of these attacks. India, as part of its counter-space capabilities, demonstrated Anti-Satellite (A-Sat) missile technology on March 27, 2019, which equipped India with a ‘kinetic kill’ option to destroy enemy satellites. But the CASI report points to how China has multiple other counter-space technologies that are intended to threaten adversary space systems from ground to geosynchronous orbit (GEO). These include direct-ascent kinetic-kill vehicles (anti-satellite missiles), co-orbital satellites, directed-energy weapons, jammers, and cyber capabilities. CASI, a think-tank, supports the secretary, chief of staff of the US Air Force, the US chief of space operations, and other senior air and space leaders. It provides expert research and analysis supporting decisions and policymakers in the US Department of Defense and across the US government. Potential VulnerabilitiesCASI supplements findings of a recent US Pentagon report which had said that the PLA continues to acquire and develop technologies that China could use to “blind and deafen the enemy”. Tobby Simon of Synergia Foundation, a strategic think-tank says: “...One of the biggest weaknesses ubiquitous to all satellite systems is use of long range telemetry for communication with base stations. Uplinks and downlinks are quite often transmitted through open telecom security protocols that can be compromised. We have to concede that there are no absolute air gaps in cyber security and as more private companies navigate into the industry, it would be an onerous task for them to invest in active defence.” A 2019 report released by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace said while India demonstrated its A-Sat interceptors, China — which had done the same in 2007 — has capabilities to mount sophisticated cyber-attacks directed at ground stations with the intent of either corrupting or hijacking the systems used to control spacecraft/satellite. “China has investments in developing ground, air, and space-based radio frequency jammers that target uplinks, downlinks, and crosslinks involved in either control of space systems or data transmission,” the report reads. ‘Not Compromised’Isro, multiple insiders said, hasn’t been able to pinpoint sources of cyber-attacks over the years. “Cyber threats are a given but it cannot be ascertained who are behind such attacks. We’ve systems in place to alert us and I don’t think we’ve ever been compromised,” a senior scientist said, adding that “the Chinese may have tried and failed.” Isro chairman K Sivan denied any direct knowledge of such an attack on Indian ground stations. “The threat perception is always there and it’s not unique to India. We are secure,” he said. The scientist said that India has an independent and isolated network which is not connected to the public domain, including the Internet, which has kept its systems safe. Watch China attacked Indian satellite communications: US Report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-attacked-indian-satellite-communications-us-report/articleshow/78266083.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 23, 2020||---||Reach out to people, CM tells party workers ahead of polls||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked the workers of the party to oversee whether the benefits of the much ambitious ‘Saat Sishchay’ (seven resolves) programme reached the beneficiaries in rural pockets of the state properly or not. Nitish issued the directives during an interaction with the party workers at the JD(U) office here. “Visit every household in your respective villages and get feedback from the residents whether tap water was being supplied to them on a regular basis. If somebody is still bereft of the facility, help them to get the supply connection installed immediately,” Guddu Singh, a party functionary from Saran district quoted Nitish as saying. Nitish, who is also the national president of JD(U), also asked the party workers to create awareness about 100% electricity connection given to rural households. “People should be made aware of the important achievements of the state government in the last 15 years,” another party worker Kiran Devi from Sitamarhi quoted the CM as saying. The CM also asked the party activists to make people aware of the benefits of the two farm bills passed by the Parliament a couple of days ago. Some workers also complained about the dilly dallying attitude of the circle officers and the block development officers (BDOs) in transferring Rs 1000 to the bank accounts of the people affected by floods. Such complaints were mostly received from Sitamarhi and Gopalganj districts. Nitish also spoke to around 175 prospective ticket seekers, mostly women, who had gathered at the office from different parts of the state. The national president also asked about the caste combination of electors in the constituency from where he/she wanted to contest. The ticket seekers had submitted their bio-data to the CM’s office. Some members of the State Women Commission, whose tenure is likely to come to an end and also some former ones had also reached the office to stake their candidature for tickets from JD(U) in the upcoming assembly polls. “Around 100 women had come to the office for the purpose,” a senior JD(U) functionary told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/reach-out-to-people-cm-tells-party-workers-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78261692.cms||Ramashankar
September 23, 2020||Patna||CUSB to start campus development work soon||PATNA: The Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) is likely to start the second phase of its campus development project, which entails an expenditure of Rs 116 crore, soon. “According to an MoU signed jointly by CUSB registrar Rajiv Kumar Singh and central public works department (CPWD) executive engineer Sanjay Kumar Singh on Monday, the campus development plan includes construction of residential quarters for university staff, hostels for students, central library, health centre, food court, shopping complex and an animal house,” said CUSB public relations officer Md Mudassar Alam. Registrar Singh said as per agreement, the CPWD is supposed to construct altogether 64 fully furnished quarters for staff in two separate blocks of G+7 type and two well-furnished hostels having 300 seats each within a period of two years. “In the first phase initiated in 2015, more than seven buildings, including administrative block, boys’ hostel, girls’ hostel, buildings for the schools of science, social science and education, mess, vice-chancellor’s residence, and university guesthouse were constructed. The construction of these new buildings would not only provide the much-needed academic and residential facilities to the students and staff, but also go a long way in improving its grade in national institutional framework ranking and NAAC accreditation,” the registrar added. Established in 2009, the university has already started functioning from its campus being developed on a plot of 300 acres of land at Panchanpur, approximately 12km away from Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cusb-to-start-campus-development-work-soon/articleshow/78264152.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||9 succumb to the deadly virus, 174 test positive||Times News Network Ludhiana: Nine Ludhiana residents died of Covid-19 and 174 tested positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 15 deaths reported on the day, nine were from Ludhiana and one each from Sangrur, Jalandhar, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Moga and Nawanshahr.The district casualties included a 46-year-old man of Lopon village of Samrala; a 52-year-old man of Shimlapuri; a 65-year-old man from Amarpura with diabetes and hypertension; a 72-year-old diabetic man of Sector 32; a 33-year-old man of Bhamiya Kalan; a 64-year-old man of Gurdev Nagar, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension; a 70-year-old man of Urban Estate with hypertension; a 70-year-old man of BRS Nagar with diabetes and hypertension; and a 53-year-old man of GT Road with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease.With this, the district toll tally has mounted to 677 and that of outsiders to 206.On Tuesday, the health teams took 1,239 samples.The 174 positive cases included 19 contacts of positive patients, 44 from OPD, 60 from flu corner, five police personnel, three health-care workers, one domestic / international traveller, three pregnant women, two pre-operative cases, one severe acute respiratory infection case and 36 through tracing process. Besides, 41 from outside the district tested positive here on the day.The Ludhiana case count now stands at 16,599 and that of outsiders at 1,952.To date, 14,380 (86.63%) people have recovered from Covid-19. So far, 2,37,420 samples have been collected in Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/9-succumb-to-the-deadly-virus-174-test-positive/articleshow/78262363.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Reach out to people, CM tells party workers ahead of polls||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked the workers of the party to oversee whether the benefits of the much ambitious ‘Saat Sishchay’ (seven resolves) programme reached the beneficiaries in rural pockets of the state properly or not. Nitish issued the directives during an interaction with the party workers at the JD(U) office here. “Visit every household in your respective villages and get feedback from the residents whether tap water was being supplied to them on a regular basis. If somebody is still bereft of the facility, help them to get the supply connection installed immediately,” Guddu Singh, a party functionary from Saran district quoted Nitish as saying. Nitish, who is also the national president of JD(U), also asked the party workers to create awareness about 100% electricity connection given to rural households. “People should be made aware of the important achievements of the state government in the last 15 years,” another party worker Kiran Devi from Sitamarhi quoted the CM as saying. The CM also asked the party activists to make people aware of the benefits of the two farm bills passed by the Parliament a couple of days ago. Some workers also complained about the dilly dallying attitude of the circle officers and the block development officers (BDOs) in transferring Rs 1000 to the bank accounts of the people affected by floods. Such complaints were mostly received from Sitamarhi and Gopalganj districts. Nitish also spoke to around 175 prospective ticket seekers, mostly women, who had gathered at the office from different parts of the state. The national president also asked about the caste combination of electors in the constituency from where he/she wanted to contest. The ticket seekers had submitted their bio-data to the CM’s office. Some members of the State Women Commission, whose tenure is likely to come to an end and also some former ones had also reached the office to stake their candidature for tickets from JD(U) in the upcoming assembly polls. “Around 100 women had come to the office for the purpose,” a senior JD(U) functionary told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/reach-out-to-people-cm-tells-party-workers-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78269732.cms||Ramashankar
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Two sisters with borrowed phone face clash in online exams||PATIALA: Two sisters at Nangla village in Sunam block of Patiala district, one a BA student and another in MA, will be appearing for their terminal online theory examinations of Punjabi University on the same day due to a clash in examination dates announced by the university. What poses a bigger problem for them is that they are depending on one smartphone, which is borrowed, to take the exam. “On September 28, I have my political science exam and my elder sister has her history final exam. On September 29, I have my history exam and she has ‘National Movement’ paper. We have one smartphone, borrowed from my friend only a few weeks back so that my younger siblings who are studying in government schools could attend online classes. Now, they too have their online exams, being conducted by the Punjab School Education Board from September 21. We are six sisters and a brother. My father works as a labourer and is the family’s only breadwinner. We all (siblings) want to study and do well in life,” said one of the two sisters. According to the university date sheet, exams will be held from September 25 to October 12. If MA English papers are scheduled for September 25, 26, 28 and 29, so are MA History exams. “Students should have been given more time to prepare for exams. How will they prepare in a day?” asked a senior professor of the university. Their other concern is that the university has no mechanism to curb impersonation or dummy candidates in online exams, and the Punjab Bandh called by farmers on September 25, as exam is scheduled on that day. University examination controller J I S Khattar said, “We are taking an undertaking from students on their answer sheets, that he/she is the same person/candidate appearing in the online exam, to check impersonation. If on September 25, any student is not able to submit answer sheets through speed post or direct delivery at a university or college nearby, he/she may be asked to submit it the following day.” About internet access and examination clash issues, he said, “We have staggered timings for MA and BA final year exams, with one starting an hour later. So students who have only one mobile phone can manage the timings even if exam dates clash.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-sisters-among-7-siblings-with-a-borrowed-smartphone-face-clash-in-online-exams/articleshow/78264905.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt grants funds for upgrading labs||PATNA: The government has sanctioned a grant of Rs 6 lakh each for the upgradation of laboratories in 224 constituent colleges and two women’s institutes in the state. In a letter sent to former minister Mahanchandra Prasad Singh on September 14, state education department director (higher education) Rekha Kumari, said funds had been allocated to the government colleges for upgrading their labs on the directive of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar. The letter, a copy of which is with this newspaper, stated that Rs 1 lakh each was sanctioned for physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, geography and geology labs for the 2018-19 financial year. Singh told this newspaper over the phone that he was shocked to know the condition of labs in the government colleges. “Since the CM is working hard to ensure quality education, I took up the matter with him and urged him to sanction funds for upgradation of laboratories,” he added. The former minister, however, pointed out that Rs 6 lakh was not sufficient for upgrading labs in each college. “The installation of modern apparatus will cost more. Therefore, I request the CM to increase the amount from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh each,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-grants-funds-for-upgrading-labs/articleshow/78264688.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Excise officers in Bihar get arms training 5 years after liquor ban||PATNA: Almost after more than five years of the enforcement of prohibition in the state, the excise department officers are getting training to handle small firearms to be allotted for using as per need during raids on liquor smugglers. The firearms would include 9mm pistol, which is issued to state policemen. Sources said all excise officers authorized to keep a pistol would have to undergo basic 2 to 5 days training at the state police’s shooting range. These officers had last undergone such training after their appointments. Sources said basic training has either been completed or is going on in Siwan, Katihar, Supaul and Araria and would commence in other districts soon. Only few months after the prohibition was enforced in Bihar in April 2016, excise officers had demanded firearms for self-protection during raids. They were allowed only to purchase their own firearms. When asked, Patna excise assistant commissioner Prahlad Prasad Bhushan told TOI that excise officers from sub-inspector to joint commissioner ranks have been authorized to get a small firearm each. “We will get a pistol from the department,” he said. Bhushan said training in Patna for operating firearms has yet not commenced. Bihar Military Police authorities say the shooting range on BMP-5 premises had some problems. “I will write to them again to know if the problems have been rectified so that we can get training there,” he said. He said the excise commissioner had written a letter to all district magistrates one and a half months back to make arrangements for firearms training. “Firearms have already been purchased for allotment to around 350 officers,” he added. Meanwhile, Siwan excise superintendent Priyaranjan said officers under him were first in the state to get basic training in firearms. “Now, we are waiting for shooting practice at Motihari firing range,” he said. He also said space would be allocated in the district police armoury for keeping pistols allotted to them. Katihar excise superintendent Keshav Kumar Jha said basic training as well as shooting practice got completed for officers there on September 6. “We are now waiting for pistol allotment from the department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/excise-officers-get-arms-training-5-years-after-liquor-ban-in-state/articleshow/78261617.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 23, 2020||Patna||Patna HC directs Gaya court to decide Vishnupad temple management issue||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday directed a lower court in Gaya to decide within fortnight on an appeal filed before it almost two decades back regarding control of Vishnupad temple management. The directive was issued by the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar while hearing a PIL filed by Gaurav Kumar Singh urging that the state government be directed to declare all temple properties public. The petitioner had urged the high court that the state government should take control of temple management and properties and appoint a board such as the ones managing the Vaishno Devi shrine and the Tirupati temple. The petitioner had also urged the court for directing the government to develop the temple’s surrounding areas by creating basic infrastructure and amenities like rest house for devotees. At least 30-40 lakh devotees visit the temple annually as per the Gaya DM’s submission before the high court. A Gaya court had given ex-parte decree in favour of pandas (priest) of the temple for running the management in 1993. However, the Bihar State Board of Religious Trust had filed an appeal against the decree in 2001 which was dismissed following which a miscellaneous case was filed before the lower court for restoring the original appeal. It is on this appeal that the lower court has been directed to decide within a fortnight. The original title suit, which the Gayawal pandas of the temple had won in 1993, was filed in 1978. While senior advocate Ganpati Trivedi appeared for the board, additional solicitor general KN Singh appeared for the Centre. The matter has been listed for hearing again on October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-directs-gaya-court-to-decide-vishnupad-temple-management-issue/articleshow/78261766.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav questions ‘haste’ in passing farm Bills||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday hit out at the NDA government and questioned its “haste” in getting the farm Bills passed in the Parliament. Apart from Congress and RJD, which will hold protests on September 25 against the passage of the Bills, RLSP has also announced its support to the ‘Bharat bandh’ called by farmers’ unions on the same day. “NDA government has now made ‘anndatas (those who produce crops)’ puppets of its ‘funddatas (fundraisers)’. The haste in passing the Bills shows something was wrong. This government is not worried about farmers,” Tejashwi tweeted. He said farm was the only sector which was not privatized, but the NDA government did it for a few corporate giants. He said, “We are with the farmers and will raise their voice from Parliament to the road.” Tejashwi also took a jibe at PM Narendra Modi for inaugurating and laying the foundation of projects just before Bihar assembly elections. He said, “Now non-Biharis will always talk about Bihar during elections. While sleeping, eating, bathing, they will only talk about Bihar. After the election, they will forget. It has been raining for the past three days, but the CM is not concerned about floods.” RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha described the passing of farm Bills as ‘khetbandi’. He also lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar for doing away with agriculture produce market committee (APMC) in Bihar after coming to power. “In Nitish’s regime, farmers are compelled to sell their produces at a very low cost. The way Nitish has supported these Bills shows his anti-farmer attitude,” Kushwaha said. Meanwhile, BJP leaders in state have criticised the unruly behaviour of opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha when the farm Bills were tabled. Union minister Nityanand Rai tweeted it was unfortunate that the opposition MPs heckled Harivansh, the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha, by forgetting the decorum of the House. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP and Bihar incharge Bhupendra Yadav said it was really unfortunate that the opposition MPs tore off the rule book and climbed up to the secretary general’s table to create ruckus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-questions-haste-in-passing-farm-bills/articleshow/78263014.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 23, 2020||Patna||Patna metro to be ready in five years, says Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said the two corridors of Patna Metro Rail Project would be complete within five years, and once ready, this project will benefit a large number of people and bring relief for commuters in Patna. “We have already constructed so many roads and bridges, people of the city will be so happy when metro comes here,” said Nitish, while inaugurating the construction work of the Rs 13,590 crore project through a video link. “Corridor I will be 17.9 km long from Danapur to Khemnichack via Meethapur, of which 7.3km will be elevated, and 10.5km underground. The second corridor will be 14.5 km from Patna station to Pataliputra Bus Terminal. Of its total length, 7.9km will be underground and 6.6km will be elevated. Five stations from Pataliputra till Malahi Pakri will be built on a priority basis.” All five metro stations, which are to be built on a priority basis are elevated and include Pataliputra Bus Terminal, Zero Mile, Bhooth Nath Road and Khemnichak in the second corridor. The CM appreciated the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, which is the executing agency for the construction of Patna Metro, for its stellar work in the past. Corridor I will have 14 stations starting from Danapur to Saguna Mor, RPS Mor, Pataliputra Station, Rukunpura, Raja Bazaar, Patna zoo, Vikas Bhawan, Vidyut Bhawan, Patna station, Meethapur, Ramkrishna Nagar, Jaganpura, and Khemnichak. The Patna railway station stop would be a corridor interchange station. The route for the second corridor will be Patna Station-Aakashwani-Gandhi Maidan-PMCH-Patna University-Moin-ul-Haque stadium-Rajendra Nagar-Malahi Pakri-Khemnichak-Bhootnath Road-Zero Mile-Pataliputra Bus Terminal. Kemnichak will be the second option for corridor interchange. UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma said the work related to soil testing, traffic survey, as well as a survey related to trees, environment impact assessment and social impact assessment have been completed. Sharma said, “Though the entire metro project has been targeted for completion within five years, the priority corridor and depot will be made functional within three years.” Sharma further informed that a Rs 552.90 crore tender has been floated for the construction of a viaduct for the priority corridor. As per a release shared by his office, tenders have been invited for the construction of elevated stations on corridor I and underground stations on corridor II and tenders for several other works related to the construction of this project were underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-metro-to-be-ready-in-five-years-says-nitish/articleshow/78264617.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 23, 2020||Patna||Advertisement criteria for hiring teachers unchanged, Bihar govt tells HC||PATNA: The education department on Tuesday submitted before the Patna high court that it has not changed the original terms and conditions of the advertisement published in July last year for the appointment of around 94,000 teachers for Class-I to Class-VIII in government school across the state. In a reply filed by the primary education director before the bench of Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay, the department submitted that the order issued by it on June 15 this year was only to clarify that the June 8 advertisement was exclusively over Patna high court’s another other passed on January 21 this year in which it had allowed D.El.Ed candidates who have gone through 18 months course of NIOS for taking part in the recruitment process. Additional advocate general Ashutosh Ranjan Pandey appearing for the department, further submitted that no other candidates, especially those who had passed CTET in December 2019, were eligible for applying for appointments as per the June 8 advertisement as the cut-off date for attaining academic and training eligibility was November 23, 2019. The change in criteria and the order barring CTET candidates who had passed in December 2019 has been challenged by Neeraj Kumar and 70 other petitioners after which the HC stayed the final appointment of teachers by the department on July 1 but allowed it to continue with the recruitment process. Counsel Dinu Kumar assisted by Ritika Rani appearing for the petitioners submitted that the department had amended its advertisement at least four times and in the last advertisement published on June 8 this year the department had invited candidates for CTET, STET and D.El.Ed. as well for making an application for participating in the recruitment. “There was nothing mentioned about cut-off dates on June 8. However, by June 15 order, the department fixed cut-off date for eligibility as November 23 last year and barred CTET candidates passing the examination in December 2019,” Kumar submitted. He also submitted that there is no provision in the state to change cut-off retrospectively and there can’t be separate cut-off dates for acquiring eligibility for different candidates. “Also, there is no power vested in primary education director to change cut-off date or change criteria after the publication of the advertisement,” he submitted. Kumar submitted that all candidates who had attained eligibility till June 8 this year are eligible for applying for the department’s actions to change criteria is beyond its jurisdiction. Senior counsel Yogesh Chandra Verma, appearing for the intervener petitioners, opposed Kumar’s plea and submitted that the process of selection as set by the department must continue and urged the high court for vacating the stay on final appointments of teachers. However, the HC didn’t remove the stay on final appointment and fixed November 2 for hearing the matter again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ad-criteria-for-hiring-teachers-unchanged-state-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/78261749.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 23, 2020||Business||SBI: Only Rs 2 lakh crore corporate loans may be recast||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Rajnish Kumar has said he does not expect the value of bank loans to corporates that come up for restructuring to exceed Rs 2 lakh crore. While rating agencies have forecast that loans of nearly Rs 8 lakh crore may need to be restructured, the chief of the country’s largest bank said that SBI’s experience led him to forecast a more modest number for the industry. “In the last 21 days (since the moratorium ended) we have not seen any clamour for restructuring. Large corporates have cleaned up their books and de-leveraged. There are a couple of large accounts under stress, but these are seeing a change in management. We expect most of the requests to come from small corporates and MSMEs,” said Kumar. He was speaking at an online banking colloquium organised by Brickwork Ratings. According to Kumar, of the worst affected industries, airlines had a different debt profile with most of their borrowing being in the form of aircraft leasing. “The term loans will need to be restructured. Similarly, shopping malls also will need restructuring of term loans,” said Kumar. Banks have a loan book of over Rs 100 lakh crore. According to rating agencies, total corporate debt is estimated at around Rs 65 lakh crore. India Ratings had forecast that banks may restructure Rs 8.4 lakh crore worth of loans. Kumar said that for retail loans, the bank had launched a portal for checking eligibility. “Within a week, we will make this an end-to-end process and the customer will only have to submit a signed letter to the branch,” he said. Explaining his rationale for optimism, Kumar said that output was getting close to pre-Covid levels. But if the pandemic situation got prolonged, the stress could appear in FY22, he said. Speaking at the same event, Indian Overseas Bank MD & CEO Partha Pratim Sengupta said that most of the projects were being made assuming businesses return to normalcy in two years, based on the progress made on the vaccine front and the declining case fatality rate numbers due to Covid-19. “Thinking along these lines, the projections for the next year can be deferred by two years. It is important for banks and borrowers that they do not come out with rosy projections,” he said. Yono to become separate entitySBI has plans to carve out Yono from the bank and position it as a provider of platform banking services. This will enable the bank to become a user of the tech platform and at the same time offer it on a ‘white label’ basis to smaller banks. SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said, in coming days, the Yono platform would be a key channel for providing personal loans and gold loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-only-rs-2l-cr-corp-loans-may-be-recast/articleshow/78265748.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Business||Murugappa scion to take battle with family head on||Chennai: The shareholders of privately held Ambadi Investments on Monday rejected a resolution pertaining to the appointment Valli Arunachalam, a fourth generation Murugappa family member, to the board of the company.In a swift reaction, Arunachalam charged the family of gender discrimination and said that she would pursue legal recourse to settle the dispute.Valli Arunachalam, a nuclear scientist, her sister Vellachi, a tech professional and their mother were bequeathed with 8.15% stake in Ambadi Investments, upon the demise of her father MV Murugappan, in September 2017. Since then, she had asked the family to buy them out or allow the board representation to her. “I am shocked at the manner in which the family, which is the majority shareholder, in this case, has conducted itself. Our family branch has been asking the majority shareholders in Ambadi to settle our shareholding in a fair manner. We made multiple attempts to ask the family to settle us per my father's wishes by purchasing our stake in Ambadi at fair value. We have proposed many ways in which they can settle the matter amicably, including mediation, and they have refused. For more than a year now, I have been asking for a board seat, pending the settlement, to make sure our rights are preserved as a promoter and major shareholder. Finally, they agreed to allow my board nomination, but they did not appoint me in the interim, and asked me to wait for the next AGM, which was more than 9 months away,” Arunachalam said in a statement. “In any event, we would definitely pursue justice and we will take all the steps needed for the same. It was always our wish that the family issues remain within and are settled at the family level, but clearly it seems the family is more concerned about protecting its draconian perspectives and practices, even if it means forcing us to take the battle to courts. We will not shy away this time,” Arunachalam said.Emails sent to Murugappa group did not get a response.On earlier occasions the group said it was a matter in the affairs of a privately held holding company.“.. yet again they have made clear their intent of continuing the oppressive and vexatious conduct against us,” she said and charged the family of gender discrimination. “It is evident that the family cannot tolerate women in their boardrooms, and they have showcased their considered view in this regard. It is very unfortunate that the AIL shareholders, the overwhelming majority of whom are also board members, are not able to understand what contributions women can make on the board. It is a clear indication that gender bias exists at the highest levels of the Murugappa group,” Arunachalam’s statement said. “Whilst a 23-year old male heir with a master’s degree and no job-experience can be inducted to the board soon after his father’s passing.Murugappa group runs 28 businesses and earns nearly Rs 37,000 crore in annual revenues and more than 50,000 employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/murugappa-scion-to-take-battle-with-family-head-on/articleshow/78265122.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
September 23, 2020||Business||M&M in talks with HAAH Automotive for Ssangyong stake sale||Chennai: American auto retailer HAAH Automotive’s offer to buy M&M's Ssangyong for $258 million may hit the valuation deadlock. It is learnt that the offer being offered by HAAH— which has a technical tie up with Chinese company Chery -- was low. HAAH has also sought extension of the repayment schedule of Saangyong's debt as a condition for the deal, sources said. While the offer is being considered, it is far from done and dusted. M&M refused to comment on the topic. Ssangyong has clocked up losses of nearly $300 million and has over $300 million in short term debt. M&M had earlier cranked out an investment plan but has recently announced that it was freezing investments in the Korean company and looking to reduce stake. Ten years ago, M&M had paid $464 million for 70% stake in Ssangyong. It later increased its holding to 75%. Mahindra has over the years invested over $100 million in the company since takeover. Ssangyong was a bankruptcy protected asset and M&M was chosen as the preferred bidder from a host of offers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mm-in-talks-with-haah-automotive-for-ssangyong-stake-sale/articleshow/78265078.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 23, 2020||Patna||Met sounds heavy rainfall alert in Bihar till September 26||PATNA: The state capital and most places in Bihar witnessed cloudy skies with showers on Tuesday. The Patna meteorological centre has issued a forecast for rainfall with thunderstorm across the state over the next four days. The daily weather bulletin issued by the met centre on Tuesday stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places of southern parts and many places of northern parts of Bihar during past 24 hours. Places which received a significant amount of rainfall included Forbesganj, Suryagadha, Sherghati, Rafiganj- 60mm each. Patna also received 30.8mm rainfall between 5.30 pm on Monday and 5.30 pm on Tuesday. Concerning the forecast, another bulletin issued by the local Met office stated that rainfall with thunderstorm was likely at many places in all 38 districts over the next three days. A yellow alert has also been issued for lightning with thunderstorm and heavy rain at few places in all 38 districts. A yellow alert stipulates the authorities concerned to be watchful for extreme weather conditions. Weathermen attributed the ongoing rainy spell to heavy moisture incursion in the region owing to multiple weather systems. As per the daily weather bulletin, a low-pressure area was positioned over north Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood with an associated cyclonic circulation likely to move west northwestwards during next two days. The monsoon trough, on the other hand, was passing through Bikaner, Bhilwara, Sagar, the centre of the low-pressure area over north Chhattisgarh, and thence east northeastwards towards the northeast Bay of Bengal. An official at Patna meteorological centre claimed that another trough line was positioned between Maharashtra and sub- Himalayan West Bengal. “A lot of moisture incursion is taking place in the region due to all such weather systems. Accordingly, we are expecting the rainfall to occur all across Bihar over the next four days. The intensity of rainfall is expected to be higher on September 25 and 26, particularly in western and northern Bihar,” Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna meteorological centre said. Meanwhile, Bihar has received 15% surplus rainfall in the monsoon season till date. The state has received 1108.1m rainfall from June 1 till date, against the corresponding normal of 964.7mm, leading to a surplus of 15%. While Patna has received 7% surplus rainfall till date, the highest surplus rainfall has been recorded at Darbhanga (51%), followed by East Champaran (42%). The lowest deficit rainfall, on the other hand, has been recorded at Saharsa (26%) and Sheikhpura (25%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-sounds-heavy-rainfall-alert-in-bihar-till-september-26/articleshow/78264759.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kochi||Waste plant: Government asks corporation to lease out 20 acres to KSIDC||KOCHI: State government has asked Kochi corporation to lease out 20 acres of land owned by the local body at Brahmapuram to Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) for setting up a waste-to-energy plant. Interestingly, one of the main reasons behind the failure of implementation of the project by GJ Eco Power Private Ltd, the previous firm which was roped in for setting up the plant, was the corporation’s reluctance to lease out the land to the private firm. A couple of months after cancelling the agreement with GJ Eco, the local self-government department has issued an order asking Kochi corporation to lease out eight hectares or 20 acres of its land to KSIDC. However, no action was taken post the communication. It’s amid this development that the state has issued fresh orders. After cancelling the agreement with the private firm, the government had entrusted KSIDC as the nodal agency for the implantation of a waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram. As per the order issued by the local self-government department on June 6, 2020, “global tender inviting firms for setting up a waste-to-energy plant is under process. So, the local body should lease out 20 acres of land to KSIDC with the right to sublease it to the successful bidder. There should be clauses in the lease agreement for subleasing the land with the right to mortgage it,” the order stated. “The government has issued such an order. However, the corporation council has not given approval for leasing out the land,” said deputy mayor K R Premakumar. Meanwhile, there are objections against leasing out the land to KSIDC. Some of the councillors belonging to both the ruling front and opposition do not support the move. “The concept of public-private partnership is that the private partner will mobilize funds and the government will not have to bear the financial burden. If the land is leased out to a private partner of KSIDC, the private partner will be able to mortgage it and secure a loan from banks. This will lead to a situation where the local body would lose the land if the private firm fails to repay the loan,” a councillor with LDF said, adding that they may not be able to object to the government order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/waste-plant-govt-asks-corp-to-lease-out-20-acres-to-ksidc/articleshow/78262359.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 23, 2020||Patna||Darbhanga flights draw big response as bookings start||DARBHANGA: People of Mithilanchal region are elated with commencement of booking of tickets for flight operations from Darbhanga airport from November 8. Anand Deora, senior manager (corporate communications), SpiceJet, said bookings for the flights from Darbhanga have been impressive. “Tickets are being booked for up to August next year,” he added. SpiceJet was selected in the bidding process for commencement of flight operations from Darbhanga airport under Udan Scheme of the Centre. SpiceJet will operate flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, the bookings for which had commenced on Monday. In a bid to commence commercial flight operations from Darbhanga airbase, a civil enclave has been developed by the civil aviation ministry and its construction was reviewed by Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on September 12. There are six check-in counters and two aprons in the civil enclave. Town BJP MLA Sanjay Sarawgi said it has been a historic development for fulfilling the cherished dream of the people of the region to have flight connectivity from Darbhanga. Sarawgi has also booked his ticket for Delhi for November 8. Pawan Sureka, president, divisional chamber of commerce and industries, said businessmen are upbeat with the airport dream finally coming true. “It will benefit commerce and trade in the region. Many businessmen have booked tickets for the desired destinations on the first day,” he said. Doctors are also elated as they will not find difficulties in travelling in case of emergency and other reasons. BJP MP Gopal Jee Thakur on Monday met the civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and expressed gratitude for beginning of flight operations from Darbhanga airport in the first week of November. Running of train on Kosi Mahasetu, construction of civil enclave at airport and clearance of AIIMS in Darbhanga are the gifts for Mithila people from Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-flights-draw-big-response-as-bookings-start/articleshow/78264052.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||Congress claims 236 positive in Vadodara, VMC bulletin says 88||VADODARA: The opposition Congress that had been claiming that the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) was manipulating Covid-19 data attempted to substantiate its claims by enumerating persons who tested positive. The party claimed that it had identified 236 persons who were tested at 34 urban health centres (UHC) in VMC limits. Against the claims of the Congress, VMC’s health bulletin of on Tuesday evening stated that there were only 88 positive cases in the city limits. The health bulletins do not give a break-up of the cases detected through rapid antigen tests at UHCs and those detected in hospitals or government and private laboratories. Vadodara city Congress president Prashant Patel said, “Our workers have also clicked pictures of the Covid-19 positive reports handed over to people. Many did not want to share details and were not counted. There are many others from the city who have tested positive in hospitals or private laboratories. The civic body is clearly hiding the real figures.” Patel claimed that at several UHCs doctors confided that the number were much higher than that were being declared officially. “Some claimed that there were days when they tested 20 or more positive cases on a day,” he added. He alleged that at some centres testing was stopped or given a break when they realised that Congress workers outside were counting new cases. The VMC has been targeted by the Congress since quite some time now for hiding data. Earlier, individual leaders had made such claims and representations in wake of which the party decided to take up the matter. The civic body, however, maintained that its data was factual. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel, “The figures we release are the real figures.” VMC used to include all Covid-19 deaths in its bulletin earlier irrespective of co-morbidities having led to the deaths. Eventually, it decided to count only those cases where Covid-19 was the primary cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-claims-236-ve-vmc-bulletin-says-88/articleshow/78263188.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Supaul man hacks sister-in-law to death||PATNA: A 40-year old woman, Kaushalya Devi, was allegedly hacked to death with a spade by her brother-in-law over a petty family dispute at Simriya village under the Triveniganj police station area in Supaul district on Tuesday. Triveniganj SDPO Ganpati Thakur said the villagers caught the accused, Vinod Mandal (26), and handed him over to police. He said the incident took place around 9am. “A police team reached the village after getting information and arrested the accused, who was also thrashed by the villagers,” he said, adding Vinod picked up a fight with his cousins over a petty family dispute. “When Kaushalya tried to intervene, Vinod lost his cool. He picked up a spade and attacked her multiple times, killing her on the spot. Kaushalya’s husband Shyam Sundar Mandal has lodged an FIR against Vinod in connection with the incident, the SDPO said, adding the victim’s body was handed over to her family members after post-mortem. No arrest in bank loot case: Police have so far not been able to arrest anyone in connection with loot of Rs 19.35 lakh from the Sahdullahpur branch of Punjab National Bank under the Ganga bridge police station area in Vaishali district on Monday evening. Vaishali SP Maneesh the movement of four criminals was captured in CCTV cameras. “Raids are on to arrest the criminals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/supaul-man-hacks-sister-in-law-to-death/articleshow/78264162.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Business||Banks find zero-fee RuPay unattractive||MUMBAI: The government’s decision to do away with merchant fees on all payments using RuPay debit cards appears to have had some unintended consequences. There are indications that banks are choosing to issue Visa and MasterCard, which do not face any restriction on fees unlike RuPay. According to an IIT-Bombay study, banks prefer to issue cards of Visa and MasterCard rather than lose money on transactions made using RuPay cards. In a year since early September 2018, there had been a net issuance of about 465 lakh RuPay debit cards, and about 428 lakh accounts were added under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY). In contrast, for the corresponding period this year (early-September 2019 through end-August 2020), there was a subdued issuance of about 65 lakh RuPay debit cards though about 363 lakh PMJDY accounts were added. “It alarms to see an expanding gap between PMJDY accounts added and RuPay debit cards issued. Unless there are other extraneous causes, a possible cause for such a trend could be that banks have deliberately moved away from RuPay and promote a card scheme, which generates more revenue for them,” said Ashish Das, a professor of statistics at IIT-Bombay who has authored the report. The reason for the shift is simple economics. While the administered MDR pricing for RuPay turned zero following the ban, it continued to be 0.4-0.9% of the transaction value for MasterCard and Visa. This fee is shared between the bank, which issues the card and the lender which installs the swipe machine, with the card-issuing bank getting the lion’s share. As a result, while on one hand., the year-on-year growth of RuPay debit cards issued under the PMJDY was shrinking, on the other hand, there was a sharp uptick in y-o-y growth of overall debit card outstanding. “This reflects an implicit increase in y-o-y growth of MasterCard/Visa debit cards. We call this the whiplash of the zero MDR policy,” Das said. The report ‘Merchant transactions through debit cards — costs and prices’ recommends that merchant discount rate be allowed but subject to a cap of 0.6% on all e-commerce transactions and with large merchants. For smaller merchants (turnover below Rs 2 crore) and low-value transactions (below Rs 2,000), the report prescribes capping the MDR at 0.25%. The removal of charges also did not do anything to boost transactions in the domestic network. RuPay debit cards were used for payments in point of sale machines and online for transactions worth Rs 16,728 crore in January 2020, when the MDR ban came into effect and transactions have not touched the same monthly level since. The average monthly transactions for the current fiscal works out to less than Rs 13,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-find-zero-fee-rupay-unattractive/articleshow/78265851.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 23, 2020||Patna||Faruque Ali takes charge as Jai Prakash University VC||CHHAPRA: Former professor of zoology at Bhagalpur University, Faruque Ali, took charge as the new vice-chancellor (VC) of Chhapra-based Jai Prakash University (JPU) on Monday evening. He was also the pro-VC of Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University in Madhepura. Promising to give the university a new identity, Ali said, “I will try my best to develop confidence among the students and regularize the academic sessions. I urge the teachers not to limit themselves to classrooms and create a sense of inquisitiveness among the students.” The new VC was accorded a warm welcome by the registrar and other university officials and teachers. After the completion of the tenure of Harikesh Singh, the post of JPU VC had been lying vacant since January 24. During this period, the VCs of Magadh University, Rajendra Prasad, and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University, H P Pandey, looked after the functioning of JPU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/faruque-ali-takes-charge-as-jpu-vc/articleshow/78264084.cms||H K Verma
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM lays foundation of ‘Mithila Haat’||MADHUBANI: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday laid the foundation of ‘Mithila Haat’ , an archetype of ‘Dilli Haat’, through videoconferencing. Located by the side of NH-57 stretch crossing Araria-Sangram village in Jhanjharpur sub-division, nearly 20km east of Madhubani town, the project, spread over 1.97 acres, is likely to cost Rs. 3,82,45,000. It will have 50 stalls, office building, store, exhibition hall, auditorium, open area theatre, souvenir shop, food stalls, lodging quarters for artists and parking space. Billed as state-of-the-art marketing outlet available round-the-year for local artists, the ‘Haat’ is only a part of the holistic project, which also includes three common utility centres (Samanya Subidha Kendra) at Jitwarpur, Raiyam and Rampur villages under Rahika, Jhanjharpur and Pandaul blocks respectively. Besides, Jitwarpur village is to be showcased as a craft village. Proposals for all these, which is likely to entail an estimated cost of Rs.9.37crore, may soon get approval from the Union ministry of textiles. “Viewed in conjunction with the establishment of Mithila Chitrakala Sansthan at Saurath village at an estimated cost of Rs.40.75crore, the initiative has the potential to transform the cultural scenario of the whole Mithila region. The institute, which is nearing completion and is likely to become functional in January next year, will play an important role in bringing about market-friendly changes in the traditional art form. It will also run a three-year degree course and a month-long certificate course,” water resources minister Sanjay Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-lays-foundation-of-mithila-haat/articleshow/78261783.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Business||Cos must help employees with digital tools in WFH era||By Chaitanya SreenivasAs an era of ‘work from anywhere’ beckons organisations of all hues, accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic, the biggest worry today is that collaboration will likely suffer, leading to loss of employees’ productivity and performance. A digitally enabled workforce that uses modern tools can ensure collaboration and does not become collateral damage amid the new ways of working. Traits of digitally enabled virtual employees Digitally enabled virtual employees are typically open to learning new skills, breaking down silos and creating dynamic work environments wherein team members can collaborate seamlessly. One can define such employees as those who are comfortable using digital collaboration tools, like as video-conferencing, virtual whiteboards, file-sharing, team rooms, team calendars and chat, to work closely with their colleagues and clients. While the pandemic has accelerated use of digital tools at scale, not all employees may be comfortable using them, posing challenges to organisations. Then there is also the question of those companies that do not have a strategy in place or the relevant technology deployment in place to move in this direction. So, how can organisations help their employees become digitally enabled? How can they transform their employees with skilling opportunities, innovative and engaging technologies, and new ways of sustaining collaboration in these times of uncertainty and beyond? Building digital workplaces We can look at the three dimensions below as organisations build a robust collaborative digital workplace… * Devices: Organisations need to support a wide range of devices for their workforce as their utilisation will shift widely due to consumerisation of IT. Today, employees prefer smaller, portable devices such as tablets, wearables and ultrabooks as their primary work devices. Wearables like smart glasses and smartwatches too are likely to witness increased adoption as they begin to provide economic efficiencies and improved user experiences. Therefore, organisations should provide flexibility while factoring a bring-your-own-device strategy as well. Essentially, they need to ‘understand the users’ and how can IT help empower them to work independently and collaboratively from wherever they are. * Platforms & security: In this dynamic environment, it is imperative that companies adopt a strategy that is scalable and secure. A cloud strategy and focus on hybrid cloud platforms to enable services and systems, so that data can be accessed from anywhere, would bring in the most advantages. With cloud, organisations — in addition to scale — also have the advantages of managing, monitoring and securing data across multiple platforms and systems. Organisations must view security as an integral part of mobile device investments for enterprise-grade security solutions. This is particularly important as third-party workplace productivity apps are gaining traction, but are creating more security vulnerabilities. If organisations have several legacy applications that are not designed to run in a modern environment, organisations can virtualise the latest applications to run on a range of devices. In the long term, they can optimise the environment based on an assessment of the applications employees are using. * Analytics & AI: By combining the power of analytics with the ubiquity of mobile, organisations can serve rich data on location, within the proper context, based on stakeholder preferences and behaviours. Thus, mobility solutions will act as a cognitive extension, empowering employees to quickly acquire new skills and improve productivity. If organisations can deliver the data and the applications so users can do their job and be efficient on any device at any time, they can increase virtual collaboration among employees and their productivity. Today, workplaces are witnessing a continuous and exciting period of evolution wherein digital collaborative technologies are driving/transforming the way we work. Virtual collaboration provides opportunities for talented employees to communicate and work with their teams from anywhere. It is often seen that an enabled workforce outperforms the traditional employees as they are more productive, able to take decision in a timely manner and more agile, hence driving better outcomes for the enterprise. Digitally enabled virtual employees, who are skilled in using a wide portfolio of e-collaboration tools and ‘work from anywhere’, are in much demand now. In the months and years ahead, hybrid digitally enabled virtual employees will be most sought after by organisations across industries. For the hybrid digitally enabled virtual employees, leveraging digital collaboration tools would be a way of life. They would be proficient in using the available digital tools, including those built on emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Internet of Things and Augmented Reality, anytime anywhere. A digitally alive workforce will rule the roost in the future and it is up to employers and employees to create secure, collaborative and highly productive digital workplaces. (The writer is the HR head, IBM India/South Asia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-must-help-employees-with-digital-tools-in-wfh-era/articleshow/78265873.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Tejas questions ‘haste’ in passing farm Bills||Patna: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday hit out at the NDA government and questioned its “haste” in getting the farm Bills passed in the Parliament. Apart from Congress and RJD, which will hold protests on September 25 against the passage of the Bills, RLSP has also announced its support to the ‘Bharat bandh’ called by farmers’ unions on the same day. “NDA government has now made ‘anndatas (those who produce crops)’ puppets of its ‘funddatas (fundraisers)’. The haste in passing the Bills shows something was wrong. This government is not worried about farmers,” Tejashwi tweeted. He said farm was the only sector which was not privatized, but the NDA government did it for a few corporate giants. He said, “We are with the farmers and will raise their voice from Parliament to the road.” Tejashwi also took a jibe at PM Narendra Modi for inaugurating and laying the foundation of projects just before Bihar assembly elections. He said, “Now non-Biharis will always talk about Bihar during elections. While sleeping, eating, bathing, they will only talk about Bihar. After the election, they will forget. It has been raining for the past three days, but the CM is not concerned about floods.” RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha described the passing of farm Bills as ‘khetbandi’. He also lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar for doing away with agriculture produce market committee (APMC) in Bihar after coming to power. “In Nitish’s regime, farmers are compelled to sell their produces at a very low cost. The way Nitish has supported these Bills shows his anti-farmer attitude,” Kushwaha said. Meanwhile, BJP leaders in state have criticised the unruly behaviour of opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha when the farm Bills were tabled. Union minister Nityanand Rai tweeted it was unfortunate that the opposition MPs heckled Harivansh, the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha, by forgetting the decorum of the House. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP and Bihar incharge Bhupendra Yadav said it was really unfortunate that the opposition MPs tore off the rule book and climbed up to the secretary general’s table to create ruckus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-questions-haste-in-passing-farm-bills/articleshow/78261658.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 23, 2020||Patna||Minister opens new elevator at Gaya Junction||GAYA: A new elevator, meant for the passengers boarding trains from platforms 6 and 7 of the Gaya Junction, was inaugurated by state agriculture and animal husbandry minister Prem Kumar on Monday. He also opened a ticket reservation counter building, an auto parking stand and a plain cement concrete road on the occasion. “Gaya is an important station where pilgrims from across the country arrive to perform ‘pind daan’. A large number of Buddhist devotees and tourists also come here. Now, elderly and sick visitors will get better facilities at the station,” the minister said. Connected with the central foot overbridge, the new elevator can accommodate seven people at a time and is handled by an operator. Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer of the East Central Railway, told this newspaper on Tuesday, “Of the four elevators sanctioned for the Gaya Junction, one has become functional. Three more are in the process of being installed.” He added, “There are elevators at major stations like Patna, Danapur, Muzaffarpur, Buxar, Barauni and Darbhanga in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-opens-new-elevator-at-gaya-junction/articleshow/78264182.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||‘Sevak’ Nitish Kumar seeks one more term, says Bihar his ‘family’||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday sought one more tenure from the people of the state to carry forward the developmental activities and serve them like their ‘sewak’ like he had been doing for the last 15 years treating the people of the state as “one family.” At the same time, he hammered his differences with the RJD top bosses who he said were obsessed with ‘parivarvad (family rule)’. “For us, the entire state is our one family and we are also its members,” the CM said. “We have done our work in the best way we can like the ‘sewak’ of the people of the state who are the real ‘malik’ and have seen what we have done for their welfare and state’s development. They will give us one more opportunity to serve them as their ‘sewak,’ but the decision rests with them,” the CM said. “Bihar is forging ahead with its resources and also with central assistance. It will develop and be counted among the developed states,” Nitish also said, pointing out that technical institutes, medical and nursing colleges and hospitals were being established in the state. On the occasion, he inaugurated completed projects and also laid the foundation for new projects through videoconferencing. The projects were for road construction, health, water resources, tourism, environment, forest and climate change, as well as cooperative departments. Overall, the completion of the new projects involved an expenditure of around Rs 7,700 crore, besides the assistance given to 2,297 primary agriculture credit societies for making the bank of the agriculture implements to be given to the farmers on hire for ploughing and related activities. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, along with the respective ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Mangal Pandey, Sanjay Kumar Jha, Krishna Kumar Rishi and Rana Randhir Singh, also participated in the function through videoconferencing. The CM also said that Tuesday’s function was the last in his present tenure, implying that the Election Commission would announce the schedule for the assembly election in the immediate or the near future. Nitish took on the RJD bosses and asked them, “What did you do when you were in power? Have you forgotten whatever happened in your tenure, but the people of the state are in the know of it and were unlikely to forget.” Without taking names, he also said that the Lalu Prasad family were the practitioners of ‘parivarvad’. “They practice and believe in ‘parivarvad’. We don’t do it. For them promoting their sons and daughters is most important and they do not give respect to anyone in the party outside their family,” Nitish said. The CM expressed happiness that the tourism department had decided to give away 506 free e-rickshaws at Rajgir to promote environmental protection and the cancer institute had been opened on the campus of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. Further, he expressed satisfaction that Dolphin Research Institute would now come up on the campus of Patna University near the Law College ghat. The CM said that the project of the water resources department meant to make available at least 2 feet deep water at the left bank of the Phalgu river near Vishnupad temple at Gaya was an important move. He also noted the move for the establishment of Mithila Haat near Jhanjharpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sevak-nitish-seeks-one-more-term-says-bihar-his-family/articleshow/78264806.cms||Abhay Singh
September 23, 2020||Patna||Schools to partially reopen from September 28 in Bihar||PATNA: All secondary and higher secondary schools in the state will partially reopen for students of classes IX to XII from September 28 as per fresh guidelines issued by the education department on Tuesday. Attending classes is not mandatory for students. Students will be allowed to attend their classes only on written permission from their guardians. Not more than 50% of teachers and non-teaching staff will be allowed to attend the school daily. Only one-third of students will be allowed to attend their classes in day. Thus, a student can attend classes only for two days in a week as per the schedule to be fixed by schools. These decisions were taken at a high level meeting of education department officials held here on Tuesday in the light of the prevailing situation due to Covid-19 pandemic. It was decided that no student or teacher from the containment zone would be allowed to come to school. Details of guidelines for conduct of classes will be issued in a couple of days. The education department guidelines further state that students would go to their schools under the proper guidance of their parents, observing all precautionary measures. Boys and girls will have to wear face masks throughout their stay in school and maintain social distancing in the classrooms as well as on the campus. They will have to carry their own sanitiser bottle and wash hands regularly in schools. According to state secondary education department additional secretary-cum-dirctor Giriwar Dayal Singh, private schools will also be allowed to reopen for higher classes after following the guidelines of the education department. Schools have been directed to get their campuses thoroughly cleaned and sanitised before partial resumption of classes. They have also been directed to implement all the guidelines of the health department with regard to the safety from Covid-19 infection. State higher education department director Rekha Kumari said online classes would continue to be held as usual in schools and colleges of the state. Children studying in classes up to VIII will attend only online classes. “A separate guideline for colleges and universities of the state will be issued on Wednesday,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-to-partially-reopen-from-sept-28/articleshow/78264578.cms||B K Mishra
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam mastermind of Shaheen Bagh stir: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: The residents of Shaheen Bagh were initially against the protests, but JNU scholar Sharjeel Imam, who isn’t currently among the 15 people who have been charged for the riots, “threatened them with dire consequences” if they didn’t yield to his demand and posed an obstruction to his roadblock plan, police claimed in the chargesheet. Imam was allegedly the “mastermind” of the Shaheen Bagh blockade. The chargesheet further stated that late in the afternoon on December 15, 2019, Imam, with the help of Jamia student Arshad Warsi and his accomplices, started the 24x7 permanent chakka jam of road number 13, Kalindi Kunj Road. “Prior to blocking the road, they distributed provocative and misleading pamphlets against CAA/NRC in Shaheen Bagh, which is a Muslim majority area. They fuelled the emotions of local residents, which consequently resulted in the protest,” the chargesheet claimed. To corroborate their claims, police relied on the statements of witnesses, Facebook posts, WhatsApp chats and mobile phone locations. The chargesheet said the protesters who blocked the road initially were not locals. “This fact was revealed by witnesses who said the local residents were against this blockade,” it added. Police called the Shaheen Bagh protest site the first one based on the “chakka jam model”. The purpose of creating Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) was also a part of a larger conspiracy, police claimed. According to the chargesheet, it was created to mobilise students, women and children at the 24x7 sit-in protest sites in Muslim majority areas so that completion of the roadblock could be escalated. “In pursuance and furtherance of common conspiracy, JCC mobilised more and more women and children protesters from a particular community at protest sites to deter police on duty from taking effective action,” alleged the chargesheet. It further claimed that JCC used a SIM card to “mobilise people at the 24x7 sit-in protest sites and for engineering violence and riots”. The chargesheet claimed JCC members distributed cash among women protesters as daily wages so that a substantial number could be gathered at the 24x7 sit-in protest sites. “JCC’s media team was founded by Safoora Zargar, who also supervised posting of messages, audio and videos related to the protests. Meetings were conducted regularly in the evening in the JCC office and prominent members attended them to formulate strategy, schemes and plans in furtherance of common conspiracy for sustenance of protest sites,” it added. Alleging that Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia (AAJMI) gave funds for providing logistical support, food and other expenditures at the protest sites, the chargesheet claimed, “AAJMI also provided mikes, posters, banners, ropes, etc. It also paid for the buses hired for the protests.” Watch Sharjeel Imam mastermind of Shaheen Bagh stir: Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sharjeel-mastermind-of-shaheen-bagh-stir-police/articleshow/78264902.cms||Aamir Khan
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid testing record best in country: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Covid cases in Bihar crossed the 1.7 lakh mark on Tuesday with altogether 1,609 new cases taking the tally to 1,71,465. Officially three deaths were reported, which took the toll after to 873. Chief minister Nitish Kumar in a programme said over 1.9 lakh samples were tested a day before, which was the highest number of samples tested in a day across the country. He said while the national average of tests per million was 47,337, in Bihar it is 47,482. Giving the break-up of tests done through various methods, the CM said 11,732 samples tested through Rt-PCR and the target was to take it to 23,000. Apart from this, 3,982 samples were tested through TrueNat and 1,78,374 through antigen. Till now over 60 lakh samples have been tested in the state. With 1,57,056 recoveries, the active cases now stand at just 13,534. He appreciated the efforts of the health department, health workers and district officials. “Over 90% of people have recovered, but we have to remain alert. There is no need to worry, but maintain social distance norms and put on masks,” Nitish said reminding that in other states Covid-19 cases are emerging after being controlled. As per the information shared by the health department, one death each was reported from Patna, Gaya and Saran, taking the toll to 200, 45 and 28 respectively. As per the information shared by AIIMS-Patna nodal in-charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, an 83-year-old Ramkrishna Nagar man died on Monday. While 14 patients were discharged, five were admitted on Tuesday at the hospital. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported two deaths. One was a 65-year-old man from Malsalami in Patna and another was a 55-year-old male of Sitamarhi. Three new patients were admitted there. Of total 1,606 cases registered on Tuesday, 202 were from Patna, taking the tally to 26,034. However, with 23,761 recoveries and 200 deaths, active cases stand at 2074. Covid-19 cases registered in some other districts are Rohtas (135), Purnia (118), Muzaffarpur (110), Araria (76), Nalanda (59), Supaul (51) and Begusarai (51).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-testing-record-best-in-country-nitish/articleshow/78264643.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||4 lakh people availed benefit of health insurance scheme: Sidhu||Chandigarh: About 4 lakh people in Punjab have availed free treatment under the scheme Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (AB-SSBY), of which 51% are women. Punjab has empanelled 767 private and government hospitals which provided a free treatment facility of Rs 455.46 crore under the scheme. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said around 46 lakhs e-cards have been issued so far. “Till now, more than 6,700 heart surgeries, 1 lakh dialysis, 7,600 newly born babies got treatment facility, 4,000 joint replacements and more than 9,300 cancer patients have got the benefit of treatment under AB-SSBY,” he added. The health minister disclosed that 44,000 people availed the benefit of the scheme in Bathinda, highest in the state, followed by Ludhiana. Highlighting the features of AB-SSBY, the minister said under this scheme farmers, small traders, registered construction workers, accredited journalists, smart ration card holders were entitled for health insurance cover of up to 5 lakh per year per family. The Punjab AB-SSBY completed one year of implementation on August 20, 2020. Subsequently, in the second year there has been an increase in the health benefit packages to 1,579, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-lakh-people-availed-benefit-of-health-insurance-scheme-sidhu/articleshow/78264942.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Auto gang that robbed 40 passengers in 2 mths busted||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Tuesday claimed to have busted an auto gang that robbed passengers, with the arrest of five.The accused confessed to have committed about 40 robberies in two months. The police have recovered 12 stolen cellphones from their possession.The arrested have been identified as Sanjeev Sharma, 28, of Shimlapuri; Rakesh Kumar, 25; Aatma Ram, 27; Karan Kumar, 30; and Amarjeet Singh, 34, all four residents of Pratap Nagar. Cops have also recovered three auto rickshaws (PB 10 HC 5642, PB 10 GK 3457 and PB 10 EH 7932) from them.Joint commissioner of police Bhagirath Singh Meena said, “Aatma Ram came out of jail on May 5. Karan was released on bail on November 19, 2019, and Sanjeev on November 1, 2019. Karan has three theft and snatching cases against him, Sanjeev and Aatma Ram four each.” Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “Karan and Amarjeet are the gang leaders. The two own and drive auto-rickshaws. Their accomplices would sit in the autos posing as passengers. On the way, they picked pockets of passengers. They preferred targeting men wearing kurta-pyjamas, as they keep cash and cellphones in side pockets, making it easy to steal. Also, passengers going towards Old City were on their radar as the area has different markets and people go there for shopping.”“The gang admitted to have committed 40 crimes in two months. However, majority of the cases are unreported. So far, the police have identified only four FIRs of these 40 cases. Usually, people who have lost less amount or are from other districts and states refrain from lodging a police complaint. All the accused are drug addicts and started executing thefts to meet their drug needs,” Verma added. They were arrested near Division 5 police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/auto-gang-that-robbed-40-passengers-in-2-mths-busted/articleshow/78262374.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Politicians behind money and muscle used in Delhi riots: Cops||NEW DELHI: The chargesheet filed in the conspiracy behind the February riots claims that suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain “brought with him money, muscle and community base much required by the key conspirators, if the mistakes of December 2019 were not to be repeated.” He, thus, became the “sledgehammer” for the conspiracy. Police claimed that Hussain, through a “complex web of intermediaries”, converted approximately Rs 1.5 crore of his white money into black, or ready cash, for distribution and use by the rioters. The money to purchase a pistol for killing Rahul Solanki was allegedly given to the accused, Mustakeem, by Hussain. “He has also financed Athar and Suleman Siddique, who played an important role in the violence at Chand Bagh and the murder of head constable Rattan Lal,” the chargesheet claimed. Hussain was termed by the cops as a “shrewd politician” who understood the ground realities of his locality much better than the “elite key conspirators”. The alleged role of former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, who was stated to have a “mass base” in her constituency, was also elaborated on in the chargesheet. Under the label of “a leading female face for mass mobilisation”, police claimed that she “occupied the highest local pedestal”. The probe claimed to have found “unexplained” funds in her bank account since the anti-CAA protests began. “Ishrat Jahan was physically present when a murderous assault on a police officer took place using a weapon purchased with her money. Her leadership is established by the fact that she was arrested from the spot where there was indiscriminate firing on police,” the chargesheet claimed. The chargesheet further claimed that Jamia PhD scholar Meeran Haider was among those who wanted the “success of Shaheen Bagh” to be replicated everywhere in the national capital. “The active contribution of Meeran Haider led to the establishment of no less than 24 additional sit-in protest sites within a short period of 25 days all over Delhi,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/politicians-behind-money-and-muscle-used-in-riots-cops/articleshow/78264926.cms||Aamir Khan
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Already reeling under crisis, city industry gets a raw deal||Ludhiana: Spelling trouble for city’s micro and small bicycle and sewing machine parts’ manufacturers, the rates of raw material have skyrocketed in the past two months. The rates of cold rolled (CR) sheet, CR pipe and pig iron, the commonly used raw materials, have shot up by 30%, giving sleepless nights to small-scale manufacturers. Due to less inflow of orders, the businessmen cannot pass on the increase in rates to their customers. They say the little bit of business they have in hand now will be finished.Rajesh Bansal, bicycle parts’ manufacturer and president of All-India Tiny and Small Manufacturers’ Association, says, “There is a huge fluctuation in the rates of raw material being used by the bicycle industry. CR sheets and CR pipes are the most commonly used raw material by us and during the past two months there has been a surge in the rates. And the past two weeks saw the steepest hike. The rate of CR pipe is currently Rs 63,000 per tonne and it was Rs 52,000 per tonne about 15 days ago and two months back it was available for Rs 49,000 per tonne. CR sheet, which is available for Rs 59,000 per tonne, was Rs 44,000 per tonne two months ago.”He adds, “The past two months saw rates of both raw material going up by Rs 15,000 per tonne, which is more than 30%. This is happening without any logic or reason. Why should the prices go northwards when there is a huge drop in demand? Steel cartels are on a mission to destroy small-scale manufacturers like us. In the prevailing situation when industry is facing crisis, we cannot hike the rates of our products as we already have very small orders. We are forced to absorb the hike.”Jatinder Nagpal, treasurer of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries’ Association, says, “Pig iron is the most commonly used raw material in our industry. Its current rate in Ludhiana is Rs 36,000 per tonne and two months ago it was around Rs 27,500 per tonne, which means an increase of Rs 8,500 per tonne. In addition to this, the rate of coal has increase by Rs 3,000 per tonne in the past 10 days and is currently at Rs 30,000 per tonne. Similarly, chemicals, like silicon, used widely by the furnace industry for sewing machine parts’ manufacturing has shot up from Rs 78,000 per tonne to Rs 92,000 per tonne. The situation is very bad for us as rates of all the raw materials have shot up when our industry was seeing some movement after months. Unfortunately for us we are unable to increase the rates of end products, for fear of losing our customers.”Goldy Johar, a small-scale bicycle parts’ manufacturer, says, “The hike in rates of steel raw material is killing our industry and we don’t know for how many days we will be able to absorb the hike in prices. We request the Centre to immediately set up a steel prices regulatory committee to keep a watch on rates and take action against the culprits who do that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/already-reeling-under-crisis-city-industry-gets-a-raw-deal/articleshow/78262398.cms||Mohit Behl
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Dalit farmer in Uttar Pradesh beheaded for not sharing water||BAREILLY: A single water pipe runs across the length of Natthu Lal Jatav’s paddy farm in UP’s Budaun district. On Monday night, the Dalit farmer was interrupted when he was irrigating his crop. Another farmer from his village, Roop Kishore, wanted Jatav to share the water from that one pipe. Jatav didn’t want to. And for that, he was beaten up and then beheaded. The 56-year-old Jatav was a marginal farmer in Din Nagar Sheikhpur village, about 20 km from Budaun. It’s a small village, with some 600-odd houses. Scheduled Caste communities make up about 67% of the population but socio-economically, the power dynamics do not favour them. When Jatav refused Kishore’s request, he was taken aback. He started verbally abusing Jatav and a scuffle broke out — Kishore started beating Jatav up with a stick. A few locals gathered and tried to break the fight. The altercation escalated, nonetheless, and Kishore spotted a spade. Before anyone could intervene, he picked it up and, in one blow, decapitated Jatav. The witnesses said they ran away from the spot in fear. “I had been working with my father in the evening. But he told me to go home for dinner and that he would water the crops. But he had not made it back home until very late,” Jatav’s son Ompal told TOI. “Around midnight, Mahinder (a local) came to our house and told me Roop Kishore had killed my father. I rushed there, hoping he was wrong. I saw my father’s beheaded body lying in the fields.” Ompal believes more people were involved in the killing. Kishore had run away by then. “After looking for him all over, we found him hiding in the forests nearby. A circle officer will investigate if anyone else was involved in the murder. Jatav’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy,” additional SP (rural) Siddharth Verma said. An FIR was lodged against Kishore on the basis of Ompal’s complaint, booking him for murder and under sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at Bilsi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-farmer-in-up-beheaded-for-not-sharing-water/articleshow/78260350.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Nine-year-old boy falls into 100 feet-deep open well in Tirupur, rescued||COIMBATORE: A nine-year-old boy had a miraculous escape after he accidently fell into a 100ft-deep open well near Sedapalayam in Tirupur district on Monday. Fire and rescue services personnel rescued him safely. He didn’t sustain any injuries in the incident. According to a source with the Palladam fire service station, Jovin, son of Xavier, of Vilamarathottam near Sedapalayam at Palladam, fell into the well while standing on its edge to watch a Russell’s viper feeding on the eggs of peahen. “A group of boys spotted the snake that was trying to feed on the eggs that the bird laid on one of rings of the well on Monday afternoon. They gathered around it. Jovin, who was standing on its edge, lost his balance and fell into the well that had 10ft of water,” the source said. People in the vicinity immediately alerted the Palladam fire station and a team of firemen led by fire officer P Suresh Kumar reached the spot. K Thangavel, a leading fireman, entered the well using ropes and rescued the boy, who was later handed over to his parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/9-yr-old-boy-falls-into-100ft-deep-open-well-in-tirupur-rescued/articleshow/78265015.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||To stay open, Hyderabad bar owners seek relaxation in license fee||HYDERABAD: As the deadline fast approaches, restro-bar owners from Hyderabad fear that at least 70% to 75% of the outlets will face closure if no relaxation is extended on payment of license fee. Come October 1, all clubs, bars and lounges in the state will have to cough up a hefty annual fee of anywhere between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 56 lakh — highest in India — to stay afloat. “It is impossible for most people in the business to pay this amount in the next one week. Already, they are struggling to keep their ventures running,” said Ayush Agarwal, co-founder of Air Live in Jubilee Hills. He added: “We really hope that the government offers some support — either waives off the fee for the six months that we were shut or extends the deadline for payment by another six months. In fact, even then it might be tough for many to pay.” There are close to a 1,000 bars and lounges across Hyderabad. Though excise authorities say they are mulling a solution, there isn’t any clarity. Speaking to TOI, Telangana’s excise minister, V Srinivas Goud, said: “We might extend the deadline for payment of license fee, but there’s not been an official decision yet.” Asked about lifting the ban on serving liquor at eateries/clubs, he said a special team has been set up to look into it. “The team is studying what the impact of resuming liquor service has been in 12 states where governments have withdrawn the ban — if it’s safe and not contributing to rising cases of Covid etc. Based on their findings we’ll decide what to do next,” Goud added. Stressing the need for some clarity soon, industry players say that the uncertainty is creating panic among people. “In the absence of zero revenue for last many months even as running costs continued, people are worried because it might be extremely difficult for them to pay the fee,” said Dheeraj Melwani, president, Hyderabad Restro-Lounges Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-stay-open-city-bar-owners-seek-relaxation-in-license-fee/articleshow/78264944.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Webinar organized on internationalization of higher education||Nagpur: A webinar on ‘Internationalisation of Higher Education’ was organized on Wednesday by department of higher education and University Grants Commission. Government of India has recently launched National Education Policy 2020, making way for large-scale, transformational reforms in both school and higher education sectors. Ministry of education is organizing a series of Webinars as part of ‘Shikshak Parv’, starting from September 8. Professor Rakesh Mohan Joshi, chairperson (research), Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Alok Mishra, director, NITI Aayog, prof IK Bhatt, former director, National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, Dr S Vaidhya Subramaniam, vice-chancellor, SASTRA (deemed university) were the guest speakers at the webinar. Manju Singh, joint secretary, international cooperation, UGC moderated the session. “India’s ancient and rich education and cultural heritage have tremendous potential to attract students from abroad,” said Joshi. He emphasized on making coordinated efforts by all HEIs in a single platform to enhance our global outreach. Mishra focused on an ecosystem of world class university, articulated institutional commitment and internationalization at home and abroad to drive internationalization of higher education in India. Dr Subramaniam highlighted the need of efforts towards channelizing our resources in the policy pathway to steer internationalization. Dr Subramaniam deliberated on three models — full physical presence, through collaboration and through online education for entry of foreign institutions in India. Prof Bhatt stressed on the importance of constituting a task force to address concerns regarding internationalization of higher education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/webinar-organized-on-internationalization-of-higher-education/articleshow/78275931.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 23, 2020||Mumbai||5 of six-member family dead, one kid still missing||BHIWANDI: Rescuers managed to find bodies of five of the six Shaikh family members trapped under the debris more than 36 hours after the Jilani building collapse. Late on Tuesday evening, rescuers dug out the bodies of Aarif Shaikh (33), his wife Naseema (30), daughter Neda (6), son Hasnain (2.5) and his brother Sohail (20), and continued the search for his other daughter, Sabia (4). Aarif, a truck driver, resided in the building with his wife and three children. His younger brother, Sohail, had recently come to live with them from Latur after completing his graduation to pursue higher studies. Sohail and Aarif’s father Yusuf came down from Latur on Tuesday afternoon. “I have lost my sons and do not know how I will run my home now,” Yusuf told TOI. Yusuf, who has two other sons and two married daughters, said Aarif was the only earning member of his family who took care of his parents as well as Sohail's education. In another tragedy, second-floor resident Shahid Khan (35) who went to pick up his sleeping son Ashad (2.5) from the bedroom died along with the toddler. Shahid’s cousin Jakir Khan, who lives in another area in Bhiwandi, said, “When the building began to collapse, Shahid sent his wife Asma to the third floor where his parents Abdullah (60) and mother Jaibunisha (55) lived to help them run out and then he went to get his son.” Asma and her in-laws survived. Shahid’s brother Khalid (40) who lived alone in another flat was pulled out alive after 16 hours. He joined the rescue work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-of-six-member-family-dead-one-kid-still-missing/articleshow/78264424.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 23, 2020||Kochi||Dispute over KMRL’s canal rejuvenation work||KOCHI: A dispute has erupted over the canal rejuvenation work being carried out by Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) at Chilavannoor. While KMRL officials alleged that some residents interrupted the works and caused a loss of Rs 2.5 lakh, residents claimed that KMRL was trying to carry out construction activities in Chilavannoor backwaters violating laws. KMRL has filed a complaint with Ernakulam South police station in this regard. “Last week, our officials had been engaged in works associated with the canal rejuvenation project by the state government. Geotechnical study had to be conducted in Chilavannoor backwaters, which is one among the five waterbodies to be rejuvenated under the project. While they were carrying out soil test, some residents damaged the equipment causing a loss of around Rs 2.5 lakh to the contractor. So, we have filed a police complaint,” an official with KRML said. Meanwhile, residents have filed a complaint with vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) alleging that KMRL was trying to engage in financial irregularities under the cover of the project and helping big sharks to get away with coastal regulation zone (CRZ) violations. “KMRL has been engaged in reclamation of Chilavannoor backwaters. Contractors of the agency had reclaimed the backwaters near Chilavannoor Metro station using the debris. KMRL was the implementing agency for Padmasarovaram project, a project mooted by Kochi corporation without securing nods from agencies like Kerala coastal management authority. It is a project which damages the environment,” said Nipun Cheriyan of Chilavannoor Kayal Samrakshana Samithi. “Elamkulam village officers had issued a stop for the Padmasarovaram project after it was found that the work was started without consent from agencies concerned last year. It was in the same area that the KMRL officials started work last week,” Cheriyan said. Meanwhile, KMRL officials said that they had withdrawn from the responsibility of implementing Padmasarovaram project as the project lacked necessary clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dispute-over-kmrls-canal-rejuvenation-work/articleshow/78262384.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to place resolution in house on thermocol ban||Ludhiana: To curb one-time-use plastic products and thermocol in the city, the municipal corporation officials will bring a resolution in the general house. A ban will be imposed after discussion, as these products are non-biodegradable. There is a ban on plastic carry-bags in the state, but thermocol products are sold openly and most of the organisations, social or religious, while serving langar use these for food and beverages. For a long time, the civic body officials have been trying to convince the religious and social organisations not to use thermocol. Chief sanitary inspector Ashwani Sahota said, “Recently, a meeting took place to ensure proper implementation of the solid waste management rules. In the meeting, it was decided to bring a resolution in the MC house and impose a ban on one-time-use plastic and thermocol products. Thermocol is neither degradable nor can it be reused.”A resident of Aggar Nagar, Ashok Garg, appreciated the move and said, “These products are harmful for the environment. It is good that the civic body will impose a ban. Residents should also avoid using them.” No plastic in govt offices Last year on October 2, the Central government had announced a ban on one-time-use plastic products, but it could not be implemented. However, the state government had issued a notification and all plastic products were banned at government offices, including the MC. In government offices, there is a complete ban on all types of plastic carry-bags and plastic or thermocol cutlery, plates and cups. Besides, the use of artificial flowers, plastic water bottles, plastic folders, trays, plastic flexi-boards, among others, is discouraged. People will be encouraged to segregate waste at source. Officials also ran an awareness drive in the city, discouraging use of plastic products. Is a complete ban possible? There is a complete ban on plastic carry-bags and civic officials conducted raids as well, but to date these have not phased out completely. Thermocol ban may also meet a similar fate in the absence of strict implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-place-resolution-in-house-on-thermocol-ban/articleshow/78262402.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: What Covid? Get your numberplate fixed||NEW DELHI: If your vehicle doesn’t have a tamper-proof high security registration plate (HSRP) and a colour-coded fuel sticker, it would be a good idea to get these affixed on your vehicle now. In a stern public notice on Tuesday, Delhi government’s transport department announced it was soon going to crack down on vehicles without these indicators. A vehicle without HSRP can be fined Rs 10,000, which is compoundable to Rs. 5,000. Sources said cars would be the first targets in a special drive from next month. While new vehicles registered in the capital, particularly those registered from 2012 onwards, come fitted with HSRPs, most of the older vehicles don’t have these sophisticated and tamper proof plates. Also, despite the October 2018 directions of the Supreme Court, the number of vehicles sporting the colour-coded fuel stickers is negligible. According to transport department officials, there are at least 40 lakh vehicles, both cars and two-wheelers, without HSRP. While only cars are required to have fuel stickers, those that do at the moment number just around 3.5 lakh. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday, urging him to direct the transport department to postpone the special drive keeping in mind the corona pandemic and the chaos the notice might create. Delhi's transport minister Kailash Gahlot couldn't be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts. A light blue sticker indicates a petrol or CNG-run vehicle, while orange will mark diesel ones. Since October 2, 2018, HSRP and fuel stickers are affixed on vehicles at the time of registration. However, there is still a lack of clarity and awareness about both HSRP and fuel stickers, apart from the disinterest of vehicle owners. “The aim behind the notice is to create a sense of urgency because there has been undue delay on the part of vehicle owners to get fuel stickers despite the Supreme Court’s order two years ago,” a transport department official said. “This is not a sudden decision. However, people will get enough time to get both HSRP and fuel stickers affixed.” The official added, “While it is true that most vehicle owners were confused about centres where they could get the fuel stickers, we authorised 236 vehicle dealers in November last year, but the number of vehicle owners coming to get stickers didn’t increase.” The department’s first priority, according to the official, is to haul up cars that don’t have the fuel stickers fixed on the windshield. It will focus on two wheelers at a later stage. He said that in the amended Motor Vehicles Act, the fine for not having HSRP is Rs 10,000. There is no separate fine prescribed for fuel stickers, but those without one could be penalised for defective registration plates, incurring a fine of up to Rs 5,000. “If the response to the notice is good and there is a rush, we will extend the period for car owners. However, if the response is poor, we will have no option but to crack down on violators,” the official said. “We want to impress upon the need for this first; enforcement is the last option.” Watch No HSRP on cars yet? Delhi transport dept issues notice to begin crackdown soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/what-covid-get-your-numberplate-fixed/articleshow/78264986.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||85 deaths in Vidarbha, recoveries inching towards 1 lakh mark||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region reported 85 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, which took the region’s toll to 3,373. Improvement in recovery rate also continued even for 12th consecutive day on Tuesday. On September 22, recovery rate of Vidarbha touched 77%, which is better than state’s 75% and close to national average of 80%. Number of new cases also was under 3,000 for the second day in a row on Tuesday. Total 2,603 patients recovered from the region. Now, out of 1,24,947 total cases, 96,184 have recovered. The number of recovered patients is set to touch one lakh mark in a day or two. Total 2,920 new cases were reported in a day on Tuesday. They include Nagpur 1,273, Amravati 393, Gondia 206, Bhandara 205, Chandrapur 199, Wardha 147, Buldhana 129, Akola 100, Yavatmal 95, Gadchiroli 93, and Washim 80. Total 2,603 patients recovered on Tuesday with Nagpur accounting for 1,662, Amravati 179, Buldhana 174, Bhandara 130, Chandrapur 127, Gondia 112, Washim 70, Wardha 64, Gadchiroli 56, and Akola 29. Case fatality rate remained the major cause of concern. City-wise break-up of total 85 deaths on Tuesday is Nagpur 56, Amravati 8, Gondia 4, Chandrapur 4, Yavatmal 3, Bhandara 2, Wardha 2, Akola 2, Washim 2, Gadchiroli 1, and Buldhana 1. For second day consecutively, all 11 districts in the region reported Covid deaths. Death rate of Vidarbha is 2.7% which is equal to the state’s, though it is much above the national average of 1.7%. GADCHIROLI: A 57-year-old health worker deployed at Kondhala Wadsa hospital in the district died due to Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. This was 14th Covid death in Gadchiroli. The deceased was working as multipurpose worker (MPW) here. The MPWs are group of health service providers who have direct link and interaction with the community at large. Total 93 new patients were added to Gadchiroli’s tally on Tuesday taking total case count post 2,000-mark. Total 56 patients recovered in day. Now, 1,582 patients have recovered. Now, 490 patients are under treatment. YAVATMAL: Deaths due to Covid-19 continued to hit Yavatmal district even on Tuesday. Including a 27-year-old woman from Yavatmal city, three deaths were reported in a day. A 52-year-old man from Umarkhed and a 50-year-old woman from Kalamb died on Tuesday. This took Yavatmal’s Covid toll to 225. While 95 new patients were detected in a day, no one was discharged on Tuesday. Yavatmal now has 7,385 cases, and 6,025 of them discharged. Total 1,135 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: Two deaths due to Covid-19 and 100 new cases marked September 22 in Akola. A 72-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man died during treatment. Both were admitted to the Covid hospital on September 15. Death toll in Akola reached 213 while the case count reached 6,750 on Tuesday. In all, 29 patients were discharged in a day taking the number to 4,790. Now, Akola has 1,747 patients under treatment. AMRAVATI: The district posted eight Covid deaths on the second successive day to bring the toll close to 250 mark to 247 on Tuesday. With a spike of 393 cases today, the district also took its Covid tally to 11578. Two of the eight deaths were from Ashti and Jalgaon Belora villages in Wardha district while three were from city and one each from Shirajgaon Kasba, Achalpur and Anjangaon Surji towns. The report further said that 179 patients recovered today that took the tally of recovered patients to 8689. This left 2642 active cases. WASHIM: Two senior citizens from Risod city and Shelu Bazaar village died during treatment in Washim district on September 22. This took Covid-19 toll in the district to 70, including a suicide. Total 80 new patients were detected while 70 got discharge on Tuesday. Now, Washim has 3,724 cases, 2,795 recoveries and 859 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: The district received 683 reports of Covid-19 tests on Tuesday out of which 129 were positive and 554 negative. With this, the total cases in the district surpassed 6,000-mark and reached 6,080. A 58-year-old woman died during treatment taking the toll of Buldhana to 76. Buldhana reported 174 discharges on Tuesday taking the total number of recovered patients to 4,900. At present 1,104 patients are under treatment here. GONDIA: Spike of 206 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday brought the district just 13 shy of 5,000 case mark to 4,987. With 4 deaths in a day, the toll reached 74 while 112 recoveries also took place. This left 1,840 patients under treatment. Reports of 1,841 samples are awaited. BHANDARA: Two deaths and 205 new cases rocked Bhandara district on Tuesday. Now, the district has 88 deaths while cases surpassed 4,000-mark and reached 4,101. With 130 recovered in a day, total 2,611 patients have recovered. Bhandara still has 1,402 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/85-deaths-in-vidarbha-recoveries-inching-towards-1l-mark/articleshow/78264990.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Students from private schools likely to drop out: Study||HYDERABAD: Closure of schools due to Covid-19 in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh may result in drop out of students from private schools as the pandemic has aggravated existing inequalities among students, revealed a study released by Young Lives last week. Young Lives, a collaboration between Young Lives India, Centre for Economic and Social Studies (Hyderabad) and University of Oxford (UK), surveyed 183 teachers from 205 government and private schools in the two states to understand teaching and learning during school closures, with a focus on accessible and meaningful learning for all children. Findings revealed that of the two-thirds of 18-year-olds in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana who were in education when Covid-19 hit, only around a quarter have been able to switch to virtual classes or to access other online learning tools. “Students’ access to technology was the primary challenge that schools faced in trying to support students’ learning during the school closures, and this barrier was most pronounced for government schools,” reads the report, further adding that almost all (97%) head teachers of government schools reported that students did not have the technology they needed, compared 76% of those in private schools. The second most prevalent set of barriers centred around children and their families’ willingness and ability to prioritize education during the pandemic. “During the survey, almost 42% teachers from private schools feared dropping out of students post the pandemic. This was due to loss of livelihood resulting in inability to pay fees. We anticipate that many students may move from private schools to government schools to continue learning post Covid-19,” said Dr Renu Singh, country director, Young Lives India, adding that students from poor households were more at risk of dropping out. While schools from the two states were offering a wide range of support while students were at home, researchers felt the need to base policy decisions on availability of resources. “While classes are being transmitted on television, there is a need to understand how much is it engaging students? Primary students need reinforcements and practice to get into their short term and long term memory and governments need to make concentrated efforts for it,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-from-pvt-schools-likely-to-drop-out-study/articleshow/78264977.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kochi||‘Bacteria with resistance to drugs found in waterbodies’ in Kerala||KOCHI: There is a large presence of multidrug-resistant bacterial isolates in the waterbodies and farms near hospitals in the state. According to a study by research scholars at the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos), traces of New Delhi Metallo-β-lactamase 1 and Cephalosporin resistance genes are seen in the bacteria isolated from the water samples. Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) are gram-negative bacteria that are resistant to the carbapenem class of antibiotics, considered the drugs of last resort for infections. CRE bacteria can spread from person to person through contact with infected people or people who carry the bacteria without it causing infection within themselves. Waterbodies adjacent to prominent hospitals located in three districts — Ernakulam, Kollam and Kannur — and five aquaculture farms in their vicinity were selected for the study. The hospitals discharged their effluents into waterbodies that were used for different purposes including inland fishing activities. “ There were no pharmaceutical industries adjacent to these waterbodies. This is a prevalent scenario across the state and we have given details of the study to government,” said Kufos director of research Devika Pillai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bacteria-with-resistance-to-drugs-found-in-waterbodies/articleshow/78262404.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Containment zones in Trichy city down from 42 to 10 in a month||TRICHY: Covid-19 containment zones in Trichy city have witnessed a steep fall in a month indicating that fresh infections have also been dipping on a similar scale. The city which had 42 containment zones as on August 22 now has only 10 active ones as on Tuesday. The last time a similar low number was seen was three months ago, on June 22. According to the existing norm, a containment zone can be set up if a particular house or street records three or more positive cases. Ariyamangalam and Srirangam have been containment-free for more than a couple of weeks now. K Abishekapuram has six active containment zones at Karumandapam, Salai road and Ramalinga Nagar. Ponmalai zone has four at KK Nagar and Kottapattu. Health officials said that a significant fall in daily fresh positive cases, at least by 50-60% in a month, was the reason for the dip in containment zones. “We had multiple fresh positive cases rarely in the last few weeks. Since we are not containing a street for a single positive case, the number of containment zones has come down,” an official said. From registering 80-100 fresh cases a day last month, Trichy city have been recording less than 50 in the past few days. The conduct of fever camps in all four civic body zones has paved way for early intervention, thus containing further spread. Officials said that around 50% of the fresh cases were identified daily in fever camps. “Containment zones will continue, officials have been given the liberty to decide on it. Similarly, fever camps will also go on, both had helped us a lot in reducing the spread,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/containment-zones-in-trichy-city-down-from-42-to-10-in-a-month/articleshow/78264980.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Masks first line of defence against Covid: Telangana health department||HYDERABAD: Despite continuous advisories from the state health department and imposition of fines by the police, the usage of masks is on a steady decline in the city. Given the lackadaisical attitude of many, the Telangana’s director of public health, Dr G Srinivas Rao, stressed how all preventive measures are essential as there is still no clarity on when the Covid-19 vaccine will be available. He also highlighted the need for scaling up the implementation of this norm. “Covid-19 makes no distinction. Therefore masks, hand wash and physical distancing should be enforced everywhere. We are planning to create more awareness regarding all preventive measures, especially wearing of masks. This is the only way we can contain further spread of new infections. We don’t know when we are going to get a vaccine and if — when we get it — how efficient it will be. If you wear a mask it not only protects others, but also protects you and your family members,” said Dr Rao. The state health department, however, maintained that implementation of the compulsory mask rule is the job of the police and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). While the civic body, after taking up a strict drive for close to a fortnight, had dropped it, the police continue to monitor the mandatory mask rule. But with more and more people now coming out on to the roads, implementation of the rule has become challenging, say officials. “While we are imposing fines, there are limitations for any implementing agency as we cannot go on booking people. If lakhs of people are moving around and even 25% of them are not wearing masks, it becomes humanly possible to book all offenders. It is ultimately in the interest of the citizens that they wear masks. It is for their own safety and not for evading fines,” said Jitender, additional DG, law and order, Telangana. Meanwhile, the health department in its advisory has stated, “Everybody should wear mask when he/she goes out of the house. Face masks are the first line of defence against Covid-19. Not wearing a mask is punishable by fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/masks-first-line-of-defence-against-covid-health-dept/articleshow/78264999.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||MC launches ‘waste to wow’ campaign||Ludhiana: To involve the city residents in garbage management, the civic body has launched a “waste to wow” campaign, wherein residents will be encouraged to go for home composting and create wonderful things from waste. This campaign is based on three R’s: reduce, reuse and recycle. First, the focus will be on home composting. The target is to involve at least 10,000 households by year-end. A competition will be held for residents who are already home composting. The applicants will get a clean card by the end of this month and they will get it signed from sanitary workers for 40 days. Then they will hand it over to the chief sanitary inspector or sanitary inspector by November 13. Through a draw, 12 persons will be awarded for best performance. Then compost pits will be created at 922 parks and three progressive wards will be selected for an award. Proactive councillors will get Swachhagrahi Award by October-end. There is also a proposal of establishing a lab and creating crafts out of waste with the help of NGOs. An online campaign to gift handmade items created out of waste on festivals will be initiated. Citizens who will upload maximum pictures of such crafts on the MC Facebook page will be chosen as Pride of Ludhiana. The contest will be from September 30 till November 30.In the end, NGOs will be involved so that more green spaces could be created. There is already a proposal to establish micro-forest on the banks of Buddha Nullah. This campaign was launched at swachhta survekshan capacity building workshop on Tuesday at Bachat Bhawan, where 28 sanitation employees were also given awards and told about segregation of waste at source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-launches-waste-to-wow-campaign/articleshow/78262426.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Facebook vice-president moves SC over assembly’s summons||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday will hear Facebook India vice-president Ajit Mohan’s petition challenging a Delhi assembly panel’s summons to him to depose before it on the Delhi riots. The petitioner said it appeared to be a pre-meditated exercise as the panel chief had already made up his mind about Facebook’s complicity in the riots. Mohan’s petition, listed for hearing before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Wednesday, said, “There is no law that empowers a state legislature, including a committee formed by that legislature, to take coercive action against any person unless the person obstructs or impedes its legislative functions. The rights and liberties of persons are protected by fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution, and coercive action cannot be taken against any citizen unless that action has been authorised by law.” The petitioner said on August 31, even before issuance of the summons to him, committee chairman Raghav Chadha held a press conference announcing that “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused” in the Delhi riots and that there was a “premeditated conspiracy between Facebook, rioters and anti-social elements”. Shortly thereafter, the committee issued the first summons, which ordered the petitioner to appear on September 15 as a witness and render assistance to the committee for a “determination of the veracity of allegations levelled against Facebook in the complaints and depositions made before the committee”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/facebook-vp-moves-sc-over-assemblys-summons/articleshow/78264992.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Ex-judges condemn ‘partisan narrative’ against Umar Khalid’s arrest||NEW DELHI: A group of retired judges have issued an open letter saying they condemn efforts by anyone to glorify crimes against the state, blocking due process of the law, influencing the peace and tranquillity of the citizens, creating a wedge in the social fabric of the nation, and indirectly striking at the roots of national integration. They have written the letter in reaction to the arrest of former JNU student Umar Khalid. “We are a group of former judges, noticing a partisan agenda-based disruptive narrative, being consistently produced by a handful of persons who themselves have held responsible constitutional positions, supporting nefarious attempts to disrupt the institutions involved in investigation of crime and the process of justice,” the retired judges said. They alleged the same set of people, wrongly claiming themselves as sole representatives of the civil society, are attempting to scuttle the normal process of administration of justice in Umar Khalid case, never miss any chance to denigrate the sacred institutions of Indian democracy, such as the Supreme Court, EC and Parliament. “They seem to suffer from a wishful thinking that all constitutional institutions and executive authorities must function in accordance with their whims and fancy, which clearly portray their inherent lack of respect for India, and what it stands for,” they claimed. Justice B C Patel (former CJ, J&K and Delhi HC), Justice K R Vyas (former CJ, Bombay HC), Pramod Kohli (former CJ Sikkim HC), S M Soni (former judge, Gujarat HC), Justice Ambadas Joshi (former Judge, Mumbai HC), are among the 13 retired judges to have signed the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-judges-condemn-partisan-narrative-against-khalids-arrest/articleshow/78264994.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Just 2% of migrants returning to Delhi test Covid +ve||NEW DELHI: Migrant workers returning to the capital have shown a low rate of infection with the Covid positive percentage at each of the nine entry points into the city ranging from 1% to 8%. Delhi government has set up testing facilities at Anand Vihar ISBT, Nizamuddin, New Delhi and Delhi Junction Railway Stations, among nine other entry points, which witness a high footfall. The workers are mainly from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, said officials. An official report seen by TOI showed the overall prevalence of infection at the nine entry points to be slightly above 2% with 551 out of 23,565 people being found Covid-positive. Anand Vihar ISBT, which is on the east Delhi border, has been witnessing the most activity with hundreds of migrant workers returning to the capital in buses every morning. However, it was found that social distancing norms and Covid-19 guidelines were rarely being followed in the buses. Though travelling by private buses costs more than the usual rates, the poor workers have no choice but to return to the city compelled by the urgency to feed their family members back home. When the herds of migrant workers started entering the city, it attracted the attention of the authorities. Since they live in groups and cannot afford social distancing, one infected person can pass on the viral illness to everyone there. Till date, over 16,500 people have been tested at Anand Vihar ISBT. “Most of them appear to be migrant workers, but we are focusing on testing each person at the entry point,” said an official. All the tests are conducted with rapid antigen kits, which give results within 15 to 30 minutes. Among 371 people tested at Sarai Kale Khan ISBT, only 21 were found positive. At Nizamuddin Railway Station, 59 of 1,459 people tested positive. The number was slightly higher at Shahdara bus terminal with 85 out of 1,017 testing positive. There was a much lower prevalence of infection in those travelling by train. Among the 2,564 people tested at New Delhi Railway Station, only 23 (less than 1%) were found positive. At Kashmere Gate ISBT, the positivity rate was 1.9% as 14 of 730 people were found infected. West district surveillance officer Dr Neeraj Roy said, “The low prevalence of positivity rate among migrant workers and the poor indicates that their immunity is stronger compared with the middle-class population.” Thousands of migrant workers had left the capital when the lockdown was imposed on March 25. They were now returning due to lack of sources of income in their respective states. Watch Just 2% of migrants returning to Delhi test +ve||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-2-of-migrants-returning-to-delhi-test-ve/articleshow/78265010.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi zoo rhino to get a partner soon||NEW DELHI: On the occasion of World Rhino Day, minister of state for environment, forest and climate Babul Supriyo on Tuesday congratulated frontline forest staff and officials deployed across India for working tirelessly to save rhinos and said India had been working hard to ensure their numbers increased. The minister also said Delhi zoo would be receiving a male Rhino from the Patna zoo soon. Delhi zoo officials had recently approached the Patna zoo for giving a bull rhino under animal exchange programme about which TOI had reported earlier this week. They want to ensure breeding of the vulnerable species. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has accepted the proposal. Speaking on the population of Greater one-horned rhinoceros, which reached the brink of extinction by the end of the 20th century with fewer than 200 animals in wild, Supriyo said timely efforts and management by the government of India and state governments had revived its population in the country. “Today, approximately 75% of the entire population of greater one-horned rhinoceros is in Assam, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. A census of rhinoceros is undertaken at the state-level by the respective state governments periodically,” added Supriyo. The World Rhino Day is celebrated every year on September 22 to emphasise the importance of conservation of rhinoceros species. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change celebrated the occasion this year through a virtual conference in which senior officials from the ministry, state forest departments and other organisations like Central Zoo Authority, WWF-India, Aaranayak and UNDP participated. The rhino is among the 10 species whose partners are wanted at Delhi zoo at present. Ramesh Pandey, director of Delhi zoo, said an active search to find breeding partners for a number of animals was ongoing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/zoo-rhino-to-get-a-partner-soon/articleshow/78265004.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||JU assigns 2 hours for arts, science final-sem papers||Kolkata: Jadavpur University on Monday published the modalities for conducting the terminal semester exams for both undergradute and postgraduate courses in arts and science. Most of the papers will be slotted two hours each. The exams will be held from October 1 and October 11. Both the faculties are conducting supplementary papers. “All answers to be written on paper and those permitted according to the guidelines, can send their answers on voice mail. Each paper will be of two hours’ duration, except for biotechnology and instrumentation science, which will have a time slot of morn than two hours,” said JU pro-VC (academics) Chiranjib Bhattacharya in a circular. Students will have to upload the answer scripts immediately at the end of the exams. Those who will face difficulty in uploading the papers, may contact the JU helpline. Students have also been instructed to mention their roll numbers on all pages. “All the pages of an answer script should be numerically marked and students should write their class roll numbers on all pages before submitting answer scripts,” said a JU teacher. The results will be published within October 31, as specified by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-assigns-2-hours-for-arts-science-final-sem-papers/articleshow/78265104.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Doctor, 76, alleges bank denied him loan for not knowing Hindi||TRICHY: A 76-year-old doctor who had retired from government service has sent a legal notice to the branch manager of a nationalised bank in Ariyalur district claiming that the latter had denied him loan for not knowing Hindi. While the manager of the bank was transferred to Trichy city after the allegation surfaced, senior banking officials said the loan was denied to the customer only because of the applicant’s age. The complainant, identified as Dr C Balasubramanian, a retired senior civil surgeon, said he had approached Gangaikondacholapuram branch of Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) weeks ago seeking a housing loan for constructing a commercial complex in Jayankondam. Balasubramanian said he submitted his land documents which were also in Tamil to the branch manager in this regard. “He asked me if I knew Hindi? I replied that I know Tamil and English. Then, he abruptly said that he cannot help,” C Balasubramanian told TOI. The doctor said Thambuswami, a civil engineer who accompanied him, was witness to the events. The legal notice seeking Rs 1 lakh as compensation was also submitted to the chief grievance redressal officer, IOB, Chennai. When contacted, the transferred branch manager, Vishal Kamble, refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/doctor-76-alleges-bank-denied-him-loan-for-not-knowing-hindi/articleshow/78265016.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Consent of minor is no consent at all: HC||Aurangabad: Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, recently while rejecting the criminal appeal of a convict arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, said that consent of a minor is no consent at all. The convict — Maula Babu Kotwal (31), a resident of Shirol in Akkalkot taluka of Solapur — in 2017 was sentenced to five-year imprisonment in two offences and 10-year rigorous imprisonment under Pocso by a special judge (Osmanabad). He had committed the crime in 2015 and was arrested under section 363, 366 (A), 376 (2) (i) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 6 of the Pocso Act. Kotwal had approached the high court pointing out that he had sex with a minor (then 15) with her consent and had pleaded to show leniency on ground that he has already served 6 years in prison. The convict (then 28) was staying with the family of the minor in Osmanabad district. The convict had taken the girl first to Mumbai and then to Tuljapur where she was raped. The convict was held from Tuljapur. While dismissing the appeal the curt remarked: “Here in this case, the accused has not produced any reliable evidence, rather he is accepting the fact that the victim is minor and he had sexual intercourse with her. The only defence he tries to give is that, the act was done with the consent of the minor, when in fact consent of minor is no consent at all. Hence, the findings as well as conviction of the appellant deserves to be confirmed.’’ The court added: “It has been alternatively submitted on behalf of the appellant that he has already undergone six years of imprisonment, and therefore, his conviction be reduced to the period he has already undergone. At the outset, it can be said that, no reasons have been stated by the learned advocate for the appellant in his submissions as to why the sentence should be reduced. Merely because the accused was 28-year-old at the time of incident, no leniency can be shown when he is committing such a heinous crime against a child.” Justice Kankanwadi went on to state that the case needs to be treated where the appellant has committed the rape of a minor girl which is regarded as a heinous crime. “Such an act of sexual assault has to be abhorred. If the consent of a minor is treated as a mitigating circumstance, it may lead to disastrous consequences. This view of ours gets strengthened when we keep in mind the letter and spirit behind Pocso Act,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/consent-of-minor-is-no-consent-at-all-hc/articleshow/78261376.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 23, 2020||Pune||Chefs look at different tools to keep craft alive||PUNE: Chefs in the city, who are in between jobs or otherwise confined to home spaces because of the lockdown, are bridging the gap between commercial and household kitchens by bringing their professional sensibilities home and creating a new environment to keep their craft alive. Bhushan Satav, who worked and taught as a trained chef for 11 years before the lockdown began, has now turned to YouTube to share his work. “I managed the central kitchen of The Bowl Company food chain in the city before the lockdown. The time that I then spent at home inspired me to revisit evergreen recipes and bring them to the fore for everyone to try at home. So, we started our YouTube channel, ‘Culinary Classics with Chef Bhushan’, which is co-hosted and managed by my wife,” he said. In a world of abundant content, Satav has managed to stay relevant with his steadily rising online community by tapping into Maharashtrian audiences. “The idea was to reach the regional public at large in the state. I want them to feel as at home while making, say, a Mexican dish, as they would while preparing any classic Indian dish. We focus on how we can use locally available ingredients to create world cuisine at home. In a way, I have standardized old recipes to fit newer audiences,” Satav said. For Toshan Salgaonkar, the founder and head chef at Tangasseri Takeaway, the lockdown has proven to be a turning point in his career. Started in November 2018 as a small-scale restaurant, it witnessed slow growth because of high competition in Koregaon Park. However, his restaurant is now among the few still operating in Pune, post lockdown relaxations. “I had to shut shop completely and for about a month, I was out of work. In late April, I scaled my menu down to sandwiches and burgers and started selling those in my society. This kick-started the kitchen, but I was still at a loss when it came to sourcing ingredients. I only rely on hyperlocal farmers and am able to do so as they share my vision of clean eating. As the lockdown began to lift in phases, I was able to establish safe channels with the producers bit by bit,” he said. However, the month away from the kitchen gave Toshan the opportunity to try what he really wanted to sell in the first place, he said. “I bought a new wood fired barbecue and revamped my entire menu overnight. Had the factors leading up to this decision not occurred, I would probably have put it off further. This new menu is such a hit with the patrons that I have seen almost a 600-700% profit margin than before the pandemic,” he added. Sandeep Modgi, in his career of 18-20 years, has played many roles in the culinary world so far. He has worked on a cruise and also been a corporate chef. “I am really hoping for some relief from the government to ensure that we get jobs soon,” he said. For now, while handling the kitchen at his home and spending time with his family, his plan is to write about his journey as a chef and work on his cookbook. “You have talent, then why not use it at home as well?” he said. “The situation is not ideal and we were accustomed to running around. Making the best out of what you have is the biggest lesson I learnt from this lockdown,” Modgi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chefs-look-at-different-tools-to-keep-craft-alive/articleshow/78263802.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Surat||Three killed in sleep after dilapidated building collapses in Surat||SURAT: Three homeless persons sleeping on the pavement died after a portion of a dilapidated residential complex fell on them in Adajan area of Surat on Tuesday early morning. The Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department stated that the incident occurred at about 4 am on Tuesday. A portion of five-storey Nilanjam apartment located opposite Navyug Arts and Commerce College on the Adajan road collapsed, crushing three daily wagers in their sleep. The deceased have been identified as Anil Nepali (35), Jagdishchandra Chauhan (45) and Raju Marvadi (40). The city received heavy to heavy rains on the early morning hours of Tuesday morning. The 50-year-old building was vacated one year ago after it was found structurally weak by the SMC. The owners of the residential complex were issued about 10 notices since 2011 for self-demolition of the building, but none of them acted. Sources said that the front pavement of the dilapidated building had become shelter for a few homeless daily wagers, who would sleep at night to protect themselves from the heavy rains. The portion on right-side of the building on the main road collapsed on the early Tuesday morning, crushing three sleeping on the pavement. Fire officials stated that two fire tenders and a team of about 40 fire fighters were on the spot immediately after getting information about the collapse. Three persons were removed from beneath the rubble and were shifted to the New Civil Hospital (NCH), where the doctors declared them dead on admission. Meanwhile, the SMC authorities have lodged a police complaint against the owners of the building with the Adajan police station. On May 15, 2019, the SMC had issued a notice for vacating the residents and shopkeepers from the dilapidated building. But when the owners disregarded the notice, SMC sealed the 49 residential flats and 23 shops on October 4, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-killed-in-sleep-after-dilapidated-building-collapses/articleshow/78262381.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Assets of 2 builders seized, RCs issued to 60 developers||Lucknow: Acting on recommendation of Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA), the district administration has seized assets worth Rs 2.5 crore of two builders and issued recovery certificates (RC) to 60 developers. The regulatory authority on August 17 had sent a list of 100 developers to the district administration for action. These developers had allegedly not complied with UPRERAorders for the past two years. The orders were issued by the watchdog on complaints of allottees related to compensation, refunds and delay in giving possession of houses by these builders. Altogether, over 2,000 such complaints were received by the UPRERA. UPRERA secretary Abrar Ahmed said, "Safeguarding buyers interest is UPRERA first priority. Assets of defaulters will be auctioned and the money realised will be distributed among buyers in proportion to their investments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/assets-of-2-builders-seized-rcs-issued-to-60-developers/articleshow/78265607.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey takes voluntary retirement||PATNA: Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey took voluntary retirement on Tuesday effective immediately. The state government granted his request five months before the completion of his service tenure on February 28 next year. He has been in the national limelight for taking a strong stand on the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case in which an FIR was lodged in Patna. Pandey as DGP had strongly taken up with the Mumbai civic authorities the case of quarantining of a senior IPS officer in Mumbai, who had gone from Patna to probe the Sushant death case. The home department issued the notification late on Tuesday evening granting voluntary retirement effective Tuesday evening as per his application under the provisions of the All India Services (Death-cum-Retirement Benefits) Rules, 1958. As per the notification, the condition of applying at least three months in advance while seeking voluntary retirement was waived for Pandey. The home department simultaneously issued another notification giving Pandey’s position as an additional charge to DG (home guard and fire services) SK Singhal. Pandey, a 1987 batch Bihar cadre IPS officer had taken charge as DGP on January 31 last year. Incidentally, he had opted for voluntary retirement in 2009 as well but had taken back his application after a few months. There is a buzz in the political circles about his possible plunge into electoral politics but Pandey could not be contacted for comments as his cellphone was switched off. Pandey’s batchmate Sunil Kumar, who retired on July 31, recently joined JDU and is also likely to contest the assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-takes-voluntary-retirement/articleshow/78264893.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays ICU bed order, says Covid cap violates right to life||NEW DELHI: An angry Delhi High Court on Tuesday stayed the AAP government’s order to 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, saying a “disease by itself can’t be a ground for reservation”. The court demanded to know if Delhi government thought other patients didn’t have a right to life and said the order “appears to be arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of fundamental rights of citizens” guaranteed under the Constitution. Times ViewCoronavirus has claimed over 5,000 lives in the national capital and there are still nearly 31,000 active cases. But we should not forget that there are scores of other life-threatening diseases that afflict many in this city of 20 million. Are 20% ICU beds enough for them? While the government’s attempt to control Covid is appreciated, others should not be made to feel like second-rate patients. The government should reconsider its stand.“The state cannot discriminate between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients in an emergency. Non-Covid-19 patients cannot be asked to run to another hospital. Diseases cannot be a ground for such discrimination,” Justice Navin Chawla observed. Annoyed at the stand of the government, the judge said, “Do other patients have a right to life or not? Or is it now that the state says only Covid-19 patients have a right to life? This is making my blood boil. The patient is not going there for a holiday, he is going there in an emergency.” Wondering at the discrimination, the court said, “Why do you have to keep an ICU bed vacant for Covid-19 patient and the other one in need can die? A person has got a heart attack and you are saying he should die on the road?” On September 12, Delhi government had directed all private hospitals with 50 beds or more to reserve at least 80% of their ICU beds for Covid patients. The court sought responses of Delhi government and the Centre while hearing a plea by Association of Healthcare Providers to quash the order. The case will be heard again on October 16. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the association, argued that the government’s order was liable to be set aside as it was passed in an irrational manner. The order has to be stayed immediately as it puts someone’s life in danger, he maintained. In its defence, Delhi government explained its order was only for 33 hospitals and even now 20% of the ICU beds were kept for the non-Covid patients. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and advocate Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for Delhi government, said the situation arising due to the pandemic was dynamic in nature, requiring urgent decisions by the authorities. This current decision was taken in the wake of the sudden spike in Covid cases, they argued. But the high court asked Delhi government to file an affidavit giving the data of ICU beds and other materials, which were considered at the time of taking the decision. “I should not die because an ICU bed was kept vacant for a Covid-19 patient. I will not let a single patient die because of this. Has the government thought about it? We are here talking about ICU beds. This is just not done,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-stays-icu-bed-order-says-covid-cap-violates-right-to-life/articleshow/78265048.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Kids go hungry for parents’ addictions||VADODARA: A scene where two kids – seven and five-year old boys – crying in hunger while their mother is being beaten up by a drunk father would kindle sympathy for the trio. But the story has another facet: In reality, the kids were caught in their addicted parents’ fights in Padra. It all came to light after the 37-year-old woman had called 181 Abhayam helpline complaining that her liquor-addicted husband was beating and harassing her. However, when the counsellors reached out to help the woman, it was revealed that the couple used to spend their measly income to satiate their own addictions. While the husband used to spend all his money on country-made liquor, the wife used to spend her wages to buy her tobacco. There was nothing left to feed the hungry sons. The counsellors of the helpline said that when they tried talking to the couple, they both blamed each other. There used to be daily fights over money and neither of them would care about their kids. With nothing to eat, the kids would cry all day, while their parents quarrelled with each other, a counsellor said. “Our counsellor told them how much they were spending from their income for liquor and tobacco and because of that there used to be nothing left for running the household. Instead of consuming liquor or chewing tobacco, we told them to focus on bringing up their children in a healthy environment,” said Chandrakant Makwana, coordinator of the helpline. “The couple promised to slowly stop their addictions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kids-go-hungry-for-parents-addictions/articleshow/78263204.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Murgi Chowk tower regains old glory, clock stuck in time||HYDERABAD: After nine months of repair works, the historic Murgi Chowk clock tower in the Old City is sporting a completely revamped look. The clock tower has been restored and handed over to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which will take care of the final leg of its facelift. The restoration took around nine months to complete at a cost of Rs 65 lakh. The five-storied clock tower was built in 1892 by Asman Jah, Prime Minister of Hyderabad. It had fallen on bad days with its dilapidated railings, cracks all over and structural damage. Speaking about the restoration process, Srinivas Sulge, managing director of Laxmi Hericon Pvt Ltd which took on the work, said: “We restored all the ornamental details, motifs, architraves by specially designed lime mortar plaster and renderings.” He added that the door and windows were restored to their original design and the existing stone façade cleaned using scientific methods. Sulge added that natural matching floor paving was done all around. Another major concern had been bird droppings at the heritage structure which had damaged the clock as well as stairwell and other areas. “Experts from the city were consulted to restore the clock,” said Sulge. “While the tower itself is complete, electrical work and some beautification on the premises is yet to be done,” said Duttopant, superintending engineer, GHMC. The GHMC is reviving heritage buildings in the Old City as part of the Charminar Pedestrianisation Project (CPP). It had entrusted the JNTUH with the task. After it reported that the building was in a precarious position, the GHMC took up work at it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/murgi-chowk-tower-regains-old-glory-clock-stuck-in-time/articleshow/78265012.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||UGC’s 10-mth session plan worries univs||Kolkata: The UGC’s proposal to hold the current undergraduate academic session for nine months from November 2020 to August 2021 might turn out to be a logistical nightmare in Bengal, academics and university administrators said on Tuesday. With the assembly elections in Bengal being slated for 2021, university officials felt it would be a challenge to continue with the revised academic session without modifications. Pointing out they might not be able to hold classes on all the number of suggested days, teachers were looking to UGC and the state to curtail the suggested syllabi for first-year UG courses. “Most institutions will be taken over for Vidhan Sabha elections. If any college head refuses to give his/her institute for poll work, he/she will face penalty. Usually for elections, colleges remain out of bounds for more than a month and require massive cleaning up later. It will hamper the progress of curriculum, especially in a year, which is already pressed for time,” said Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury, Rabindra Bharati University VC. Going by the 2020-21 calendar proposed by UGC, admissions will have to be over by October 31 and classes should start from November 1. Thereafter, classes for the even semester (Sem 2) will begin on April 5 and exams will be completed by August 21. The next academic session for this batch will start from August 30, 2021. An academic pointed out the suggested calendar would require holding classes six days a week. “Though teachers will agree to it, it becomes impossible to execute such plans,” she said. In the choice-based credit system, classes are held for 16 weeks before question papers are prepared. “If there are holidays in between, how do we hold continuous classes? A semester will be curtailed to four-and-a-half months, during which all have to be done, including lectures, evaluation and results,” said another VC. “If there is a delay in results of qualifying exams, UGC has suggested that universities may plan and start the academic session by November 18 and the teaching-learning process may continue online or offline or on a blended mode,” said a teacher. But with many students living in remote areas, where it is difficult to access steady internet connections, online classes have emerged to be a problem. “If the online classes or even the mixed ones continue in November for UG first year, it will pose great difficulty. said a Calcutta University teacher. Most academics now hoped the UGC might cut down on the first-year syllabi. “The state can’t do it as there has to be a uniformity. But in the long run, a truncated syllabus will lead to a shrunk job market for graduates,” said a JU teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ugcs-10-mth-session-plan-worries-univs/articleshow/78265017.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 23, 2020||Pune||Actor accuses Lonavla bungalow caretaker of killing her pet dog||PUNE: Popular Bollywood actor of the 90s, Ayesha Jhulka (now Ayesha Vashi), has lodged an FIR with the Lonavla city police, accusing the caretaker of her bungalow at Tungarli of killing one of her two pet dogs. Police said the bungalow’s caretaker called and informed Ayesha’s husband, Sameer, on September 13 that the pet dog — Rocky — had drowned in a water tank on the bungalow premises. The post-mortem, conducted the next day in Mumbai, confirmed that the dog had died because of suffocation and not of drowning. Ayesha lodged the FIR on September 17. No arrest was reported till Tuesday evening. Senior inspector Manojkumar Yadav of the Lonavla city police said, “We have registered an offence under Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle or any animal) of the Indian Penal Code.” The section provides for a punishment of up to five years or fine or both in case of conviction. Sub-inspector Bhimrao Sangle, who is investigating the case, said, “The caretaker, his wife and his daughter left the bungalow after the alleged incident. They are now staying in a rented house in Lonavla. We are collecting evidence and keeping a watch on the caretaker.” The caretaker of Ayesha’s bungalow could not be contacted till the time of going to the press. Ayesha, an animal lover, told TOI, “Six years ago, I had rescued two stray puppies and kept them at my bungalow in Tungarli. The caretaker, working with us for the past 18 years, was told to take care of the dogs. The news about Rocky’s death on September 13 left me shattered and I left for Lonavla with my husband. There were no signs of the dog having been removed from the water tank. I noticed blood oozing out from the dog’s eyes and nose. Believing the caretaker’s version, we buried the pet and returned to Mumbai.” Ayesha said she was somehow not convinced by the reasons of the dog’s death given by the caretaker. The next day they returned to Lonavla, exhumed the pet’s body and took it to a veterinarian in Mumbai for the post-mortem. “The post-mortem report confirmed that Rocky did not die due to drowning. On September 15, we came to Lonavla and asked the caretaker, his wife and daughter about what had happened that day. Each one gave us different versions,” she said. Ayesha said she checked with the watchmen and the caretakers of the neighbouring bungalows about what had actually happened. “I was told that for the past one year, the caretaker was harassing both the pets. He even threatened the other watchmen and caretakers not to tell us anything. When we searched our bungalow, we found a bedsheet with bloodstains. My other per is not eating anything for a week now,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/actor-accuses-lonavla-bungalow-caretaker-of-killing-her-pet-dog/articleshow/78263799.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 23, 2020||Pune||Cops arrest youth for burglary in 4 flats, bungalow||PUNE: A youth was arrested and his minor accomplice was detained of Monday on the charge of breaking into three flats in Bibvewadi and two residences in Kondhwa in the day’s wee hours. The Bibvewadi police have recovered stolen booty from the duo, including a DSLR camera, some lenses and Rs10,000. The robbery came to light after the residents of Atal Cooperative Housing Society in Bibvewadi spotted the duo near the housing society and raised an alarm. Akash Anil Sandbhor (28), a resident of the housing society, in his complaint stated that the duo had allegedly picked the locks of three flats in the society, but failed to steal any valuables from the residences. Following the alarm raised by the residents, one of the two suspects banged his head on the windshield of a nearby parked car and damaged it. “The suspects thought this action would deter the residents from coming after them. But before the duo could flee, a patrolling team reached the spot and apprehended the two,” senior inspector Kumar Ghadge of the Bibvewadi police said. “We have arrested Rohit Nanabhau Lanke (18) and have detained his 17-year-old accomplice. Both have as many as 10 FIRs registered against them with various police stations in the city,” Ghadge said. The officer said they had recovered cameras and high-quality lenses, collectively worth around Rs3 lakh from the duo. “We have also seized their motorcycle,” he said. The officer said the recovered booty was stolen from a flat and a bungalow in Kondhwa Khurd, right before the duo reached Bibvewadi. A 64-year-old man, whose flat was burgled, lodged a complaint with the Kondhwa police later on Monday. “The suspects stole camera and lenses from the flat sometime around midnight intervening Sunday and Monday. The duo stole Rs10,000 from a nearby bungalow,” Ghadge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-youth-for-burglary-in-4-flats-bungalow/articleshow/78263815.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||29 CAG reports to be tabled in House today||NEW DELHI: The government has scheduled at least 29 CAG reports for their tabling before Parliament on Wednesday. It includes the defence offset report that was expected to carry a review of the Rafale offset deal and disclosure on whether Reliance ADAG was made a partner of the French manufacturer Dassault Aviation as alleged by the Congress. As TOI had earlier reported, the federal auditor had submitted the report on defence offset to the government in December last year. However, the government missed tabling the report in the previous Parliament sessions. Sources had told TOI, the CAG report on ‘Management of Defence offsets’ is unlikely to carry anything related to the Indian offset partners of Dassault Aviation, the French manufacturer of Rafale as the auditor has considered offset deals only till March 2018. The government, sources said, had told the auditor that any information related to Rafale offset deal will be available only after three years of the signing of the contract. The 29 reports include five on the Union Territory of J&K and three on defence. The other reports cover railways, indirect taxes and direct Taxes. Construction of toilets in schools by central public sector enterprises; commercial audit of ministry of power, coal and petroleum & natural gas; audit on defence services (Navy and Coast Guard); Report on railways, revenue and PSUs are among others to be tabled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/29-cag-reports-to-be-tabled-in-house-today/articleshow/78266067.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Coffee House starts ‘kadha’ for immunity||Lucknow: Boosting one’s immunity has become the priority of everyone amid the coronavirus crisis. Taking a cue from it, the historic Indian Coffee House has jumped on the bandwagon and has created an ‘Immunity Boosting Kadha’. Keeping in mind the health and well-being of its customers, the cafe and restaurant has added the Ayurvedic home remedy ‘kadha’ to its menu. The kadha comprises medicinal herbs, including cinnamon, giloy leaves, cloves, cardamom, mulethi (liquorice root), tulsi leaves, and black pepper. The immunity boosting drink has been priced at Rs 25 per cup (large) and Rs 15 per cup (small). “Ever since we reopened coffee house in June, our customers have been mainly those who have resumed office and come here for a break. While they prefer coffee and other items, we thought we should also include the basic immunity drink of any Indian household as it has become the need of the hour,” said Aruna Singh, secretary, Indian Coffee House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coffee-house-starts-kadha-for-immunity/articleshow/78265641.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Aurangabad||24,286 have recovered from Covid in Aurangabad so far||Aurangabad: The district on Monday recorded 317 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 31,085. According to a health official, the total number of people who have recovered from the infection now stands at 24,286, while the number of active patients is at 5,920. “The district has so far recorded 879 deaths, including 13 on Monday, due to the contagion. Also, of the 317 new cases, 77 were from thee rural areas, while 31 were from the city. A total of 66 people were tested positive at the city’s entry points. Also, 143 people were found positive for Covid-19 by the swab sample collection squads” he said. “Out of the 13 people who died on Monday five were reported from private hospitals, while the remaining eight were reported at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH),” he added. Those who died at the GMCH included three woman — 77-year-old from Mukundwadi, 50-year-old from Pisadevi Harsul and 75-yea-old from Karmad — and five men. The men included an 80-year-old from Misarwadi, 60-year-old from Chittegaon Nehru Nagar, 38-year-old from Hudco, 50-year-old from Indira Nagar and 74-year-old from Chikalthana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/24286-have-recovered-from-covid-in-aurangabad-so-far/articleshow/78261394.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||3rd round door-to-door Covid screening begins||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has for the third time started door-to-door screening for early detection of Covid-19 patients. The latest drive is a part of the state government’s project ‘My Family-My Responsibility’. The civic body in a press release said, “Drive is meant for controlling Covid-19 deaths. It has been started from September 15 and covered over 51,000 people. It will carry on till October 10. It will resume from October 14 and end on October 24.” NMC has zone-wise teams for the drive. Each team will cover 50 houses in a day. The team will ask details about health of all family members in each home. In case of Covid-19 symptoms, the team will take the person to ‘fever clinic’ and get tested for coronavirus. The team will also educate the people about Covid-19 guidelines and precautions to be taken to avoid getting the disease, during infection and post-infection. The drive will also identify and take details of persons with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Similarly, the teams will identify high-risk patients and educate them on how to prevent the disease and measures to be taken in case of symptoms of Covid-19. In March and April, NMC was probably first civic body in the state to launch similar drive but that time full lockdown was on and spread of Covid-19 was very less. Following rise in deaths and community spread, drive was launched for the second time in last week of August but reportedly did not cover entire city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3rd-round-door-to-door-covid-screening-begins/articleshow/78265047.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Covid survivors experiencing fatigue, weakness, recurring fever||NAGPUR: Sheetal Murdiv, 45, recovered from Covid-19 on September 4 after two weeks of hospitalization and treatment using doses of high-end medicines like Remdesivir. She successfully completed home quarantine period too. But on September 21, she still could not re-join her office. She could not even work from home as she is facing issues like extreme fatigue and shortness of breath. Many Covid-19 recovered patients like Sheetal are facing a range of health issues depending on the severity of the disease they experienced earlier. Doctors in Nagpur acknowledged that more than 80% patients are recovering from Covid in Nagpur but many of them are experiencing some or the other health issues. Recovered and discharged patients are experiencing symptoms including continued loss of taste or smell, irregular heartbeats, chest pain, shortness of breath, extreme fatigue, cognitive problems, and recurring fever months after the infection, said doctors. “But the number of patients re-reporting with any serious symptoms to the hospitals is negligible,” said consulting physician Dr Mohan Nerkar. TOI had earlier reported that patients recovering from Covid-19 are reporting with problems like lung infections. One such patient was admitted to IGGMCH last month. While lung fibrosis is a comparatively serious complication, many others with general weakness, pain and uneasiness prefer to be at home and take rest instead of visiting hospitals again. “At IGGMCH, we have started a separate Covid OPD for the patients who have been recovered but still have health complications. The OPD timings are from 2 pm to 4pm every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. This OPD no 45B is exclusively for the patients having post-Covid complications,” said Dr Radha Munje, head of the pulmonology department of IGGMCH. Similar OPDs have started at GMCH and Seven Star hospitals too. However, first-point interaction of such patients happens with family physicians. “It is true that people who have recovered from Covid-19 are experiencing weakness and similar issues. But most of them prefer to rest for a few more days and recover. Family physicians also advice the same as their symptoms are not very serious,” said Dr Anagha Pathak. While India has no such study done yet, there was one of recovered patients published in Italy last week. According to it, many patients with even milder forms of Covid-19 have persistent symptoms of fatigue and difficulty in breathing for up to 60 days. Researchers of this study reported that quality of life of almost 43% of the recovered patients has worsened. Almost 87% of them have at least one persistent symptom even after two months of recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-survivors-experiencing-fatigue-weakness-recurring-fever/articleshow/78263839.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||KBR Park closure: Walker says need fresh air in Covid times, Telangana govt gets HC notice||HYDERABAD: Justice A Rajasheker Reddy of Telangana high court on Tuesday issued notices to the state government, secretary of forest, principal chief conservator of forests and DFO attached to the KBR National Park in Hyderabad, asking them to explain their stand on reopening the park for morning walkers. The judge was hearing a petition filed by taekwondo master M Jayanth Reddy, who questioned the inaction of the forest department in reopening the park even during the unlock 4.0. The petitioner contended that walkers and various sections of people come to the park to do yoga and other physical activities and to breathe fresh oxygen. He also wondered as to why the park was still closed when shops, malls and Metro rail were allowed to operate. He lamented that several representations given to the forest officials to reopen the park have yielded no results so far. His counsel argued that the coronavirus is all about lungs and breathlessness. “This can be better tackled by providing access to better lung spaces like KBR park where as many as 400 acres of forest with a huge number of medicinal plants are available,” he said. “The air that flows inside the park is not only fresh, but also contains healing power in view of the existence of medicinal trees and plants,” he said. Jayanth said the unlock guidelines which allowed several functions and ceremonies to be held with 100 people in each of them had nowhere prohibited reopening of parks. The judge sought replies by September 28 from the authorities concerned on the points raised by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kbr-park-closure-walker-says-need-fresh-air-in-covid-times-govt-gets-hc-notice/articleshow/78265051.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Kadaknath chicken farming to help UP cow homes shelters become self-reliant financially||Bareilly: The farming of ‘Kadaknath’ (Black fowl) — an Indian breed of chicken which is facing extinction threat owing to its high consumption, especially in central and western parts of the country — will help make cow shelter houses in Uttar Pradesh become self-reliant financially. A pilot project to check the efficacy of the plan is launched by the Lakhimpur Kheri district administration under which the caretakers of panchayat-aided cow shelter house in Dhaurahra tehsil have started farming of Kadaknath chicken breed and the money earned from its sale will be used for running the cow shelter. If the pilot project yields the desired result, then such chicken farms would start at other cow shelter houses as well, said officials. The chicken breed — high in demands, especially in Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh and Gujarat and Rajasthan, among others — costs Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 per kg — a rooster weighs 1.8–2 kg and hen 1.2–1.5 kg. The eggs and meat of Kadaknath are extremely rich sources of protein and iron and its consumption helps improve RBC, and thus, the breed is high in demands.Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We have established a model cow shelter house in Basantapur village. Since we have a large area lying unused at the shelter house, we have developed a farmhouse for Kadaknath chicken breed and constructed a large pond for the farming of various fish species. The investment is made to make the shelter house self-reliant financially. The profit made by chicken and fish farming will help buy fodder for the stray cattle sheltered here and pay salaries to the staff working here.”“Kadaknath is a rare breed of black chicken endemic to Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh. We have started farming with 30 chickens, with each chicken costing us Rs 3,000. The idea of the Kadaknath chicken farming can change the scenario of the cow shelter houses across the state if remains successful. Even the eggs of this species can fetch good profit and are sold for over Rs 20. Dedicated staff have been imparted training on various methods of chicken rearing and we are also monitoring the project closely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kadaknath-chicken-farming-to-help-up-cow-homes-shelters-become-self-reliant-financially/articleshow/78260470.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 23, 2020||Business||Logistics cos announce annual price increase||Chennai: Logistics service providers Blue Dart Express Limited and DHL Services have announced price increases in India at 9.6% and 6.9% respectively, effective January 1. Officials at these companies said prices are adjusted every year after taking into consideration inflation and currency dynamics such as administrative costs related to regulatory and security measures. DHL Express will increase 6.9% which is at the same level as the last three years. “Amidst the pandemic situation, we continue to invest to comply with the increasingly complex regulatory and security environment globally,” RS Subramanian Country Manager, DHL Express India, said. Blue Dart which has increased parcel services cost by 9.6% said it was to cover increased costs. Its MD Balfour Manuel said “The general price increase will account for the cost we have incurred and invested in our infrastructure and technology to provide our customers with the best experience. We intend on further enhancing our capabilities and especially in light of the pandemic, providing more sustainable solutions to our customers by utilizing the power of technology and digitization for first, middle and last mile deliveries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/logistics-cos-announce-annual-price-increase/articleshow/78265045.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 23, 2020||Pune||Proposal to include commercial properties in amnesty scheme||PUNE: A proposal to include commercial properties in a tax amnesty scheme — aimed at recovering dues — has been tabled before the standing committee of Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday. The committee is expected to take a decision on Thursday. Bharatiya Janata Party defended the proposal, stating that owners of commercial properties have found the going tough due to the pandemic. “Commercial establishments are finding it tough to generate revenue during the pandemic, so their inclusion in the amnesty scheme will prove helpful to them,” BJP’s city unit chief Jagdish Mulik said. However, the Congress has opposed a blanket waiver of the penalty, instead seeking a cap on eligibility. “Some big establishments could take advantage of the amnesty scheme for their benefit. Defaulters with smaller amounts can be covered, while those with large dues should be excluded from the waiver,” Aba Bagul, leader of Congress in PMC, said. PMC has to recover property tax dues to the tune of Rs4,500 crores. Of this, penalties amount to Rs2,500 crore, while actual tax dues are Rs2,000. As per PMC data, there are 10.5 lakh taxable properties in its jurisdiction — these include residential and commercial properties, as well as open plots and government properties. PMC had implemented amnesty schemes to aid in the recovery of tax dues in 2016 and 2018. Such waivers were granted in the past even for other dues, like local body tax and octroi. PMC officials on Tuesday said a decision in this regard was put off as the standing committee meeting was adjourned. “PMC planned a review of the CoEP jumbo hospital. The delegation included the committee chairman, so the meeting had to be adjourned,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proposal-to-include-commercial-properties-in-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/78263833.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Surat||Ukai ready for heavy rains in Maharashtra, MP||SURAT: Following very heavy rains in the catchment areas of the Ukai reservoir in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra in the last 24 hours, the authorities have decided to bring down dam’s water level by about two feet to maintain tank level from the fresh inflow. It has, therefore, continued the discharge of one lakh cusecs of water into the Tapi river starting from Tuesday evening. Official sources said that the reservoir is 96% full to its tank capacity at 343.46 feet against the rule level of 345 feet. Dam is receiving about 53,000 cusecs of water from the catchment areas, which is likely to increase to 1.5 lakh in the next 24 hours. Superintending engineer of Ukai reservoir, SR Mahakal told TOI, “With forecast of heavy rains in Madhya Pradesh and parts of Maharashtra from the Central Water Commission (CWC) we are expecting heavy inflow of water in the coming 24 hours:” He further said that the authorities are taking all precautionary measures by releasing one lakh cusecs of water for the coming 24 hours. “We will review the rainfall situation in MP and Maharashtra and thereafter decide to increase or decrease the discharge into Tapi River on Wednesday,” he added. According to Mahakal, the discharge of water till 3pm was maintained at 1.73 lakh cusecs since the morning hours of Tuesday. However, the discharge was deceased to 52,000 cusecs in the evening and again it was increased to one lakh cusecs at 6pm. Meanwhile, the Tapi river continued to flow bank to bank while low-level weir-cum-causeway bridge connecting Rander and Singanpore has been closed for vehicular traffic. Sources in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) stated that there is no threat of waterlogging in the low-lying areas so far. If the discharge from Ukai crosses 2 lakh cusecs, it may then result in flooding of the low-lying areas due to the closure of the flood gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ukai-ready-for-heavy-rains-in-maha-mp/articleshow/78262502.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bhopal||Virus tentacles reach smaller places in state||Bhopal: The first Covid-19 death was reported in the state on April 1 in Indore district and it took 25 days for the next 100 deaths when on April 26 death toll reached 103. Nearly 5 months down death toll has reached 2007 and 100 deaths are reported every 3 days in state. It was on September 21 that the death toll due to Covid-19 crossed 2000 mark and reached 2007. And it was only three days ago that the death toll was around 1900. In past 9 days more than 300 deaths have been reported. Scarier is the fact that in 21 days of September alone more than 613 deaths have been reported which comes to around 29 deaths per day! If seen statistically one person has died every 49 minutes in the month of September so far and cases as well as casualties are already on the rise. Deaths are now also being reported from the smaller districts of the state where there is absence of inadequate infrastructure. And paradoxically the districts like Bhopal and Indore where there is adequate infrastructure, the case load is also higher. As on September 21 there were 3882 active cases in Indore and Bhopal had 1902 active cases. This is nearly 20% of the total around 22,000 active cases. On August 31, there were three districts in the state where no casualty had been reported till then, due to Covid-19 namely Panna, Dindori and Niwari and three other districts where only 1 death was reported till then. Now it is only Dindori where no death has been reported so far. Two deaths have been reported in Panna and one death has been reported in Niwari also. And it is only Niwari district where only one death has been reported so far. Sources said that chances cannot be ruled out that there could be several unreported cases too from the faraway districts as number of tests conducted in the state is also less compared to the ever increasing positivity rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/virus-tentacles-reach-smaller-places-in-state/articleshow/78263841.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Monuments to reopen tomorrow||Lucknow: Visitors and tourists will finally be able to visit monuments like Bada Imambara, Chhota Imambara, and Hussainabad Picture Gallery from Thursday (September 24), with safety precautions against Covid-19 after a gap of over six months. The decision was taken by district magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Tuesday. In a joint meeting of Archaeological Survey of India, Hussainabad and Allied Trust, and UP Tourism, the officials had submitted SOPs to the DM in view of the reopening of monuments as part of Unlock 4. According to the SOPs, only 2,000 visitors per day will be allowed in the monuments. Entry will be barred for those without face mask and tickets will have to be booked online. Only 7 visitors will be allowed at a time in a monument within a gap of 10 minutes. Maintaining social distancing, the visitors will only be able to stay inside the monuments for maximum 2 hours. Timings for the monuments will be from 6am to 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monuments-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/78265647.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu VC on NEP studying taskforce||Aurangabad: Vice-chancellor of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) Pramod Yeole has been appointed on the taskforce constituted by Maharashtra government for studying the recently introduced National Education Policy (NEP), a release issued by the university said on Tuesday. The 16-member task-force is expected to submit its report to the state government within three months. “The task force is headed by Vasudha Kamat, former vice-chancellor of SNDT University (Mumbai) and also has a few other vice-chancellors as its members. The panel has been asked to submit its interim report as early as possible followed by a detailed report,” the press release said. The Union cabinet has recently approved the NEP 2020 with an aim to introduce several reforms in the Indian education system right from the school up to college level. Yeole, who is associated with Bamu since July 15 last year, was serving as Pro-VC of Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University. A Ph.D in Pharmaceutical Sciences, he had also served as professor and principal at the Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research in Wardha for 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-vc-on-nep-studying-taskforce/articleshow/78261403.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Man dies in police custody in Tirupur, probe on||COIMBATORE: A 30-year-old man died in the custody of Tirupur city police, who picked him up on Tuesday for questioning in connection with the death of a woman. His family members and relatives staged a protest at the Tirupur Medical College and Hospital, where he was taken, and refused to receive the dead body, stating it was a case of custodial death. They also besieged Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan, who promised to take appropriate action in the incident. Tirupur city police commissioner G Karthikeyan said, “The accused suffered an epilepsy attack during the interrogation and the allegation of custodial torture is baseless.” Police identified the deceased as C Manikandan, of K Chettipalayam in Tirupur. A tout, he was reportedly involved in a sex racket. A police officer said a woman, who was taking treatment for AIDS, had recently lodged a complaint against Manikandan for pouring hot water on her private parts. “She was admitted to the Tirupur Medical College and Hospital, where she died five days ago. We picked Manikandan from his house around 6am today (Tuesday) for questioning.” The officer said Manikandan was kept in the police station, while his relatives were waiting outside. “During the interrogation, Manikandan developed epilepsy and he was rushed to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead.” Meanwhile, his kin gathered at the hospital and staged a protest. They said police had assaulted him in the name of questioning and it was a custodial death. When collector K Vijayakarthikeyan visited the hospital, he was besieged by the relatives of the deceased. He said a magisterial inquiry was going on into the incident. When the relatives refused to receive the dead body, officials held talks with them and pacified them. They subsequently received the body in the evening. Police have registered a case under Section 176 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (inquiry by magistrate into cause of death). The officer said a woman, who was Manikandan’s friend, also involved in the case of pouring of hot water on the woman who died. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-dies-in-police-custody-in-tirupur-probe-on/articleshow/78265079.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Sealing sword returns in Delhi, 13,000 units under lens||NEW DELHI: The municipal corporations are likely to resume the sealing and closure procedure of more than 10,000 factories operating illegally in residential areas. “The step-1 and step-2 for the closure of such polluting units were completed last year. The process of survey and closure was suspended in March due to the pandemic lockdown, but we have been directed to resume the sealing process from October,” a senior official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said. According to the latest joint report, more than 13,000 illegal factories have been surveyed in all three municipal corporations under step-3, over 9,000 units have got showcause notice and 565 have been sealed, a senior official said. “We had assured courts and National Green Tribunal that the process was stopped due to Covid-19 and the lockdown, which prompted suspension of activities in all industries after March 22. We are duty bound as per the Supreme Court orders to ensure that no polluting industry is allowed in residential or non-conforming areas,” the official said. He added that many of these factory owners were provided alternate plots in industrial areas but they continued to function in residential localities. “Those who continue to operate the factories will face sealing from next month as enough time has been provided for compliance,” the official said. SDMC will have to cover more than 5,800 such properties in the survey under step-3, out of which more than 4,000 units have got notice. East Delhi Municipal Corporation has surveyed over 3,400 factories under step-3 and issued notice to 1,870 while North Delhi Municipal Corporation has surveyed over 4,550 units, issuing showcause or closure notices to 3,192 units. Over 1,156 factory owners in north corporation areas and 183 in EDMC areas have shut their units voluntarily after the notice, the official said, citing the joint report. Many such units have applied under the household industries category to get relief. The power of granting household industry licence has been devolved from the high-powered committee chaired by Delhi government officials to respective municipal bodies after necessary changes in Master Plan 2021, the official said. The committee had sent 475 such applications to the corporations but very few met the 12-point criteria, he added. A senior corporation official told a standing committee meeting in August that 1,850 applications were received, out of which 149 were verified by the zones, 36 cases sent back for inspection and two cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-sword-returns-13k-units-under-lens/articleshow/78265116.cms||Paras Singh
September 23, 2020||Surat||Rs 1 crore worth party drugs seize in Surat||SURAT: A widespread racket of trafficking methamphetamine was busted in the city with the seizure of one kg banned drug worth Rs1 crore by raiding multiple locations on Tuesday. Several suspects were also nabbed in the racket, which is touted to be the biggest narcotics operation in the city. Methamphetamine is a strong stimulant and mostly used in rave parties. Police are likely to share details once the kingpin is nabbed. “It is the biggest drug-related operation in the city in the history of Surat police and it is still under way. The operation is likely to take a few more hours,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. Police identified the role of one Salman and recovered over 1kg MD from him. While investigation his role, cops got details of various others too. “We have been working to bust the racket for past one week, but got success on Tuesday. We have seized drugs from other locations too after recovery of 1 kg from one suspect,” said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-1cr-worth-party-drugs-seize-in-surat/articleshow/78262406.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Surat||Surat’s Covid tally crosses 20,000 mark||SURAT: With 178 new Covid-19 cases reported in Surat city on Tuesday, the tally crossed the 20,000 mark with a total of 20,082 cases. According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), the city reported two deaths on Tuesday. A total of 662 people have succumbed to the virus till date and 189 patients were discharged from different hospitals taking the total number of discharged patients to 17,949 in the city. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 119 cases on Tuesday taking the total number to 6,736 in the district. One patient succumbed to Covid-19 taking the death toll to 239 in Surat district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-citys-covid-tally-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/78262531.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Butterfly conservatory in Trichy spots its 114th species||TRICHY: Tropical butterfly conservatory, Trichy (TBCT) spotted its 114th butterfly species, bush hopper, on Monday. The bush hopper (Ampittia doiscorides) is found mostly in the Western ghats and surrounding areas. TBCT, spread across 27 acres in the Upper Anaicut forest, was raised at a cost of Rs 7 crore in 2015. One of the 30 butterfly hotspots in the state, 114 butterfly species have been spotted in TBCT out of 323 species found in the state. Muthu Krishnan, junior research fellow at TBCT said that bush hopper butterflies prefer grass lands in the wet forest areas. The male bush hopper has more extensive orange colour on its forewings, compared to the female, which is predominantly brown in appearance, with smaller yellowish spots. The underside is orange with spots and streaks, he said. This is the third butterfly species spotted in TBCT during the lockdown period, when it has been undisturbed without visitors for the past 6 months. Plumbeous silverline (Spindasis schistacea) and Guava blue (Virachola Isocrates) were the two species spotted a few weeks ago in the conservatory. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district forest officer, D Sujatha, said that lockdown was only for humans and not for these winged visitors which have no restrictions. Very less human activity in the recent months has invited more butterflies to the conservatory, she added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/butterfly-conservatory-spots-its-114th-species/articleshow/78265076.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 23, 2020||Pune||Road rage leaves techie with a hand fracture and 8 stitches||PUNE: A 27-year-old software engineer from Mohammadwadi suffered a hand fracture, and a cut on his chin which needed eight stitches, and other injuries after four men attacked him in a road rage incident near a housing society on NIBM Road in Kondhwa on Sunday night. Sub-inspector Abuzar Chaus from Kondhwa police station told TOI on Tuesday that the four men were in a car, travelling down NIBM Road and the victim was on a motorcycle with his brother. “They took a sudden right turn into Mayfair Eleganza housing society without switching on the indicator. The victim, Salman Khan, who was behind the car, confronted them about the rash driving which angered the four men who then attacked him,” he added. One of the suspects snatched a stick from the society’s security guard and hit Khan, Chaus said. “He fractured his left hand and he was administered eight stitches on his chin, and has injuries on his back, stomach and legs,” he added. Khan told TOI that he and his brother were going from NIBM Chowk toward Jyoti Chowk to a hotel for dinner. “We were to the right of the car. I thought the car would go ahead, but it took a right turn suddenly without any indication. I had to manoeuvre my vehicle which wobbled, and I was compelled to halt,” he said. Khan said the four men in the car first shouted, and then abused them. Khan parked his motorcycle and told them that he was not at fault because the driver did not switch on the right turn indicator. “I also told them that neither vehicle was damaged. At this point, the suspects attacked me, and one of them brutally hit me with a stick. They pushed my vehicle and hit my brother and fled into the society,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-fractures-hand-gets-8-stitches-on-chin-in-road-rage-attack-on-nibm-road/articleshow/78263855.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||LMC puts housing project on hold, allottees for refund||Lucknow: Allottees of a housing project proposed at Aurangabad Khalana in Sarojininagar have run out of patience and decided not to wait for their units as the Lucknow Municipal Corporation is yet to start the construction work even two years after the launch. Those who had paid a hefty registration fee and first instalment now want a refund from the civic body. The LMC House had approved the project, comprising 275 housing units, on April 1, 2018. The estimated cost of the project was Rs 300 crore and the deadline was April 2021. The price of a unit was fixed at Rs 13 lakh with an advance registration fee of Rs 1.25 lakh. About 32 people had filed applications, of which 25 got registered. However, only acquisition of land has so far taken place. LMC officials said the project first got delayed due to hiccups in land acquisition and some residents of the area were discontented with the compensation. The issue was resolved in December 2019 and the work was scheduled to begin from March this year. However, Covid-induced lockdown brought all construction activities to a standstill and now the civic body does not have enough funds. Allottees now want their registration amount back. Ram Manohar, a businessman, said that, “LMC had told him at the time of booking that the possession will be handed over by April 2021. As the work has not started yet and we don’t know when it will get completed, we need out money back due to financial constraints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-puts-housing-project-on-hold-allottees-for-refund/articleshow/78265676.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
September 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu to offer writers for students with disabilities||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has announced that it would provide writers to help students with disabilities during the final-year examinations scheduled to start from October 1. While over 1,000 students with disabilities are expected to take the examination, the university has announced a slew of measures for their benefit. Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said students who need writers should contact with the National Service Scheme (NSS) section of the university at the earliest. “The university will pay a honorarium of Rs 300 per each writer. Interested students can contact the NSS authorities concerned on 9405769999 and 9834044417 and register their requirement,” he said. Shinde said students unable to visit the nearest examination centre for taking online test can appear for the same from their home. “All these students will get an extra time of 20 minutes and a 3% grace marks will be offered to students with disabilities failing in the examination,” he said. Meanwhile, Bamu has extended the deadline for payment of examination fees for the final year students till September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-to-offer-writers-for-students-with-disabilities/articleshow/78261420.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bhopal||179 Covid deaths in city in last seven weeks; death rate higher in August||Bhopal: The percentage of increase in COVID-19 deaths on a weekly basis was higher in August than in September in the state capital. Bhopal has reported 179 deaths in the last seven weeks, the spike is the highest since the pandemic began in March. Six months on, various factors are at play, forcing the government to initiate new measures to control the spread of the infection. The most concerning scenario is that the working population is the most affected by the pandemic at the moment, according to a health expert. About 40% of the total patients, about 880, are under home isolation in Bhopal, according to reports. Bhopal has about 2,000 active cases of the infection. Home isolation calls for regularly monitoring of patients, which is a new challenge for the health department. “About 15% need hospitalisation and, among those, more than 5% need intensive care or ICU. The increase in numbers and viral load has worsened the situation. There are times when we now have to refuse patients in need. We can only stabilise them before they are sent to another care centre,” said a senior consultant with Hamidia hospital. A number of other factors to deal with in Bhopal is the increase in number of infections among doctors and support staff. Around 200 doctors have tested positive for the infection in the recent past. Seven days’ leave after two weeks of intensive duty is now a thing of the past in medical colleges due to the shortage in medical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/179-covid-deaths-in-city-in-last-seven-weeks-death-rate-higher-in-aug/articleshow/78263851.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops prevent woman, her children from jumping into river||PUNE: Officers from the Yerawada police station on Monday night prevented a 33-year-old woman employee of a private hospital and her two kids from jumping into the Mula-Mutha river from the bridge near Parnakuti. The woman was allegedly frustrated by the alleged physical and mental torture caused by her alcoholic husband. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from the Yerawada police station said, “The woman, a resident of Camp, and her 10-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son were spotted by an alert passer-by while they were about to jump into the river. He stopped them and alerted the police. Sub-inspector Shubhangi Magdum and her team rushed there and brought the mother and her two children to the police station for counselling.” Shaikh added, “During the interaction, the woman told the police that her husband, a security guard, would often beat her up and torture her under the influence of liquor. Fed up with the regular harassment, the woman and her children decided to end their life and travelled here to jump into the river.” “We called her sister from Vadgaonsheri and convinced her to provide them shelter and take care of her needs for the time being. She has considered our request,” he added. Sub-inspector Magdum said, “The terrified woman apologized and assured us that she and her two children will not end their life after we counselled her. We have shared the numbers of police officers and counsellors with the woman appealing her to contact them if any legal assistance is required.” “No FIR was registered against the woman. We have advised her to register a complaint against her husband but she refused on the grounds that she has taken a call to reside separately to secure a future for her kids. She told the police that she would initiate divorce proceedings against her husband,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-prevent-woman-her-children-from-jumping-into-mula-mutha-river/articleshow/78263896.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 23, 2020||Bhopal||Tally breaches 1.1 lakh as 2,544 more Covid cases reported||BHOPAL: With 2,544 people testing positive on Tuesday, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state crossed 1.10 lakh. And Tuesday was the 13th consecutive day when more than 2,000 cases were reported in a single day. With these, a whopping 46,746 cases have so far been reported in September alone, which is more than 42.2% of the total 110711 cases reported in the state since March 20 when the first Covid-19 patient was found. This averages around to 2,124 cases everyday in September. And the positivity rate again remained above 10% as out of 17,698 samples that were tested in the state on Monday, 14.3% or 2544 were found positive. Overall positivity rate of state, i.e., positivity rate since the first patient was found positive till September 22 was 5.9% which has increased from 4.6% on August 31. Apart from this 28 deaths were also reported, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll in the state reached 2,035. Among the districts where maximum cases were reported includes, 446 cases in Indore, 272 new cases in Bhopal, 249 cases in Jabalpur and 164 new cases in Gwalior. Fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of the state on Tuesday. On the brighter side, 2412 people recovered and were shifted from the hospitals. With these the total number of people who have recovered from the disease increased to 86030 on Tuesday. Overall recovery rate as on September 22, remained 77.7% in the state. A total of 22646 active cases were there in the state on September 22. As on September 22 a total of 716 fever clinics were being run in the state by the government and so far a total of 18.6 lakh samples have been tested which is lower compared to other states where more than 1 lakh positive cases have been reported so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tally-breaches-1-1l-as-2544-more-covid-cases-reported/articleshow/78263873.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||Senior manager of auto firm loses Rs 8L to card block fraud||Pune: A 57-year-old senior manager of an automobile company on Monday lodged an FIR stating that he was duped of nearly Rs8 lakh in a debit card-related fraud in May. According to the FIR, a man posing as an employee of a private bank’s Bandra branch called the complainant and told him that the bank would soon block his debit card. “He told the complainant that his fingerprints were needed to authenticate and activate his card,” senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad of the Nigdi police said. The suspect said the bank would be sending someone to collect the fingerprint samples. “He further asked the complainant to share his details and any messages he would receive on his mobile phone,” Jawadwad said. Suspecting nothing, the complainant shared one-time passwords with the suspect and soon received the messages from the bank about varying amounts being debited. “The complainant raised this matter with the suspect, who claimed the transactions were not reflecting in his account and assured him that any money debited would be credited back,” Jawadwad said. Believing him, the complainant shared yet another OTP. It was only after Rs7.99 lakh was debited form his account that he got suspicious. “The suspect stopped answering his calls,” Jawadwad said. The police have registered a case under the IPC and the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-manager-of-auto-firm-loses-rs-8l-to-card-block-fraud/articleshow/78263886.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Desealing: 185 houses in south Delhi get relief on Day 1||NEW DELHI: A month after the announcement, the desealing process of residential properties in south Delhi areas started on Tuesday. As many as 185 properties got the relief on the first day. Leader of House, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Narendra Chawla said that 173 properties were desealed in the South zone and 12 others in the West. “We have earmarked a list of 604 properties for desealing. The process will continue in the coming days and we expect that all the properties will get relief within a week,” he added. The desealed properties have been provided a period of 15 days to demolish the structures existing in the stilt parking, which were built in contravention of building plans. “In case the structures are not demolished in the stipulated time period, action will be taken as per provisions of the DMC Act,” the desealing notices state. Anamika, the mayor of the south corporation, said SDMC would also start the desealing process in the Central and Najafgarh zones from Wednesday onwards. “Some properties were wrongly sealed by the monitoring committee, they are now being opened. I have also written a letter to 104 councillors urging them to identify such sealed properties in their respective areas and help the public in getting the relief,” she added. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, meanwhile, said that the civic body would soon start the desealing process for 1,356 properties. “Officials have been directed to expedite the process,” he added. The mayor of the east corporation, Nirmal Jain, has also written to all the councillors to help in identification of such properties. “As per the 14 August orders of the apex court, the monitoring committee could only seal those areas where commercial activities were taking place. The residential properties where stilt parking is misused or some unauthorised construction have taken place will be dealt with the DMC Act provisions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/desealing-185-houses-in-s-delhi-get-relief-on-day-1/articleshow/78265178.cms||Paras Singh
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Traffic violations jump to 5,000 a day from 1,750 last year in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The city is recording more than 5,000 cases of traffic violation a day, compared to less than 2,000 last year. The city police have booked 3,18,344 traffic violation cases until September 19 with the help of Police E-Eye application and fined the violators a total of Rs 4.54 crore. Presently, 24,786 people have downloaded the mobile app. The number of downloads is expected to touch the 30,000-mark by this month-end. The Police E-Eye app was launched in March 2019. People could download the app on their mobile phones, click photos of traffic violation - triple riding, using mobile phone while driving, jumping traffic signals, helmetless riding, wrong parking, one-way violation, improper number plates and obstruction to traffic, etc – and submit the same for action. Traffic violators are also caught with the help of 91 automatic number plate recognition cameras and 72 internet protocol cameras that are fixed at traffic signals on Avinashi Road, Mettupalayam Road, Trichy Road, Athupalam Junction, Dr Nanjappa Road and Lanka Corner, etc. They capture stop line violation at traffic signals, red light jumping, helmetless riding, etc., and sent the photos to the office of the assistant commissioner of police (traffic) in the city. Both the city traffic police and law & order police are, meanwhile, equipped with hand held devices to book the traffic violators. R Mutharasu, city deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “We have registered 8,96,739 traffic violations till August 31, up from 5,21,492 cases in the comparable period last year. We have imposed a fine of Rs 16.9 crore on them, compared to Rs 9.7 crore the same period last year.” Pointing out that only 1,750 traffic violations were recorded in a day in the city last year, the official said they were seeing more than 5,000 cases a day now. As per the data available with the regional transport offices, the city last year had 13,39,453 non-transport vehicles, including 8,52,670 motorcycles, 1,36,266 scooters, 74,302 mopeds and 2,68,115 cars, and 81,641 transport vehicles, including 11,844 passenger autorickshaws, 15,179 cabs and 259 omni buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traffic-violations-jump-to-5000-a-day-from-1750-last-year-in-city/articleshow/78265245.cms||A Subburaj
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Tiruvarur: Monsoon preparedness meet held||TIRUVARUR: Considering the need to accommodate the general public in the disaster relief camps ensuring social distancing, as part of preparedness ahead of the monsoon, district collector T Anand has instructed revenue officials to identify suitable buildings and halls with adequate space. Addressing a meeting convened by the district administration to discuss precautionary measures to be taken in view of the onset of the northeast monsoon, Anand asked officials to check whether the existing buildings, marriage and community halls have the necessary facility. Officials from the revenue and public works department and local bodies have been asked to inspect and carry out preparatory works immediately. The collector also told officials to check the stability of water bodies. “Complete study should be made to identify if rivers, canals and small irrigation channels and lakes and ponds are stable. Follow-up actions should be taken swiftly.” He instructed officials to conduct awareness programs on disaster management in all schools and colleges to create awareness among students. In case of inundation of low line areas, officials should make available the required pumping motors to clear water, he added. Encroachments should be cleared to pave way for free flow of water in water bodies as well as rainwater drains, he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/monsoon-preparedness-meet-held/articleshow/78265124.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Agra||296 test positive for Covid-19 in three western Uttar Pradesh districts||AGRA/BAREILLy: As many as 296 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus and one died in three western Uttar Pradesh districts on Tuesday. At least 127 fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 5,125, while a 68-year-old man died at SN Medical College during the treatment. The deceased, a Sadar locality resident, was suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), hypertension, septicemia and acute renal failure. According to the district health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 119 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 106 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 4,850 cases reported in the district, 4,048 (78.99%) have been declared cured and discharged, while there are 958 active Covid-19 cases in the district, at present. As many as 97 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Bareilly, taking the district tally to 9,760 while 134 people succumbed to the deadly virus, so far. In Shahjahanpur, 72 people were tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 5,312, while the virus claimed 71 lives, so far, here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/296-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-three-western-up-districts/articleshow/78262582.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Surat||Surat: Retired businessman at the mercy of daughter||SURAT: He once ran a successful textile business in Mumbai that he had inherited from his father. But 72-year-old Mahendra Shah never knew that he would some day live at the mercy of his daughter in Surat. The septuagenarian, who is hearing impaired, also has to sometimes put up with his daughter Manisha’s violent behaviour. A mother of two sons, Manisha lost her husband 10 years ago and is facing financial crisis. Though he has been living in such miserable condition since last few years, Shah’s sufferings came to light on Monday when he collapsed on Annie Besant Road. When the locals rushed to his help and inquired about his health, Shah narrated his ordeal to them. One of the Samaritans then approached the Athwa Lines police station and filed an application against Shah’s daughter Manisha. Shah, whose health worsened after he suffered a fracture in his leg recently, was scared to even talk to police. “I suggested Shah that he should return home. But he refused and said that if he goes back without finishing the work given, his daughter will beat him. We convinced him and took Shah to his home in an autorickshaw,” said Piyush Shah, a local resident. But when Shah tried to talk with Manisha, she got furious following which he filed a police application against her. Manisha admitted to TOI that she sometimes assaulted her father who is hearing impaired. “He is in reasonably good health but doesn’t take care of himself and even dresses up improperly. So sometimes I lose my temper and slap him,” Manisha said, who lost her earlier job in a shop during lockdown and had no source of income. “I recently got a job as a security guard in a private hospital at a salary of Rs 8,000 per month. My brother and doctor uncle too help me with my father’s monthly expenses,” she added. Shah’s financial condition worsened many years ago and was dependent on his brother and son. While they wanted to send him to an oldage home, she decided to keep him with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/retd-bizman-at-the-mercy-of-daughter/articleshow/78262443.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 23, 2020||Agra||BTech student shoots self with dad’s revolver in Agra||AGRA: A 21-year-old B.Tech student, Shubhankar Sharma, allegedly shot himself dead with his father’s licenced revolver in his house in Nehrunagar here on Monday night. Shubhankar was a third-year B.Tech student of electronics He was pursuing his studies from NIT Silchar, Assam. He was staying at home since the Covid lockdown. His father, Rajesh Sharma, an assistant manager in a bank and an office-bearer in RSS-affiliate Sanskar Bharti, was not at home when the youth took the extreme step. Police said he shot himself on the terrace after locking the door of the staircase from the terrace side. However, no suicide note was recovered from his room. Shubhankar’s mother, Archana, was walking outside her house when she heard the gunshot and immediately rushed home. When she did not find her son anywhere, she immediately went to the terrace but was unable open the door as it was locked on the other side. A neighbour jumped into the terrace and found Shubhankar lying in a pool of blood. He was taken to SN Medical College emergency but doctors declared him brought dead. Additional SP Saurabh Dixit told TOI that the family members told police that he had not been going out or meeting anyone. In fact, he was considering to start preparing for CAT/GRE after completing his B.Tech. An FIR has been registered in the matter and further investigations are on, ASP Dixit said. He added that the revolver licence will be cancelled as it was not kept in a safe place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/btech-student-shoots-self-with-dads-revolver-in-agra/articleshow/78262617.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Surat||Surat: VNSGU syndicate reverses ex-VC’s decisions||SURAT: The syndicate of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has unanimously passed strictures against its former vice-chancellor Shivendra Gupta and reversed number of decision that he had taken during his tenure that ended in August. Gupta was appointed as VC in 2017, had a controversial tenure. This is for the first time in history of the VNSGU that such strictures were passed against a VC by the syndicate during its meeting held on Monday. The syndicate passed a resolution that a VC does not have the right to give promotion to non-teaching staff without approval of the university syndicate. “For the unlawful decisions (of Gupta), the stricture was passed. He (Gupta) gave promotion to some of his close aides without the approval of the syndicate,” said Sanjay Desai, a syndicate member. Most of those who got promotion were junior level officials in administrative posts. However, the university officials informed that though the promotions were revoked, no coercive actions will be taken against the promoted staff. Kirti Matliwala, who was dismissed by Gupta as a teacher from the department of education in March 2019 was also reinstated as associate professor by the syndicate. Matliwala, wife of former VC Dr Dakshesh Thakar. The syndicate also restored the PhD guideship of V D Naik, principal of SPB Commerce College. Naik’s guideship was withdrawn during Gupta’s tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-syndic-reverses-ex-vcs-decisions/articleshow/78262462.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 23, 2020||Pune||Newly appointed commissioner takes stock of ground situation||PUNE: Newly appointed commissioner of police Amitabh Gupta on Tuesday visited four police stations and spoke to junior officers. In the morning, Gupta visited the office of the Zone I deputy commissioner of police, where he discussed the nature of crimes in the area and policing initiatives with senior officers and then, visited the Faraskhana, Vishrambaug, Khadak and Samarth police stations. He spoke with police inspectors and constables and attempted to understand the problems faced by them in the current scenario. He also inquired about the number of personnel who tested positive from each of these police stations, and stressed on the need to follow safety proceudres while out in the field. He also reviewed the rate of crime detection and convictions, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-top-cop-takes-stock-of-ground-situation/articleshow/78263899.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||LMC likely to meet tax collection target for Sept||Lucknow: Residents may now hope for the revival of development projects in the city as for the first time in the current financial year, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) is likely to achieve its property tax target for September. Against the target of Rs 58 crore set for this month, the civic body has collected Rs 55.9 crore till date. With a week still left, LMC is confident of meeting the target. TOI has been highlighting how poor tax collection has hit development works like road repair/construction, cleaning of drains and garbage disposal. Besides lax revenue collection, the civic body also suffered a loss of Rs 50 crore during lockdown. LMC launched an aggressive campaign in September and collected around Rs 26.4 crore tax from 97,000 properties and Rs 29.5 crore from 14,237 commercial defaulters including hotels, eateries and malls. LMC had fixed the target of Rs 17 crore for April, Rs 10 crore for May, Rs 42 crore for June, Rs 28 crore for July and Rs 117 crore for August. While no collection was done in April and May due to lockdown, Rs 36 crore was collected in June, Rs 19 crore in July and Rs 82 crore in August. LMC chief tax collection officer Ashok Singh said, “We will continue the drive in coming months as well and try to achieve the overall Rs 410 crore target set for financial year 2020-21.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-likely-to-meet-tax-collection-target-for-sept/articleshow/78265692.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||Man thrashes stray dog after tying it to car in Sevasi||VADODARA: Residents of Sevasi village on the outskirts of the city approached Taluka police and filed an application against a man for assaulting a stray dog mercilessly on Tuesday morning. The dog was admitted to a veterinary clinic and is in critical condition. Locals alleged that, Balwant Gohil, who identifies himself as a government official, has in the past killed about four stray dogs in similar manner. Prashant Gohil, a resident of Sevasi, told the taluka police that Balwant tied the stray dog to his car and beat it severely. “Prashant and the other locals had in the past objected to his heinous act but he used to threaten them. He told the locals that he is a government official. They were scared of him. On Monday, they approached me for help,” said Raj Bhavsar of Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA). With the help of Bhavsar, Prashant filed an application with the taluka police. The complainant has also taken photographs of the injured dog that was tied to a car. “We have called the complainant to share the details with us. An offence will be registered against the perpetrator once we get some evidence,” said senior sub-inspector Jaideepsinh Sarvaiya of Vadodara Taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-thrashes-stray-dog-after-tying-it-to-car-in-sevasi/articleshow/78263399.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 130 stolen mobile phones handed over to owners||TRICHY: The city police have returned mobile phones of 130 people, recovered from its snatchers at different places in Trichy district, on Tuesday. According to police, the value of phones recovered by them was Rs 16 lakh. At an event held at the Trichy police commissioner’s office on Tuesday, commissioner J Loganathan, handed over the recovered mobile phones to the owners. Police said that they had received several complaints about mobile phones thefts from different parts of Trichy. Based on the complaints, special teams were formed to nab the culprits and recover the stolen mobile phones. The teams were assisted by the cyber crime cell in the operation. A Pavankumar, deputy commissioner of police (Land and Order), R Vedhrathinam, deputy commissioner of police (Crime and Traffic), additional deputy commissioner of police, D Rameshbabu, were also present during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/130-stolen-mobile-phones-handed-over-to-owners/articleshow/78265159.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Man beats elder brother to death in Sambhal||BAREILLY: A 33-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by his younger brother following a quarrel in Davthara village under Gunnaur police station in UP’s Sambhal. The incident occurred on Tuesday afternoon when the duo was out in the farm field. They had an argument which soon turned into a scuffle after which Yogendra beat his elder brother, Prem, with sticks injuring him severely. Later, he fled the spot. Police said Prem was rushed to a CHC but he succumbed to his injuries during the treatment. An FIR has been registered under IPC section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) against the accused who is yet to be arrested. Deceased is survived by his wife and a child. Deceased’s family informed police that the brothers have had several fights in the past as well. Locals and villagers who had spotted them fighting in the farm said that Yogendra was severely injured after being beaten up by Prem with sticks. The family rushed to the spot and police was informed. SHO of Gunnaur police station in Sambhal Sanjiv Kumar said, “The victim was rushed to a CHC in Gunnaur but he succumbed to his injuries during the treatment. An FIR has been registered against the accused brother.” Elaborating further, SHO said, “More details are being gathered about the families to ascertain the cause of the fight between the two. As of now, efforts are being made to nab the accused who is still at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-beats-elder-brother-to-death-in-sambhal/articleshow/78261466.cms||Maria Khan
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Op Shakti nails 2,200 accused||Lucknow: In a month-long drive, Lucknow police cracked down on more than 2,200 accused in crimes against women. The drive, Operation Shakti, saw police expediting such cases which were lying pending in the police stations for some or the other reason.  Op Shakti was carried out in six districts of Lucknow range. It began in the last week of August and ended on September 22. IG, Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh, who launched the drive, told TOI that cops arrested and booked miscreants accused in crimes such as rape, sexual harassment, eve-teasing, kidnapping. Action was also taken in cases lodged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “A total 822 accused were booked, 669 were bound down, while 770 others were served notice,” Singh said. IG added that more personnel have been deployed in the Anti-Romeo Squads in the six districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/op-shakti-nails-2200-accused/articleshow/78265700.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||UGC rules on refund trigger worry about mounting losses in colleges||PUNE: Raunak Shah recently scored 89.9% in the higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) examination and has secured admission based on this score in a private university for science. He is now willing to take up a course in a college affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University. “I am worried if the college will refund me the entire amount if I cancel my admission once the college of my choice offers me a seat,” he said. Like Raunak, thousands of undergraduate students in the city and across Maharashtra have taken provisional admission by paying 10 to 80% fees, and are rethinking their decisions about courses. But these students need not worry following the latest guidelines by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that has directed institutes to not charge any admission-cancellation fee from the students. The UGC guidelines have said, a refund of all fees in totality on account of cancellation/migration up to November 30, and just a deduction of Rs 1,000 if cancellation happens up to December 31 will be allowed. Many deemed and private universities have already completed their admission process and started regular classes. With this new diktat, and the JEE/CET results yet to be declared, private institutes fear there is a big chance that students may cancel their admissions in these colleges leading to vacant seats as well as loss of finances in these institutes post cancellation of admission. Principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Rajendra Zunjarrao, said, “Apart from the UGC guidelines, there are rules in place by the Pune university which all colleges affiliated to it have to follow with respect to the refund. We also follow those rules judiciously. As per the SPPU rules and regulations, from the date of commencement of the course to cancellation within 1 to 10 days, 20% deductions and 80% refund is followed. From the date of commencement from the 11th to the 30th day, a 40% deduction and a 60% refund is permitted. Cancellation of admission after 30 days from date of commencement has no refund. If cancellation of admission is done before commencement of the course, then the entire fee should be refunded. However, as administrative charges not more than Rs 1000 may be deducted by the college. Principal of Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce, C N Rawal, said, “We have been following the UGC rules with respect to fees since the beginning. The UGC guidelines are annual and all varsities and its affiliated colleges have to follow these set of rules regarding the fee refund.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ugc-rules-on-refund-trigger-worry-about-mounting-losses-in-colleges/articleshow/78263938.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 23, 2020||Pune||Colleges uncertain about starting professional courses from Nov 1||PUNE: Experts said the University Grants Commission’s guidelines to start the academic year for non-professional courses from November 1 or latest by November 18 is doable, but the All India Council for Technical Education’s (AICTE) schedule for the academic year 2020-21 to start on November 1, will be hard to adhere to in Maharashtra. Moreover, the Supreme Court stay on Maratha reservation will affect the admission process in the state, they added. The entrance examinations to almost all the courses such as architecture, engineering, pharmacy etc are scheduled in October while those for courses such as LLB (three-year) degree are yet to be announced. As per the AICTE schedule, the first round of admissions must be completed by October 15, followed by the second round of admissions to be completed by November 1, and the courses set to begin on November 1. A principal of a reputed Law College in the city said, “November 1 seems to be a difficult deadline to achieve. It takes about a month after the PG admissions for UG admissions to start. In the best-case scenario, even if we consider that the entrance exam and the admission rounds for PG courses will end on October 31, then it will take another month or at least 15-20 days for two of the UG admission rounds post which the classes can start. This means either by November 20 or December 1 we can start the class, but these are considering that no objections happen in the process which may not be realistic.” R M Jalnekar, principal of VIT, also said that commencement of first-year classes by November 1 seems doubtful. “Even if we start by the third week of November, we can still somehow manage to complete our syllabus by cutting down on all holidays and giving extra classes to students. Then the practicals would be done throughout the semester via simulation and other software, but if the conditions improve, we will be able to call students to college in February for hands-on practicals. While it is true that the entire thing will be new for students and may even be a bit stressful, these are not normal times and even students want to just start with their classes and carry on with their lives without further delay. Hence, they are coming with a mindset to cope with the challenges which I think will serve the purpose,” he said. A senior official with the Maharashtra Directorate of Technical Education that looks after professional courses in the state said it seems unlikely that the state would be able to keep up with the AICTE timeline in certain courses. “We have decided there will be just two or so rounds this year. Hence all admissions would happen in these rounds. However, there is a chance that for some courses, there will be a delay,” he said. Decisions to truncate the syllabus can be taken in accordance with the time that each course gets in the academic calendar. “Sixteen weeks of teaching are required to complete one semester. Hence if we feel that even after cancelling the leaves and taking extra classes, if the students are unable to finish their course, then a decision on syllabus cut can be taken just for these first year students as a special measure. Already this decision has been taken for schools and depending on circumstances, can be applied to first year professional courses too,” he said. Meanwhile, NS Umarani, pro vice-chancellor of Savitribai Phule Pune University said that the UGC guidelines can be easily adhered to in case of conventional courses affiliated to the university. “UGC is the regulatory authority for non-professional courses while AICTE looks after professional courses. The admissions to many of the BA, BCom, BSc courses are already over and hence there is no problem there. As far as the PG admissions in the university are considered, the entire process would be over in a month or so, giving us enough time to start the courses by November 1 or latest by November 18. Hence, it is not a problem for non-professional courses, but for professional courses, there can be some issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-uncertain-about-starting-professional-courses-from-nov-1/articleshow/78263923.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Two hurt in acid attack||RAJKOT: An auto-rickshaw driver and his friend were attacked with acid by three unidentified persons near Manda Dungar on Tuesday noon. The three accused had boarded the auto-rickshaw of Abhli Gul Mohammed Paleja (23) at Gondal Road junction to go to the bus-stand. The trio initially did not wish to go with Paleja as he demanded Rs 100 each, but later they went in his auto. The accused asked Paleja to take them via Manda Dungar because they had to pick-up three women from there. Paleja’s 22-year-old friend Afzal Yusuf Pathan also tagged along. On reaching Manda Dungar, the three passengers got down and two of them took out bottles of acid and splashed it on Paleja and Pathan. The trio fled from there, while the two victims were taken to the Rajkot Civil Hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-hurt-in-acid-attack/articleshow/78261912.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||TOI town hall to answer queries of east Delhi residents||NEW DELHI: Continuing its efforts to help residents get right answers to their queries on various civic issues, TOI is going to organise the second session of #MySocietyPride initiative on Friday evening. It will be a virtual town hall where senior officials of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will take queries from residents of localities such as Mayur Vihar, IP Extension and Vasundhara Enclave. It’s been a year of uncertainty for everybody. Residents welfare associations (RWAs) have not only been finding it difficult to get the authorities resolve their regular civic or safety issues but also tackle the problems being faced due to the pandemic. Queries have remained unanswered for months due to the lockdown and restricted movements. As part of the #MySocietyPride initiative, TOI is bringing a series of virtual town halls where our readers can have their questions answered by various administrative authorities and police officers. In the first phase, we had invited RWAs and residents to share the endeavours taken during the corona pandemic for the benefit of society and public at large. Many of these efforts were also highlighted through editorials. Now in phase II, we are giving an opportunity to our readers and RWAs to question the authorities about various work and the reasons for delay, if any. The virtual town hall, going to be organised for east Delhi, will bring civic officials and representatives of RWAs on one platform. Various issues that are likely to be taken up include those related to lockdown, cleanliness, greenery, garbage and sanitation. Questions raised by residents and readers will also be highlighted during an hour’s session that will take place from 5pm to 6pm on Friday. It will give residents an opportunity to get clarity on matters they are stuck with for a long time due to lack of information. So don’t miss the virtual town hall where you get your questions directly answered by senior officials of the east corporation. To register, give a missed call on 8860066868 or visit www.TOI.in/Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/toi-town-hall-to-answer-queries-of-e-delhi-residents/articleshow/78265227.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad morning walker shot at by unknown persons||BAREILLY: UNIDENTIFIED MISCREANTS shot at a man in his 40s out for a morning walk in Budhi Vihar under Majhola police station of Moradabad on Tuesday. The incident happened at around 5 am. The victim, identified as Ashwini Kumar, was rushed to the district hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. Police said the crime appears to be due to personal rivalry with a relative. A case has been registered. The victim’s family told police Ashwini had gone out for a morning walk like always. He was shot at by some people whom he failed to recognise, when he was just 100m away from their residence in Budhi Vihar. “Soon after he went out on a walk, I heard a gunshot and rushed outside. Local residents had gathered by then and police were informed about the incident,” said Kanta Devi, Ashwini’s wife. Police said Kumar has had several disputes with relatives earlier, due to which he had to shift from Mohammedpur in Mundha Pandey to Budhi Vihar, along with his wife and three children. Rakesh Kumar, SHO of Majhola police station in Moradabad, said, “Primary investigation has revealed it could be a matter of personal rivalry among family members. An FIR has been registered against two people under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC. The accused are absconding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-morning-walker-shot-at-by-unknown-persons/articleshow/78260570.cms||Maria Khan
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||87-year-old stuns Covid with her never-say-die attitude||RAJKOT: Not only is she old, but this octagenarian’s list of co-morbidities including hypertension, diabetes, thyroid, enlargement of heart, pterygium, slip disc, and other ailments read like a medical textbook. But what Covid-19 didn’t take into account while attacking 87-year-old Bhagvatiben Trivedi was her indomitable grit and never-say-die attitude ultimately suffering a huge defeat at her frail hands. While son, Hiren, had lost all hopes after his mother tested positive for the dreaded virus three weeks ago in Jamangar, it was a shocker not only for the deadly virus, but also the attending physicians at the GG Hospital when Bhagvatiben, a medically ‘high-risk’ patient won the Covid battle and got discharged on Saturday night after 21 days of hospitalization. “She is brave and did not lose hope even for a minute. She always said that she will go home one day,” said another patient who was with her at the GG Hospital. Bhagvatiben even had to be put on a ventilator for a few days after her condition deteriorated, but she recovered fast and started breathing normally, said a doctor who treated her. Dr S S Chatterjee, nodal officer of Jamnagar Covid hospital said, “We have treated 46 critical and aged patients. But Bhagvatiben was different. She has tremendous will power.” “There were many patients of my age who lost hope for life after getting infected with Covid-19. I took this as a challenge and wanted to defeat the disease. I want to give a message to senior citizens: Do not get frustrated and keep your morale strong. You will come out of this disease,” the gritty elderly told TOI. Along with the hospital staff who is singing paeans of Bhagvatiben courage, her son too is elated. “We are thankful to God and the hard work of doctors at the G G Hospital for saving my mother,” he said. According to Jamnagar health authorities, there were 252 active cases in the district. On Tuesday, 101 more people tested positive for the virus in Jamnagar city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/87-yr-old-stuns-ncov-with-her-never-say-die-attitude/articleshow/78261543.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Girl’s efforts fetch toilet for every house in Pudukottai village||TRICHY: The efforts of a school girl to prevent open defecation in her village in Pudukottai district has ensured that every household in the village has a toilet. K Jayalakshmi, a student of class XII from Athanakottai village, received help from Gramalaya - a Trichy-based NGO promoting sanitation and hygiene. A survey conducted by Gramalaya found that 120 out of 125 houses, including Jayalakshmi’s, did not have toilets and they defecated in the open. “We planned to have smart household toilets worth Rs 25,000 each in 120 houses without toilets,” said Gramalaya founder S Damodaran. Bank of America gave Rs 30 lakh for the project through its CSR funds. “We took Rs 5,000 from each house as their share and built toilets with attached bathroom. We knew that more than having toilets, it is important to make it attractive and appealing to encourage people to use it. Therefore, we designed it as a permanent structure,” he said. “Hygiene education coupled with menstrual hygiene management and nutrition awareness education was also provided in the villages through the capacity building and training programmes,” he said. C Rajeswari, 35, one of the beneficiary from Thiruvalluvar Nagar, said they had contributed less than Rs 5,000 and it fulfilled their long pending necessity. Jayalakshmi was among the 4,000 odd candidates across the country to become eligible for an educational tour to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), conducted by a Chennai-based private educational travel service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girls-efforts-fetch-toilet-for-every-house-in-village/articleshow/78265190.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Health worker positive again cries foul over test, discharge policy, admission refusal||NAGPUR: A 42-year-old multi-purpose worker (MPW) working with the public health department has alleged that AIIMS Nagpur has refused to admit him though he tested positive again and has mild symptoms since last one week. The MPW also claimed he has been “reinfected”. AIIMS Covid authorities ruled out any reinfection unless clinically proven and said they followed ICMR, Maharashtra government and health ministry guidelines. The MPW had first tested positive on May 21 in the line of duty while assisting a 42-year-old doctor at a quarantine centre. The doctor too tested positive again and has been admitted at a CCC. The MPW said both of them had insisted on a second test when they were being discharged from AIIMS in June first week. “But the doctors told us that the protocol had changed and there was no need to test again. We were discharged in 10 days and also assured that we won’t be reinfected ever in life,” he said. Besides these two health workers, there are some more cases in which recovered patients have tested positive again in the city. Yet, the health authorities haven’t brought them under any study or called them as confirmed reinfection cases. Dr Rajashree Khot, in charge of Covid team at AIIMS Nagpur, said they are not hesitating in admitting needy patients. “We are following clinical guidelines as per ICMR, Maharashtra government and healthy ministry. If any patient doesn’t fit the norms, we can’t allot an oxygen bed as it may deprive a needy patient,” she said. Dr Khot, who is associate professor in general medicine, said there is no concrete evidence about reinfection in city. “As per available data, a patient may test positive for 3 to 6 months,” she said. “ICMR realized a patient remains positive till six months due to dead virus in body. An asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patient is infectious for an average of 10 days and a severely-ill patient for 20 days,” she said. “So if they are clinically cured then there is no need of testing again. No one is retested now. There is no chance of reinfection for at least 3 to 4 months because of immunity. Unless we get concrete evidence, it can’t be said a patient is reinfected,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-worker-ve-again-cries-foul-over-test-discharge-policy-admission-refusal/articleshow/78263940.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||4 Covid deaths & 199 new cases in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: Covid-19 patient count in the district climbed to 8,289 as 199 more cases were detected on Tuesday. Four deaths were also reported during the last 24 hours taking the toll to 122. The day also saw discharge of 127 patients and total recoveries have now risen to 4,754, leaving 3,413 under treatment. The four deceased include 89-year-old Sarkar Nagar resident, 67-year-old Babupeth resident, 68-year-old from Balaji ward in Chandrapur city and 62-year-old person from Ballarpur. All deceased had comorbidities. Two of them died at Christ hospital while two breathed their last at Chandrapur GMCH. Newfound patients include 96 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, Pombhurna 4, Ballarpur 28, Chimur 3, Mul 3, Gondpipri 2, Korpana 1, Bramhapuri 7, Nagbhid 10, Warora 18, Bhadrawati 6, Saoli 2, Sindewahi 9 and Rajura 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-199-new-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/78265183.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 23, 2020||India||India sees 84k fresh Covid cases, toll set to cross 90k||NEW DELHI: The death toll from Covid-19 infections in India was set to cross 90,000 even as fresh cases reported on Tuesday rose to more than 84,000 after a sharp drop the previous day due to a massive fall in testing. There were 1,101 fatalities from the virus reported during the day. Cumulative Covid-19 deaths in the country stood at 89,984, just 16 short of the 90,000 mark, as per data collated from state governments. When deaths do cross that mark on Wednesday, the toll would have risen from 75,000 to 90,000 in just 13 days. It had taken 15 days for the count to rise from 60,000 to 75,000. With 84,189 new infections in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 case count stood at over 56.4 lakh late on Tuesday. While testing improved from Sunday’s two-week low of 7.3 lakh, the numbers were still below the 10-lakh mark, with 9.3 lakh samples tested for the virus on Monday. India had conducted a record 12 lakh-plus tests last Saturday. The country saw close to 90,000 recoveries from the infection on Tuesday, while active cases continued to fall for the fifth straight day. The pool of active cases in the country, a crucial number that denotes the current spread of the infection, stood at a little over 9.7 lakh. In most states, fresh cases rose from Monday’s count when 73,279 infections were detected in the country, the lowest daily tally in the whole of September. On Tuesday, Rajasthan was the only state to report its highest spike in cases, recording 1,912 infections. Maharashtra reported 18,390 fresh cases and 392 deaths, with recoveries at 20,206, outnumbering new infections for the fifth day in a row. Both fresh cases and fatalities had risen slightly from the previous day’s counts. Andhra Pradesh reported 7,553 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,39,302 as 51 more persons died in hospitals and homes. The Covid-19 related toll jumped to 5,461 but at the same time, 10,500 people have recovered from the virus on Tuesday. In Tamil Nadu, 200 days since the first case was reported, the state logged 5,337 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 76 deaths. Active cases stood at 46,350 while the case tally was more than 5.5 lakh. The cumulative death toll neared 9,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-84k-fresh-covid-cases-toll-set-to-cross-90k/articleshow/78266159.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal terror probe unveils ‘chat with AQIS in J&K’||Berhampore: The nine men arrested last week from Murshidabad in Bengal and Ernakulam in Kerala for their alleged links to a Pak-sponsored al-Qaida terror module may have a more concrete connection to AQIS operatives in Kashmir, the ongoing NIA probe has revealed. The AQIS, expanded as the Al Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent, is a militant organisation fighting the governments of India, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Myanmar, among others, to establish an Islamist State. Chat records suggest that at least two of the nine were in regular touch with “unknown Kashmiri persons” who investigators suspect “may be AQIS members”. For years now, the AQIS has been focusing on its India campaign and trying to make its presence felt in Bangladesh. A month ago, the media wing of AQIS released an Urdu magazine on its official channel and spoke about the “jihadi struggle in Kashmir gradually involving more mujahideens”. Investigators have reasons to believe that two among those arrested were in the know of the terror outfit’s grand plans. The first AQIS link had surfaced in Bengal in 2015 when an operative, Mehsoof Zafar, was arrested. He had been pumping money into several eastern states, including Bengal, to recruit and train new members. Interrogation of the nine has revealed that the module in Murshidabad is not very old, but some of those arrested may have been trained by “other terror outfits to build modules faster”. The moles the NIA had planted in the network are learnt to have given crucial leads about places these men visited to mobilise members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-terror-probe-unveils-chat-with-aqis-in-jk/articleshow/78265703.cms||Sukumar Mahato
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Operation All-Out against dons, 11 henchmen held||LUCKNOW: In a massive crackdown on mafia dons, nearly 60 teams of Lucknow police raided over 40 locations in the city on Tuesday and arrested 11 henchmen of Mukhtar Ansari, Salim, Rustam and Sohrab, Khan Mubarak, Surendra Kalia and Deepu, besides detaining 21 others. Information about these criminals was being collected for the last 15 days, said officials. Lucknow Police began ‘Operation All-Out’ — a massive daylong offensive against mafias — as 58 teams of police, local intelligence units and crime branch raided 42 locations. Cops raided the hideouts of aides of Mukhtar Ansari, Salim, Rustam and Sohrab, Khan Mubarak, Surendra Kalia and Deepu and arrested 11 henchmen and detained 21 others. Police also recovered three pistols, 30 cartridges, 24 tiffin boxes for making low-intensity bombs, a bullet-proof vest, five banned high frequency wireless handsets, two SUVs, papers of railway contracts, syringes and thermocol boxes in the raids. Those arrested included Abhishek Babu of Madiaon, Guddu alias Gaswallah of Aashiana, Anas Khan of Hazratganj, and Pradeep of Vibhutikhand, all members of Mukhtar Ansari gang; Shahzade Qureshi, Nadeem, and Manu of Cantonment, members of Salim, Rustam and Sohrab gang; Rishabh Singh of Aashiana and Akash of Hussainganj, both of Surendra Kalia gang, and Akash Dayal and Rajeev, members of Deepu gang. Lucknow Commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said the aim of the drive was to break the economic backbone of gangsters and convey the message that their illegal operations would not be allowed anymore. “Abhishek Babu, right-hand man of Mukhtar, was among those nabbed today. He is named in cases of extortion, murder, attempt to murder,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/op-all-out-against-dons-11-henchmen-held/articleshow/78265709.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Kadaknath chicken farming to help UP cow shelter houses become self-reliant financially||BAREILLY: The farming of ‘Kadaknath’ (Black fowl) — an Indian breed of chicken which is facing extinction threat owing to its high consumption, especially in central and western parts of the country — will help make cow shelter houses in Uttar Pradesh become self-reliant financially. A pilot project to check the efficacy of the plan is launched by the Lakhimpur Kheri district administration under which the caretakers of panchayat-aided cow shelter house in Dhaurahra tehsil have started farming of Kadaknath chicken breed and the money earned from its sale will be used for running the cow shelter. If the pilot project yields the desired result, then such chicken farms would start at other cow shelter houses as well, said officials. The chicken breed — high in demands, especially in Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh and Gujarat and Rajasthan, among others — costs Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 per kg — a rooster weighs 1.8–2 kg and hen 1.2–1.5 kg. The eggs and meat of Kadaknath are extremely rich sources of protein and iron and its consumption helps improve RBC, and thus, the breed is high in demands. Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We have established a model cow shelter house in Basantapur village. Since we have a large area lying unused at the shelter house, we have developed a farmhouse for Kadaknath chicken breed and constructed a large pond for the farming of various fish species. The investment is made to make the shelter house self-reliant financially. The profit made by chicken and fish farming will help buy fodder for the stray cattle sheltered here and pay salaries to the staff working here.” “Kadaknath is a rare breed of black chicken endemic to Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh. We have started farming with 30 chickens, with each chicken costing us Rs 3,000. The idea of the Kadaknath chicken farming can change the scenario of the cow shelter houses across the state if remains successful. Even the eggs of this species can fetch good profit and are sold for over Rs 20. Dedicated staff have been imparted training on various methods of chicken rearing and we are also monitoring the project closely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kadaknath-chicken-farming-to-help-up-cow-shelter-houses-become-self-reliant-financially/articleshow/78260595.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 23, 2020||Agra||Build film city in Braj region, Agra mayor to CM||AGRA: Citing many scenic locations all over the region, Agra mayor Naveen Jain has sent a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to consider building the film city in Braj region between Agra and Mathura districts. According to Jain, the film industry in Braj region will have a unique identity. Agra has numerous historic monuments with expansive gardens and picturesque locations like the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri, Sikandra, Mehtab Bagh, Shahjahan Garden, Soor Sarovar bird sanctuary housing Keetham Lake, Chambal ravines in Bah, etc. Whereas Mathura is known for its cultural heritage. Agra and Mathura have all the required potential for ideal movie shoots. Jain Al said as Agra district falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone. New industries cannot be established, and the existing ones have already shut down due to environmental restrictions. Due to lack of opportunities, youngsters migrate to other cities for work. Building a film city between Agra and Mathura would develop a non-polluting industry. It would generate different work opportunities and boost the local economy. The mayor said, “Agra and Mathura have very good air, rail and road connectivity with the rest of the country. Soon, there will be a metro rail running in the city. Minister of road transport and shipping Nitin Gadkari had announced a plan to build a dam on river Yamuna in Agra and operate boats and streamers from Delhi to the Taj Mahal. Besides, Chambal river will also compliment the film city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/build-film-city-in-braj-region-agra-mayor-to-cm/articleshow/78262717.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Naxals portray security forces as ‘Corona carriers’, find no takers||NAGPUR: Maoists, unable to create rift between police department and the masses, have now started sowing the seeds of distrust in the minds of tribals by projecting security forces as ‘Covid carriers’. The propaganda, however, has not found any takers in the tribal community which had earlier showed high sensitivity towards the viral infection spreading in their hamlets. The villagers, who had earlier objected to migrant labourers and even neighbours returning to the village from cities, have so far refrained from reacting to the Maoists’ provocation. Maoist leaders in south Gadchiroli have warned security personnel to desist from visiting the tribal hamlets as a high percentage of them (jawans) had tested Covid-19 positive. In Chhattisgarh, Maoist supporters had also convened meetings and taken out rallies against security personnel blaming them for putting lives of the villagers in danger. The Maoists claimed in their pamphlets that security force personnel visiting villages, hamlets and forests may lead to spread of the infection in the district which does not have adequate health infrastructure. Countering the claims, outgoing Gadchiroli SP Shailesh Balkawade stated security personnel are in fact ‘Covid warriors’ spreading awareness and extending help during the pandemic. Balkawade, who has been transferred to Kolhapur but is yet to be relieved, said the tribals have always found police as ‘first responders’ even during the pandemic. “There is no resistance on part of the tribals when cop visit them. There is least chance of the tribals getting infected from security forces. Security personnel are compulsorily made to stay in quarantine centres, tested and treated as soon as they land in the district,” he said. Balkawade added each security jawan had been given immunity boosters and have been trained to follow personal hygiene. “Police have distributed ration kits, sanitizers and masks to the tribals. We had also initiated awareness drive among the tribals to fight Covid. The villagers have always found cops accompanying doctors, medical staffers and other government employees engaged in Covid work and hence there is no objection to they visiting villages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naxals-portray-security-forces-as-corona-carriers-find-no-takers/articleshow/78263975.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 23, 2020||Agra||Firozabad police bust illegal gun factory, arrest 3||AGRA: Ahead of panchayat elections, three people were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly running an illegal firearms factory in the forested area between villages Katrai and Nagla Shaadi, under Jasrana police station of Firozabad district. A huge cache of finished and unfinished weapons, along with tools used in their manufacture, was recovered from the spot. While three men were arrested red handed, two managed to escape. According to police, the exact period during which the illegal arms factory has been operational, is yet to be ascertained, but that there is a high possibility of the weapons manufactured there being used in the forthcoming panchayat polls. Senior superintendent of police Sachindra Patel said, “Following a tip-off, a police team was directed to conduct a raid on the illegal firearms factory. Over two dozen finished and unfinished weapons, as well as a large stock of machinery and raw material used in their manufacture, were recovered. Of the five men working there, three were arrested on the spot, but two managed to flee, but they will be arrested soon. All five have criminal history. An FIR has been registered against them under the Arms Act. Gangsters Act will also be imposed on them.” The three arrested men were identified as Maanpal Badhai and Pooran Badhai of Chandan Nagar under Etmadullah police station of Agra district, and Sarvesh Baghel of village Katrai under Jasrana police station of Firozabad district. The two who managed to flee were identified as Rajesh and Hukum Singh of Firozabad district. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar said it would cost around Rs 500 to manufacture each gun. “It is a professional gang. Two of the three men arrested have been to jail twice already under the Arms Act. They completed manufacturing at least four guns every day. Using their contacts, they would supply them for around Rs 5,000 each in Agra, Etah, Firozabad, Mainpuri and other districts of the Agra and Aligarh divisions. We are trying to identify their contacts and customers. Busting the illegal firearms factory ahead of panchayat polls is a major accomplishment for police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/firozabad-police-bust-illegal-gun-factory-arrest-3/articleshow/78262702.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Greater Kailash-I RWA fined Rs 60,000 for cutting down tree in park||NEW DELHI: The residents’ welfare association of S Block, Greater Kailash I, has been fined Rs 60,000 by Delhi government’s department of environment and forest department for chopping down a tree in a park. A complaint in this regard had been filed at the local police station and with the forest department in December last year by South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s horticulture department. The penal action was taken under the Delhi Preservation of Tree Act, 1994, by the office of deputy conservator of forest, southern range, Tughlaqabad. In a show-cause notice issued on September 14, the RWA was found guilty of illegal tree felling and fined Rs 60,000 under Section 21 of the Act. “We took the decision after inspections,” said a forest department official. “We received the notice through WhatsApp and we have been instructed to pay the amount within seven days. How can we pay such a big amount in this time?” asked M K Gupta, president of S Block RWA. “The penalty will demotivate other RWAs in taking care of their green areas.” The RWA claimed that two-thirds of the 40-year-old tree had fallen down last year after being damaged by termites. The remaining portion posed a danger to park visitors, and so it had got it removed after a joint inspection with SDMC officials, it said. “When we are putting so much effort in maintaining the parks, why would we hurt any tree?” argued Gupta. “In fact, we have planted hundreds of saplings to ensure greenery.” Even if the tree was damaged, the RWA should have informed us within 24 hours, maintained the forest official. “Taking steps to remove the tree without informing the forest department is an offence. However, if they are finding the fine amount too high, we can extend the time to pay it if they request so,” he added. For its part, SDMC denied visiting the area or permitting the chopping of the tree. “We have no authority to give such permissions. In fact, residents complained to us and we approached the forest department,” said an SDMC official. Watch Delhi: Greater Kailash-I RWA fined Rs 60,000 for cutting down tree in park||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gk-i-rwa-fined-rs-60k-for-cutting-down-tree-in-park/articleshow/78265275.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||8 prisoners kept at temporary jail in Haridwar escape, four caught||Haridwar: Eight undertrial prisoners, including five members of the notorious Kaleem and Narendra Valmiki gang, who had recently been arrested for trying to extort Rs 1 crore from a property dealer, escaped from a temporary jail they had been lodged at in Roshanabad area of Haridwar district. Three of the fugitives were arrested from Roorkee and one from Ranipur police station region after a few hours. Meanwhile, police and forest teams cordoned off the Rajaji Tiger Reserve area and nearby places to trace the rest of the absconding inmates. According to police, eight undertrial prisoners were kept in quarantine for 14 days as per Covid-19 guidelines before shifting them to the district jail. SHO SIDCUL police station LS Butola told TOI, “After eating their breakfast, they moved to a room which is close to the boundary of Rajaji Tiger Reserve. They broke the lock of the door and jumped over the boundary wall and escaped. After a short while, the guards noticed that they were missing and informed the police. Later, four of them were nabbed by our team. We are trying to trace the other four prisoners who are still at large.” Meanwhile, senior officials asked the Jwalapur police to tighten the security of noted property dealer Monu Tyagi who was targeted by five of the escaped prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/8-prisoners-kept-at-temporary-jail-in-haridwar-escape-four-caught/articleshow/78262707.cms||MS Nawaz
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: College students write end-sem exam in groups, share answers||TRICHY: Students appearing for online end-semester examination in groups and sharing answers among themselves are posing a big challenge to colleges in conducting the examination in a fair manner. Bharathidasan University, which admits that it has no mechanism in place to monitor it, has warned of serious consequences if students are caught resorting to such unfair means. When the examinations started on Monday, students of the same class had gathered in groups of 10-12 at several places in Trichy city as well as rural areas. As soon as the examination started, they downloaded the question paper and split questions among themselves. After searching for the right answers from internet and text books, they shared the answers among themselves through WhatsApp and wrote them down in their answer scripts. This was confirmed by some teachers as well. “Students are not supposed to appear for the exam in groups which was clearly mentioned in the examination guidelines,” said BDU controller of examination S Srinivasa Raghavan. He clarified that it isn’t an open book examination and action will be initiated against such students found to be resorting to unfair means. Students say they were apprehensive about writing the exam in isolation and came together to write the exam but eventually ended up indulging in this practice fearing low marks. Being the last examination in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, they see it as an opportunity to boost their overall percentage in the degree programme. S Kishore, who secured an average 55% marks in the last five semesters of his undergraduate programme, wants to ensure that he secures not less than 60% marks. “With no academic activity over the last five months, we have lost track of the subject and it was difficult to recall everything without classroom revision,” he said. The controller of examination of an autonomous arts and science college in Trichy city said they are giving priority to the safety of students by asking them to isolate themselves at home for the exam. “We asked our students to appear for the examination in an honest and fair manner though there is no mechanism in place to monitor it. We wanted to utilize the web cam of the computer or front camera of the mobile phone for this, but it was ruled out as it consumes additional data and not all students can afford it,” said the controller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/college-students-write-end-sem-exam-in-groups-share-answers/articleshow/78265236.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Government to set up special centre for betel vine in Kumbakonam||TRICHY: For the purpose of research and train farmers to explore the market and to make traders aware of the local markets, the state government has announced to set up a special centre for betel vine at Maruthanallur near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district at an estimate of Rs 3 crore. Kumbakonam is famous for its betel leaf and nut cultivation. The construction of a building for the center will commence after land acquisition. Tamil Nadu is one of the leading betel leaf cultivating states in the country. On around 9,000 acres more than 70,000 tonnes of betel leaves are cultivated in the state. However, the area of cultivation has come down considerably due to various reasons, officials from horticulture department said. The temple city, Kumbakonam, is famous for betel leaves. Betel leaves produced in Kumbakonam are considered to be the best across the state, for its freshness and strong quality. Though Namakkal district is one of the major producers of betel leaf, the betel cultivated in Kumbakonam is something different, traders say. Hundreds of farmers from Kumbakonam, Avoor, Thaikkal, Rajagiri, Aaduthurai, Govindapuram, Thirupoonthiruthi, Nadukavery, Manathidal, Senthalai, Varagur, and Thirukkattupalli cultivate betel leaves in Thanjavur alone. They cultivate the medicinal crop around 300 acres. Earlier it was more than 500 acres, officials said. “We are facing loss due to disease and use of technology. Despite a good demand for betel in many countries, we know nothing about the export. So, we were demanding for a research and development center in Thanjavur, said P Sugumaran, a farmer from Tiruvaiyaru. Betel leaves have medicinal properties to cure cold, cough, skin diseases, and indigestion, he said adding that the center, to be established should do research to formulate tablets out of the herbal leaves, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-to-set-up-spl-centre-for-betel-vine-in-kumbakonam/articleshow/78265229.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Three guest house staffers held for refusing rooms to madrasa teachers||KOLKATA: Three employees of two guest houses in Salt Lake, where 10 madrasa teachers were allegedly refused rooms on Monday morning because of their religion, were arrested by Bidhannagar Police late on Monday. The accused, Tubai Sharma (25), Sanjoy Sen alias Debu (26) and Goutam Saha (39), who have been charged under multiple IPC sections dealing with communal hatred, were produced in a Salt Lake court on Tuesday and remanded in two days’ police custody. The teachers — eight headmasters and two assistant teachers from separate institutions — had come to Salt Lake to submit some documents at Bikash Bhavan, the state education department headquarters. According to a complaint emailed by the West Bengal Teachers’ Aikya Mukto Mancha, a teachers’ forum, to the Bidhannagar police commissioner and the officer in-charge of Bidhannagar East police station, the teachers had booked a guest house in DL Block, but they were later asked to move to another guest house in CL Block. An employee of the second guest house had allegedly asked the teachers to leave after three hours. When the teachers wanted to know the reason, they were reportedly told that some locals had objected to Muslims staying in the area. “We questioned five persons till late on Tuesday and after speaking to the teachers and the complainant, arrested three of them under specific sections,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Of the arrested trio, Sharma, the DL Block guest house employee, had initially confirmed the booking of Moidul Islam, general secretary of the forum, and later taken the teachers to the CL Block guest house as no room was available at the DL Block guest house. Debu, a CL Block guest house employee, coordinated with Sharma and allotted rooms to the teachers, but finally, Saha, the CL Block guest house manager, reportedly asked the teachers to leave. The accused were booked under IPC sections 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion), 298 (uttering, words etc with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 34 (common intention). Section 295A is non-bailable and if found guilty, the offenders can face a jail term of three years.  “According to the FIR, the offence was committed some time around 6am and the FIR was lodged at 9.35pm. The three men were arrested at 11.10am. Since there was no communal tension in the area, the men could have been questioned at the police station or the guest house at length even without the arrest. The men were at the guest houses and there was no recurrence of the offence through the day. Hence, we pleaded for bail but the magistrate sent them to two days of police custody,” said Rajdeep Banerjee, the trio’s counsel. The state counsel, Sabir Ali, told the court of additional chief judicial magistrate that the trio needed to be in custody as the hotel registers and CCTV footage had to be seized while seeking for a five-day police remand. The magistrate granted him two days of custody. Islam said the teachers were happy that the government took immediate steps over the matter. Representatives of the forum attended a protest rally organised by the Nagarik Samaj in front of the DL Block guest house and at Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee area for an hour on Tuesday. (With inputs from Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-guest-house-staffers-held-for-refusing-rooms-to-madrasa-teachers/articleshow/78263983.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Assembly ruckus: Court rejects govt plea to withdraw case||Thiruvananthapuram: In a major setback to ministers K T Jaleel and E P Jayarajan, who are already embroiled in controversies related to gold smuggling via diplomatic channel, the Thiruvananthapuram chief judicial magistrate court on Tuesday rejected the state government’s plea to withdraw a public property destruction case filed against six LDF legislators, including them, over an assembly ruckus in 2015. It said allowing the plea would send a wrong message to society. The case pertains to the LDF legislators’ bid on March 13, 2015 to prevent former finance minister K M Mani — who was facing bribery allegations — from presenting the annual budget. Chief judicial magistrate R Jayakrishnan has also asked the accused to appear in the court on October 15 for a hearing ahead of initiating prosecution. The order said the visual evidence of the damage caused by legislators was in the public domain and failure to take appropriate legal action on such unlawful activities would send a wrong message. It also referred to a high court directive that cases related to destruction of public property should not be dismissed without trial. The other accused in the case are K Ajith, K Kunju Muhammed, C K Sadasivan and V Sivankutty, members of the previous assembly. The damaged properties include the chair of the legislative assembly speaker, emergency lamb, microphones, digital clocks, computer monitor and headphones. The crime branch had conducted a probe and submitted the chargesheet while an overall property loss of Rs 2.5 lakh was estimated. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and BJP state president K Surendran said the case should be conducted till the accused are punished. Ramesh said the court order came in response to his plea challenging the government move. Surendran said the court order was a slap on the face of the state government that has made abuse of power a habit. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, justified the government stand, saying assembly protests need not be classified as destruction of public property. “Such fiery disputes are common in assembly and those will be settled amicably between the opposition and ruling front. There were several such incidents in the assembly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/assembly-ruckus-court-rejects-govt-plea-to-withdraw-case/articleshow/78264020.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||BJP slams govt over oxygen cylinder crunch in hospitals||Jaipur: Opposition BJP on Tuesday slammed the ruling Congress over the alleged shortage of oxygen cylinders in hospitals in the state. The BJP leaders claimed that they had come across reports about patients dying in cities like Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur for want of oxygen supply in both government and private hospitals BJP state president Satish Poonia said the biggest reason behind the Covid deaths is the lack of oxygen supply. “It is a blot on the face of government that they have failed in providing oxygen. If they fail to provide basic requirement in the fight against Covid, one can imagine that the status of other things like beds, medicines and health workers,” said Poonia. He gave figures that due to corona over 1,350 persons have died so far and in the last seven days alone 88 people have died. Referring to news reports, Poonia said almost every day in some paper or the other it is being reported that Covid patients or hospitals are facing problem related to the lack of oxygen. BJP state spokesperson Laxmikant Bhardwaj tweeted that the party will reach out to people in need of oxygen. “Casualties due to lack of oxygen that too in Jaipur is depressing and shocking. It will send a wrong message among the people,” said Bhardwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-slams-govt-over-oxygen-cylinder-crunch-in-hospitals/articleshow/78265239.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||20 accused in TN murder case held||Calangute: Twenty people from Tamil Nadu, wanted in connection with a murder in their native state, were arrested by Calangute police on Monday. Police said they received information that some of the accused in a murder case reported at the Chunambedu police station in Tamil Nadu’s Kanchipuram district, were hiding at a hotel in Candolim. A police team from Tamil Nadu led by the Chunambedu PI consequently arrived in Goa. A joint team of Calangute police and the police from Tamil Nadu raided the hotel on Monday and nabbed three of the accused. During interrogation, they confessed that 17 more accused were hiding in two rented apartments at Candolim, prompting the police to raid the apartments.  Tamil Nadu police later took custody of the 20 accused and left for their native state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/20-accused-in-tn-murder-case-held/articleshow/78265300.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Lockdown eased but many colonies still keep gates shut||JAIPUR: Iron gated colonies on public roads have become a nuisance here, especially after the outbreak of the pandemic. Most of the residential colonies have started keeping the gates shut even during day time. Officials at Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) said they have been getting a lot of complaints from people about the iron gates being closed even after lockdown rules were relaxed. “During complete lockdown, colonies started keeping the gates closed whole day to prevent anyone entering. But after relaxations were announced, they were supposed to open the gates. We have opened around 15 such gates till now and every day we are receiving complaints,” said Raghuvir Singh, chief enforcement officer at JDA. Enforcement head at JMC Rakesh Gupta said they had been getting complaints and zonal deputy commissioners were asked to take strict action against such colony societies. According to the guidelines by Rajasthan High Court, no gate on 40-feet roads is allowed. For roads below 40 feet, iron gates have to be open during day time but can be closed at night. However, a guard has to be appointed at night to open the gates whenever necessary. Ramesh Taneja, a resident of Vaishali Nagar, said he recently complained to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to open the gates in his colony. “Colony members said to keep the gate shut all day. It was inconvenient for us to take longer route to get to the main street. At night no guard is appointed and people out of the colony face real struggle to find their way to the main road. In case of any emergency, we have to make several rounds to find an open gate,” said Taneja. In many colonies, a portion of the gate on each side is left closed which ultimately become a place for street vendors or a parking lot. Neha Khullar, manager of Muskaan NGO working on road safety and traffic issues of the city, said they had raised this issue six years back in a meeting with traffic police and JMC. “In the meeting, it was discussed that gates will be installed after due approval by a security committee of the city that would consist of JDA, JMC and traffic police members. Years have passed but no such committee has been formed and colonies install gates on their whims and fancies on the pretext of security. We will soon be having another meeting with the traffic police in which colony gates will be our main topic of discussion,” said Neha. Watch Jaipur: Locked gates trouble colony residents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-eased-but-many-colonies-still-keep-gates-shut/articleshow/78265247.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Life-saving HFNO uses more oxygen: Doctor||NAGPUR: After the state health department made it clear that it has no intention to ration or restrict the use of oxygen in Covid hospitals, doctors have urged them to consider the additional consumption of oxygen in high-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) devise before starting any audit of its use. In the last few months, HFNO therapy has been established as a safe and efficient treatment for Covid patients. A single patient on high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) uses over 86,000 litres of oxygen per day. It is undoubtedly a lot, but it saves lives. “Before going for O2 audit, IAS officers must understand where it is being used,” said Dr Rajesh Swarnkar, national general secretary of Indian Chest Society. “The widespread use of HFNO machines were never taken into consideration. The machine gives 100% oxygen at rate of 30-60 litres per minute,” he added. “It has been clinically proved that intubation of ventilator should be avoided in case of Covid-19 patients. It could be deadly. HNFO has proved a life saver in such a scenario. Bureaucrats should rope in expert doctors on their panel before finalizing any decision on O2 audit,” said Dr Swarnkar. Hospitals in Maharashtra have purchased a large number of HFNO sets in Covid times. Sanjay Kawthekar, who deals in HFNO for Vidarbha region, told TOI that the demand has gone up multifold. “These are life-saving gadgets. More consumption of oxygen should not be the issue when it is saving a life,” he said. The state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has also came out strongly against state government on O2 audit plan. “Time and again we have emphasized to the government that the private doctors have been working with full zest and commitment. Please do not doubt about their intentions by saying that they are unnecessarily giving more oxygen for commercial gains,” reads a letter signed by IMA state president Dr Avinash Bhondve. “We suggest you update all the doctors and hospitals about new guidelines,” IMA has stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/life-saving-hfno-uses-more-oxygen-doctor/articleshow/78263996.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Campaign to restore Rifa-e-Aam Club’s past glory gains momentum||LUCKNOW: Over 5,500 people from across the city have signed a petition on change.org demanding immediate restoration and protection of the Rifa-e-Aam Club in Lucknow. The historic club, which changed the course of literature in 1936, now lies forgotten and converted into a garbage dump. The signature campaign, started on September 9 by banker and heritage enthusiast Swapnil Rastogi (25), gathered hundreds of signatures and comments within its 24 hours of uploading. “When the signboards outside several clubs and gymkhanas signaled ‘dogs and Indians’ to stay out, Rifa-e-Aam welcomed dissenting voices, credit for which goes to the liberal Raja of Mahmudabad. The Rifa-e-Aam Club is now a garbage dump. The building is deteriorating and the structure has developed ever-widening cracks. Vandals have etched their names on the walls and even cart away material...There are two families who have occupied a few rooms and the terrace. Hoping one day Rifa would be restored,” said Rastogi in the statement in the petition. The club was raised in 1830s by the Awadh nawabs as a spot for holding events to bring ‘rifa’ (happiness) to all, including ‘aam’ (common citizens). The club became the emblem of defiance when it gained patronage under Raja of Mahmudabad who established it as a club for use of commoners at a time when placards of ‘dogs and Indians not allowed’ hung outside British-owned clubs of Lucknow. It was here that the famous Lucknow Pact (1916) between the Indian National Congress and the Muslim League was signed.  “The club needs to be restored and revived for its rich history and significance,” said Rastogi. “The petition is just the beginning. We will also write a letter to the higher authorities on behalf of all the residents and heritage enthusiasts for immediate action,” he added. The petition has been addressed central and state governments, Archaeological Survey of India, and the ministry of culture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/campaign-to-restore-rifa-e-aam-clubs-past-glory-gains-momentum/articleshow/78265731.cms||Aditi Singh
September 23, 2020||Hubballi||Round-the-clock water supply to twin cities in five years: HDMC||Hubballi: If everything goes as planned, all wards in Hubballi-Dharwad will get water on all the seven days of the week in the next five years as the ambitious Design Building Operate Transfer (DBOS) project of implementing the 24x7 scheme scheme has taken off. The work has been given to L&T company, which will conduct a survey for six months and initiate steps to implement the World Bank-aided project at a cost of Rs 1,206 crore. Suresh Itnal, HDMC commissioner, told TOI that as a pilot project, 24x7 water scheme was implemented in eight wards and partially implemented in 16 wards. But, now the entire project has been handed over to L&T which had won the bidding during the tender process. The company has begun the survey for six months to study the infrastructure, consumers’ feedback, bulk water storage facilities, and other things before implementing the project. After survey, it will start laying pipelines, construction of storages and other works to complete the project in the next four-and-a-half years. “In the first phase, works at a cost of Rs 763 crore will be taken up, of which Rs 550 crore will be sanctioned by the World bank while the rest is borne by the HDMC. We have already released Rs 68 crore to the company. After completing the works, the company will also maintain it for two years. This project has been envisaged and implemented to ensure smooth supply of drinking water and to ensure each family in HDMC limit gets clean and sufficient drinking water 24x7,” he added. He also said there is confusion among some people that HDMC is privatising water distribution system but it is not true. Though the work is being implemented by the private company it will be maintained and monitored by a special purpose vehicle. The deputy commissioner, HDMC commissioner, mayor and other elected representatives will be part of the SPV. “We are not privatising the system. We are only improving the present water distribution system in the interest of citizens,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/round-the-clock-water-supply-to-twin-cities-in-five-years-hdmc/articleshow/78262631.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP targets 1 crore Covid tests by September-end||LUCKNOW: Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath stressed on the need for increasing the number of Covid tests being conducted across Uttar Pradesh with special focus on Lucknow and Kanpur. Over 1.5 lakh tests were conducted across the state in the last 24 hours. With over 88 lakh samples tested so far, the government plans to cross the one crore mark by month-end. In the last 24 hours as many as 77 Coronavirus infected persons died taking the toll to 5,212. Presently there were 63,148 active cases in the state and the recovery rate was 81.3%, according to the state health department. Additional chief secretary, information, Awanish Awasthi said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to increase the number of beds for Covid patients particularly in Lucknow and Kanpur where the virus is spreading fast. The CM also directed the health department to conduct extensive contact tracing in the two districts in order to contain the spread of virus. Till recently contact tracing was abysmal in the two districts and family members of those testing positive were expected to stay put at home. The exercise on contact tracing gained momentum after the CM repeatedly directed health officials to ensure contract tracing as a priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-targets-1-crore-covid-tests-by-september-end/articleshow/78265740.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops chase and nab biker for rash driving on Bypass||KOLKATA: Two sergeants from the Garia traffic guard chased down five young bikers, like a scene straight out of an action flick, on Monday night. The sergeants, Kaushik Majumdar and Sujoy Pramanik, managed to nab one of the bikers and hand him over to the Patuli police. The accused, a college student, was booked for rash riding and his bike has been seized. The incident was reported close to Dhalai Bridge. Cops claimed the accused, a resident of Patuli APC Park, had got together with his friends to race. Sources said the two sergeants, led by Majumdar, chased the biker till Patuli Jheel from where one of the accused was nabbed after he almost skidded on the road in an effort to escape the cops. During questioning, it was found that with night nakas in place, the bikers were trying a 9pm-11pm time slot for the first time post Covid amidst heavy traffic to “try out their acquired skills.” According to sources, Majumdar was on duty around 9.30pm at Dhalai bridge when he noticed these five men speeding and breaking all traffic rules. The cops said the accused was also overtaking dangerously. It was then that Majumdar called up his other sergeant, Pramanik, who then joined the chase. As Majumdar closed in, the biker faltered and slipped. It was then that he was handed over to Patuli police, who registered a case under IPC and Motor Vehicles Act. The arrested man, however, claimed he was neither speeding nor riding dangerously. “I was returning home and the traffic cops have falsely implicated me,” he reportedly told Patuli police. Cops said that they have already taken multiple steps to control racing and rash driving on the Bypass. “The bikers generally tend to avoid the Bypass. But as the Covid lockdown began — especially the night curfew — the bikers found it daring to hit the road again. But now, we have started night nakas and surprise checks to control the menace. Just a couple of days ago, a man was killed and his pillion rider got severely injured when the biker went on and hit a parked bus almost at the same spot from where this biker was nabbed. Hence all sergeants at Garia guard were instructed to be on the look out,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-chase-and-nab-biker-for-rash-driving-on-bypass/articleshow/78264021.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Two arrested in gang rape case in Trichy||TRICHY: All-women police, Srirangam, on Tuesday arrested two people in the case relating to the gang rape of a woman with mental illness. Search is on to nab the other accused involved in the crime, police said. The arrested have been identified as Siva of Villupuram and Mustaf, of Trichy, both labourers. They have been booked under section 376D of IPC and have been remanded in judicial custody. Police said the woman, who was abandoned by her family, was found roaming around Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The woman was gang raped by a group of unknown people for 5 days after taking her to unidentified locations. It came to light on September 18 and she was admitted to MGMGH for treatment.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-arrested-in-gang-rape-case/articleshow/78265262.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||147 Covid cases, 1 death in Wardha||WARDHA: A 57-year-old man from Hinganghat and 86-year-old man from Deoli died due to coronavirus while new 147 patients were added on Tuesday and total count of cases reached 3587. Meanwhile, 64 patients defeated coronavirus and got discharged. Out of 548 test reports 147 (100 men and 47 women) tested positive for coronavirus and now active patients in district are 1740. The cases came from Wardha (77), which is the highest on Tuesday. Hinganghat (28), Deoli (16), Selu (13), Arvi (9), Samudrapur (2), Ashti and Karanja (1 each). The toll reached to 94 after two deaths on Tuesday, while 1753 have defeated coronavirus and got discharged so far. Due to unavailability of beds for Covid patients and those who don’t want to admit in Covid care centre, district administration has given permission to stay at home for mild or asymptotic patients. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar said those who want to take treatment from private hospital and want to stay at home have to give a declaration and use Medotrack app compulsorily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/147-covid-cases-1-death-in-wardha/articleshow/78265280.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer smart city body told to deliver||Ajmer: MLAs from Ajmer north and south constituencies have demanded from the smart city project authorities to build infrastructure and facilities for people rather than make claims in media. Former education minister and MLA from Ajmer north Vasudev Devnani said that he had asked for drainage system in the city, parking facilities and developing the Foy Sagar Lake. On Tuesday, the meeting of citizen-level advisory forum was conducted by Ajmer smart city Ltd in which public representatives showed their concern over the snail pace of the implementation of projects. Devnani said that the pathway around Anasagar Lake has to be completed in time. MLA from Ajmer south Anita Bhadel showed her concern that the Palbichla escape channel should be developed and there should be proper solid waste management as well as parking. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-smart-city-body-told-to-deliver/articleshow/78265279.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers divided over agriculture bill||JAIPUR: Farmers across the state are divided over the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 passed in both Houses of Parliament. Farmers with big landholding have welcomed the move as it will allow them to ship their produce far and wide without paying any mandi tax.  However, those with small landholding feel that the bill will not have any impact on them as the corporate buyers don’t come to them leaving them at the mercy of agent raj in the mandi system. Dr Bharat Saran, a medical practitioner-cum-farmer at Chhitar-Ka-Par, Baytu in Barmer, said the mandi system was trustworthy for a region where farmers grow one crop in a year. “In the mandi system, the seller is a local and registered at the agriculture office that minimises the scope of any corruption or cheating. We are assured of the amount atleast equal to the MSP. However, selling your produce outside the system doesn’t have any guarantee of getting a fair price,” said Saran, who works at a government hospital in Barmer and owns six bighas. In the desert region, both farmers and buyers are limited in number due to one crop and poor yield per hectare. Almost 500 km from Barmer, Rameshwar Jat, a farmer in Hamirgarh in Bhilwara, holds a different view . Jat, who grows strawberry, sorghum, mustard and groundnut. Availability of water and fertile land has been giving him bumper crops for the last four years and he is confident that his crops could fetch him price much more than the MSP. “In the mandi system, the biggest hurdle is MSP which binds the buyer’s mind and he/she doesn’t go beyond it even if your produce is worthy of a double the price. I am happy that now I can directly deal with best buyers,” said Jat, supporting the farm bill in this season so that he could start approaching buyers for its Kharif crop. Raising concerns of negative effects of the bill, Rizwan Ahmed, a farmer who is owns 75 bighas at Baldara village in Anta, Baran, fears that it would lead to migration and mass unemployment in the rural areas. “My region in the state is among the most fertile and here almost 60% of farmers does farming on leased land. Multinational corporates would easily replace their landless farmers by giving high price to the owner. This issue should be addressed else it will backfire the rural economy,” said Ahmed. Its however win-win situation in the most fertile region of the state — Hanumangarh and Sri Ganganagar — where the average landholding size is bigger than the rest of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-divided-over-agri-bill/articleshow/78265276.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||13-year-old girl raped by tuition teacher's husband in Kathgodam||NAINITAL: A 13-year-old girl studying in Class VI was allegedly raped by the husband of her tuition teacher last week in Nainital’s Kathgodam area. The girl had come to her teacher’s house for tuition classes on Friday when the man raped her and threatened her not to tell anyone about the incident. According to police, the accused, identified as Mohit, was alone at home when the girl came for tuition. “When the girl enquired about the teacher, the accused said she will be back soon and asked her to wait. He subsequently raped her and threatened her not to tell anyone,” said Kathgodam’s SHO Nandan Singh Rawat. The girl, however, informed her parents about the incident. The family approached the police and on the basis of their written complaint, an FIR was registered. The accused was arrested from his house and interrogated. The police said he confessed to committing the crime. “The family came to us and narrated the incident. Based on their complaint an FIR was registered and the man was arrested from his house. He has confessed that he raped the teenage girl. We have also conducted the medical of the girl which confirmed she was raped,” Rawat said. The accused was presented before the court which sent him to two weeks’ of judicial custody. Meanwhile, the police added that it has charged Mohit with section 376 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as several sections of the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13-year-old-girl-raped-by-tuition-teachers-husband-in-kathgodam/articleshow/78262799.cms||Prashant Jha
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||1 person in every 4 households has co-morbidity, indicates KMC survey||Kolkata: A preliminary analysis of around 80,000-85,000 Kolkata households surveyed for co-morbid conditions has indicated that roughly one person in every four households suffer from hypertension, blood sugar, kidney or cardiac ailments, few even from cancer, and they may need medical intervention. Around 60% of these people, who have reported such medical conditions, are senior citizens. The KMC co-morbidity survey has now covered over six-lakh households in the city and the data is still being analysed by the health officials. The preliminary analysis is based on survey sheets received from some KMC boroughs that cover mostly slums and mixed zones with slums and standalone buildings. The final data, senior officials indicate, may throw up different results when complete but based on the preliminary trends indicate that nearly 1.5 lakh people among the six-lakh surveyed have underlying co-morbidities. However, compilations of data are yet to get over at borough levels due to a poor network. The survey, KMC officers said, will help in first triaging for care. People with co-morbidity will be sensitised on Covid so that they seek early medical attention. The treatment will also include tele-medicine and counselling facilities. TOI has already reported that KMC will lay more stress on treatment of diseases like diabetes or hypertension through its ward health clinics after preliminary reports emerging from the ongoing co-morbidity survey suggested prevalence of these diseases among people. The co-morbidity survey in Kolkata was directed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee following the advice of health experts after it was found that 85.5% of those, who died due to Covid, had co-morbidities. Kolkata has reported total 1,607 deaths till Tuesday, which is around 36% of the total Covid deaths in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-person-in-every-4-households-has-co-morbidity-indicates-kmc-survey/articleshow/78264053.cms||Saikat Ray
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Police counter kin claims in minor girl’s suicide case||Jaipur: Dholpur police on Tuesday confirmed that just one youth had entered the house of the minor girl who committed suicide. The minor girl’s family had claimed that two youths had entered the house and raped her at gunpoint. Police are yet to confirm if the girl was raped and claimed that the FIR lodged by her family gave exaggerated details. A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against the two youths named in the FIR. The 16-year-old committed suicide in Baseri police station area in wee hours of Monday after her family caught a youth inside their house. Dholpur SP Keshar Singh Shekhawat told TOI, “The post-mortem report confirmed that the girl died due to hanging and we do not see any possibility of foul play in her death. The medical examination report is awaited which will determine if she was sexually assaulted or not.” The family had detained one of the youths. The SP said, “The family caught the youth and he was the only who entered the house. It seems that they beat him up as well through the night. The other person who they accused had come along with him but did not go inside the house. There are certain loopholes as the family did not tell us about the incident till morning.” According to the officials, the accused who went inside the house was acquainted with the girl and while her family was busy in detaining him, she went to her room and hung herself. The family went to the local police station at 7 am following which officials rescued the youth from them and admitted him to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-counter-kin-claims-in-minor-girls-suicide-case/articleshow/78265289.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Increased costs have pushed up oxygen prices: Suppliers to HC panel||NAGPUR: The increase in various costs driven by special conditions during Covid-19 pandemic cases has led to a rise in their prices by almost 25% to 30%. Oxygen suppliers and manufacturers revealed this before the high court appointed five member panel led by city mayor Sandip Joshi here on Tuesday. The high court has constituted the committee to look into the problems of private hospitals and patients while dealing with growing number of Covid-19 patients. TOI has reported that the demand for oxygen has increased manifold in both government medical colleges and hospitals and private hospitals. This has been offset to some extent by reduction in demand for industrial oxygen. On Tuesday, the committee held a meeting with manufacturers and suppliers of oxygen. It was attended by the mayor Sandip Joshi, who also heads the panel, additional commissioner Ram Joshi, IMA president Dr Archana Kothari, joint commissioner of food and drug administration Mahesh Gadekar. Oxygen manufacturers and suppliers informed the panel that the shortage was due to many hospitals storing cylinders to avoid crisis. Raw materials are being brought from cities like Bhilai. As a result, transportation costs have increased. Essential services now require 24-hour readiness. As a result, the cost of labour has also gone up. It is necessary to disinfect factory and supply chain frequently which too had added to the cost. Saying the situation was critical, Joshi appealed to the suppliers and manufacturers to ensure there was no shortage of oxygen in city. The suppliers assured the committee of all cooperation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/increased-costs-have-pushed-up-oxygen-prices-suppliers-to-hc-panel/articleshow/78264040.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hotel owners seek relief over safety norms||NEW DELHI: A delegation of hotel and guesthouse owners has met Delhi government officials, urging them to extend the deadline for compliance with the new fire gazette notification till March 2021. The new guidelines require major changes in structure, which are impossible to implement because of huge losses suffered by the owners in the past five months, said association members. “When survival has become difficult, investing money in renovating guesthouses will be impossible. We are only focusing on bringing back our businesses on track. We met the additional chief secretary Renu Sharma on Monday and requested her to look into the matter,” said Murli Mani of Beopar Mandal Karol Bagh. The new fire gazette notification was issued in May 2019 and the last date for compliance was March 31, 2020. It is presently under the review of a committee formed by the Centre and Delhi government. Mohit Shah, general secretary of Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners Association, said, “Some of the provisions of the new gazette notification might be amended as per the recommendation of the committee. In the given circumstances, it will be appropriate to wait for some time and no revalidation of fire NOC should be demanded.” “Also, any fire NOC that expires during this time should be renewed as per the normal procedures that existed before May 2019,” the association urged in its letter to Satyendar Jain, minister, department of urban development, last month. TOI couldn’t get Delhi government’s response on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hotel-owners-seek-relief-over-safety-norms/articleshow/78265310.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Two teens drown in water tank||Jaisalmer: Two cousins drowned in a water tank in Nachana area in Jaisalmer district. The 17-year-boy slipped into the water tank while his cousin trying to save him, also fell into it. The family took out the bodies with the help of villagers and without informing the police, performed the last rites. The family members of the deceased said the two boys had taken the cattle to a water tank near Panche ka Tala. Salim (17) and his cousin Ibrahim (12), both residents of 6-7KRM miner took the cattle to graze in jungle. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-teens-drown-in-water-tank/articleshow/78265299.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: First faecal sludge treatment plant of district inaugurated||COIMBATORE: The faecal sludge treatment plant at the resource recovery park in Periyanaickenpalayam town panchayat is all set to treat household sludge from five town panchayats in the district. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the plant on Tuesday evening. Constructed at Rs 2 crore under the Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme (TNUSSP) to improve the sanitation facilities in the region, it’s the first faecal sludge treatment plant in the state with mechanized technology. About 60 faecal sludge treatment plants are coming up in the state and at least 30% to 40% of them is at the completion stage. K V Santhosh Ragavan, co-team leader, TNUSSP, said, “The plant would treat faecal sludge from Periyanaickenpalayam, Narasimanaickenpalayam, Idikarai, Gudalur and Veerapandi town panchayats, which together have a population of more than one lakh. The panchayats do not have underground drainage system and most of the households store the sludge in septic tanks, which would be cleared once in a while with the help of operators.” Presently, most of the desludging vehicles are emptied at the sewage treatment plant (STP) at Ukkadam in the city, which is about 20km away from the region, he said. “Safe disposal of waste from the septic tanks continues to remain a big concern. That’s why a cluster within eight to 10-km distance was formed to set up the plant, which would cater to the cluster.” The capacity of the plant is 25 kilo litres per day and it could treat waste from about eight to 10 households. The plant also has an inbuilt cushion to increase its capacity by 30%. “The sludge would be subjected to multiple tests, including the ones to identify its pH value and electrical conductivity, and odour and colour, to rule out the presence of industrial waste. Once the sludge enters the plant, biodegradable and non-biodegradable parts in it would be separated, before segregating the solid and dissolved particles from the water for further treatment,” Santhosh Ragavan said. While the treated water could be used for landscaping, agriculture, construction and industrial activities, the solid sludge could be turned into manure after co-composting it with municipal solid waste, he said. According to another source, the mechanized plant requires only 2,000 square metre, which is only one third of the area required for the non-mechanized one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/first-faecal-sludge-treatment-plant-of-district-inaugurated/articleshow/78265301.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Members of Vikram Laden gang arrested||ALWAR: Bharatpur police arrested five members of the infamous Vikram Laden gang from Deeg police station area where the accused had hatched a plot to rob a petrol pump but were caught before their plan could be executed. The accused were identified as Yuvraj Saini (20), Rahul Sharma (19), Devendra Gurjar (29), Anil Gurjar (23) and Sunil Gurjar (19). SP Bharatpur Amandeep Kapoor said, “The accused were planning to rob a petrol pump with the intention to use the money for buying weapons. As soon as we received information about this, a team was constituted to catch these persons who are from the Laden gang. Before they could execute the robbery, we arrested them.” Out of the five persons arrested, Saini and Sharma had also fired at two MLAs with the aim to kill them while all of the accused have multiple criminal cases against them. Earlier this year, Rajasthan police arrested gangster Vikram Laden from Hyderabad. He was the one who had planned BSP leader Jasram Gujjar’s murder in July last year. Laden was also gangster Papla Gujjar’s target though the latter is yet to be traced. He had ordered Jasram’s murder on July 29, 2019 when the victim, who was allegedly a history-sheeter, was sitting near a medical shop at Jainpur Bas Chopal area in Behror along with his friends when he was attacked by five men who pumped six bullets into his back. The gangster was also responsible for ordering the firings at a dairy in Behror as the owner had refused to pay the ‘protection money’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/members-of-vikram-laden-gang-arrested/articleshow/78265303.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jeweller family deaths: Cops probe murder-suicide angle||Jaipur: Three days after a four-member family of jewellers was found hanging in Kanota, police are looking at the possibility of it being be a murder-cum-suicide case. Police said it appeared that the head of the family was the last one to die. He had attempted suicide last month as well. Post-mortem reports, however, have not revealed any traces of sedatives in the bodies of the deceased, though Mamta Soni was found blindfolded. Police have questioned half-a-dozen persons in the case and more individuals are to be interrogated soon. A police officer who is part of the investigation told TOI, “There are many possibilities and we are trying to find if there was murder involved in the case along with suicide as the sons were adults and convincing them to kill themselves is difficult to understand. We have questioned a number of people including the one named in suicide note.” The deceased were identified as Yashwant Soni (45), his wife Mamta Soni (41) and their two sons - Ajit (23) and Bharat (21). While the bodies of Yashwant and his two sons were found hanging in the courtyard of their residence, Mamta’s body was found hanging in one of the bedrooms. They all had used ‘sari’ to hang themselves and the case got more intriguing as the feet of the two sons were tied together loosely to ensure that the feet do not touch the ground. “Mamta was blindfolded when we found her body though the reason is unclear. Perhaps she was scared or someone else blindfolded her. During the investigation, we found that most likely Yashwant was the last one to die. The post-mortem report, however, found no intoxicants in their bodies”, added the official. Yashwant’s father had also committed suicide by shooting himself with a revolver. The deceased jeweller was also under heavy debt and himself had attempted suicide last month by slitting his wrists. Both sons also apparently worked with him and their bodies were found by his brother who just the previous night had assured the family that they would pay off the debts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jeweller-family-deaths-cops-probe-murder-suicide-angle/articleshow/78265302.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||HC stays arrest warrants in Laxmi Vilas Palace case||Jodhpur: In a major relief to accused in Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel disinvestment case, the Rajasthan High Court here on Tuesday stayed the interim order of the CBI court to summon the accused by arrest warrant and directed them to appear before court on October 8 to furnish personal bonds and sureties. Three accused of the case, the then disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal, MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and MD of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Suri had moved high court seeking stay on the interim order of the CBI court, which had ordered registration of criminal cases against the accused and summoning them by arrest warrant. Justice Dinesh Mehta also directed the petitioners not to leave India without permission from the court listing the matter for hearing on October 15. Mukul Rohatgi, representing Baijal, through video conferencing argued that petitioner was a retired civil servant and no prior sanction of the central government was obtained by the CBI court before passing the order, which, in such a condition, was fundamentally void and without jurisdiction.“We also argued that a direct arrest warrant should be issued only after the court was satisfied with the facts and conditions of the case and further when there was suspicion about a person’s appearance in the court or he could cause harm to anyone, if not taken into custody immediately,” said Nishant Bora, who was assisting Rohatgi.Similarly, senior counsel Harish Salve arguing for Suri stated that the CBI court not only refused to accept the final closure report filed by the CBI but also issued arrest warrant to the petitioner and further went on to order attachment of the assets, land, building and hotel business of Laxmi Vilas Palace.Salve argued that all the necessary processes had been followed in this disinvestment deal and there was no material with the CBI court concluding that the petitioner’s company defrauded.Arguing about the attachment orders of the property, Salve said, “If the court was of the view that the attachment was imperative, it could have at the maximum, provisionally attached the property before passing a final order of attachment.” Meanwhile, advocate P P Choudhary assisting Salve submitted a court copy of a letter from Udaipur district magistrate expressing his inability to run the hotel in question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-arrest-warrants-in-laxmi-vilas-palace-case/articleshow/78265312.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Patient claims GMCH refused treatment, hospitals denies charges||NAGPUR: Did the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) refuse to admit a man from Jamtha village who had come with a broken leg after falling off a tree? Did they leave him off at the hospital gate without complete treatment? While GMCH authorities have emphatically denied the allegations, Ambadas Naitam (patient) and two NGOs, which were following the case, have claimed otherwise. The hospital’s head of orthopaedic department Dr Mohammed Faisal said Naitam was not ready to undergo surgery and left the hospital of his own accord. In a video shared by Jamtha gram panchayat member Yogesh Tekam, Naitam said, “One doctor said there was no need for surgery. Another fixed a plaster and asked me to leave.” Adding that he was not given anything to eat from Sunday noon to Monday 3am, Naitam added he had to go home in an autorickshaw even though there were ambulances at GMCH. “I was left outside, on the road,” he said. Dr Faisal said that Naitam was not willing to get admitted. “He gave us in writing he doesn’t want surgery. Naitam was treated in the casualty ward which is a 24-hour service. He expressed a wish to leave the hospital and left with the papers. Therefore, we had recorded him as discharged even though he was not admitted. If a patient is discharged, he is not given the papers,” he said. Naitam has alleged that he was forced to give his thumb impression on some paper. Sushma Kamble, of NGO Sanjeevani Sanskar Bahuddeshiya Sanstha, claimed she arranged for an ambulance to bring back Naitam to be admitted. “I was shocked to learn the GMCH had sent him back. When I informed the hospital about plan to complain, a doctor called up and asked that Naitam be sent back,” she said. According to Kamble, Naitam was treated properly and his leg put in full plaster only after getting admitted. Tekam and Kamble had accompanied Naitam in a 108 ambulance on Sunday afternoon. “”By 9am on Monday he was back in the village. Naitam told me doctors had refused him admission as there was no one to take care of him,” he said. Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani, of NGO Together We Can, said, “The patient should have been tested for Covid-19 too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patient-claims-gmch-refused-treatment-hosp-denies-charges/articleshow/78264065.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 23, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid cases may peak in October, says expert panel||Panaji: Even as recent weeks have seen 500 or more cases a day in Goa, a national-level modelling effort by the government of India has predicted that the state is expected to hit its peak in October, after which the curve of active cases will drop. The project, by the Centre’s department of science and technology (DST) and of which the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, is a part, pertains to a portal that tracks the progression of Covid in different states. “The DST formed the committee to study the Covid progression in India, and we picked modelling efforts which were already being used in different states and showed promise,” said Prof. Manindra Agrawal of IIT-Kanpur, a member of the DST committee. “Different aspects of these modelling methods were picked and combined to create a supermodel for the country,” he added. IIT Goa is providing data for Goa, to enable a prediction for the state. “As per the calculations, Goa will hit its peak sometime in October,” Agrawal said. “Reaching a peak is a good thing, because after that, the number of active cases reported on average on a daily basis will be less than the number of recovered cases on a daily basis. This means that the curve will no longer go up, but down.” He also said that a supermodel was required for Covid predictions because of the unique nature of this pandemic as against previous ones. “Unlike previous pandemics, which were quite deadly for anyone who contracted the illness, Covid is seen to be making only a small percentage of persons very ill,” Agrawal said. “This was unique about this pandemic. Since no model existed to make predictions for a disease of this nature, a supermodel had to be developed.” The model took into consideration two parameters which are common to other methods of prediction — the speed of spread of the disease since March, and the rate of recovery. “The new parameter we used was the number of people who are getting seriously ill from the disease, which are those with comorbidities and therefore with low immunity,” Agrawal said. “We took all these parameters and used a set of differential equations or mathematical equations to capture how the disease is spreading. The period since Covid was divided into five phases — first phase of lockdown, second phase of strict lockdown, May and June when the lockdown was relaxed, July was the fourth, and August the fifth.” Faculty from IIT Goa who are working on the project with DST said that it should be a matter of concern that one out of every five persons tested are turning out to be Covid-positive in Goa. “In Goa, 1,570 tests were conducted on September 13, for instance, out of which about 300 were positive,” said an IIT-Goa professor. “Thus, about 20% tested positive, indicating 1 in 5 being affected. This is an alarming number of positive cases for the percentage of tests carried out. Perhaps this is something one needs to be concerned about.” Among all states with smaller populations, he said, Goa has the second highest death rate after Puducherry, a fact reported by TOI on its Saturday edition. “As on September 9, Goa had 265 deaths,” he said. “Only Puducherry (among smaller states/UTs) is higher at about 380. Chandigarh has 90, Himachal Pradesh has 62, Manipur has 40, Arunachal Pradesh has 9 and Mizoram has zero. It perhaps means that while testing has increased in Goa, there are late detections, due to which some patients, especially with co-morbid conditions, were suffering from advanced stages of Covid-19.” He said that while Goa is doing very well in testing, the number of deaths indicates that Goa should increase testing further to enable early detection of cases, especially in those with co-morbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-cases-may-peak-in-october-says-expert-panel/articleshow/78265306.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets its first urban forest in Dehradun||Dehradun: The residents of Doon valley have something to cheer as the city has now got a huge urban forest — Anand Van — at Jhajhra. Anand Van is the first of its kind park in the state, which promises abundance of greenery and serenity for visitors. The idea behind developing this park is to ease out air pollution of the city and reduce congestion by developing a green landscape, officials said. The park will be open for public from Navratri, while in Kumaon region, one such city forest is up for inauguration in Haldwani in the coming months. The park has been constructed at Rs 43 lakh and aims to promote livelihood for the locals. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat while inaugurating the park said, " In these times, we know many children, elderly citizens and even youth are stressed and have anxiety over an uncertain future. Anand Van is a part of our effort to provide them some comfort and space for innovative thinking.” State forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the state will soon have theme-based city parks in Haldwani and Rishikesh as well. “The aim is to give employment to at least 10,000 youth in the forest department and it will be accomplished through various projects in the coming days. More such parks with themes are coming up in Rishikesh and Haldwani while at other places nature-based parks are proposed for which funds from Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) would be utilised,” he added. Later in the day, the forest minister tested positive for Covid-19. The head of forest force Jairaj and other senior officers of the department were also present at the inauguration ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-gets-its-first-urban-forest-in-dehradun/articleshow/78262805.cms||Shivani Azad
September 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP to get Tenancy Act to regulate home rentals||BHOPAL: In a bid to regularise home renting, the Madhya Pradesh government is bringing about a Model Tenancy Act (MTA). Like other urbanised states, MP will also have rent tribunals and courts where landlords and tenants can settle disputes, and advance payment will have a fixed formula. The government has sought suggestions from stakeholders on the draft bill by October 31. As per the draft, “After commencement of MTA, no premises will be rented except by an agreement in writing on mutually agreed terms.” The agreement will be binding on successors of the landlord and the tenant for the remaining period of the tenancy. This means the landlord cannot arbitrarily vacate a premises unless it is prescribed in the agreement, nor can the tenant do anything outside of the agreement. The draft Act also calls for regulating security deposits, especially for residential premises. Security deposit cannot be greater than the two months’ rent and the landlord will have to return it when tenancy expires. A rent authority will be constituted in the state and tenant as well as landlord will have to inform the authority in writing about the agreement. The landlord will have to pay receipt of rent received from the tenant. In case of dispute, tenants may deposit rent directly with the rent authority. The draft says, “Where the landlord refuses to accept any rent and other charges payable or refuses to give a receipt, the rent and other charges shall be paid to the landlord by postal money order or any other method consecutively for two months. If the landlord refuses to accept the rent within such period, then the tenant may deposit it with the rent authority.” It lists out rules for maintenance of properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-to-get-tenancy-act-to-regulate-home-rentals/articleshow/78264061.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Chinese firms’ bid to float NBFCs foiled||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate investigation into the accused Chinese companies in the online betting case has revealed that they were also planning to set up non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) for micro-credit, but regulatory authorities had rejected their licence. The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) special court in Hyderabad on Tuesday granted ED eight-day custody of Chinese national Yan Hao and two directors — Dhiraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor — in Rs 1,000 crore online betting apps case.  Enforcement Directorate suspects that the websites developed by the accused may have acted as payment aggregators for multiple apps which were banned by Google Play Store for lax technical security, data theft or betting activities. Enforcement Directorate arrested Yan Hao, Sarkar and Ankit on September 15 in connection with the money laundering case. ED booked ECIR based on FIRs lodged by cybercrime station of Hyderabad CCS police. Police booked case against Dokypay Technology Private Limited and Linkyun Technology Private Limited and others involved. Enforcement Directorate said: “The accused floated a large number of websites to attract gullible people to become members and to place bets on various online apps which promised attractive rewards on simple games of chance. PayTm and Cashfree were used to collect money and pay commission to agents. Websites were created to promote online betting under the garb of e-commerce.” Searches conducted by ED at 15 locations in Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and Pune resulted in the seizure of 17 hard disks, five laptops, phones and some incriminating documents. ED has also frozen Rs 47 crore held in four accounts in HSBC Bank. ED is further investigating the case to identify the major beneficiaries of payouts from PayTm and HSBC Bank accounts. “Summons have been issued to various persons, including the Chinese nationals, who are the directors of the company. The quantum of fraud may be more than Rs 1,000 crore. The custodial interrogation of the three accused is under way to unearth the entire scam,” said an ED official. However, the Chinese companies have refuted the allegations. Yang Ming CEO of Dokypay said: “We are a localised payment service provider to help merchants in collection of payments in many countries. Our company operates in many international markets, including India, Indonesia and Vietnam.” Linkyun Technology Private Limited, Dokypay Technology Private Ltd and Spotpay Technology India Private Ltd are Indian subsidiaries of Beijing T Power Technologies Private Ltd and a payment gateway and aggregator in India. “Dokypay remains committed to following all the laws and regulations of the country it operates in. We adhere to all the compliances listed under the Indian laws and regulations to operate as a payment gateway and aggregator,” he said.  He further said, “Dokypay never has and will participate in any illegal trade of any kind. We place the highest importance on transparency and are actively cooperating with the Indian authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-firms-bid-to-float-nbfcs-foiled/articleshow/78264060.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP can develop an entire film’s cast and crew here, says Baahubali screen-writer||LUCKNOW: Any industry is made by people who have roots in and loyalty for it and in UP, too, the upcoming Film City must be a place to nurture local talent, said Telugu and Hindi cinema director and screenwriter for films like Baahubali series and Bajrangi Bhaijaan, KV Vijayendra Prasad, who was in Lucknow on Tuesday. The award-winning writer-director was among the select celebrities who met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday after the announcement that a mega Film City will be set up near Jewar airport in GB Nagar. Referring to the meeting with the CM and other officials, Prasad said that the Film City in UP would be a platform not only for Indian language films but for the world. “I have faith that if CM Yogi Adityanath has decided on it, it will happen,” he said, talking to TOI. “UP is the heartland of India with Ram, Krishna being born here. The pilgrimage of Kashi is here. It is a second home for me. I will not think twice before deciding to shoot here,” stressed Prasad. In fact, Prasad said that he had already spoken to Yogi about a potential project. “I told Yogiji that my son (Baahubali director SS Rajamouli) is going to produce and direct a motion capture fantasy film. If facilities are ready in time, then he is prepared to shoot the entire movie in UP. As of now, a motion capture studio is not available anywhere in India. With the kind of meeting we had, I am sure all the latest technology will be set up here. If such a studio is on the cards, he will be happy to shoot here,” said Prasad. The long-term plan for the Film City though, he said, should be to nurture local talent. “Producers and directors from outside will come, shoot and go. They won’t have an inclination to stay in UP. What is needed is to encourage and hone local talent. That way, an entire film’s cast and crew will be developed in UP. They will have that loyalty for the industry here,” said Prasad. Initially, as a five-year plan, subsidies can be given to outsiders to come and shoot here, he added. “That is important to tell others that such a Film City exists in UP. But this is not a long-term formula. People of UP should be given opportunities. One needs to find them and train them,” he said. Elaborating further, Prasad said that there was no dearth of talent in UP. “From music, dance, camera, technicians to actors and directors—you will find everyone here. With such a huge population, there would be no shortage of skills. They would be the people who run the Film City with chief minister Yogi at the helm, making it a success,” said Prasad. Sharing his fondness for CM Yogi, Prasad said, “We call him Rajayogi. The track record of what he has done is remarkable. Take the example of Kumbh, which millions of people attended. It was an achievement for which India should be proud of him.” He also added that for decades, UP has had so many chief ministers but it was the vision of Yogi Adityanath that he thought of setting up a Film City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-can-develop-an-entire-films-cast-and-crew-here-says-baahubali-screen-writer/articleshow/78265754.cms||Rashi Lal
September 23, 2020||Agra||Youth, 17, beaten to death by family of girl he was seeing||AGRA: A 17-year-old youth — a Gujjar — was allegedly beaten to death with sticks by family members and neighbours of his 14-year-old girlfriend — a Thakur — when he had gone to meet her in a Mathura village on Monday night. A friend accompanying the victim to his girlfriend’s place sustained injuries. Seeing her boyfriend being beaten up mercilessly, the girl ran barefoot to the youth’s house in a neighbouring village — 2 km away — to inform his family about the incident and pleaded them to save him. She, however, hid in the field to escape the wrath of her family members as she had reportedly called the youth to her place. It took police a few hours to find the girl, who had disappeared all of sudden from her house without informing anyone. By the time the youth’s father and other family members reached the village along with police, he was “almost dead”. “We rushed him to a hospital, but doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival,” said the father, adding that his son’s friend, who was also beaten up, is stable. The youth’s father told TOI that his son had completed Class XII and was working as a labourer, earning Rs 350 per day. “On the fateful night, my son called me around 9 and told me that he was in Bhartiya village and would be back in a while,” said the father. The girl is a student of Class IX and they knew each other for the past a few months. The girl’s father had gone to see her mother, who was admitted to a hospital, when the incident took place. Meanwhile, a heavy police force, including one platoon of PAC, quick reaction team and police personnel from the local police station, was deployed in the village to deal with any untoward incident, confirmed SSP Gaurav Grover. The SSP said the post-mortem report ascertained the cause of death as a “shock due to head injury”. An FIR was registered against seven people, including the girl’s grandfather, under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint filed by the victim’s family, and four accused were taken into custody, so far, added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-17-beaten-to-death-by-family-of-girl-he-was-seeing/articleshow/78262810.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 23, 2020||India||J&K will have 5 official languages, Lok Sabha clears bill||NEW DELHI: Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed Jammu & Kashmir Official Languages (Amendment) Bill, which makes Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from Urdu and English, as official languages of J&K. Section 47 of the J&K Reorganisation Act states that the Legislative Assembly may by law adopt any one or more of the languages in use in UT of J&K or Hindi as the official language or languages. Since Parliament is exercising all powers of the legislative assembly right now, the Bill was moved in Parliament. The bill is due to come up in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Government has justified the "official language" status for Kashmiri , Dogri and Hindi saying that Urdu and English are spoken by less than 1% of the population. Union home minister Amit Shah hailed the passage of the bill in Lok Sabha as "a momentous day" for the people of the Union Territory. "I thank PM @narendramodi ji for his commitment towards restoring the culture of Jammu & Kashmir through this Bill," Shah tweeted adding that the J&K Bill also provides for special efforts to be made "towards the development of major regional languages like 'Gojri', 'Pahari' and 'Punjabi'." A momentous day for the people of J&K as Jammu Kashmir Official Languages (Amendment) Bill was passed in Lok Sabha.… https://t.co/TdSM2E9wCW— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1600790418000As per 2011 Census data, no more than 0.17% of the people of the existing UT of J&K speak Urdu and English, the two official languages of the state since the year 1957. While Urdu, spoken by 0.16%, was the official language of the state as per the arrangement prior to reorganisation of state of J&K, English (spoken by just 0.01% of the population of J&K) was the official working language, particularly as Article 348(1) specifies English as the language for proceedings of the Supreme Court, High court and for parliamentary bills. In comparison, Census 2011 returned share of Kashmiri-speaking people in J&K as 53.25%, Dogri-speaking as 20.64%, and Hindi-speaking as 2.3%. "It is an interesting fact that in the past seven decades, not even 1% of the people were speaking the two official languages. J&K Official Languages Bill seeks to correct this," noted the functionary. The Bill also seeks to promote some other regional languages: Gojri, spoken by 9.32% of J&K's population; Pahadi (spoken by 8.03%) and Punjabi (spoken by 1.78%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-will-have-5-official-languages-lok-sabha-clears-bill/articleshow/78266192.cms||Bharti Jain
September 23, 2020||Goa||New Covid cases must drop by a fifth to know peak is over: Doctors||PANAJI: New Covid infections must reduce by one fifth, for the state to know that the peak is over, until then patients must get themselves tested and seek treatment immediately if symptoms persist, doctors say. “New infections have to stabilise at 50-100 per day. Only then can we say that we’re off the peak,” consultant Dr Oscar Rebello said. “Cases are presently fluctuating between 400 and 600 each day and can still move either way. The end is nowhere in sight as of now. We thought the peak would be over by the end of September, but cases are still flaring up. The situation is very unpredictable,” he said. Goa has been reporting an average of 550 new infections and seven Covid-related deaths, each day this month. New cases touched 740 new cases for the first time last weekend with over 500 fresh cases reported over the past few days. “We’re just approaching the peak. Nobody knows exactly when we will peak, but cases are likely to continue to rise over the next two to four weeks. We have to be extra careful and follow all norms during this period. Only this can help us now as a vaccine is still far off,” Goa Medical College’s pulmonary medicine head Dr Durga Lawande said. During this surge, doctors have advised people against any delay in getting oneself tested or seeking treatment after experiencing symptoms. “No matter how severe the disease is, early intervention can help save lives and reduce morbidity later on,” former IMA president and chest physician Dr Anil Mehndiratta said. “Instantly seek help from the health care system if you develop symptoms. Goa has a very strong and well-established health care system compared to other states,” Lawande said. Doctors have seen patients put off testing and treatment due to stigma and other reasons, choosing to treat themselves with paracetamol when fever persists, instead “When symptoms persist, one has to approach health services who will diagnose the type of Covid infection. Moderate to severe infection should not be neglected at all,” she said. People have been reaching late, when the damage is already done and the infection has already reached the lower respiratory tract “When the patient has developed Covid pneumonia, it becomes difficult to treat them. They require different forms of oxygen and injectable drugs. There are a lot of restrictions and contra effects especially if the patients have co-morbidities,” Lawande said. Those with underlying conditions like diabetes, chronic liver and kidney disease must especially report in time, she said. “Once the infection sets in, it has a very bad prognosis and goes to its severe form in these individuals. Those with co-morbid conditions and the elderly should take special care,” she added There have been several successful recoveries even in 80 and 90-year-olds, it is not only persons with co-morbidities who need to be careful. “Forget about co-morbidities, Covid itself kills. Covid pneumonia with ARDS itself kills. I have seen patients having severe infections in both lungs. It’s alarming and people should not lower their guard as the virus can be unpredictable,” Rebello said. The key period is from the 7th to the 12th day of the onset of symptoms when some experience a drop in their oxygen levels, he said. “The moment one feels tired, exhausted, tight in the chest and experiences difficulty in breathing, one should go to the hospital and not stay at home or at a Covid care centre any longer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-cases-must-drop-by-a-fifth-to-know-peak-is-over-doctors/articleshow/78265315.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Assembly session being held as formality to avoid constitutional crisis||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Congress party on Tuesday launched an attack on the state government over the issue of holding a one-day assembly session. The party claimed that the session scheduled for Wednesday would just be for a few hours and it is only being held to avoid a constitutional crisis. It added that the session has no significance for the common people, who are undergoing a number of problems, as no time has been kept for a question hour and the presence of lawmakers would also be limited. Qazi Nizam-ud-din, Congress MLA from Manglaur, told TOI, “The opposition has been given no time to raise public-related matters in this one-day session. It would have been better if crores of rupees could have been saved and all the details were mailed to MLAs.” He asserted that unemployment is a major issue before the state, which requires an immediate and detailed debate in the house. “Lakhs of people are returning to Uttarakhand. The state government has failed to help them and is just trying to take credit for works started by those returnees,” said the three-time legislator. In a similar vein, Manoj Rawat, Congress MLA from Kedarnath, said, “The tourism sector has suffered a major setback and so have the people. Now, where should we take up the issue? Even the scope of debate has been taken away from us.” Rawat was of the view that there was no point in spending crores of rupees for a one-day session. “It doesn’t make sense for MLAs to travel for hours to reach Dehradun when they cannot express their views and that of the public.” Meanwhile, state’s urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “My friends from Congress seem to be completely unaware of the prevailing situation in the state, the country, and the entire world. Such immature statements are coming from them at a time when the entire world is fighting Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/assembly-session-being-held-as-formality-to-avoid-constitutional-crisis/articleshow/78262866.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Sec 144 to be imposed within 300 metres of Vidhan Sabha building today||Dehradun: In view of the protests that are likely to be staged in Dehradun on Wednesday, the district administration has imposed section 144 in the radius of 300 metres of the state assembly building. The order has come just a day before the assembly session on Wednesday. The decision has been taken to maintain social distancing norms and manage the law and order situation. No public gathering of more than five persons will be allowed on the roads, while demonstrations, which do not have advance permission, will be considered illegal and action will be taken against the offenders. “The orders will be valid throughout the assembly session, which will restrict public gathering, shouting slogans, and movement of any type of vehicles around the assembly building. If an attempt is made to disrupt the law and order situation, action will be taken against the person under section 188 of the IPC” said Ashish Kumar Srivastava, district magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sec-144-to-be-imposed-within-300-metres-of-vidhan-sabha-building-today/articleshow/78262848.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar cops seize 229kg of marijuana, 4 held||ALWAR: Bhiwadi police arrested four smugglers and seized 229kg of marijuana from them in Chopanaki police station area on Monday night. Officials claimed that this seizure was the biggest this year in Alwar and Bhiwadi. Bhiwadi SP Ram Moorty Joshi said, “We received information that a truck containing the narcotics was coming from Odisha and was going to NCR region. We put the necessary arrangements in place and caught the persons transporting the marijuana and seized the contraband as well.” According to officials, the marijuana was sealed in 30 packets and concealed under papers. Cops arrested Deepa Singh, Charan Singh, Yakub and Nadeem in the case. They are currently being questioned for more details about the nexus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-cops-seize-229kg-of-marijuana-4-held/articleshow/78265316.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kozhikode||K K Shohaib allegedly helped make bombs||KOZHIKODE: K K Shohaib, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) at Thiruvananthapuram airport on Monday, had allegedly participated in the preparations and transport of explosive devices in the Bengaluru blast in 2008. Shohaib, hailing from Mangadavu in Kannur, was a close associate of Thadiyantavide Nazeer, the kingpin of the terror group. He was a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) but was ousted from the organization in 2007. According to sources, Shohaib was a member of Noorish Tariqa, the Sufi order with headquarters in Hyderabad. It was Shohaib and four others who purchased material for making big iron boxes to carry the materials for making bombs from Kannur to Bengaluru. The materials including ammonium nitrate, gelatines and detonators were taken to Bengaluru on different occasions.  The materials were kept at the rented house of one Mujib in Bengaluru. Nazeer had told the interrogators that the rest of the items for making the bombs were procured from the city itself. Shohaib also participated in fixing the bomb at the house. A total of 16 bombs were made and were kept in buckets and boxes. Shohaib was a member of the team that planted bombs at various places in Bengaluru city on July 24 which exploded the day after. After the incident, Shohaib had escaped to the Gulf but was on the wanted list of security agencies. Attempts were made to locate him and finally he was deported from Saudi Arabia on Monday after almost 12 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/shohaib-allegedly-helped-make-bombs/articleshow/78264081.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand minister approaches DIG Doon; suspects kidnapping of ‘missing’ IAS officer||Dehradun: The state minister for women empowerment and child development department, Rekha Arya, on Tuesday wrote a letter to DIG Dehradun stating that she is concerned over the “mysterious disappearance” of an IAS official and fears that he has been kidnapped. “Neither is he taking calls nor his staff has any information about him. IAS Shanmugam has not come to the office and is untraceable. I have an important matter to answer in the assembly but despite being the director of the department, he is missing. I am concerned whether he has been kidnapped or gone underground,” she said. In the same breath, she expressed her displeasure over the recent behaviour of the IAS officer calling it a strict violation of the service manual. “This is shocking that the secretary of my department has the time to talk to me but her subordinate does not even respond or takes the pain to revert back on important issues linked with the people. If he has this kind of behaviour with a minister, one can well think about his treatment meted out to the common man,” Arya said. Confirming the report, DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi, said, “Police have received the said letter from the minister. Superintendent of Police (SP) headquarters is looking into the matter and trying to contact the concerned officer.” Meanwhile, the IAS officer could not be contacted for his comments on the development despite repeated attempts by TOI. It is worth mentioning here that this is not for the first case where the issue of differences between BJP MLAs and state officers has emerged. Earlier, BJP MLA Rajesh Shukla had moved a privilege motion in state assembly against an IAS officer, the then DM Udham Singh Nagar, for making “objectionable remarks” against him in a meeting on July 17. Raipur MLA Umesh Sharma Kau had also slammed the officials for the snail-paced development work in his constituency, which the lawmaker called a “serious concern” for the government and party alike. Besides, five-time MLA Bishan Singh Chuphal had recently met BJP national head JP Nadda and had raised the issue of officers not listening to party MLAs. BJP legislators from Haridwar district have also raised their concern over state officials not listening to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-minister-approaches-dig-doon-suspects-kidnapping-of-missing-ias-officer/articleshow/78262840.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||About 2 dozen mining leases out of 264 likely to be restored||Jaipur: With the mining department hearing the cases of 264 cancelled blocks applied between November 1, 2014, and January 2015, it is unlikely that most of the ‘Letter of Intent’ would be restored. Industry sources said that genuine cases would be around 2 dozen blocks which may get relief.When asked, Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, department of mines, said the government does not comment on speculation. “We are hearing the cases expeditiously to the satisfaction of the applicants. The three-member committee has drawn a timeline to finish hearing all the 264 cases by September 25. Already, we have completed 140 cases since we started the process from September 14. The committee will decide the cases in conformity to the rules laid down in the MMDR Act 2015," said Agarwal.The sector suffered a massive dent to its image after the scam hit the headlines. Even genuine applicants were caught in the vortex as permissions to them have been held up by the authorities.Akshadeep Mathur, president of Federation of Mining Associations Rajasthan, said that it is important to resolve the cases as soon as possible given how the state is missing out on the economic spinoffs the sector provides.“Mining creates a large number of jobs in rural areas and fills the coffers of the state in a substantial way. In fact, many genuine applicants had to bear the brunt as their approvals were held up and then the time limit lapsed. The deserving applicants should not suffer," Mathur said.Agarwal said the state government is walking the extra mile to bring in transparency to the sector and restore faith of the investors. "We have fixed time-bound targets for us to dispense with the legacy issues. For future allotments, all will be done through e-auctions," added Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/about-2-dozen-mining-leases-out-of-264-likely-to-be-restored/articleshow/78265314.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Goan firm to supply sonar dome for Navy’s stealth destroyers||Panaji: Pilerne-based Kineco Ltd will supply seven sonar domes to Mazagaon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDL) which will be installed on the Indian Navy’s Kolkata and Visakhapatnam-class stealth destroyers. Kineco has manufactured the composite sonar dome based on design and technology developed in collaboration with Defence and Research Development Organisation (DRDO). Kineco is the first Indian company to manufacture indigenous composites sonar dome. The Indian Navy had to rely on sonar domes imported from Germany for its warships. Chief minister Pramod Sawant was present for the inauguration of the first sonar dome. “A Goan company collaborating with India’s top defence research organisation, is a matter to be proud of and is in line with the Prime Minister’s vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat and Make In India,” said Sawant. He also said that the nation’s first maritime cluster coming up at Verna would provide employment to 7,000 locals and promote Goa’s shipbuilding sector. “The first sonar dome is ready for dispatch and will supply two domes to MDL this year, three in the next year and one dome in 2022-23,” said vice chairman and managing director of Kineco Shekher Sardesai. While the Kolkata-class guided missile destroyers have been commissioned into the Indian Navy, the Visakhapatnam-class of destroyers are being constructed by MDL. Kineco and DRDO began collaborating in 2012 to develop an indigenous sonar dome and after four years of developments, the prototype was unveiled at the 2016 DefExpo. According to Sardesai, Kineco will explore further opportunities with other defence sector shipyards while also exploring export opportunities. “A natural progression for us would be to look at submarine sonar domes and other composites,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-firm-to-supply-sonar-dome-for-navys-stealth-destroyers/articleshow/78265346.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Rain activity to rise in U’khand from Sept 23, heavy rain likely in Kumaon||Dehradun: Following a prolonged dry spell, rain activity is once again going to increase in Uttarakhand from September 23 onwards with the regional meteorological centre predicting heavy rainfall in the districts of Kumaon region. According to the regional meteorological centre, light-to-moderate rain and thunder-showers are likely to occur at most places in the Kumaon region with chances of downpour at isolated places in the hills as well between September 23 and 25. Light showers could also be witnessed in parts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, and Chamoli districts during the same period, said Met officials. “Dry weather prevailed across Uttarakhand in the past one week. However, rain activity is going to rise across the state, especially in the Kumaon region for the next 72-hours starting from September 23 morning. Isolated places in the hilly district might also witness hailstorms,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. Meanwhile, rain activity is going to reduce significantly across Uttarakhand after September 25 onwards, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-activity-to-rise-in-ukhand-from-sept-23-heavy-rain-likely-in-kumaon/articleshow/78262890.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||3,586 deaths in August burden city crematoria||NAGPUR: Anyone who thinks he or she can pass through the Covid pandemic unaffected, the data from the city crematoriums should act as eye-opener. The data reveals the number of cremations/burials that took place in the city has nearly doubled this year compared to the corresponding period of last year, particularly in the last two months after Covid cases started surging. Though some of the deaths may not be of Covid patients, many of the fatalities resulted due non-availability of medical treatment, say sources. According to data procured from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 3,100 bodies were cremated in August this year. Moreover, 486 bodies were buried in cemetaries. Thus the total number of fatalities was 3,586. In July, the figure was 1,812 and it was 1,512 in June 2020. The corresponding numbers for August was 1,787 in 2019. With the rise in the number of Covid-19 bodies being brought in, staffers at the city’s crematoriums are struggling to cope with the increased workload and surge in demand for firewood and eco-friendly briquettes. Confirming this, a senior NMC official said the demand for eco-friendly briquettes has increased from 100 tonne per month to 200 tonne. Similarly, demand for firewood has also doubled. “Since August, there was huge increase in the number of bodies coming to crematoriums, which was essentially caused by Covid-19,” said in charge of NMC’s health department (sanitation) Dr Gajendra Mahalle. Though there are 16 crematoriums in the city, Ambazari, Mokshadham and Gangabai Ghat crematoriums are handing most of the workload due to proximity to major hospitals. The NMC is not only cremating Covid-19 bodies from the city but also from other neighbouring districts and cities like Amravati, Bhandara, Kamptee, Katol, Kalmeshwar etc. “The situation is not similar in 10 burial grounds of Muslim and eight graveyards of Christian communities though,” said Dr Mahalle, adding the workload there is normal. Witnessing an increase in the number of funerals due to the pandemic, the NMC is creating additional space for more pyre platforms at major cremation grounds. The NMC, with the help of an NGO, is constructing six additional platforms in Ambazari and Manewada ghats. At present, Ambazari Ghat has 11 platforms and one LPG system to cremate bodies. Three more platforms will be created there, said Vijay Limaye of Eco Friendly Living Foundation, which is supplying briquettes to crematoriums. Likewise, three more platforms will be set up at Manewada Ghat, where only five platforms are there at present, he added. Mahalle said if situation arises, the NMC may also utilize crematorium grounds of suburban areas like Godhani, Wadi, Hingna, Khapri etc. Limaye claimed that in the four months — from April to July — 219, 312, 298 and 310 bodies were cremated using eco-friendly briquettes, respectively. But in August, the number of bodies cremated using the briquettes was 640 and this led to increase in consumption from 100 tonne to 200 tonne per month. In the current month (up to September 20), 400 bodies have already been cremated, he said. Till July 2020, an average of eight to 10 bodies were being cremated at Mokshadham. Now, an average 25 to 30 bodies are brought in every 24 hours and most of them are of Covid-19 patients, said zonal officer (sanitation) and in-charge of Mokshadham Ghat Rajesh Gaidhane. Suresh Khare, Gandhibagh zonal officer (who looks after Gangabai Ghat), said the number of bodies has been increasing at the crematorium since early August. “We are getting an average of 25 bodies, of which 70% are of Covid-19 patients and mostly outsiders,” he said. Gaidhane also pointed out that staff at Mokshadham too has been increased to ensure better management. Earlier, only five staffers had been deputed there. Now, two teams of five persons each have been working in two shifts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3586-deaths-in-august-burden-city-crematoria/articleshow/78264092.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Truck seized, Rs 45L found on driver||Jaisalmer: Jodhpur rural police on Tuesday arrested the driver and helper of a truck and found Rs 45 on them. The truck had brought tobacco from Punjab and delivered it at Pokhran in Jaisalmer. The driver could not give a proper reply about the money following which police informed the income tax department. A case of Goods and Services Tax (GST) evasion has come to light. Jodhpur rural SP Rahul Barhat said that due to panchayat elections, all police stations have been directed to be alert and search vehicles for smuggling drugs and liquor. Driver Jaswant Singh and cleaner Randeep Singh, both residents of Bhatinda, have been arrested. Jaswant said that he was going with the money to Bhatinda from Pokhran. Police said that further investigations are continuing in the case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/truck-seized-rs-45l-found-on-driver/articleshow/78265322.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||After outcry, Goa govt marginally drops caps for private hospitals’ Covid treatment||PANAJI: The state government has issued a revised order bringing down the caps it had ordered on private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. After criticism over its earlier order, the government reduced the per-day charges to a general ward from Rs 12,000 to Rs 10,000, and for a single room, from Rs 18,000 to Rs 16,000. The order contains details of the services private hospitals should include in their packages. Room charges on twin-sharing have been dropped from Rs 12,000 to Rs 10,000. Charges for ICU with ventilator, which were Rs 25,000/day, is now Rs 24,000/day. The revised order has also listed more services that private hospitals should provide in their packages for which rates have been capped. It includes various charges such as admission, fees of intensivist, primary and specialist consultant charges, bed charges, nursing, fees of resident doctor, diet, personal protection kits for staff, charges of X-Ray, ECG, USG, 2D echo, cardiac monitor, infusion pump, catheterisation, CBC. Private hospitals will also not be able to charge patients extra for routine medicines such as multivitamins, vitamin C, zinc, vitamin D, paracetamol, antacid, anti-allergic drugs, HCQ, Azithromycin, Doxycycline, levofloxacin and dexamethasone, ivermectin and dietary charges. The package, however, does not include fees for diagnostic interventions, charges of special drugs, use of special equipment, other special procedures, and extra oxygen flow other than ICU. The previous order had contained a few items that were to be part of the package, and had also not listed regular medicines that would be part of the package. An official said that in the absence of detailed specifications in the (previous) order, it had left scope for private hospitals to charge patients extra. He said the rate chart submitted by private hospitals for Covid services was very high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-outcry-govt-marginally-drops-caps-for-pvt-hosps-covid-treatment/articleshow/78265321.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||Co-morbid positive woman gives birth to a healthy child||RAJKOT: Avni Parekh, who gave birth to a healthy child in Rajkot civil hospital on Tuesday, had tested positive of coronavirus besides suffering from diabetes, hypertension, and thyroid. She was taken to the civil hospital after testing positive. Husband Jenish said, “My wife was critical because she is suffering from other diseases too. She delivered through a C section and we are thankful that she gave birth to a healthy child. Both mother and child are healthy now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/co-morbid-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-a-healthy-child/articleshow/78261661.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Satellite images, drones to be used to curb illegal mining in Rajasthan: ACS||JAIPUR: The mines department will use state-of-the-art techniques and equipment like drones, satellite images to prevent illegal mining in the state. He was addressing a review meeting of the department of mines and geology at the Mineral Building here on Tuesday. Dr Subodh Aggarwal, ACS (mines and petroleum), said a pilot project in Rajsamand has yielded encouraging results. Now, it will be implemented in the entire state. Due to the coordinated and planned efforts, revenue of the mines department has registered significant increase. By the middle of October or November, the revenue will be equal to the previous year, he said. He said, the state’s m-sand policy will be implemented soon, while the draft of the new mineral policy is being finalized by a committee constituted by the state government. Aggarwal said that the district administration, police and mines department will take joint action to effectively stop illegal mining, while restructuring of the vigilance cell of the department is on the table. He said that 3,033 cases of illegal mining have been registered and 219 FIRs have been lodged and over Rs 21 crore penalties have been recovered this year. He directed the officers that efforts should be made to remove stay on pending revenue suspension cases putting forth the views of the government strongly. Referring to the Supreme Court’s ban on gravel mining, he said the state will be put before the central empowered committee (CEC) its point of view in an effective manner so that the issue of illegal gravel mining could resolved permanently. A new policy is being introduced to promote the use of m-sands are being successfully used in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, as an alternative to gravel, he said. He said that the department has started the process of e-auction of 110 contracts to increase revenue. The process of e-auction of two blocks of main mineral of Jaisalmer and four blocks each of Jhunjhunu and Nagaur is in progress. Director of mines and geology K B Pandya informed that effective steps are being taken by the department to curb the charge on illegal mining, while concerted efforts are being made to increase revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/satellite-images-drones-to-be-used-to-curb-illegal-mining-acs/articleshow/78265320.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||ICSI to set up study centre at Dahod||VADODARA: The Vadodara chapter of the Western India Regional Council of The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) has signed an agreement with the Navjivan Arts and Commerce College, Dahod for setting up of ICSI Dahod study centre at Dahod. The ICSI study centre is usually set up in cities/locations where the regional or chapter office of the institute does not exist. “The purpose of setting up of ICSI study centre is to create synergy between the university education and professional education to enhance the quality of education imparted to the ICSI students,” an official of the Vadodara chapter said. At Dahod study centre, students will get the facility of career counselling, classroom teaching for various stages of ICSI course curriculum, library and facilitation for their online registration to the company secretaries course.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/icsi-to-set-up-study-centre-at-dahod/articleshow/78263474.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||60% Covid-19 victims from rural areas died within 72 hours of hospitalization||NAGPUR: The analysis of Covid-19 deaths from Nagpur rural has revealed that 59.54% of the those who succumbed had died within 72 hours of admission in hospitals. The Covid-19 fatalities in rural areas increased in September. On the lines of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the office of deputy director (health) has begun analysing Covid-19 deaths in rural areas. As of Tuesday, 354 Covid-19 positive patients from these areas have passed away. Analysis of 304 deaths has been completed. It revealed that 181 (59.54%) patients had died within 72 hours of hospitalization. Of these, 27 (8.88%) were brought dead. 31 (10.20%) had died within 12 hours of hospitalization while 53 (17.44%) in 12-24 hours, 48 (15.79%) in 24-48 hours and 22 (7.23%) in 48-72 hours. 123 (40.46%) passed away after 72 hours of hospitalization. The situation in rural areas is quite severe. As per NMC’s analysis, 38.2% of the deceased had died within 48 hours of hospitalization and 24.8% in 72-120 hours, 23% in 144-216 hours and 13.9% beyond 216 hours. As per officials from deputy director (health), NMC and IGGMCH, major reason behind death of Covid-19 positive patients within 72 hours of hospitalization is due to late testing and reporting to hospitals from the onset of symptoms. As per IGGMCH’s study, 8-12 days from onset of symptoms are dangerous for positive patients, especially those with comorbidities. As per analysis, 74.36% of total rural deceased were comorbid and remaining 25.64% were non-comorbid. The deaths of non-comorbid are high in rural areas compared with city. 82% of all deceased were having comorbidities in city. 68.37% of total deceased in rural areas were above 50 years whereas 25.56% were 31-50 years and 6.07% below 30 years. The number of Covid-19 deaths in Rural (354) is very less compared with city (1,599). But growth rate of deaths in rural areas is high in September. There were 20 deaths by end of July and increased to 153 by end of August. 201 deaths were registered in 22 days of September which is more than the cumulative figure of five months. Nagpur Rural MP Krupal Tumane told TOI, “Need of the hour is starting Covid-19 hospitals at all 13 tehsil places. Early testing of patients and hospitalization is not happening. Many people cannot afford admission in private hospitals in city and are not getting timely admission in government and trust-run hospitals. NMC is using 117 doctors of rural areas in city. I have demanded the government to give these doctors back so we can start Covid hospitals in all tehsils.” Tumane added, “Creating awareness among rural people is also must which the administration and police are not doing. Many people do not follow guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/60-covid-19-victims-from-rural-areas-died-within-72-hrs-of-hospitalization/articleshow/78264105.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Robbers shoot at jeweller, decamps with a bag filled with cash||Dehradun: A local jeweller sustained injuries after he was shot on his leg by two motorcycle-borne robbers who looted his bag filled with cash and jewellery in Patel Nagar police station area on Tuesday late evening. The incident occurred at around 8:30 pm near blessing farms when Shafikul Islam, owner of a jewellery shop near Kamla palace, was returning towards his home at Bhandari Bagh. He was reportedly intercepted by two robbers who tried to snatch his bag, but he was shot at his leg by the robbers as he resisted their attempt to snatch the bag. The robbers then escaped from the spot. Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi along with other senior district police officials reached the spot and ordered intensive checking across the city to nab the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/robbers-shoot-at-jeweller-decamps-with-a-bag-filled-with-cash/articleshow/78262867.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Govt allocates Rs 100cr for Raja Mahendra varsity in Aligarh||Lucknow: The UP cabinet on Tuesday allocated Rs 100 crore for the Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Aligarh. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had announced to set up the university in September 2019, ahead of bypolls in the state. It has been named after the ruler who gave land for the Aligarh Muslim University. As there were demands by a section of local population that AMU be renamed after him, the CM announced that a separate university would be built in Singh’s name. The cabinet also cleared Rs 100 crore for a university in Saharanpur and Rs 50 crore for a university in Azamgarh. In the 2020-21 budget, the government had allocated Rs 20.7 crore for university in Aligarh, Rs 20 crore for the Saharanpur University and Rs 20.2 crore for the university in Azamgarh. The cabinet also cleared the decision to issue letters of intent for two more universities, the Mahayogi Gorakhnath University in Gorakhpur and Agravan University in Agra. In another decision with far-reaching consequences for private universities, the cabinet has decided that any public land like chak roads etc which fall within the area meant for a private university will be considered part of the university land. An official explained that presence of such land would lead to problems of acquisition which would often delay the project. In another crucial decision which will encourage investment in the state, the cabinet cleared a land-pooling policy for industrial, institutional and IT projects. The policy excludes commercial and housing projects. Under the new policy, a basic minimum amount will be paid to farmers and land owners on a per acre basis for five years till the land is developed. If the land owner is unable to sell the land at the end of the development period, he or she will have the option of selling it to the concerned development authority which will not have the right to refuse. Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary (industrial development) said: “In this proposal, we are making the farmer a partner in development projects. At present, if land is bought upfront, the farmer does not benefit as the rise in land price will take place only after development and the development authority has to pay upfront which leads to cash flow issues. Under this scheme, we are addressing both issues,” he said. The proposal states that minimum 25 acre land should be identified for development under this policy of which owners of at least 80% should be ready to participate in the scheme willingly. The land should also be mixed use as it has to be developed for industrial use with commercial and residential facilities. During development, 50% of the total area would be used for utilities like roads and common facilities. Of the remaining 50%, half will be returned to the land owner after five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-allocates-rs-100cr-for-raja-mahendra-varsity-in-aligarh/articleshow/78265776.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal stops distribution of textbook with new political map||Pithoragarh: The Nepalese government has stopped the distribution of a new textbook that included the country's revised political map showing three strategically important Indian areas as part of its territory. This came after the external affairs and land reforms ministries raised objection to it. TOI had earlier reported that a 110-page book was released by education minister Giriraj Mani Pokharel titled ‘Nepalko Bhubhaag Ra Seemasambandhi Swadhyay Samagri (Nepal's geography and territorial boundary)’ on September 15. The preface had been written by Pokharel himself. The book identified areas of Uttarakhand that India claims as its own as Nepalese territory. Spokesperson for the ministry of land reforms and cooperatives Janak Raj Joshi said, “The ministry of education does not have the authority to change Nepal’s geographical area. The department of survey, which is the official agency that declares the total area of the country, is yet to make a decision. The education ministry has prepared a book on a subject it has no expertise in. Due to this, there are faults in the book. The higher authorities have been asked to take corrective measures.” Sources said that the Cabinet on Tuesday directed the education ministry to not distribute or print any more copies of the textbook meant for classes IX to XII and instead examine the contents of the book in detail. The Indian government has already termed ‘untenable’ claims made by Kathmandu over Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand. After Nepal's parliament approved the revised political map, the Cabinet had endorsed the new map and decided to use it in government offices and print school textbooks with the new map. It even had plans to release new coins with the revised map. Sources said that both the foreign affairs and land reforms ministries have expressed strong reservations over the contents of the book, claiming that the details are factually wrong. They also cited breach of authority and expressed apprehension over the way the details were arrived at, added sources. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-stops-distribution-of-textbook-with-new-political-map/articleshow/78262932.cms||Prem Punetha
September 23, 2020||Kochi||I-T to quiz nine accused in gold smuggling case in Kochi||KOCHI: The additional chief judicial magistrate, economic offences court, Kochi, on Tuesday, gave permission to the Income Tax department to interrogate nine persons, including Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, who are accused in the smuggling of gold via diplomatic channel. The petition submitted by I-T sought permission to question them on suspicion that the accused have amassed assets disproportionate to their known income. I-T received permission to question Swapna, Sandeep, Hamjad Ali, Jalal A M, Muhammad Shafi, Sarith P S, Muhammad Anwar, Said Alavi, and Ramees K T. As all of them are presently lodged at Viyyur Central prisons, the I-T team will be interrogating them there. The court has issued directions to prison authorities regarding this. After various cases registered by agencies like NIA, ED, and customs, the I-T investigation unit, Thiruvananthapuram, too has registered a case against the accused under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/i-t-to-quiz-nine-accused-in-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/78264128.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Rape accused escapes from Colvale jail||PANAJI: In less than a month, a second inmate of the central jail, Colvale has escaped. Undertrial Ramachandrappa Yellappa, 32, a native of Tamil Nadu, broke out of the jail on Tuesday morning. He was arrested for allegedly raping a British woman at Palolem in Canacona on December 20, 2018. Inspector General of Prison (IGP) Gurudas Pilarnkar said that they are yet to ascertain how Yellappa escaped. “He wasn’t seen post 6am after he made an entry in the register stating that he was visiting the dispensary. But he did not visit the dispensary,” Pilarnkar said. This is the second time Yellappa has escaped from custody. In June 2019, he had given escort police the slip while being taken to the Margao district court from the central jail. He had escaped from the vent of the toilet in the court building in Margao. He was shortly arrested in Bengaluru based on a tip-off. Pilarnkar said that the jail premises were thoroughly searched on the suspicion that he may have hidden himself. However, till late evening there was no trace of him, he said. The jail authorities are confident that it is next to impossible for the accused to cross the five inner gates to reach the outer exit, without being noticed by the security. Another senior jail official said that they couldn’t believe that the accused could have jumped over the jail’s high compound wall. “I can’t believe that he jumped over the wall,” he said. The search was started within a half of hour after it was noticed he had not returned from the dispensary, which is located at a distance of 50m from the block housing undertrials, the official said. The jail premises is spread over 70,000sqm and there are separate blocks for convicts and undertrials. The officer said that while normally a guard accompanies an inmate to the dispensary, the guard on duty on Tuesday morning did not, citing another job to be done. “The search began by 6.30 am when it was noticed that he had not returned to his cell. It is possible that he may have escaped taking advantage of the darkness,” he said. Yellappa had attacked the British woman while she was returning to her room from the Canacona railway station sometime between 4am and 4.30am. On August 25, an undertrial Hemraj Bharadwaj, caught in a narcotics case, ran away using the pretext of dumping garbage in a bin located close to the exit gate. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rape-accused-escapes-from-colvale-jail/articleshow/78265336.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Plea in Madras HC to fill posts in special schools||MADURAI: Madras high court on Tuesday ordered notice to the state government in a plea which sought to fill up vacancies of teachers and staff in government-run special schools for children with disabilities in the state as per the provisions of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. A division bench ordered notice in a public interest plea filed by advocate S K Venkat Raman, a resident of Madurai. He stated that several special schools are run by the government to ensure that children with disabilities are not excluded from free and compulsory basic education. When he visited one such school at Villapuram, he learnt that the posts of teachers, physiotherapist and other non-teaching staff were kept vacant.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-fill-posts-in-special-schools/articleshow/78265338.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Majority of Cong MLAs likely to attend session online||Dehradun: With three of its MLAs — including leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh — down with Covid-19 and MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal opting to attend the proceedings online, only a limited number of Opposition legislators are expected to attend the one day assembly session on Wednesday. Congress state chief Pritam Singh, who is under self isolation, has been tested Covid-19 negative. While party members are claiming that he would attend the proceedings, no concrete statement has been made on the issue. Under such scenario, three-time legislator Qazi Nizam-ud-Din or two-time MLA Mamta Rakesh may head the party for the first time in the state assembly. “It does not make any difference if all eleven of us or even just one of us attend the session in the House. We will strongly raise public-related issues and ask for debate over such issues,” Manglaur MLA Qazi Nizam-ud-Din said. He added that party MLAs are strongly in favour of making a physical presence in the state assembly. “Since the time the session was announced, we were in favour of holding it for three days so that all the MLAs can come and raise the issues of their area and people,” said the legislator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/majority-of-cong-mlas-likely-to-attend-session-online/articleshow/78262952.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Environment ministry to frame policy for frontline staffers||NAGPUR: In a major move, the MoEFCC will frame a national policy to improve working conditions of front-line staff engaged in protection duty and at the same time enhance their matrix of productivity. The environment ministry’s research & training division has constituted a five-member committee under the chairmanship of former IAS officer Keshav Verma with former IFS officer AK Goyal, Karnataka PCCF (HoFF), MoEFCC’s IGF (wildlife) and DIG (research & training) as its members. The terms of reference (ToR) of the committee include study and recommend measures required for improving and strengthening working conditions of the front-line staff and suggest steps to be taken for commemorating forest martyrs on the line of police personnel. NTCA member-secretary SP Yadav, who initiated the move, said, “The committee held its first meeting on Monday. Based on the recommendations of the committee a national policy will be formulated and states will have to set standards accordingly. As of now there are no formal national guidelines for front-line staff.” “Even today our protection huts for forest guards don’t have toilets. They have to go for a bath on the river or take it in open. Their residential quarters are in a shambles and they live in abject conditions. They are not recognized as martyrs on the lines of police or army personnel. We also plan to introduce forest medals and Prime Minister Scholarship Scheme (PMSS) for their kin,” said Yadav. Talking to TOI, committee chairman Verma said, “Given the importance of front-line staff, we discussed how to improve their quality of life and at the same time enhance their matrix of productivity. Human health and environmental protection go hand-in-hand. It is a complex exercise but we will come out with practical solutions to face future challenges.” “We are looking at good practices being implemented in India and across the world. We will also approach different stakeholders from industry, wildlife experts, forest unions, scribes to discuss the issues before making recommendations. The committee will meet twice a week,” said Verma. There have been several instances in the recent past where front-line staff has been attacked for doing their duty — may it be removing encroachments or taking on sand mafia and wildlife criminals or those involved in illegal activities. “We will look into all protection aspects,” said Verma. Talking to TOI, several experts and NGOs working for wildlife conservation said, “Except in the headquarters or range offices, the front-line staff usually lives without their family. Despite the difficulties perhaps this will continue because of logistics. Proper housing and health and entertainment facilities within protected areas, concessional food and education plus health coverage for families are some of the issues to be included in the policy.” “Good quality food supplies even in remote locations should be ensured particularly during the flood and adverse weather conditions. In addition, clothing and other necessary gear like raincoats, gumboots, torches, jackets etc to facilitate their works should be made available,” they added. “Health and life insurance cover should be mandatory. Usually, the person working in the front-line is the main breadwinner in the family. Any injuries or death is devastating to the entire family. Adequate care will encourage them to work with confidence in a challenging condition,” they said. Several NGOs wanted job security for wife or child if the main person in the family working in the front-line dies. There is also a need for instituting ‘Green Warrior' awards, both during service as also posthumous. They also called for better communication facilities, healthy drinking water supply, and an emergency health care system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-env-ministry-to-frame-policy-for-frontline-staffers/articleshow/78264157.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC seeks idol wing’s response on bail plea of Subash Kapoor||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought response from the Idol Wing CID in a bail plea moved by a US-based antiques dealer who was arrested in connection with idol theft cases in 2012. Justice V Bharathidasan sought response while hearing a petition filed by Subash Chandra Kapoor,71, a resident of New York who is presently confined as an undertrial prisoner at Trichy Central Prison. The prosecution case is that several idols were stolen from two temples in Ariyalur in 2008. The petitioner, an Indian origin US citizen, had displayed few of the idols in an art gallery ‘Art of the Past’ in the US. Based on the confession of the co-accused, the petitioner’s name was included in the case. After a Red Corner Notice was issued, the petitioner who was in Germany was handed over by the government to the Indian government and he was remanded in judicial custody on July 14, 2012. The case, which was initially registered by the Udayarpalayam police, was subsequently transferred to the Idol Wing CID. Final report was filed and the case is under trial before the Kumbakonam additional chief judicial magistrate court, which is the special court for idol theft cases. Four other cases are pending against the petitioner. The petitioner stated that he was suffering from cancer since 1999 till 2005, and also underwent a surgery. He said that he is also continuing his treatment for the same and had various age related ailments. He stated that his earlier bail application was dismissed by the Thanjavur principal sessions court on September 10. Stating that his passport is under the custody of the investigating agency, the petitioner moved HC Madurai bench seeking bail in the case stating that he is willing to abide by any condition imposed by the court. The case was adjourned to September 29 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-idol-wings-response-on-bail-plea-of-subash-kapoor/articleshow/78265340.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Make cinema with Indianness in heart: CM to film-makers||LUCKNOW: Calling Uttar Pradesh a centre of Indian tradition and history, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath encouraged film-makers to give a new, meaningful platform to cinema that would inspire people, adding that the state government would provide all help if inspirational issues which would teach people about their cultural past were made into films and serials. While finalising the location of the Film City along the Yamuna Expressway, the CM announced that a world class financial city was proposed to be set up in the area, along with a world class electronic city and financial city. Asking film-makers to produce meaningful cinema “with Indianness in their hearts”, the CM said that the first film to be made was on Satyavadi Harishchandra which inspired generations, including Mahatma Gandhi. “Ramayan was made into a serial years back but people watched it even during the lockdown. With Chanakya, people remembered their tradition and history. If you give people good issues, they will remember the film or serial. The government is working on a Ramayan circuit and that people should feel proud of their heritage,” the CM said. Addressing the film fraternity, makers and actors during a discussion on the proposed Film City on Tuesday, the CM said that UP is a centre of Indian tradition and history and has contributed to the freedom struggle. He said that the state had the oldest city in the world, Kashi. It had the birth places of both Lord Ram and Lord Krishna and even the land of the Ganga Yamuna sangam, Prayagraj. “UP is the largest state in terms of population. We have 24 crore people. It has a border adjoining seven states and one country. Connectivity is not a problem. The Jewar airport will be the largest in Asia. We will also provide connection to the airport itself. The entire region will have Metro connectivity,” he said. The site selected for the Film City, the CM said, was close to Delhi and also to Mathura, the land close to India’s traditions. While Hindi is common across the state, he added, Bhojpuri, Awadhi, Brajbhasha and Bundelkhandi were spoken in various regions. Along with this, there was lots of potential in other languages like Rajasthani, Haryanavi, Chhatisgarhi and Jharkhandi. “We have a film policy in the state. All industrial policies will also be applicable while a single window mechanism will be used to facilitate investment in the state. If the film fraternity offers any proposals or suggestions, we will take them into consideration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-cinema-with-indianness-in-heart-cm-to-film-makers/articleshow/78265789.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Three held for cheating scores in name of vehicle insurance in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Monday arrested two women and a man who used to cheat people on the pretext of renewing their vehicle insurance online. While the two women are former employees of an insurance company, the man is an undergraduate student. The two women have been identified as 36-year-old Paramjeet Kaur, a resident of Pooth Kalan and Ritu Khurana (44) from Jahangirpuri. The arrested man is Deepak Bansal, a resident of Pooth Kalan. The forgery came to light when a complaint was received at the district cyber cell of northwest Delhi from a resident of Jahangirpuri, Avdhesh Yadav. He said that he got the vehicle insurance of his truck renewed by paying Rs 34,000 to an acquaintance. However, the insurance papers he received were fake. When Yadav complained about it to his acquaintance, the latter provided him with a mobile number through which he was in touch with the “insurance company executives”. Yadav contacted the executives only to receive another fake policy. He then got a case registered. DCP (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya said during an inquiry, the bank account number in which the complainant had transferred the amount was found registered in the name of a woman, Paramjit Kaur. Bank account details of the fraudsters were obtained and call detail records of the phone numbers used by them were analysed. “On the basis of technical surveillance and information collected by our team, a raid was conducted on Saturday and along with our main suspect Paramjeet Kaur, her associate Deepak Bansal was also arrested,” the DCP added. During interrogation, the two accused confessed to their involvement in forging the insurance policies for money. They disclosed that Kaur used to get a database of people who needed to get their vehicle insurance renewed and thereafter she used to call them asking them to transfer the money in her account on the pretext of providing them a renewed policy. Kaur used to transfer the amount to Paytm account of co-accused Deepak Bansal who would later return it to her in cash after taking his commission. “The mobile phone, which was used to call victims, was also seized,” Arya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-held-for-cheating-scores-in-name-of-vehicle-insurance/articleshow/78264170.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC seeks UGC, government responses in petition against online exam||MADURAI: Madras high court on Monday sought response from University Grants Commission, state government and Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) in a plea challenging the mode of final semester examination at MKU. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam also stated that any further proceedings in this regard would be subject to the outcome of this petition. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by R Murali, former principal of Madura College, in Madurai. The petitioner stated that owing to Covid-19, the state government had passed a GO to conduct final semester exams in various colleges and universities through online or offline or blended mode for 2019-2020. The government had granted permission to MKU to conduct the exams online from September 17 to 30. Subsequently, the registrar issued proceedings directing the university and affiliated colleges to conduct online mode exams. He stated that the students were asked to write the exam on A4 sheet, take photos of the answer sheets and send them to the university through WhatsApp. He stated that this was not an online mode of exam. Provisions of MKU Act empower the academic council to take a decision on various aspects including conduct of exams. He further stated that only the academic council and not the registrar has powers to decide the mode of exam. The confidentiality and credibility of the exam will be at stake if such a method of exam is permitted for final year students. He further stated that this practice would set a bad precedent as there was no fool proof method to prevent malpractices. Hence, the petitioner sought to quash the proceedings for conducting online exam and award marks by calculating marks of previous exams or conduct exam after obtaining permission from the academic council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-ugc-govt-responses-in-petition-against-online-exam/articleshow/78265348.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: CBCID fails to file final report, accused gets bail||MADURAI: Granting statutory bail to an accomplice of Kasi alias Suji in the sexual harassment and extortion case that rocked Kanyakumari district, Madras high court on Tuesday directed the CB-CID DSP and investigating officer to appear before it for failing to file the final report within 90 days. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by M Dinesh, a law student from Kanyakumari district, who was arraigned as the third accused in the case. The petitioner submitted through his counsel that he was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on June 23 and the 90-day judicial custody ended on September 21. Since the final report was not yet filed, he sought to be granted bail under section 167(2) of CrPC. The additional public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner was involved in a very heinous crime. Along with other accused, he had sexually assaulted girls, taken obscene photos and uploaded them in social media. He said the investigation is yet to be completed and the final report has not been filed. Taking cognizance of the submissions, Justice V Bharathidasan observed that the Supreme Court in its pronouncements has clearly held that the provision 167(2) of CrPC is a beneficial provision for prolonging the investigation indefinitely, which ultimately affects the liberty of a citizen. The right for bail under Section 167(2) is an indefeasible right and it cannot be frustrated by the prosecution. Hence, the judge granted bail to the petitioner but imposed conditions that the petitioner should appear before the respondent police every day at 10.30am until further orders. The judge observed that it is reported that nearly six criminal cases, in which 120 innocent girls have been affected, are pending against first accused Kasi. It is unfortunate to note that even though the case was handed over to CBCID, the final report has not been filed in any of the cases. Hence the judge directed the Kanyakumari district CB-CID DSP and investigating officer of the case to be present before the court during the next hearing on September 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbcid-fails-to-file-final-report-accused-gets-bail/articleshow/78265345.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Notification out for MLC poll electoral rolls||Hyderabad: As part of holding MLC elections to the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies both in Telangana and AP, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday issued a notification for preparation of electoral rolls. The term of two graduates’ constituencies — Hyderabad-Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda — being represented by BJP leader N Ramchander Rao and TRS leader Palla Rajeshwar Reddy — would expire in March 2021. Similarly, the term of two teachers’ constituencies in Andhra Pradesh — East Godavari-West Godavari and Krishna-Guntur — being represented by Ramu Surya Rao and AS Ramakrishna is also expiring in March next year. The ECI has directed the officials to begin the process of preparation of electoral rolls on October 1, 2020, publish the draft electoral rolls by December 1 and final rolls on January 18, 2021. The graduates and teachers can register their names as voters from October 1 and the last date for registration of names as voters is November 6. The ECI said forms would be made available on the commission’s website under sub-caption ‘forms for registration in e-rolls’ of caption ‘electors’ in the menu bar. The officials have been asked to print them in adequate numbers and used in the current round of preparation of electoral rolls for council constituencies. The electoral registration officers (EROs) concerned shall issue a public notice for registrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notification-out-for-mlc-poll-electoral-rolls/articleshow/78264155.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Garments hub to create 1 lakh jobs in UP||Lucknow: The government has allocated 77.15 acre land under the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Area to 55 garment units under the Noida Apparel Export Cluster. The step towards making UP a garment manufacturing hub will see an investment of about Rs 900 crore and is expected to generate about one lakh jobs. Minister for textiles Sidharth Nath Singh said that recently expressions of interest had been invited for setting up integrated textile parks. The department has received proposals from six developers for projects in Agra, Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar, Chandauli, Jhansi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur. Singh said that PNC Infratech Ltd, Real Estate Development and Brij Textile have applied for Agra, JCL Infra Ltd led joint venture for in Meerut which could generate employment for as many as 20 lakh persons, Chandauli, Jhansi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur, Ramky Infrastructure Ltd for other parts of UP and Eagle Infra India Ltd for GautamBudh Nagar. “Officials have been directed to prepare the request for proposal so that the companies can submit their detailed project reports. Any other company interested can download the RFP document from the E-tender portal and submit to the department,” he said. Singh said that representatives of the manufacturers and trade organisation had met minister of state Chowdhary Udaybhan Singh in Agra recently and informed him that about 300 industrialists were keen on setting up a garment manufacturing unit and wanted land for it. “I have directed officials to identify land for an integrated textile park in Agra,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/garments-hub-to-create-1-lakh-jobs-in-up/articleshow/78265792.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Collector’s panel to ensure adequate supply of oxygen||NAGPUR: After a censuring from Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on severe shortage of oxygen supply to hospitals that is leading to many deaths due to Covid-19, the government on Tuesday informed that a district level committee has been constituted to monitor the situation. An affidavit filed by additional collector Shrikant Phadke mentioned that the panel formed though the September 12 resolution would ensure that there would be no shortage of oxygen in government and private hospitals. Collector Ravindra Thakare being a chairman of Disaster Management Authority (DMA) has issued institutions in this regard. Led by the resident deputy collector, the panel has Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) department commissioner as a secretary, along with District Industries Centre (DIC) general manager, deputy regional transport officer (RTO) and additional civil surgeon, as members. It will coordinate with all hospitals, producers, cylinder factories and major suppliers, to ensure regular supply of oxygen. In case of any problem, hospitals can contact the 24X7 control room at — 0712-2562668. The affidavit was filed in suo motu PIL based on the TOI report on bed shortage where Shreerang Bhandarkar, assisted by Nidhi Dayani, is appointed as amicus curiae. In his reply through additional government pleader Deepak Thakare, Phadke said the pharmaceutical companies were directed to ensure that there wouldn’t be any shortage of medicines, particularly Remdesivir, an important drug for treating Covid-19 patients. Quoting the district administration’s statement of September 19, the affidavit stated that some private hospitals had complained of facing Remdesivir shortage. Taking cognisance, the Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO) and FDA deputy commissioner brought it to the notice of pharmaceutical companies. The FDA is coordinating with representatives of companies like Cipla, Mylan, Hetero Labs and Zydus in this regard. “The FDA directed the companies to ensure that there shouldn’t be any artificial shortage of medicines relating to Covid-19. The supply of oxygen and medicines, including Remdesivir, to hospitals is sufficient currently and the district committee is monitoring it daily. As per Public Health Department’s notification of September 7, it’s mandatory to supply 80% oxygen to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients and 20% to industries.” In order to supply oxygen in a restricted ratio, regional forest officers (RFOs) are being appointed to regularly inspect production and supplies from companies. “They will inspect in morning and evening and report to the district level committee. Accordingly, various oxygen production inspection squads would be set up for regularly monitoring the production,” Phadke said. Phadke mentioned that administration has been regularly monitoring oxygen production and supply by convening a series of meetings this month. Those were held with ZP CEO, comptroller of explosives, FDA’s joint commissioner, additional, revenue and resident deputy collectors, Covid-19 nodal officer, RFO’s, DIC general manager, deputy RTO and deans of GMCH and IGGMCH along with other eminent persons to resolve the shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collectors-panel-to-ensure-adequate-supply-of-oxygen-remdesivir-in-hospitals/articleshow/78264158.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills 30-yr-old in Pithoragarh village||Pithoragarh: In yet another instance of human-animal conflict, a 30-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Sukauli village of Pithoragarh district on Tuesday morning. “Bhupender Singh Saun (30), a resident of Lelu village (eight km away from Pithoragarh town), slept in the jungle of Sukauli village, which comes under leopard corridor, on Monday night. He was attacked by a leopard on Tuesday morning. The victim was suffering from a mental illness,” told Dinesh Joshi, ranger of Pithoragarh. After some villagers saw the body, they informed the police. Later, the forest department was also told about the killing. Locals told TOI that Bhupender used to work in a shop till eight months ago but he left the job and started wandering purposelessly due to his illness. “As the victim was mentally ill, the bereaved family is not entitled for a compensation,” Joshi told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-30-yr-old-in-pithoragarh-village/articleshow/78262955.cms||Prem Punetha
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS to name Bonthu Rammohan, Palla Rajeshwar for MLC polls||HYDERABAD: The TRS is likely to finalise the names of Bonthu Rammohan and Palla Rajeshwar Reddy for the graduates’ constituencies — Hyderabad-Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar and Warangal -Khammam and Nalgonda — respectively in the MLC polls. Rajeshwar Reddy, now party general secretary and also chairman of Rythu Samanvaya Samithi, is a close confidant of Telangana Rashtra Samithi president K Chandrasekhar Rao. Rajeshwar Reddy, who hails from Nalgonda, worked as in-charge in Huzurnagar assembly bypolls and also played an important ole in Khammam and Warangal civic and assembly elections. Rammohan, who was denied a ticket from Uppal in 2018 polls, was assured of a seat in the legislative council by the party leadership. He worked as a student leader in OU before entering electoral politics. Sources said the other reason for fielding Rammohan as a candidate from the graduates constituency was that he was a ABVP leader on OU campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-to-name-bonthu-palla-for-mlc-polls/articleshow/78264159.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 23, 2020||Kochi||NIA team to question Swapna on retrieved data||KOCHI: The special NIA court granted four-day custody of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, to the NIA team for further interrogation of Swapna based on the data retrieved from her seized digital gadgets, including laptop and smartphone. The court granted custody while considering the petition filed by the investigation team when Swapna was produced in court on Tuesday. Tight security arrangements were seen at the court and surrounding areas on Tuesday with 40 policemen and five pilot vehicles accompanying the mini bus that brought Swapna from Viyyur central prison from Thrissur. The court also allowed her to meet family members who were present at the premises. Though the investigation team sought her custody last week, she could not be produced in court as she was admitted at Thrissur Medical College hospital with chest pain. The medical board later discharged her based on angiogram reports. Following this, she was produced in court. Earlier, NIA had submitted in court that it had retrieved data worth 2000GB from the laptops and smartphones of Swapna and Sandeep. Similar amount of data was retrieved from the digital gadgets of the other accused. NIA told the court that they need to confront the accused with the newly-found evidence and take the probe further. Following this, the court had granted NIA four-day custody of Sandeep Nair, Muhammad Shafi and Muhammad Ali Ebrahim. After interrogation, they were remanded in judicial custody again on Friday by the court. Now, the team will interrogate Swapna too based on the evidence collected from digital devices. Swapna was earlier questioned for 12 days after she was arrested in July. The national agency probing the terror angle behind the smuggling has arraigned as many as 31 persons as accused in the case. As many as 26 persons have been arrested in the case till date. It was on July 5, 30kg of gold were seized from diplomatic baggage addressed to a diplomat of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-team-to-question-swapna-on-retrieved-data/articleshow/78264169.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Shift petrol bunk away from maternity hospital: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC on Tuesday directed government to explore the possibility of shifting the petrol bunk existing next to the proposed sub-station near the government maternity hospital in Petlaburj. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while hearing a petition filed by Moinuddin Khan, gave time to the government till October 5 to convey its stand. Khan was questioning the authorities’ wisdom in locating sensitive establishments like a sub-station and a petrol bunk side by side that too near a hospital. The bench earlier directed the Hyderabad district collector and the chief electrical inspector to file reports on the issue. The inspector, in his report, said they are building huge firewalls around the sub-station. “What if fire erupts from the nearby petrol pump station,” the bench asked. “This petrol pump supplies fuel to police establishment and the sub-station ensures power supply to the Old City. If any terror attack happens, it will cripple life in the Old City,” the bench said. The bench sought to know from additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao whether the government would shift the petrol pump from the area as its licence is getting expired by the end of 2020. The state counsel said he would discuss the matter with the authorities and convey their response. The bench also sought a detailed map that shows locations of all the three key installations — petrol bunk, sub-station and the maternity hospital — and also the distance between them. “If the state government is willing to shift or relocate the petrol bunk to a different area, that should solve the problem,” the bench said. The case will come up for another hearing on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shift-petrol-bunk-away-from-maternity-hosp-hc/articleshow/78264161.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP issued 12 lakh more ration cards under robust PDS||LUCKNOW: Amidst the battle against pandemic, the state government issued 12 lakh additional ration cards over a five-month span that included cards issued to migrants, who returned home following nationwide lockdown. Confirming the development, food commissioner Manish Chauhan said, issuance of new ration cards was a projection of the state government’s intent to help those in need of food grains in trying times. “Distribution of ration cards has been smooth and helped us meet targets,” he told TOI. The food and civil supply department provides ration cards under two categories — Antyodaya Yojana and Priority Household. Data updated till September 14 shows while 3.16crore households have been covered in the priority category, nearly 40.7lakh people were issued cards under Antyodaya scheme. Ration cards distributed under these two heads are pegged at 3.57 crore, which helped the government cover 14.06 crore citizens and 94.17% of its target population. Records show Prayagraj leads with 10 lakh ration card holders, followed by Sitapur with 9 lakh. This comes months after Centre’s flagship Prime Minister’s Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana, which envisages free foodgrain distribution to the needy, essentially migrants, was implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Spike in ration card holders comes close on heels of the food and civil supply department putting in place a fool-proof authentication-based foodgrain distribution system through ration shops, following CM Yogi Adityanath’s resolve to plug leakages and usher in a robust public distribution system (PDS). Earlier, 6-7% beneficiaries were provided foodgrains without authentication. “This was done in cases where thumb impression and iris scan did not match,” an official said. The distribution process through electronic point of sale (ePoS) by thumb impression and iris scan began a year ago in 80,000 ration shops. The department, sources said, issued 2.34 lakh temporary cards to provide food grain to 6.1 lakh migrants for two months. In the first cycle, which started on June 1, as many as 3.34 crore families covering 13.91 crore people were provided 7.69 lakh metric tonne of wheat and rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-issued-12-lakh-more-ration-cards-under-robust-pds/articleshow/78265794.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 23, 2020||Madurai||‘Smart city projects will finish on time’||MADURAI: The arrival plaza being constructed at Jhansi Rani Park will benefit tourists visiting the city as amenities coming up near it have been planned keeping them in mind, said minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju on Tuesday. The minister inspected the construction works and instructed officials to complete the work at the earliest. He said that smart city mission projects have been taken up at a cost of around Rs 1,000 crore and all of them will be completed within the specified time. Tamil Nadu is the numero uno state in terms of tourist footfalls. The state is forerunning when it comes to creating facilities required for tourists. Totally 10 shops are coming up on the ground floor of the arrival plaza, including shops selling memorabilia. On the front, there will be a lawn and seating arrangements. There will be bathing and changing room facility available. Battery operated vehicles will be deployed to facilitate tourists to shuttle between railway junction and Meenakshi Amman temple, the minister said. He added that two more mini jet rodding machines have been purchased at a total cost of Rs 36.30 lakh. The vehicles will be of good help to clear blockages in sewage pipes in smaller streets. Already a jet rodding machine was purchased at the cost of Rs 50 lakh and is put to use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/smart-city-projects-will-finish-on-time/articleshow/78265349.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||No e-tender for project in forest minister’s area||Nagpur: Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) is setting up a Rs1.75 crore agarbatti (incense sticks) manufacturing project in forest minister Sanjay Rathod’s constituency Digras-Darwha in Yavatmal district. The MBDB is procuring 100 automatic agarbatti and 12 blending machines. However, the tender floated for the procurement of material violates government rules by ignoring the e-tender process for the purchase of any goods costing above Rs3 lakh. Technical bids were opened on Tuesday. State government had issued a GR in 2016 for the purchase of goods costing Rs3 lakh and above through e-tender. Any purchase valued at Rs3 lakh and above without e-tender amounts to serious financial irregularities. MBDB managing director TSK Reddy said, “E-tender was not floated to evoke more response. Last time when we procured material through e-tendering, many parties did not participate. Hence, this time we issued tender in newspaper and on the official website.” Interestingly, such instructions are not there in the said GR of December 2016, which does not exempt e-tendering for any purchase valued at Rs3 lakh. TOI checked the portal but no such e-tenders floated by the board were found. A section of contractors said, “Such process is not transparent and competitive as tender is limited to certain local contractors only. Contractors out of districts and out of state have little chance to apply and take part in the bidding process.” Reddy said, “The project under livelihood mission will provide employment to 300 women in Darwha-Digras villages. We will have a tie-up with Cycle brand agarbatti to market the produce. This is the second big project after first in Gadchiroli where 225 machines have been installed.” “In Gadchiroli, even during the lockdown, we distributed Rs30 lakh towards wages. In Darwha-Digras, women workers will get Rs10 per kg remuneration and money will be deposited in their bank accounts,” said Reddy. However, payment of wages has nothing to do with the procurement of agarbatti making and blending machines costing much more than Rs3 lakh, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-e-tender-for-project-in-forest-ministers-area/articleshow/78264171.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists allege land seizure to lure tribals into their fold||HYDERABAD: A Maoist team, led by state committee member Bhaskar, has been trying to instigate tribals by spreading false news that the state forest department would acquire their agricultural lands, police officials said. The Maoists are assuring the tribals of fighting on their behalf if they support the CPI Maoist party. Bhaskar had a narrow escape late on Saturday but two of his colleagues died during an exchange of fire with the police. The party leaders and four others gave the slip to the police, who are still clueless on how these Maoists escaped though they had cordoned off the area. “For the last three months, Maoists have made an all-out effort to revive party activities in the region. Using the land acquisition issue, they have tried hard to impress the locals. They wanted to instigate fear among the tribals that their fertile land, which is in their possession for several years, would be acquired by the government. This land is being used for agriculture purposes by the villagers,” said a source in the Telangana intelligence department. The government intended to improve the extent of forest area by improving greenery, since, in the last several years, there has been severe deforestation. The deforested lands, which have been in their possession, have been used by locals for cultivation. Extensive efforts were made by Bhaskar and some other dalam members of Maoist party to influence the tribals to join CPI Maoists, who are looking to bolster their underground cadre. Though police claim that Maoists’ attempt to lure the tribals has failed, officials are still looking if there are any unreported missing persons. The two Maoists, who died in Saturday’s encounter, were identified as Bajir Rao alias Ramu and Chukkalu. Rao and had joined the party four months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-allege-land-seizure-to-lure-tribals-into-their-fold/articleshow/78264167.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand docs, nurses threaten strike over one-day pay cut for CM Cares fund||Dehradun: Doctors and nurses in Uttarakhand have threatened to go on strike over the state cabinet's order in May that allowed the administration to deduct a day's salary every month from its government employees for the CM Cares fund. Medical staff have said that instead of rewarding them for their work during the pandemic, they were being penalised. With the issue turning more serious by the day, a meeting was arranged on Tuesday between the agitating health workers and the state health secretary, who has assured them that their demands would be "looked into". For now, the strike call has been withdrawn. Over 2,200 doctors in the hill state have threatened to strike work and shut out-patient department (OPD) services in government hospitals if their one-day salary continued to be withdrawn for the CM Cares fund — set up for Covid-19-related donations. . Health secretary Amit Negi admitted to TOI that there was no provision to “opt out” of one-day salary donation to CM Cares fund since it was a cabinet decision, but added that the government has "agreed to look into the demands of the doctors." A cabinet meeting four months ago had decided that a day's salary from everyone would go to the CM Cares fund each month until the end of fiscal year 2020-21. "The decision was challenged in the high court and the matter is sub judice. But for the past few months, employees have received deducted salaries and have been making boycott calls to oppose the move," said Dr Manoj Verma, general secretary of Prantiya Chikitsa Swasthya Seva Sangh. "We voluntarily donated our one-day salaries in March but our pay is being deducted every month." Verma added: “We had asked the government why it was deducting our salaries instead of paying us extra for working during the pandemic. The health secretary has accepted our demands that there would be no such cuts and that government doctors pursuing post graduation would be paid full salaries.” Over 5,000 government nurses had also earlier announced a work boycott from September 30 over one-day salary cuts. They will be joined by government lab technicians who are demanding proper wages, bonus and regularisation of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-docs-nurses-threaten-strike-over-one-day-pay-cut-for-cm-cares-fund/articleshow/78262978.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Buy e-ticket on all DTC routes from November||NEW DELHI: From November, bus commuters will be able to buy e-ticket in cluster scheme and Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses through a mobile application, Chartr, which is available on Google Playstore. Delhi government’s transport department on Tuesday completed the second phase of public trial of the contactless e-ticketing mobile application in its buses. The public trial of the mobile application was conducted between September 7 and 21 by a special task force constituted by transport minister Kailash Gahlot. The trial covered more than 60 routes and was carried out in both cluster scheme and DTC buses. “The app has received good response from passengers. We have rectified all glitches that we noticed in the previous trials. We are also in the process of incorporating daily and monthly passes, along with developing a system for non-smartphone users to buy tickets. We are looking forward to covering all the cluster and DTC buses under this app by the first week of November,” Gahlot said. During the trial, total 51,644 e-tickets were purchased through the application by passengers, of which 79.4% were free pink tickets for female passengers, a Delhi government statement said. The app has been developed with the technical support of Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi. Commuters can take an e-ticket through ‘Chartr’ after boarding a bus and scan the QR Code of the bus. The app automatically suggests free pink ticket for female commuters based on the gender entered by the user. Commuters can also see all stoppages of a bus. Watch Delhi: E-ticket for all DTC routes from November||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buy-e-ticket-on-all-dtc-routes-from-november/articleshow/78264190.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Schools ask for parents’ income, leave many irked||HYDERABAD: Details such as parent’s bank account details, annual income, and IT returns, are being collected by several schools in the city and elsewhere in the state. While the schools are claiming that the data needs to be submitted to the education department officials or uploaded to Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE), the officials said that this data is not mandatory. “Last week, we received a message from my child’s school asking us to submit essential information of the child and parents. One of the columns is about parents’ annual income and the other is about whether or not IT returns is submitted at the time of admissions,” said a parent, whose child is studying in a school in Begumpet. Few even took to Twitter to raise this issue and question officials concerned about why such data is being collected. “My granddaughter is a student of class 9th in Hyderabad. Her school has given her form, on behalf of CBSE, in which they have asked to inform the income of parent. I do not know why CBSE/School wants to know the income of the parent? Is this really from CBSE,” read a tweet from @Vimal Sancheti, which was addressed to Union education minister @DrRPNishank. The members of the parents’ association, meanwhile, said that the schools might be collecting data to see if the parents are wilfully defaulting on the fee payments. “Whatever might be the reasons, the schools or officials cannot ask for financial information,” said K Venkata Sainath of Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA). The principal and managements said that they need to submit this data for those students getting scholarships from the government. “It is true that we are collecting this information. We have to upload this data along with other information to the UDISE. But parents are being very sensitive and are refusing to share their bank details,” said S Narasimha Reddy, chairman, Hyderabad Sahodaya Schools Complex, which comprises of CBSE schools as its members, adding that although financial information of all students need not be submitted, they are keeping it handy in case they need to upload it in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-ask-for-parents-income-leave-many-irked/articleshow/78264166.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: 2-BHK project to dominate oppn narrative||Hyderabad: With elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation expected to be held early next year, politics over the 2-BHK housing project for the homeless poor in the city and other issues concerning the citizens have gained momentum. The 2-BHK project is one among several welfare schemes that saw the ruling TRS decimate the Congress and BJP in the GHMC elections held in February 2016. The death of Sumedha, a 12-year-old-girl who was washed away in an open nala, is likely to become an issue in the polls. On Tuesday, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that 1,824 houses in Nampally and 226 houses at two locations in Jubilee Hills said to have been built by the government was a big lie. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-2-bhk-project-to-dominate-oppn-narrative/articleshow/78264184.cms||Roushan Ali
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NIA sleuths search C-APT||Thiruvananthapuram: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths conducted a search at the Centre for Advanced Printing and Training (C-APT) in the capital in connection with investigation into transport of Quran consignment from the UAE consulate to religious institutions in Malappuram in the vehicles of C-APT. The NIA sleuths from the Kochi unit also interrogated the officials of the delivery section of the organization. As many as 32 packets containing Quran packets weighing 4,479 kg were brought to the delivery section of C-APT, in March. After opening some packets, the remaining were taken in a C-APT vehicle to Malappuram, on instructions from higher education and minority welfare minister K T Jaleel. Earlier, customs sleuths had also interrogated officials of the organization in connection with the same matter. The Enforcement Directorate and NIA had interrogated the minister to learn about his links with the UAE consul general as well as one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, with regard to the transportation of Quran. Parallel investigations by NIA and the customs are progressing in connection with the gold smuggling case, in which the central agencies suspect that there is a foul play in the transport of Quran packets to Malappuram. The agencies believe that the Quran consignment could have been used for transporting gold, as the UAE consulate officials were involved in gold smuggling that was intercepted by customs. The agencies had also compared the weight of the consignment with that of individual Quran books and then calculating the weight of the total number of books. The agencies had found a difference in the weight, when these were compared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-sleuths-search-c-apt/articleshow/78264219.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Truck on wrong side claims woman’s life||Hyderabad: A truck driver was booked for culpable homicide for allegedly causing an accident by driving on the wrong side of the road on Monday resulting in the death of a person. The deceased, Kolli Seetha along with her husband, K Bapireddy were returning from Alwal when a truck, driven by Varikupala Ramulu, was on the wrong side of the traffic flow. Bapireddy applied sudden brake. “The couple fell on the road, and the DCM travelling behind them went over the victims. Bapireddy sustained injuries on his right hand and Seetha sustained internal injuries and died on the spot,” said Cyberabad traffic police. The accident occurred near VNR college, in Bachupally at 12.45 pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/truck-on-wrong-side-claims-womans-life/articleshow/78264174.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs wary of railway board’s plans to cut coach production in Chennai||COIMBATORE: With the railway board reducing the production plan of coaches at the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in Chennai, micro and small industrial units in Coimbatore that were catering to the railways said the decision could hit them hard. The railway board had in May this year approved a production plan of 4,402 coaches, for 2020-2021. This month, the board reduced it almost by half to 2,387 coaches. This, despite ICF’s proposal to produce 3,100 coaches. Micro and small industrialists in the district that have been producing and delivering components such as gears, compressors and other fabricated parts to the railways said the move would affect them. Around 5,000 industrial units and two lakh workers across the state depend on railway orders. S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association, said the industries could survive the pandemic setback only if the government spending increased. “But the government is reducing its spending. Around 20% parts for ICF’s coaches go from Coimbatore. If the production is reduced, industries here would suffer,” he said. When contacted, ICF officials confirmed the reduction in the production plan by half, and said it was the decision of the railway board, which they had to follow. They said the main reason for this was the pandemic and its fallout in operations. “As the lockdown restrictions were being relaxed in stages, we were allowed to function with 30%, 50%, and 75% of our capacity. We have not yet reached 100%. We also cannot take the risk, as maintaining social distancing among workers is difficult in the coach factory. Because of this, we are not sure whether we would be able to deliver even the reduced target,” said an ICF spokesperson. He conceded that this would also reflect in the businesses of MSMEs catering to them. “We are not sure how they would deliver to us, with the prevalent hiccups in logistics,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-wary-of-rly-boards-plans-to-cut-coach-production/articleshow/78264198.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Serviceman dies in elevator mishap||VADODARA: A serviceman died after an elevator he was working on fell on his head at Waghodiya Road on Tuesday afternoon. The man who worked in an elevator servicing agency was working on an elevator of a residential building on Waghodiya Road. The serviceman was lying in the lobby of the building and he had inserted his head in the elevator car for repairing work. His relatives said that the elevator’s cable suddenly snapped and his head got fixed in the elevator chamber due to which his neck broke. He was taken to SSG Hospital, but he was declared dead before admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/serviceman-dies-in-elevator-mishap/articleshow/78263773.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||M Kodandaram to make poll debut as consensus pick?||HYDERABAD: Telangana Jana Samithi which has decided to field its founder-president M Kodandaram from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates MLC constituency has sought the support of Congress, TDP, CPM, CPI and Telangana Inti Party. The TJS is trying to ensure that Kodandaram makes his electoral debut as the consensus candidate of almost all the opposition parties to defeat the TRS from this MLC seat. However, none of these political parties has so far promised support to Kodandaram and only assured to get back to him after discussing the issue in the core committee meeting of their respective parties. On its part, the ruling TRS has deputed three ministers — G Jagadish Reddy, Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Puvvada Ajay Kumar — to ensure that Kodandaram does not win, who once led Telangana statehood agitation alongside K Chandrasekhar Rao. A few more ministers and MLAs are expected to get into campaigning mode after the election schedule is announced. TJS general secretary G Venkat Reddy confirmed to TOI that they have written letters to all the political parties and have also met the state presidents of these parties. The party throwing its weight behind Kodandaram’s candidature may get TJS support in the by-poll to Dubbaka constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kodandaram-to-make-poll-debut-as-consensus-pick/articleshow/78264176.cms||Roushan Ali
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Dhan Singh, Harak Singh, deputy leader of opposition test positive for Covid-19||Dehradun: With 874 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 42,651. Among those tested positive on the day were cabinet ministers Dhan Singh Rawat and Harak Singh Rawat and Khatima MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami. A day before the assembly session, deputy leader of opposition Karan Mahara also tested positive for Covid-19 . Sources from the health department said that over a dozen BJP and Congress MLAs and ministers were tested in the last 36 hours in the wake of the assembly session scheduled for Wednesday. Abhishek Tripathi from the Covid-19 control room informed that among the 874 fresh cases on Wednesday, 368 were reported from Dehradun followed by Udham Singh Nagar (158), Nainital (76) and Haridwar (62), while nine hill districts reported 210 cases altogether. “Apart from fresh cases, 1,107 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection taking the recovery tally to 30,107 in the state,” said Tripathi. The state also reported 11 deaths on Tuesday among which one was reported from AIIMS-Rishikesh, four from Government Doon Medical College, three from Sushila Tiwari Medical College and one from Srinagar’s Base hospital. Total 512 have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dhan-singh-harak-singh-deputy-leader-of-opposition-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78263002.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Transgender booked for exploiting 22-yr-old woman||NAGPUR: A 32-year-old transgender, dealing in spices, has been booked for sexually exploiting a 22-year-old woman and threatening to defame her. A case has been registered at Rana Pratap Nagar police station. It’s learnt the woman came in contact with the transgender when she had gone to collect passes for a garba show last year. After the first meeting, the two became friends and visited each others places. In her complaint to the police, the woman alleged that she was abused by the transgender after spiking her drink during a family function at Hingna T-point residence. The transgender also videographed the act and later started blackmailing her, the woman said. Threatening to make the clip viral on social media, the woman claimed she was forced to have physical relationship repeatedly. The transgender also forced her to have physical relation with a friend too. After the woman’s marriage was fixed with a man from Bhusawal, the transgender reportedly went to Bhusawal to alert the fiance about the affair with the woman following which the proposal was called off. Upset over the development, the woman and her family approached the cops and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/transgender-booked-for-exploiting-22-yr-old-woman/articleshow/78264209.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 23, 2020||Pune||Collector seeks audit report on oxygen use by hospitals||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Tuesday sought an audit report from all private and government hospitals on the use of oxygen and told FDA to keep a tab on the consumption of the life-saving gas in 252 health hubs treating Covid-19 patients. Deshmukh’s order comes a day after state health minister Rajesh Tope clarified that the government had told all hospitals to use their discretion while using oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients. Referring to an earlier order on the use of seven litre of oxygen per minute for patients in wards and 12 litre for those in intensive care units, Tope said it was issued as part of planning and that there was no restriction on the administering of the essential gas. Deshmukh said though the doctors could decide on the use of oxygen, the administration was seeking an audit from every hospital and it would be done with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) department’s health. “The FDA officials will procure the report of oxygen use from the hospitals,” Deshmukh told TOI. Three days after the state health secretary wrote to all districts to judiciously use medical oxygen, the Indian Medical Association’s protest compelled the health department to clarify that the government had no intention to restrict use of oxygen. The government has now told each district to list its oxygen demand based on the number of Covid-19 patients and also review the cases not requiring the essential gas support. The districts will have to maintain records of patients on oxygen support. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said he had directed hospitals in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural parts of the district to convert 2,200 non-oxygenated beds into facilities supported with the essential gas. “We are now providing 80% of oxygen for medical use and are awaitiing the Chakan plant to become operational by moth-end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-seeks-audit-report-on-oxygen-use-by-hospitals/articleshow/78264186.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 23, 2020||Goa||Bids invited for Bainguinim waste plant, project to be via PPP mode||Panaji: The long-pending Bainguinim garbage treatment plant is poised to take shape soon as Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) has invited bids for setting up a solid waste processing facility with a processing capacity of 250 tonnes per day. The plant, estimated to cost Rs 200 core, is expected to cater to entire Tiswadi taluka. The corporation has invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. Bids must be submitted before November 9. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired land at Bainguinim to set up the plant, and in 2017 it was handed over to GWMC. A public hearing was conducted by GWMC, and subsequently environment clearance was obtained. GWMC has decided to undertake the project through public private partnership (PPP) on a design-build-finance-operate-transfer (DBFOT) basis, wherein the plant infrastructure will be implemented by the concessionaire along with operations and maintenance for a period of ten years. The plant will include recycling and sorting lines, segregation, bio-methanation and composting system. The bidding process is divided into two stages. In the first stage (RFQ), eligible and prospective bidders will be shortlisted based on the detailed presentation submitted to the committee appointed by GWMC. The second and final stage is generally referred to as request for proposal (RFP) or invitation of financial bids from shortlisted bidders. Bidders have to comply with all statutory norms as per the solid waste management (SWM) Rules, 2016, environmental clearance granted by the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), and in accordance with the RFP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bids-invited-for-bainguinim-waste-plant-project-to-be-via-ppp-mode/articleshow/78265352.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Indian Railways extends MoU with IIT-R for research||Roorkee: Indian Railways has renewed a Memorandum of Understanding with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee along with IIT Kanpur and IIT Madras to foster cutting-edge joint collaborative research. The objective of the MoU for Indian Railways is to intensify outreach to academia and industry to leverage the domain knowledge and expertise for undertaking core and fundamental research for the development of new technologies and applications for use on the Indian Railways network. The MoU will facilitate research in the core area of track, bridges, and other structures, civil infrastructure of high-speed rail, bridges, structures, and health monitoring, track management system, remote monitoring of railway assets, among others through the Centre for Railway Research (CRR) sanctioned by the ministry of railways for undertaking core and fundamental research. The MoU also mandates periodic monitoring by both institutions to review the progress made in R&D projects. It empowers the Centre for Railway Research to facilitate manpower training and explore the possibility of offering degree programs, postgraduate programs and Ph.D. programs in research areas related to railways through the sponsored research avenue of IIT Roorkee. The MoU was signed between Alka Arora Misra, Principal Executive Director (T&MPP), Ministry of Railways and Prof Manish Shrikhande, Dean, Sponsored Research and Industrial Consultancy, IIT Roorkee in the presence of Chairman & CEO, Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav, Director General(HR), PED(T&MPP), Vashishtha Johri, General Manager, Southern Railway, Prof. Ajit Chaturvedi, Director, IIT Roorkee, Prof. Manoranjan Parida, Deputy Director, IIT Roorkee, Prof. Yogendra Singh, IIT Roorkee, Prof. Satish Sharma, IIT Roorkee Prof. Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, Prof. Ravindra Gettu, IIT Madras, Prof. Abhay Karandikar, Director, IIT Kanpur among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/indian-railways-extends-mou-with-iit-r-for-research/articleshow/78262990.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 negative report not mandatory for visitors||Dehradun: In a major move aimed to bring the tourism economy back on track, the Uttarakhand government late Tuesday evening decided that the tourists coming to the state are no longer required to bring their Covid-19 negative report with them. In addition, the clause for a minimum of two days booking in hotels or homestays which had been introduced a couple of days for the tourists has also been removed. A government order, issued by chief secretary Om Prakash directed the state officials to follow the new instructions with immediate effect. The government order states, “It is not mandatory for tourists to bring Covid-19 negative before checking into hotels or homestays. However, checks like thermal scanning, santisation, and other prescribed health protocols for hotels and restaurants must be complied with. If so required, the hotel management may frame their own procedure for tourists coming to their hotels.” The order further states, “Requirement of mandatory stay of a minimum two days in hotels or homestays will not be applicable anymore. However, if any tourist is found Covid-19 positive, then the hotel management shall intimate the district administration immediately.” The order further adds that district administration shall make arrangement for random checks to ensure the compliance of Centre’s guideline by hotel and homestay owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-negative-report-not-mandatory-for-visitors/articleshow/78262999.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Phones worth Rs 2cr stolen from truck||Hyderabad: Mobile phones worth Rs 2 crore were allegedly stolen by unknown persons from a container carrying the cargo. A criminal case was registered by Medak police after Srinivas, the driver, lodged a complaint. Police said that the incident supposedly took place on September 16 and the driver lodged the complaint the next day. However, the incident came to light on Tuesday. Ramayampet police said that as per the complaint, the driver started with a container load of mobile phones for UP on September 16. While the container was travelling through Medak district, some unknown persons had stolen 2,442 phones. “The driver had dinner at Masaipet after parking the container. From there, he went to Adilabad, before realizing that the door of the container was open. When he checked the cargo, he found some of the phones missing,” Ramayampet police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/phones-worth-rs-2cr-stolen-from-truck/articleshow/78264187.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Facing fire for ‘too many +ve reports testing -ve later’, pvt labs to stop tests, threatens IMA||Dehradun: Days after the Uttarakhand chief secretary claimed that too many Covid positive reports from private labs were later testing negative at government facilities, Indian Medical Association-Uttarakhand announced to stop testing Covid samples if the state government doesn’t withdraw its allegations. The IMA office-bearers blamed the Dehradun district magistrate for misbehaving with private lab owners and doctors. “It is possible for a person to test positive and then negative in a span of 2-3 days, which is what happened in these cases too. The allegation that tests at private labs yield wrong results is baseless,” said Dr DD Choudhury, president of IMA-Uttarakhand. Choudhury said that the district administration’s allegation that private labs are contributing to more positive cases in the state capital is “vindictive”. It is more like “shifting the blame of rising Covid cases on us rather than increasing the morale of the medical fraternity and working with them to fight the pandemic”, he said. The IMA said that Uttarakhand’s Ahuja Pathology and Imaging Centre was the first private lab selected for Covid testing by ICMR in the hill state. lts proficiency testing is done by LGC (UK) and it is accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) -- a Constituent Board of Quality Council of India. All the other private labs doing triple antigen tests are also NABL accredited, the IMA said. “The government’s own lab at Government Doon Medical College is not accredited by NABL and its quality is questionable,” the IMA chief added. On September 20, a private lab on Haridwar Road, Dehradun, was barred from conducting Covid-19 tests and an audit was ordered after alleged irregularities in test results. The action irked several private lab owners. The government, meanwhile, said that private labs have been testing “too many” samples, leading to errors. The IMA also claimed that the chief medical officer (Dehradun) has arbitrarily cancelled the permission for rapid antigen tests at five reputed city labs without “any proof of mismanagement”. Appealing the chief minister to intervene, Choudhury said, “Doon DM Ashish Srivastava is unable to manage the situation due to the rising cases. He has a biased attitude towards private doctors. Besides, he is also afraid that the rising number of cases will reflect poorly on his performance. I request the health secretary to ask the DM to follow the ICMR guidelines and cooperate with private labs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/facing-fire-for-too-many-ve-reports-testing-ve-later-pvt-labs-to-stop-tests-threatens-ima/articleshow/78263042.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to launch 1-month fast against anti-farmer law||Hyderabad: Congress will not only launch a month-long agitation against the anti-farmer law of Narendra Modi-led BJP-government at the centre from September 25 but will also extend support to the protests being organised by the Left parties and other farmers and their associations against the farm bills. AICC general secretary in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore on Tuesday asked all the District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents to play an active role in organising the agitations as these protests would continue until the BJP government withdraws the controversial Bills. He addressed the DCC presidents through an online app. During the meeting, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy brought it to the notice of Tagore that despite KCR-government implicating DCC chiefs in police cases, they have braved all odds to organise agitations by mobilising funds and other resources. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-to-launch-1-month-fast-against-anti-farmer-law/articleshow/78264220.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Three Bulgarians held for ATM fraud||Panaji: Separate teams of North Goa police have nabbed persons possibly involved in ATM skimming at different places across the state. After receiving complaints of unauthorised ATM card transactions, staff of Porvorim and Panaji police stations, based on local intelligence and analysis of nearby CCTV footages, tracked down and nabbed a group of three persons who are all of Bulgarian nationality and allegedly involved in carrying out skimming of ATMs at various locations. Several laptops and skimming cameras have been recovered from the accused. Acting on reliable information, a team of Panaji police tracked down two persons with card swiping machines, who were allegedly moving around to target ATMs. Separate cases have been registered in Panaji and Porvorim police stations. Further investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-bulgarians-held-for-atm-fraud/articleshow/78265361.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||In Pune region, PMC areas’ patient share shrinks by 28%||PUNE: The Pune municipal limits’ share of Covid-19 cases in PMR has reduced by 28% since June 21, while that of the rural areas has shot up by 13%, indicating a continuous rise in infection in the villages. As per the district health office data, the PMC areas’ Covid-19 share in PMR stood at 80% (see box) in June, which has now come down to 52%. In case of the rural areas, their share of Covid cases in PMR has gone up from 5% in June to 18% now. The case share of the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits has remained between 21% and 28% over the last four months. In case of the Cantonment areas, their share has come down by 2% (from 4% in June to 2% now). Health officials said stayed away from making any urban-rural comparison, but admitted that cases had certainly gone up in the rural parts of Pune district in the last couple of months. “The infection has spread in the villages located in the periphery of urban pockets and areas along the highways. Efforts are on to arrest the spread of infection and provide treatment to the patients at the earliest. Containment zones have been marked in the villages that have witnessed an outbreak,” a health official said. An official from the district administration said home-to-home surveys had already been introduced in the affected villages. A PMC health department official said, “The recovery rate in the municipal limits has been over 80% now and efforts are on to increase it further. At the same time, the administration has been augmenting medical infrastructure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-pune-region-pmc-areas-patient-share-shrinks-by-28/articleshow/78264224.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Only e-applications will be considered for transfers, says CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said only online applications of government employees for transfers will be considered by the government. He said the department had to keep online record of transfer request from people’s representatives as well. Gehlot issued directions during a review meeting on Tuesday. The department officials said a transfer policy is being framed for simple and transparent process for transfer of government employees. The chief minister directed that the staff selection board should shortlist three times the number of posts for which applications are invited by various departments. He said this would help the department to call for appointment candidate next in line candidate without asking for the list from the selection board in case some candidates on the merit list are unwilling to join service. He said this would reduce the time lag in the process of appointment. Currently the list of only one and half times the number of vacancies is sent to the concerned department. Chief minister directed the officials to have an online monitoring of the correspondence from people representatives like MLAs, MPs so that it could be tracked, and timely action could be taken. The department of administrative reforms and the Rajcom under department of Information technology also singed a MoU in the presence of the chief minister to file applications under RTI and provide information online. RTI will be filed online on RTI portal www.rti.rajasthan.gov.in by paying the amount digitally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-e-applications-will-be-considered-for-transfers-says-cm/articleshow/78265355.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||Recoveries exceed new infections for second straight day in PMR, 96 dead||PUNE: The recoveries exceeded new Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday. As many as 4,037 patients were discharged after they were declared cured in PMR on Tuesday, as against 3,291 new cases. Except for the Cantonments, the recoveries remained more in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, besides the rural areas, on Tuesday. The region’s total recoveries reached above 2.10 lakh in the last 24 hours, while tally of positive cases surged above 2.57 lakh. PMR recorded as many as 96 fatalities due to the infection on Tuesday, including 46 from the PMC limits, 29 in the rural and Cantonment areas, while 21 patients succumbed to the infection in the PCMC areas. With this, the death toll has reached 5,870. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar revealed that the active cases in the region reached 41,329 on Tuesday night, including 23,795 patients admitted in various hospitals. A total of 12,134 samples were tested in PMR on Tuesday, which pushed the testing tally above 10.62 lakh. A PMC report stated that as many as 3,522 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits on Tuesday. Besides, 957 patients were at critical stage, of whom 492 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-exceed-new-infections-for-second-straight-day-in-pmr-96-dead/articleshow/78264218.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Sandila shot: Iconic UK company Webley & Scott to make guns in UP from November||LUCKNOW: Famous British firearms manufacturing company, Webley & Scott (W&S), which armed the Allied forces during the two World Wars and produced weapons for at least 15 countries, will mark its presence in the Indian sub-continent from November with the manufacturing of arms from its new unit in UP’s Sandila (Hardoi), barely 30km from Lucknow. The handgun manufacturing giant has joined hands with Lucknow-based Sial Manufacturers Pvt Ltd for the project and will begin operations with production of revolvers. Talking exclusively to TOI over the phone from Birmingham (UK), owner of Webley & Scott John Bright said, “The new unit will manufacture .32 revolver in the first phase. Later, we will manufacture pistols, airguns, shotgun and ammunition as well.” “We decided to invest in India and in the state of Uttar Pradesh keeping in view the vast market potential. The idea to expand our business got shape after discussions with the Sial family in 2018. We entered a new joint venture for the manufacture of firearms and airguns in India for Indian domestic market. We got the licence to manufacture firearms in India in 2019,” said Bright. He said the original design of Mark IV .32 pistol of 1899 would be used to cater to Indian market in the first phase. “A team of 15 experts from England visited India to set up the facility in Sandila which took us four months,” he said. Joginder Pal Singh Sial of Sial Manufacturers, the all-India distributor of W&S products, said: “The government’s support and the Centre’s ‘Make in India’ policy helped the project take final shape.” “The cost of the .32 revolver will be Rs 1.6 lakh. Webley & Scott will be the first foreign company to manufacture firearms here. We will give a stiff competition to the arms manufactured by ordnance factories. People will now get world-class weapons at their doorsteps,” he further said. Watch Sandila: Firearms major Webley and Scott's UP connection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-in-subcontinent-webley-scotts-up-unit-to-start-production-in-november/articleshow/78265832.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s own leaning minaret, and it needs help||NEW DELHI: At the western end of Chandni Chowk lies the 17th century Fatehpuri Masjid. The historical boulevard is being revamped, but the mosque will be an incongruent terminal point if it isn’t spruced up. In fact, it poses a hazard at the moment, with the north minar of the mosque leaning ominously to the right. The mosque authorities claim to have petitioned the Waqf Board several times for repairs. In response, the board has pleaded bureaucratic hurdles in taking restoration measures. The mosque, built by Fatehpuri Begum, one of the wives of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, in 1650, is in a shambles. Besides the leaning minar, the drainage of the central wuzukhana, or ablution tank, is damaged, and the pillars and roofs show cracks. Historian Swapna Liddle, author of Chandni Chowk, the Mughal City of Old Delhi, said, “The Fatehpuri Masjid is a Shah Jahan-era mosque built by the ladies of the palace. Being directly opposite Red Fort, it has a significant location.” But now the mosque needs help. Mufti Mukarram, imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, said a Waqf Board team led by its then chairman, AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan, visited the mosque in November 2019 and promised to begin repairs of the shrine and its wuzukhana. “Since then, nothing has been done,” Mukarram said, adding that the sewerage is in such a poor condition that rain and sewage enter the mosque complex from the Khari Baoli side. “Occasionally, water also flows in from the Galgotia market side abutting the masjid’s western wall where we stand and pray,” he said. The imam was understandably most worried about the north minaret. “The red sandstone minar is leaning to the right, and cracks and gaps can be seen. In this state, it is a major danger for the hundreds who come here to pray. Its fall will also be an irretrievable heritage loss.” The roofs and the pillars of the madrassa housed in the mosque are also damaged, with the pillars warped now and struggling to hold the weight of the structure. Mukarram felt that when the whole of Chandni Chowk was being beautified, it would be logical to also revamp the mosque. Ajay Kumar, director of projects at the Delhi chapter of Intach, agreed. After a team from the heritage conservation organisation visited the mosque recently, Kumar suggested, “Preservation work should be carried out urgently in a phased manner, with heritage strictures incorporated into the plans.” The mufti’s son, Hammad Ahmed, claimed that the Waqf Board received rent from 123 properties near the mosque. “The board can always use that money to conserve Fatehpur Masjid,” he said. In response, Himal Akhtar, member of the Waqf Board, told TOI, “The resolution for the conservation of the mosque was passed by the board in January 2020. We sanctioned Rs25 lakh for the work, and we will give the repairs priority.” However, he added, the Delhi assembly elections took place soon after in February and the board chairman demitted office. “Only after a new chairman assumes office can funds be released,” said Akhtar, adding that the board had already sent engineers and a technical team to determine the course of restoration. Liddle was critical of the Waqf board and said it “needs to have a system of regular inspection, maintenance and conservation”. The historian said, “You cannot respond suddenly only when a problem arises. This happened when the Masjid Mubarak Begum in Chawri Bazar was damaged in the recent rains. This kind of bandaging will not work. These are historic monuments and the if the caretakers are unable to take care of them, there should be a system involving the government agencies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-own-leaning-minaret-and-it-needs-help/articleshow/78264242.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Centre’s scheme to benefit street vendors in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: City mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama on Tuesday announced that a survey would be done for 15 days in the city to identify small businessmen who are eligible to avail the Centre’s scheme to support street vendors. Under the scheme, interest free loans up to Rs 10,000 would be given to street vendors. Mayor Gama informed that owners of barber shops, cobblers, and pan shops will also be included under the scheme. Meanwhile, the Municipal Corporation has identified 21 smart vending zones and the tender process to develop the spots will take place soon. The officials said that the vending zones will be increased to 50 to benefit people who lost jobs to become street vendors and land will be identified for the additional smart vending zones. A budget of Rs 500 crore was approved by the committee. Also, a milk booth would be set up in each ward and door-to-door collection of garbage would start in 21 new wards. Among other proposals like construction of 10 marriage halls was also agreed by members for which the proposal will be sent to the government within a weeks’ time. In addition, the working committee members also passed the proposal to impose user fees on the open gym at Gandhi Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centres-scheme-to-benefit-street-vendors-in-ukhand/articleshow/78263046.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Home guard burnt alive: Wife, her paramour arrested||BELINDA (WARANGAL RURAL): A home guard was allegedly killed by his wife and her lover late on Sunday night. The incident that took place at Appalraopet village in Nekkonda mandal came to light on Tuesday when the man’s parents approached police. Jyothi and her alleged paramour Jilla Raju killed Dushyanth Singh and burnt his body, police said. Soon after, the duo mixed the ashes in a lake in the village. The 40-year-old home guard worked in warangal traffic wing, while his wife Jyothi ran a small tailoring shop in the mandal headquarters where she lived with their two children, circle inspector P Tirumal said. While her husband was away at work, she grew close to Jilla Raju from Appalraopet. When Duryanth Singh came to know of their affair, they hatched a plan to kill him. Police suspect the duo on Sunday night took him to Appalraopet and gave him alcohol until midnight. When he was in an inebriated condition, they burnt him alive and spread his ashes in the lake. The accused are in police custody and a case has been registered at Nekkonda police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-guard-burnt-alive-wife-her-paramour-arrested/articleshow/78264202.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Complete property registrations within 15 days: Telangana CM to officials||HYDERABAD: With lakhs of non-agriculture properties pending for registration, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed officials to register houses, plots, flats (in apartment complexes) and other properties both in rural and urban areas online within 15 days. The chief minister said officials of both panchayat raj and municipal departments should ensure 100% registration of properties online before Dharani web portal becomes operational. The state has recently announced that all registrations of all properties should be done based on data available on Dharani web portal. Properties (non-agriculture) in urban areas would be registered by the registration and stamps department, while agriculture land would be registered by the revenue department. KCR held a review meeting on designing of the Dharani portal, which is part of implementation of the new Revenue Act on Tuesday. “Municipal officials and panchayat raj department officials at district, mandal and village level should complete online registration of properties. To speed up the process, a coordination meeting with district panchayat officers (DPO) and mandal panchayat development officers (MPDOs) should be held. Officials should give information to the people to help them register their properties online,” the CM said. He also suggested officials take necessary caution in maintaining land records in a transparent manner through the Dharani portal. Besides online registration of properties, flying squads would be formed to undertake surprise checks on how Vaikunta Dhams were being constructed in the villages, creation of dump yards, distribution of six saplings to each house under Haritha Haram programme, how tractors purchased by panchayats to transport garbage from houses and villages were put to use etc., Meanwhile, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the Union ministry of environment and forest has given permission to resume 409.53 hectares of forest land for the construction of 10 TMC capacity reservoir at Kesavapuram in Medchal-Malkajgiri district. The reservoir is being constructed for drinking water needs of Greater Hyderabad. A letter in this regard from the Centre reached the Telangana forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complete-property-registrations-within-15-days-kcr-to-officials/articleshow/78264236.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 23, 2020||Pune||25-yr-old tests Covid positive twice in 2 months||PUNE: A 25-year-old woman has tested positive for Covid-19 again, after first contracting it in July. Doctors suspect this is yet another case of reinfection in the city. Pune’s first such suspected case was reported at Ruby hospital in August. Specialists in Hong Kong, who in August had established the world’s first confirmed case of reinfection, had used genome sequencing to show two different virus strains in a man in his 30s. But doctors in India have not been able to verify all reinfection events because in many suspect cases, the patients’ first swab samples were not preserved. Infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag, who is treating the 25-year-old woman, said he’s consulting with the National Insitute of Virology to determine if the patient has indeed contracted Covid-19 a second time. Prayag said her swab sample from the September 18 test will be analysed to see if the virus is part of a strain that is different from the one that was circulating in the region in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-yr-old-tests-ve-twice-in-2-months/articleshow/78264246.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Veteran Cong leader Inam dies of corona||Jaipur: Congress leader and former Rajasthan minister Zakia Inam dies of Covid-19 at the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) on Tuesday. She was admitted at the hospital on Monday evening after she complained of breathlessness. Inam is survived by a daughter. Inam was a three-time MLA from Tonk and served as a minister twice. As a minister, she had handled medical and health and women and child development portfolios. She was elected to the assembly from Tonk in 1985, 1998 and 2008. However, she lost 2013 election. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and other leaders condoled her death. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot Tweeted, “My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of Congress leader and former minister Zakia Inam ji. May the Almighty give strength to her family members to bear this loss. May her soul rest in peace.” Pilot, who represents Tonk assembly seat, tweeted, “I deeply condole the demise of Zakia Inam, former minister and former legislator from Tonk. While holding the post of former minister and MLA, she did many important works for the development of the state and region.” Health minister Raghu Sharma said Inam was active in resolving grievances of people throughout her life and contributed significantly towards maintaining communal harmony along with social service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veteran-cong-leader-inam-dies-of-corona/articleshow/78265360.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of cold storage facilities hits Telangana farmers||HYDERABAD: Farmers from the state are going to Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Nagpur, Delhi and even Dehradun to store their agriculture produce in cold storage units. Though the state has cold storage facilities with a capacity of about 15 lakh metric tonnes, it is not only insufficient but a majority of these cold storages belong to private agencies. The state needs at least three times more cold storage capacity as the sowing area has crossed 1.32 crore acres and a bumper crop of various varieties including vegetables, fruits, chillies, tamarind, turmeric is expected. Due to the shortage of cold storage facilities in the state, the government is not only incurring heavy post-harvest losses on fruits, agriculture and other products such as red chillies, tamarind and turmeric but even farmers are incurring additional expenditure on transportation and rentals for cold storage charges in other states. Komandla Gopal Reddy, a farmer from Kammapalli village of Narsampet mandal in Warangal district, told TOI that at least 200 truck loads of red chillies are transported from Narsampatnam mandal alone to cold storage units in Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Nagpur and Dehradun every year. “There are private-managed cold storages in Warangal district but the management demands more money. It is a business tactic. Those farmers, who cannot afford transportation and rentals for cold storage facilities in other states, sell off their agriculture produce to the private cold-storage unit managements in their respective districts in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-cold-storage-facilities-hits-t-farmers/articleshow/78264244.cms||Roushan Ali
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: EPS says explanation will be sought from SRB on his criticism of farm bills||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said explanation would be sought from the party Rajya Sabha member S R Balasubramaniam (SRB) for criticising the agriculture bills during the debate in the House. SRB’s views were diametrically opposite to the party’s stand, which EPS himself had made clear a day earlier. The lone party MP in the Lok Sabha had supported the bills too. Interestingly, including SRB, all AIADMK members supported the bills in the RS. Palaniswami was responding to mediapersons’ queries at Ramanathapuram and Madurai. The CM said the MP had made it clear that it was his personal opinion and not that of the party. On the reasons for supporting the bills, he said, “We will support anything that benefits farmers and people of Tamil Nadu and oppose anything that affects them”. He said some parts of the Central bills had already come into existence in Tamil Nadu through a legislation that the state had passed last year. It was benefiting farmers, he said. Ironically, the DMK, which is opposing the Central legislations, had supported the state legislation, which is identical in nature. “Misled by politicians, who lack understanding of the agriculture sector, there are protests by farmers. The opposition parties also are protesting,” he said. The CM said the bills would not affect the minimum support price, which is already in vogue, and urged the farmer community not to heed to the false propaganda of the opposition. He rubbished the claim that corporates and traders would gain control of the farm lands. Hereafter, farmers will not have to destroy crops owing to steep fall in prices of commodities, especially tomatoes, he said. Reacting to the demand for a second capital, he said, “Every district is asking (to be announced as second capital). How many can we announce?” Responding to a question on rise in custodial deaths in the state, he said such deaths would be probed and the government would take action against those guilty. Palaniswami took a dig at Stalin saying he (EPS) was meeting people in person, unlike DMK chief M K Stalin, who was meeting people online. “Sitting at home, sporting goggles, gloves, mask and shoes, he is meeting people online,” said EPS. “I think he is consulting astrologer,” he said, reacting to Stalin’s claim that his party would come to power in 8 months. “People will decide who will come to power and not Stalin,” he added. Asked what would be the party’s stand if Sasikala, on her release from prison, decided to work for AIADMK, EPS quipped, “The question is unnecessary now”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-says-explanation-will-be-sought-from-srb-on-his-criticism-of-farm-bills/articleshow/78265357.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||Tie-ups with doctor's groups on the cards for nCoV care||PUNE: The civic and district administration will join hands with doctors’ associations to strengthen municipal health facilities and deal with the manpower shortage at private hospitals and the makeshift jumbo treatment hubs amid the spread of Covid-19. “The issue of non-availability of skilled staffers for handling Covid-19 patients at private hospitals as well as the civic facilities was discussed at a meeting chaired by health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday. After that, the doctors associations have been urged to offer services at the hospitals,” Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar told the media on Tuesday. “The doctors, who have kept their clinics closed and are free now, can come forward to work in the hospitals. A meting on this was held on Tuesday and the doctors have principally approved such a tie-up. The formalities for this will be soon completed,” the civic chief said. PMC officials said groups such as the Association of Physicians of India and paediatrics’ association had been approached for the tie-up. Doctors representing the associations stated that they could provide workforce and help operationalize 500 beds in the municipal and private hospitals. The associations had worked with the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in the early stage of the pandemic, when the jumbo hospitals were not set up. PMC officials said a similar arrangement could be worked out with the doctors’ associations to treat Covid-19 patients at the ward office level. Nursing bureaux and other para-medical agencies would also be urged to be a part of this tie-up. The PMC has around 8,000 hospitals and clinics in areas under its jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tie-ups-with-docs-groups-on-the-cards-for-ncov-care/articleshow/78264240.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Jobless men try hands at burglaries, but in vain||RAJKOT: Four jobless youths, who had earlier made vain attempts at breaking into a gold finance company and a nationalized bank, were arrested just before they could make another similar strike, in the city late on Monday night. While patrolling police noticed the four persons sitting in the dark near Field Marshall Chowk on 80 foot Road and suspected that they were having liquor. However, on checking, they found several tools like cutters, hammers and others. On questioning, they confessed that they were planning to target some ‘big’ factor or a bank and loot large amounts of cash or valuables. Those arrested were Ravi Chauhan (27), Anil Tavia (21), Vishal Dhalvaniya (21) and Rahul Tavia (19). Their two other friends Deepak Sarvaiya and Sahil Lahiya are yet to be arrested. Addressing reporters, HM Gadhvi, police inspector, detection of crime branch (DCB), said, “They were jobless for the last eight months and had no source of income. So, they decided to take to burglary. Chauhan was the mastermind and responsible for carrying of the recce to strike.” Chauhan used to work at a food stall while Tavia and Dhalvaniya worked at the adjacent tea stall in Rajkot about a year-and-a-half ago, so they knew each other well. Rahul used to work as a farm labourer. Except Chauhan, who lives in Rajkot, all others are natives of Modhuka village of the district’s Vinchhiya taluka. “As they were without any work, the four got together earlier this month and decided to steal wires from windmills. But Chauhan suggested that they should plan something big so that they get a huge amount of cash or valuables at one go,” said Gadhvi. Two earlier failed attempts of break-ins came to light after their arrest and confession. However, the two failed attempts did not deter them as they were desperate for money. On Monday night, they gathered again and decided to break into either Rajkot Nagrik Sahakari Bank or some ‘big’ factory. Gadhvi said except Chauhan, who was earlier arrested in an office under Prohibition Act, none of the other accused have a criminal background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jobless-men-try-hands-at-burglaries-but-in-vain/articleshow/78261812.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||‘Wear masks, follow norms’||JAIPUR: While the state government is facilitating people during the pandemic allowing them earn their livelihood even though cases are surging, some people are violating norms of social distancing and not wearing masks. Top government officials of the two worst-hit districts believe that people should understand the importance of taking precautions to ward off risks of getting infected. “Lockdown brings along with it a lot of inconvenience and also it affected daily wage earners. Lockdown is a temporary measure and it could slow down the rate of infection, but it causes a lot of incontinence to people. It is better people should take precaution like wearing masks and follow social distancing norms. We have launched a campaign ‘No Mask No Entry’ in markets to create awareness,” said Dr Samit Sharma, divisional commissioner, Jodhpur. Jodhpur is one of the two most affected districts of the state, the other being Jaipur. In Jaipur too, district collector Antar Singh Nehra is running a campaign to create awareness on Covid. “For enforcement, the government has already implemented Section 144 of Cr PC. Our main focus is now on helping patients getting proper treatment. We have been increasing number of beds for treatment in government hospitals. Even increasing number of private hospitals have started providing Covid treatment. A 50-bed private hospital has got the permission for treating patients in Sanganer,” said Nehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wear-masks-follow-norms/articleshow/78265368.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Fishing contractor in Coimbatore faces government land encroachment charges||COIMBATORE: A fishing contractor has encroached acres of government land around the Singanallur lake, said a city-based activist, who petitioned the district collector’s office in this regard on Monday. Activist M Masana Muthu said, “M Siva alias Meenkadai Siva, who was awarded the fishing contract at Singanallur lake for the past 20 to 25 years, has encroached upon about 24 acres around the waterbody. Among the encroached land is a 10ft-wide road for about .75km and a plot of public works department.” Pointing out that Siva had planted coconut trees on the encroached land, the activist said the district administration was incurring huge revenue loss because of the encroachment. Muthu said he was planning to send notices to as many as 16 departments, including fisheries department, city corporation, revenue department and survey department. “Ever since I submitted the petition, I have been threatened by Siva. I am scared.” Another activist, who requested anonymity, said, “As Siva is carrying out fishing activities in the lake, he has blocked most of the outlet channels to prevent water from flowing out and ensure quantity of fishes. A sluice gate is completely damaged. He has also encroached upon five outlet channels that are located adjacent to his farmland. In the case of flood, there is no way for the excess water to flow out. It would lead to bund to breach.” When contacted, Siva refuted the allegations. “I have been carrying out agriculture activities only on my land and have not encroached upon any government property. I own close to 15 acres land near the lake,” he said. He acknowledged that a road was passing through his farmland. “The road remains as it is, and I am ready to render help to develop the road for the welfare of the public.” He said Muthu was his relative and acting purposely against him owing to some family issue. Officials at the collector’s office, meanwhile, assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fishing-contractor-faces-govt-land-encroachment-charges/articleshow/78264312.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Sale of illegal HTBt cotton shoots up||HYDERABAD: Illegal sale of the unauthorised herbicide-tolerant (HT) cotton seeds has become rampant in Telangana, with consignments being smuggled into the state from Maharashtra, the Union ministry of agriculture has found. Although HT cotton seeds are not approved for use across the country, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat have reported the highest sale of the seeds. Adilabad and Asifabad in Telangana, the districts bordering Maharashtra, saw the highest instances of sale. In Maharashtra, HT seeds worth 1.1 crore were seized during 2020-21, mostly from districts bordering Telangana. Union minister of agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar said on Monday that HT seeds have been seized from Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Dhule, Beed, Jalna, Buldhana, Yavatmal, Amravati, Nagpur, Wardha, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts and 40 FIRs have been lodged against culprits in Maharashtra. “The Gujarat government had reported a total of five cases of illegal sale of HT cotton seeds during 2019-20 across four districts. FIRs were registered against all accused. The Telangana government has reported that during 2019-20, no samples drawn from dealers were found to be HT,” said Tomar. He added that spurious cotton seeds sourced from other areas that make entry into the state are being effectively checked and offenders are being nabbed by police officials. Telangana has alerted quality control inspectors and district authorities to be vigilant against the illegal sale of HT seeds and duly take samples in all suspicious cases. “Inter-ministerial Field Inspection and Scientific Evaluation Committee (FISEC) has been constituted in the state to check the presence of spurious seeds and contain its flow,” Tomar said. The FISEC has suggested methods for immediate action, short-term plans and medium-term plans to curb the spread of HT cotton seeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sale-of-illegal-htbt-cotton-shoots-up/articleshow/78264248.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||OSD to Uttarakhand CM dies of Covid-19||DEHRADUN: Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Gopal Rawat, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. Gopal Rawat had tested positive last month and was admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh. The chief minister expressed his deep condolence on the death of Gopal Rawat. "The death of Gopal Rawat is a great personal loss for me. He was an extremely skilled and capable officer. I pray that his soul rests in peace. I also pray that his family gets the courage to bear this huge loss.” Gopal Rawat was one among the five OSDs to the chief minister. Of the five OSD’s, three, including Rawat, have tested positive for the virus so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/osd-to-ukhand-cm-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/78263060.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 23, 2020||Dehradun||Govt order released for CM Solar Swarozgar Yojana||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand on Tuesday evening released the government order for CM Solar Swarozgar Yojana. The ambitious project of the state government allows a person to set up a 25 MW solar plant. Through this project, the state government aims to provide job opportunities to over 10,000 youth in the state. An estimated cost of Rs 10 lakh is required for setting up the plant. Recently, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had said that a solar plant will help an individual save Rs 70,000 to Rs 75,000 per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-order-released-for-cm-solar-swarozgar-yojana/articleshow/78263092.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Ventilators lie unutilised due to shortage of doctors||Jaisalmer: The state government has given 17 ventilators, including 12 to Jaisalmer and five to Pokhran government hospitals. However, they were lying unutilised due to lack of doctors. The serious patients are being referred to Jodhpur and a large number of corona patients have died while undergoing treatment in Jodhpur. On Tuesday, there were 42 fresh cases of Covid-19 in Jaisalmer district. On Sunday, 54 cases were reported. The condition of some patients is serious as they are being referred to Jodhpur which is a five hours journey from Jaisalmer. In Jodhpur, the government hospitals are full and patients face a lot of problems in getting admission. The main reason behind referring serious patients to Jodhpur is non-availability of ventilator facility and posts of main doctors are lying vacant. There are only two physicians in the Jaisalmer hospital of which duty of one of the doctors is to take care of patients at Covid centre, while the other takes care of patients in the hospital. There is no additional doctor to run the ventilator whereas there is need of minimum two to three physicians, cardiologists etc. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said that all the 17 ventilators in the district are in operational condition and oxygen and other resources are available. He said that posts of cardiologist, physician are lying vacant due to which ventilators cannot be used for corona patients. Serious patients are referred to Jodhpur on time and Jodhpur divisional commissioner Dr Samit Sharma is monitoring the situation, he said. Jaisalmer government hospital PMO Dr VK Verma said that ventilator, oxygen and other facilities are available in hospital, but there is shortage of doctors for running them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ventilators-lie-unutilised-due-to-shortage-of-doctors/articleshow/78265362.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Assembly passes four key bills||GANDHINAGAR: Four key bills were passed on the second day of the monsoon session of the state assembly on Tuesday. These are the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (Amendment) bill, 2020, Industrial Disputes (Gujarat amendment) Bill, 2020, ‘The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) (Gujarat Amendment) Bill, 2020 and ‘The Factories Act (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The opposition Congress, led by Jamalpur MLA Imran Khedawala, moved resolutions to reject all four bills by raising several objections. While Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state, home and law affairs, moved the PASA Act amendment bill, the three other bills were introduced by labour minister Dilip Thakor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assembly-passes-four-key-bills/articleshow/78263080.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath picks land near Jewar airport for UP’s Film City||LUCKNOW: Days after announcing that India's biggest and most beautiful Film City would be established in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that a 1,000 acre plot under the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority has been identified for the project. The site, located in Sector 21, is barely 6 km away from the proposed Jewar International Airport in Gautam Budh Nagar and an hour’s drive from Delhi. The CM held a meeting with over 30 film-makers, actors and technicians on Tuesday to chart out a structure for the project which will contain production studios, outdoor locations, post production facilities, special effects studios, hotels, workshops, an amusement park, a film university, a film museum and space for retail and shopping. It is also proposed to have a data centre along with pre-production and post-production infrastructure, processing labs, VFX and digital technology. The CM said that his government would ensure that the Film City was developed as a dedicated infotainment zone. “My government is aware of the present trend of OTT and media streaming platforms and hence, we will provide high capacity, world class data centre along with all pre-production and the post-production infrastructure, processing labs, VFX and digital technology of international level. We have locations, we have cultural diversity, we have man power and now a Film City with state-of-the art facilities,” he said. Among experts from the film industry who attended Tuesday’s meeting with the CM, art director Nitin Desai offered to set up the film city on the lines of what he has set up in Mumbai. Sandeep Singh of Vistas Media, a Singapore-based company, has offered to set up a Film Academy with an initial investment of US $ 10 million. The chief operating officer of the company, Piiyush Singh, said that they have submitted a letter of intent to the government for setting up a film academy in the first phase, after which they would like to expand into post production facilities and setting up incubation centres for media entrepreneurs. However, while welcoming the Film City as a necessary alternative, film makers were of the view that the location of the project should not be made into a UP versus Maharashtra match but the two should work in tandem for better quality film production. The land identified for the project was among three proposals submitted by the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authorities. The current location enjoys several advantages including large open area. The total land available at the given site is about 1,000 acres of which 780 acres is industrial land. Its proximity to the upcoming international airport, expressways, Delhi, Mathura etc will lend it easier access. As per the preliminary plan already drafted, the area will be divided into five zones that will consist of entrance and office, shooting area and residential, theme park and outdoor location, university and studio rooms, and airport. Desai said that about 80% of technicians and workforce in the Mumbai film industry is from UP and after the industry comes up in UP itself, availability of manpower will never be a problem. Lyricist Manoj Muntasir said that the local ethos and culture of UP would get a further boost if a film institute and music academy are also built in UP. Actor Anupam Kher emphasised on the need for training and asked that training facilities also be developed. Producer and director Satish Kaushik said that the project would offer a great alternative to film professionals and aspirants and that the location of the proposed Film City caters to a large geography and demography of the Northern Region. Watch Yogi Adityanath picks land near Jewar airport for UP’s Film City||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-picks-land-near-jewar-airport-for-ups-film-city/articleshow/78265862.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 23, 2020||Pune||24x7 intensivist must at jumbo unit: Task force||PUNE: The 24x7 presence of an intensivist and meticulous record-keeping were among operational components found lacking at the CoEP jumbo Covid facility during a task-force inspection conducted on September 17. The inspection team also asked the private agency handling the facility to activate its 140-bed high-dependency unit — wards that are a step above the general ward but slightly lower than an ICU — by immediately hiring a skilled workforce. TOI has a copy of the inspection report. An intensivist is a medical specialist trained to handle the most critical patients. The CoEP facility, on paper, has as many as seven of these specialists but the task force recommended a few be present 24x7. “Not a single intensivist was present when we visited the facility although the agency said it has recruited seven. At least one of them needs to be present round-the-clock,” said a member of the inspection team. The task force members also found a dormant 140-bed HDU. "No staff had been appointed for the HDUs. Additional manpower is needed to make the wards operational," the member said. The 800-bed CoEP jumbo facility has 600 oxygen beds in the general ward and 200 intensive care beds, including 140 HDUs. The task force found that 200 of the 600 general beds were functional. The report said, "One doctor, 10 nurses and one attendant were on duty in the general ward. The agency authorities informed us that 55 nurses have been appointed for the ICU and 45 have been recruited for the general ward. As per the agency authorities, another 50 nurses are expected to join in a day or two." The task force members found cleanliness, security arrangements, air conditioning at the site up to the mark. The Pune Municipal Corporation's health chief, Ramchandra Hankare, could not be contacted for his comments on the inspection report. The jumbo medical care facility is a joint venture of the PMC, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), Medbrow Healthcare and AAA Health Care. It was built at an estimated cost of Rs 80 crore — with some of the expenses split between the state and the local agencies. The facility hit headlines some weeks ago after it ran into severe operational issues, registering at least 30 deaths shortly after it was opened to patients. After the first agency hired to manage operations pulled out, two new private bodies were hired to oversee patient care at the site. In early September, the civic body and the district administration moved to appoint three officials for putting in place a 24x7 system to monitor the jumbo facility's functioning. Officials had said the three supervisors will work eight-hour shifts to oversee the management of beds and ventilators. An increase in manpower was also demanded by the team that carried out the inspection. The team members particularly focused on the HDUs at the site, which are wards for patients who need more monitoring than what is possible in a general ward, but slightly less than what is given inside a full-fledged ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-jumbo-facility-needs-24x7-intensivist-proper-record-keeping-inspection-team/articleshow/78264263.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Rajkot patient acted in unstable manner’||GANDHINAGAR: Deputy chief minister and health minister Nitin Patel told the assembly on Tuesday that the Rajkot civil hospital patient, a video of whom went viral showing him being pinned to the floor by security guards, acted in a ‘mentally unstable manner’. Responding to a notice under Rule 116 by Congress MLAs Punja Vansh, Lalit Kagathara and Lalit Vasoya, Patel said the patient – Prabhakaran Patil had got himself admitted to a private hospital for a kidney ailment, but was transferred to the civil hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. “On the morning of September 9, the patient attempted to attack a patient next to him. He also removed his clothes and was randomly abusing people. He climbed up the windows and abused those who were trying to overpower him. He was in an unstable state of mind,” Patel said. The minister said while all the actions of the patient were recorded on CCTV cameras and officials have said this earlier as well, only the video showing him being overpowered by security personnel and pinned to the floor was released to the media. “Our corona warriors have been working round the clock and such incidences of incorrect videos have made them victims of pubic ire and affects their morale,” the minister said. The minister however did not specify the cause of death of the patient in his reply. “What happened in the Rajkot hospital is unacceptable. Everybody has seen how the patient was manhandled in the hospital,” Kagathara earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajkot-patient-acted-in-unstable-manner/articleshow/78263107.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||State calls for tenders to operate Verna dry waste unit||Panaji: Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) has invited experienced bidders to operate the material recovery facility for dry waste treatment and disposal at Verna Industrial Estate. GWMC undertakes collection of non-biodegradable dry waste from panchayats/local bodies and educational institutions, and is sent to its material recovery facilities (MRF). The participating bidder should have desired knowledge and experience in handling dry waste for the past two years. “The MRF shall receive approximately 5-10 tonne per day (TPD) of dry waste, and its daily disposal will be the bidder’s responsibility. The period for operation will be for five years, or as per mutual agreement by GWMC and the bidder,” states the tender document. GWMC will provide a shed of around 450 sqm, preferably in Verna Industrial Estate, and ensure power and water connections. It will also assist the successful bidder in obtaining necessary permissions/NOC/authorisations to operate the facility. The corporation will transport the dry waste to the shed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-calls-for-tenders-to-operate-verna-dry-waste-unit/articleshow/78265393.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||40% of Jaipur’s total cases reported in just 22 days of Sept||JAIPUR: September is turning out to be worst month for Jaipur in terms of surging Covid-19 cases. In 22 days, the city has reported more than 40% of the cases it has reported till date. On Tuesday, it reported the biggest single-day jump of 398 new infections, taking the overall tally to 18,242. From 10,791 cases on September 1, the figure touched 18,242 cases in just 22 days. Active cases have also increased significantly in Jaipur from 3,864 to 6,730 in 22 days. Since September 6, Jaipur has been reporting more than 300 new infections daily. “People should take necessary precautions to ward off risk of getting infected with the virus. More persons are testing positive for the virus daily in the city. Wear mask, maintain social distancing and also wash hand frequently and practice hand hygiene. Don’t go out unless you have important work to do. Aviod crowded gatherings,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). For providing correct information about Covid and to help people within half-an-hour, the state government has set up a war room (helpline number 181) to help needy people. Four RAS rank officials and four health department doctors have been deployed at the war room for helping patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-of-jaipurs-total-cases-reported-in-just-22-days-of-sept/articleshow/78265374.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Cauvery-Gundar project will benefit one lakh acres in Ramnad||MADURAI: The Rs 14,000 crore Cauvery-Gundar link canal project spanning 259km to bring excess water from Cauvery will benefit 1 lakh acres under cultivation in the dry Ramanathapuram district, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. He was speaking while chairing the review meeting of Covid-19 situation and various developmental works in the coastal district on Tuesday. The project will be executed in three phases – 118 kms from Cauvery to Vellar in phase I, 108 kms from Vellar to Vaigai in phase II and 33 kms from Vaigai to Gundar in the last phase. This year, Rs 700 crore has been sanctioned for the project that will also benefit Karur, Trichy and Pudukottai districts. “On completion 1,500 cusecs of excess water from river Cauvery that is flowing into the sea and getting wasted will be diverted to Ramanathapuram district. It will fill tanks and recharge the underground water table in the district,” the CM said. He also highlighted the works that have been executed under the Kudimaramathu scheme. While lauding the efforts taken by Ramanathapuram district administration to bring down fresh Covid-19 cases, he said it should be brought down to zero. The CM also chaired separate interactions with representatives from micro, small and medium enterprises, farmer bodies and women self-help groups. Earlier, he inaugurated various schemes completed at Rs 24 crore and laid the foundation stone for projects to be executed at Rs 70 crore. Minister for information and publicity Kadambur C Raju, Ramanathapuram district collector Veera Raghava Rao and officials were present at the meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cauvery-gundar-proj-will-benefit-1l-acres-in-ramnad/articleshow/78265370.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||Man rapes five-year-old girl in Morbi||RAJKOT: A five-year-old is battling for life after allegedly being raped by a 22-year-old man in Morbi on Monday evening. The accused, Ravi Badhel, was traced down by the locals, thrashed and handed over to police. Badhel, a native of Madhya Pradesh, used to work as a painter with a local contractor. Police said that the girl, whose father works as labourer in a ceramic unit, used to daily go to a temple close to her house at around 7:30pm to have ‘prasad’. Badhel lived in a rented house near the survivor's house and knew about this routine. "On Monday evening, when the girl did not return home at her usual time, her parents started searching and found her injured and bleeding in bushes near the temple. She was taken to Morbi Civil Hospital and late in the night rushed to Rajkot government children hospital as her condition deteriorated due to excessive bleeding," said RB Tarparia, investigating officer, Morbi B-division police station. Meanwhile, locals living in the area had seen Badhel near the temple and traced him. They thrashed and handed him over to the police. The girl’s parents are natives of Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-rapes-five-year-old-girl/articleshow/78263156.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Sacred gifts presented ahead of Garuda Seva||Tirupati: As per tradition, special garlands of tulsi, parrots of betel leaves and a set of silk robes from the Andal Goda Devi temple in Srivilliputtur in Tamil Nadu were presented at the temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala on Tuesday. The gifts from the Srivilliputtur temple were presented by the head priest of the temple to HH Sri Ramanuja Pedda Jeeyar Swamy at the Jeeyar Mutt and were later carried in a colourful procession to the Tirumala temple. Speaking to reporters, TTD’s Pedda Jeeyar Swamy said the presentation of the garlands on behalf of the Goda Devi temple to Lord Venkateswara a day ahead of the Garuda seva was part of the holy dictum set by saint Sri Ramanujacharya. The Jeeyar added that Lord Venkateswara would be adorned with the garlands and the silk robes on the eve of the Garuda seva. According to legend, Goda devi is an ardent devotee of the Lord, who considered her a consort of Lord Venkateswara. Meanwhile, a set of nine umbrellas meant to protect the Lord were presented to TTD by a Chennai-based trust on Tuesday. TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy, EO Anil Kumar Singhal, additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, trust board member J Sekhar Reddy and other officials took part in the fourth day of the annual Brahmotsavams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sacred-gifts-presented-ahead-of-garuda-seva/articleshow/78265701.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Harish seeks release of Rs 2,600 cr dues||Hyderabad: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Tuesday presented a strong case in favour of Telangana for immediate release of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) dues of Rs 2,641 crore by the central government before the next GST council meeting on October 5. Participating in a group of ministers (GoM) meeting, presided by its convener and Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, through a video conference on IGST settlement, Harish said Telangana needed the amount to fight Covid-19 in the state. “It is crucial to get fund release approval by GoM before the ensuing council meeting or else Telangana has to wait three more months for IGST funds, he said Sushil Kumar Modi said the GoM would again meet on October 1 to look into demands of various states, before October 5 council meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-seeks-release-of-rs-2600-cr-dues/articleshow/78264262.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Record 1,912 Covid infections in a day, active cases over 18,000||JAIPUR: The state on Tuesday reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,912 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,18,793. The virus also claimed 15 lives taking the casualty count to 1,367. For the last five days in a row, the state has been setting new records in single-day spikes. Active cases also touched a new high of 18614, up from 18,245 on Monday, 18,184 on Sunday and 17,997 on Saturday. Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota are the three worst-hit districts which collectively accouted for 66% of total active cases in the state. Currently, Jaipur has 6,730 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (3,199) and Kota (2,327). The three districts collectively have 12,256 active cases out of total 18,614 in the state. Amid surging cases, there is something to cheer about. The count of recovered persons is nearing the 1lakh mark. As on Tuesday, the number of recovered cases stood at 98,812 with 1,258 more persons beating the virus. Udaipur reported its 44th Covid death, Tonk 16th, Sikar 29th, Pali 57th, Jodhpur 134th, Jaisalmer 10th, Dungarpur 14th, Chittorgarh 16th, Bharatpur 76th, Barmer 28th, Ajmer 97th, Alwar 35th, Banswara 12th, with two more deaths, Jaipur toll rose to 313. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (398), Jodhpur (303), Udaipur (102), Alwar (93), Jalore (92), Ajmer (88), Pali (83), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (67), Dungarpur (57), Nagaur (52), Kota (43), Churu (35), Jhunjhunu (35), Sirohi (35), Bharatpur (34), Dausa (32), Rajsamand (31), Tonk (31), Sriganganagar (29), Chittorgarh (26), Hanumangarh (22), Jhalawar (20), Sikar (18), Karauli (18), Barmer (16), Sawai Madhopur (15), Dholpur (11), Banswara (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (9), Bundi (8), Pratapgarh (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-1912-covid-infections-in-a-day-active-cases-over-18k/articleshow/78267502.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Traders in Masi streets get jittery as road dug up again ahead of Diwali||MADURAI: Just when traders in Masi Streets heaved a sigh of relief following the completion of work on underground drainage, storm water drain and pavement construction, which are part of the Masi Street Landscaping works under the smart city scheme, the corporation has started digging the road again for laying concrete roads under the same project. They have urged the corporation to carry out the works without affecting trade since they are relying on Diwali sales to revive their business. Traders say they had faced hardships including dull business due to the prolonged works for months. Corporation officials say that underground drainage, storm water drain and pavement construction works have been completed in South and West Masi Streets. Work is under way in East and North Veli Streets while the road work will be carried out in West and South Veli streets first. Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, said “At present, we are witnessing just 40% of the sales compared to last year. Just when the business is limping back to normal, they have dug up the roads again. Diwali is now the only hope for us to help us out of financial stress. We will be heavily affected if the road works are not halted till Diwali.” When contacted, City Engineer S Arasu said they will carry out roads works without affecting traders. Roads works do not take much time, he said, adding that he has given instruction to the concerned contractor to take up works batch by batch only. “Only 400 metres have been dug first to lay road. The next batch will be dug only after laying this,” he said. He said he is confident of completing the works well before Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-jittery-as-road-dug-up-again-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/78265377.cms||V Devanathan
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Night patrol at 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Tuesday directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to start night patrolling at Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots from October 15 onwards. After holding a review meeting of the pollution hotspots, EPCA said the presence of garbage and construction & demolition (C & D) waste was one of the key problem areas identified in most pollution hotspots. It directed DPCC to formulate a plan for the removal of such waste. The body said a plan was also required for the protection of vacant land near these pollution hotspots, protecting which would ensure no fresh waste was dumped, which in turn could be set on fire. Open burning of waste is one of the key local factors, which contributes to high pollution in the capital. Sunita Narain, member of EPCA, said directions had been issued to start night patrolling from October 15 onwards, with a review meeting to be held in the next fortnight. “Garbage dumped in the open and C&D waste thrown in vacant plots are problems common to almost all pollution hotspots. Burning garbage may lead to air pollution, while C&D waste can contribute to dust pollution,” added Narain. Last year, Central Pollution Control Board and DPCC had identified 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi. The hotspots are Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, R K Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri. Apart from the 13 hotspots in Delhi, six others were identified in NCR towns- two in Faridabad and one each in Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwadi and Sahibabad. EPCA says both Narela and Bawana have, however, shown improvement over the last few months. DPCC earlier this month had also identified five high-polluting areas in Delhi-NCR, which are adjacent to existing pollution hotspots. These five high-polluting areas are Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Peeragarhi, Rohtak road, Azadpur and Sarai Rohilla. DPCC said a detailed report has been submitted to EPCA already, identifying polluting locations around Delhi’s hotspots as well and the remedial action taken. “Some short term and long term measures have already been taken while others are still ongoing,” said a DPCC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/night-patrol-at-13-pollution-hotspots/articleshow/78264271.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||FCI extends deadline for rice procurement from Nellore district||AMARAVATI: A day after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed the police to withdraw the cases against farmers, the civil supplies department stepped in to bail out farmers from the procurement crisis. Civil supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar held discussions with district collector KVN Chakradhar Rao and decided to move the stocks from the godowns in the district. At least 30,000 metric tonnes rice procured during the last Rabi season would be moved to other districts to provide space for procurement of kharif crop. Meanwhile, Food Corporation of India (FCI) extended the deadline for procurement of rice from Nellore district by one month following vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu’s intervention. Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy also reviewed the situation with the officials in Nellore on Tuesday and asked them to achieve better coordination between different departments. “Lack of coordination between different departments is the main problem for the current crisis. We will take all possible measures to help farmers as interests of farmers are paramount for our government,” said Mekapati. He said that a senior officer of joint collector rank would be appointed as coordinator to handle paddy procurement by millers and stock relocation. The minister assured that entire stock of Nellore-3354 variety would be procured by the state government. “We will procure the entire stock. There is no need for farmers to worry about delay in procurement as the deadline has been extended,” said Mekapati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fci-extends-deadline-for-rice-procurement-from-nellore-dist/articleshow/78265736.cms||Samdani MN
September 23, 2020||Pune||Online fraudsters may prey more on victims of job loss||PUNE: The cyber crime department of the Pune police has recorded 438 complaints of online job frauds from January to September 20, this year. It is slightly higher than the 402 complaints registered in the corresponding period for 2019. The police expect more cases in the remaining three months this year considering the job cuts triggered by the lockdown and as people go online to search for new jobs. Last year, a total of 430 online and offline job fraud cases took place. Senior inspector Jayram Paygude of the cyber crime police said,“We have reasons to believe that there could be a spurt in online job frauds once the lockdown is completely over later this year. Many people upload resumes on web portals after a job loss or for better prospects. This also provides a chance to the fraudsters to execute their tricks.” “In the first four months, we received many complaints, but the numbers went down after the nationwide lockdown was announced and companies started resorting to job cuts,” Paygude said. The police said usually the suspects enrol as prospective employers on different job portals and access the resumes uploaded on these sites. They call their victims posing as company representatives or men from recruitment consultancy firms appointed by companies, including MNCs. When people are looking for jobs within India, the suspects conduct their online interviews or exchange emails with victims. The suspects then impress upon their victims that they have been selected for the job and seek different charges in the name of document processing fees, registration charges, document scrutiny charges etc. If the job is related to an overseas appointment, the suspects tell their victims to pay for visa fees, local taxes, travel or accommodation. “The suspects often give their bank account numbers to the victims and tell them to transfer money to these accounts. This way, they dupe their victims for amounts between Rs50,000 and Rs10 lakh,” Paygude said. Police investigations so far have revealed that the suspects in most cases have been operating from Delhi, Noida, Gurugram and other places. A 28-year-old woman from Chandannagar told TOI that she lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police station in February,, after fraudsters cheated her of Rs 7 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-fraudsters-may-prey-more-on-victims-of-job-loss/articleshow/78264264.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||MLC polls: EC notice for revision of electoral rolls||VIJAYAWADA: The Election Commission on Tuesday issued notification for revision of electoral rolls in Krishna, Guntur, East Godavari and West Godavari districts for MLC elections for Teachers’ constituencies. The commission has asked the state chief electoral officer (CEO) to ready the final list of voters for the two MLC constituencies by January 1, 2021. The term of Ramu Surya from East Godavari and West Godavari constituency and A S Ramakrishna from Krishna and Guntur constituency will expire on March 29, 2021. Though the two MLCs were elected as independents, they are associated with the TDP. Their retirements would bring down the TDP’s strength in the Legislative Council, giving a small edge to the ruling YSR Congress in the 58-member House. Though the YSRC had recommended for dissolution of the Legislative Council after opposition TDP stalled the passing of the capital bills, the party leadership is in favour of its continuation now as the TDP’s majority is scaling down, giving some relief to the ruling party. The election, which is likely to be held in February 2021, is important for both the ruling YSRC and the opposition TDP. The TDP, whose strength has come down to 23 in the 175-member assembly, would not like to lose even one seat in the Upper House, where it has majority to stall government business. The YSRC too wants majority in the House to keep TDP on the backfoot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mlc-polls-ec-notice-for-revision-of-electoral-rolls/articleshow/78265717.cms||Gopi Dara
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three held for private idols at Srikalahasti shrine||TIRUPATI: The urban police wing led by SP Avula Ramesh Reddy arrested three persons on Monday evening for their involvement in the installation of private idols at Srikalahasti on September 6. Speaking to reporters at the district police office, Ramesh Reddy said the urban police wing analysed CCTV footage inside and outside the Srikalahasti temple and identified three persons walking into the temple on September 6 with two idols, including a Siva Lingam and Nandi, in bags. Footage also showed the three walking out of the temple with empty bags. While analysing footage from outside the temple, the investigating team concluded that the trio travelled towards Tirupati on two-wheelers. After zeroing-in on the number plates, urban police wing nabbed the trio, identified as Pindi Sulavardhan, P Tirumalaiah and P Muni Sekhar, near Mitta Kandriga petrol bunk on the outskirts of Srikalahasti on Monday evening. Upon further questioning, the trio confessed that they installed the idols at the temple on the advice of an astrologer. “We were having a lot of financial problems. Our astrologer told us that all our problems will be solved if we install a Siva Lingam and a Nandi idol at the Srikalahasti temple. We procured stone idols in Tirupati and installed them at the Srikalahasti temple on September 6,” Pindi Sulavardhan confessed to the police. It may be recalled that the Srikalahasti temple administration suspended four staffers, including the chief priest and the chief security officer, following an uproar from various sections after the incident. Ramesh Reddy appreciated the efforts of additional SPs Muni Ramaiah and Anil Babu, DSPs Gangaiah and Muralidhar and other police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-held-for-pvt-idols-at-srikalahasti-shrine/articleshow/78265699.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||V Vijayasai Reddy seeks IIIT, CAT bench in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: YSRC Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy has urged the central government to set up a central administrative tribunal (CAT) bench and also an IIIT in Vizag. “Though AP has more than 50,000 central government employees, it still has no bench of CAT and petitioners have to travel to Hyderabad. Inter-state travel is a cause of great inconvenience to the petitioners. Vizag is the ideal place for a new CAT bench as it has many central government offices and organisations,” Vijayasai said. He also requested the government to set up an Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) in Vizag. “The IIM, which was set up in Vizag in 2015, is still functioning from a temporary campus in AU... The central government should facilitate completion of permanent structures for these institutes as early as possible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-seeks-iiit-cat-bench-in-vizag/articleshow/78265786.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Unlock 4.0: Kerala goes in for more relaxations||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of Unlock 4.0, the state government has brought in more relaxations in quarantine norms and functioning of government offices. In-house dining has also been permitted in hotels and restaurants across the state. As per the new order, all government offices including public sector undertakings shall function with 100% attendance by strictly following the Covid protocol. All those coming from outside the state shall be advised to undergo quarantine for seven days. “They can be tested for the virus on the seventh day after arrival and if tested negative, further quarantine of seven days is optional and not mandatory, though 14-day quarantine is desirable as per the health protocol,” the order says. It says those not getting tested on the seventh day would be advised to continue in quarantine for seven more days. "This will be applicable to international travellers also as they are either boarding the flight after tests or are tested on their arrival here,’’ chief secretary Vishwas Mehta said. The state had earlier implemented various guidelines issued by the Centre for Unlock 4.0, as part of which Metro services had begun operating. The Centre had also urged states not to impose any lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with it. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also said the state government was not planning any further lockdown despite the surge in cases, especially in Thiruvananthapuram. The Centre had also allowed social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons. It has permitted 50% teaching and non-teaching staff to attend schools for online teaching, tele-counselling and other related works. Open air theatres have also been allowed to function but the state government is yet to take a decision on this. Educational institutions will continue to remain closed for students and class activities up to September 30, as per the central directive. The restrictions on inter-state and intra-state travel have been lifted but the state has not taken any decision on opening swimming pools and entertainment parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/unlock-4-0-state-goes-in-for-more-relaxations/articleshow/78264311.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Emulate Andhra Pradesh’s approach to fight Covid-19: MP Lavu Sri Krishna Devarayulu||AMARAVATI: YSRC’s Narasaraopet MP Lavu Sri Krishna Devarayulu on Tuesday extended his party’s support to the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, saying the new law protects Covid-19 warriors from mob attacks and discrimination. Speaking on the bill in the Lok Sabha, Krishna said Covid-19 has redefined the word ‘warrior’ because doctors, medical staff, sanitation workers have been battling the pandemic from the frontline to keep 130 crore Indians safe. “The Epidemic Act, which was formed about 120 years ago when Bombay was struck by plague, needs to be overhauled. Lot of things have changed since then. A new epidemic law is the need of the hour considering today’s realities. The law should take a rights-based approach to protect citizens’ interests. It should clearly define the government’s duties and citizens’ rights during an epidemic,” said Krishna. Stating that AP has the highest per capita testing and recoveries in the country, the MP said the state’s efforts have highlighted the need to fight pandemic in a decentralised manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/emulate-aps-approach-to-fight-covid-19-mp/articleshow/78265705.cms||Samdani MN
September 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur faces ICU crunch as coronavirus spread spirals||JAIPUR: Amid surging Covid cases, Jodhpur is facing a difficult position in terms of arranging treatment and facilities for patients. Out of 138 ICU beds in government hospitals, 125 were occupied and of 31 ICU beds in private hospitals, 28 were occupied on September 20. Since, nearby districts such as Jalore, Sirohi, Barmer and Jaisalmer are lacking in facilities for Covid care, all patients from these districts are coming to Jodhpur for treatment making hospitals more crowded. Jodhpur is facing a crisis of ICU beds despite four private hospitals being turned into dedicated Covid hospitals. In Jaipur too, out of 460 Covid ICU beds, 394 are occupied. Health director (state) Dr KK Sharma rushed Jodhpur and returned to Jaipur on Tuesday and issued directions to nearby districts of Jodhpur division not to refer patients unnecessarily to Jodhpur. “I have issued directions to doctors in Jalore, Sirohi, Barmer and nearby districts not to refer patients to divisional headquarter unnecessarily. If patients can be treatment in district hospitals, they should provide treatment there. Our aim is to bring down mortality rate to zero and to achieve it we are ensuring all patients who need ventilator support or ICU bed should get it,” said Dr Sharma. The situation is quite worrisome in Pali, Jalore, Barmer, Jaisalmer and Sirohi districts where not a single Covid patient is undergoing treatment is on ventilator support. Except in Pali and Barmer where 13 ICU beds and six ICU beds, erspectively, are occupied, while in other districts such as Jalore, Barmer and Sirohi all ICU beds are lying vacant. The serious Covid patients from these districts are referred to Jodhpur making the situation worse there. Even in oxygen-supported beds, 13 in Pali and 11 in Barmer, no other district in the division had patients on oxygen support as on September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-faces-icu-crunch-as-corona-spread-spirals/articleshow/78265376.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 23, 2020||Pune||Tricksters get innovative, utmost caution necessary||PUNE: With cyber fraudsters resorting to increasingly innovative tactics to separate people from their hard-earned money, experts have advised caution, especially when it comes to online transactions. Recently, city-based business Ankush Warulkar lost Rs69,000 while applying for a loan online — all he did was to click on a ‘KYC verification link’ and initiate a transaction to pay a Rs10 “application fee”. “I just entered my OTP and all along, the amount shown was Rs10. However, I was shocked to see a debit of Rs69,000,” Warulkar said. Police said the bank to which the money was transferred has been identified. “We have written to them, seeking the freezing of the credited account, but in all likelihood, the fraudster has bounced the money off at least three-four accounts. Recovery, if even possible, could take time,” the investigating officer said. Experts said the fact that the fraudsters manipulated the transactions points to a flaw in the bank’s system. “It is in all likelihood, a compromise in the bank’s back-end, using malware or by introducing phishing/ probing patches into the bank’s servers,” a cyber security expert working for a bank said. In another incident, city-based Kapil Arora had listed a camera for sale on an online marketplace. He was contacted by a buyer. “The ‘customer’ he said he could credit the payment directly to my bank account and forwarded a QR code for verification. He said Rs1 would be deducted for this purpose,” Arora said. When Arora scanned the code, he lost Rs14,000. Cyber experts said there was no need to scan any QR code when expecting a payment, and urged people to avoid such scams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tricksters-get-innovative-utmost-caution-necessary/articleshow/78264277.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 28 temples razed during TDP rule to be restored||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has decided to reconstruct 28 temples which were demolished as part of road widening during Krishna Pushkaram in 2016. The construction of these temples will be undertaken by the endowments department at their identified locations. Temples adjacent to the Krishna river which had stood for decades are of historic importance. Pilgrims, who would take holy dips at Durga ghat, Krishnaveni ghat, and Padmavati ghat among others, used to offer special prayers at these temples. The Hanuman temple at Seethammavari Padalu too was similarly significant as many devotees would pray here before offering prayers to goddess Kanaka Durga and Lord Malleswara atop the Indrakeeladri shrine. The previous government, which had decided to develop a river-front corridor, had demolished the temples on the Krishna river bank. This move had resulted in protests by other political parties and Hindu associations who demanded the restoration of these temples. The YSRC has now made fresh proposals to reconstruct the temples. “We are happy that this government has recognised our sentiments and proposed to restore the temple,” said Batchu Venkateswarulu, a resident of One Town. Hindu associations welcomed the proposal. “The government should have taken this step earlier. Many were upset with the recent attacks on temples,” said Hindu Yuva Shakti state president Chikkala Rajanukanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/28-temples-razed-during-tdp-rule-to-be-restored/articleshow/78265674.cms||Venu Lanka
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||1,000 booked for religious gathering in Gajrawadi||VADODARA: While no action has been taken against BJP MLA Madhu Shrivastava, who was seen dancing in a temple in Gajrawadi without facemask, 57 people were detained in Khodiyarnagar on Tuesday morning for participating in a religious procession. Besides these 57 people, police booked 800 to 1,000 unidentified persons for participating in the procession. Hundreds of people of all age groups had congregated near Khodiyarnagar crossroads for a religious procession organised by resident of the area Kanti Vaghela for his daughter. People from across the state as well as from Mumbai had gathered at the spot, many of them were not wearing facemasks. The 57 people, who were detained, alleged that they had only participated in a religious program because of their faith and police forcibly took them to police station. A few of them even said that while they do not get out of their homes back in their hometown, but it was necessary for them to participate in the procession. An offence was registered against the mob under the Epidemic Act and for committing negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life at Warasia police station. “Somebody had called the police control room to inform about the procession so our team reached immediately to disperse the crowd,” said a police official. Cops also had some heated arguments with people in the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/1000-booked-for-religious-gathering/articleshow/78263416.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||‘3,500 SGT posts to be filled by September 28’||VIJAYAWADA: The government has started the exercise to fill up 3,524 pending second grade teacher (SGT) posts in district selection committee (DSC-2018). Education minister Amipulapu Suresh said on Tuesday that the government will follow the court’s order and complete the recruitment process. “DSC-2018 recruitment process is in the final stage. Certificates of 2,203 candidates have been verified and the remaining process will be completed by Wednesday. Selected candidates will get a OTP on Wednesday to upload their documents online. After counselling process is completed on Thursday, the joining will be done on September 28,” Suresh said. Recruitment process of physical educators and bhasha pandits will start after the completion of SGT recruitments, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-5k-sgt-posts-to-be-filled-by-sept-28/articleshow/78265763.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad vice-chancellor gets one year extension||HYDERABAD: The Union ministry of education extended the tenure of incumbent vice-chancellor (VC) of University of Hyderabad (UoH) Prof Appa Rao Podile for a year or until a new VC is appointed, whichever is earlier. His tenure was scheduled to end on Tuesday. Podile was embroiled in a controversy following the death of research scholar Rohith Vemula who died by suicide in January, 2016 following suspension from the hostel and alleged caste discrimination by the VC. His death had triggered nationwide protest against the central government as the UoH students had demanded resignation of the VC. In 2019, under Prof Appa Rao Podile’s vice-chancellorship, UoH was recognised as an institution of eminence by the central government. Recently, it was also ranked among the world’s top universities by the QS World University Rankings 2021 under his leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-vc-gets-one-year-extension/articleshow/78264266.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mysuru||MCC collects 40% property tax in six months||Mysuru: The Mysuru City Corporation has achieved a rare feat of collecting nearly 40% of property tax within six months this fiscal year. As against the Rs 170 crore target, it has collected more than Rs 68 crore since mid-May when tax collection resumed after the lockdown. Property tax is the single largest source of revenue for the civic body. However, tax collection, especially from defaulters who have huge dues from several years, has suffered due to the lockdown. MCC, which has presented a Rs 700 crore budget, had projected to generate revenue of around Rs 160 crore through property tax. As per the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act 1976, the civic body will provide a rebate of 5% on the tax payable by property owners in April, the first month after the end of the financial year in March every year. But due to the lockdown, MCC extended the rebate till July 31. There are 1,83,535 properties in MCC limits of which 1,58,156 are general properties and 25,379 are revenue properties. Of the general properties, 13,972 are sites, 1,34,871 are houses and 1,34,871 commercial establishments. MCC deputy commissioner (revenue) TB Kumara Naik told TOI MCC launched an online property tax payment facility. “Property tax has been collected from May 17 and by September 21, we have collected Rs 67.5 crore. We still have to collect around Rs 90 crore to achieve our target,” he said. Reacting to commercial establishments, especially Mysuru Kalyana Mantapa Owners Association, demanding the government to waive off property tax due to business loss due to the lockdown, Naik said the government has not released any direction in this regard. “We will continue the drive to collect tax from defaulters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mcc-collects-40-property-tax-in-six-months/articleshow/78260836.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 23, 2020||Hubballi||Centre’s agriculture bills are pro-farmer, say BJP leaders||Hubballi: The agriculture bills passed and amended recently are in favour of farmers’ larger interest. Congress party is protesting just to oppose this bill without studying the ordinances in detail, alleged BJP state general secretary Mahesh Tenginakai here on Tuesday. “BJP will try to clear the doubts of farmers. Congress is unnecessarily doing politics in the matter of farmers. BJP-led governments are always with farmers and never take any anti-farmer decision,” he added. “Congress and its allies are unnecessarily creating confusion that APMCs will be closed once the amended bill comes into existence. There is no truth in the allegations, no APMC will be closed. Farmers will get MSP as earlier without any hurdles,” he said. When asked, he refused to comment on the farmers’ protest in Bengaluru and said he would only react to allegations made by Congress. The Union and state government are ready to clear the confusion of farmers pertaining to the agriculture bill, he said. To a question, Tenginakai said, “There is no question of change in leadership in the state as BS Yeddiyurappa will continue as chief minister for the complete term.” Lingaraj Patil, Shanmukh Gurikar, Nagesh Kalaburgi, Basavaraj Kundagolmath, Dattamurthy Kulkarni and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/centres-agriculture-bills-are-pro-farmer-say-bjp-leaders/articleshow/78262265.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Record 1,912 Covid infections in a day, active cases over 18,000||JAIPUR: The state on Tuesday reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,912 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,18,793. The virus also claimed 15 lives taking the casualty count to 1,367. For the last five days in a row, the state has been setting new records in single-day spikes. Active cases also touched a new high of 18614, up from 18,245 on Monday, 18,184 on Sunday and 17,997 on Saturday. Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota are the three worst-hit districts which collectively accouted for 66% of total active cases in the state. Currently, Jaipur has 6,730 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (3,199) and Kota (2,327). The three districts collectively have 12,256 active cases out of total 18,614 in the state. Amid surging cases, there is something to cheer about. The count of recovered persons is nearing the 1lakh mark. As on Tuesday, the number of recovered cases stood at 98,812 with 1,258 more persons beating the virus. Udaipur reported its 44th Covid death, Tonk 16th, Sikar 29th, Pali 57th, Jodhpur 134th, Jaisalmer 10th, Dungarpur 14th, Chittorgarh 16th, Bharatpur 76th, Barmer 28th, Ajmer 97th, Alwar 35th, Banswara 12th, with two more deaths, Jaipur toll rose to 313. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (398), Jodhpur (303), Udaipur (102), Alwar (93), Jalore (92), Ajmer (88), Pali (83), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (67), Dungarpur (57), Nagaur (52), Kota (43), Churu (35), Jhunjhunu (35), Sirohi (35), Bharatpur (34), Dausa (32), Rajsamand (31), Tonk (31), Sriganganagar (29), Chittorgarh (26), Hanumangarh (22), Jhalawar (20), Sikar (18), Karauli (18), Barmer (16), Sawai Madhopur (15), Dholpur (11), Banswara (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (9), Bundi (8), Pratapgarh (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-1912-covid-infections-in-a-day-active-cases-over-18k/articleshow/78265383.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Record 1,912 Covid infections in a day, active cases over 18,000||JAIPUR: The state on Tuesday reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,912 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,18,793. The virus also claimed 15 lives taking the casualty count to 1,367. For the last five days in a row, the state has been setting new records in single-day spikes. Active cases also touched a new high of 18614, up from 18,245 on Monday, 18,184 on Sunday and 17,997 on Saturday. Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota are the three worst-hit districts which collectively accouted for 66% of total active cases in the state. Currently, Jaipur has 6,730 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (3,199) and Kota (2,327). The three districts collectively have 12,256 active cases out of total 18,614 in the state. Amid surging cases, there is something to cheer about. The count of recovered persons is nearing the 1lakh mark. As on Tuesday, the number of recovered cases stood at 98,812 with 1,258 more persons beating the virus. Udaipur reported its 44th Covid death, Tonk 16th, Sikar 29th, Pali 57th, Jodhpur 134th, Jaisalmer 10th, Dungarpur 14th, Chittorgarh 16th, Bharatpur 76th, Barmer 28th, Ajmer 97th, Alwar 35th, Banswara 12th, with two more deaths, Jaipur toll rose to 313. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (398), Jodhpur (303), Udaipur (102), Alwar (93), Jalore (92), Ajmer (88), Pali (83), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (67), Dungarpur (57), Nagaur (52), Kota (43), Churu (35), Jhunjhunu (35), Sirohi (35), Bharatpur (34), Dausa (32), Rajsamand (31), Tonk (31), Sriganganagar (29), Chittorgarh (26), Hanumangarh (22), Jhalawar (20), Sikar (18), Karauli (18), Barmer (16), Sawai Madhopur (15), Dholpur (11), Banswara (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (9), Bundi (8), Pratapgarh (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-1912-covid-infections-in-a-day-active-cases-over-18k/articleshow/78267501.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Record 1,912 Covid infections in a day, active cases over 18,000||JAIPUR: The state on Tuesday reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,912 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,18,793. The virus also claimed 15 lives taking the casualty count to 1,367. For the last five days in a row, the state has been setting new records in single-day spikes. Active cases also touched a new high of 18614, up from 18,245 on Monday, 18,184 on Sunday and 17,997 on Saturday. Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota are the three worst-hit districts which collectively accouted for 66% of total active cases in the state. Currently, Jaipur has 6,730 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (3,199) and Kota (2,327). The three districts collectively have 12,256 active cases out of total 18,614 in the state. Amid surging cases, there is something to cheer about. The count of recovered persons is nearing the 1lakh mark. As on Tuesday, the number of recovered cases stood at 98,812 with 1,258 more persons beating the virus. Udaipur reported its 44th Covid death, Tonk 16th, Sikar 29th, Pali 57th, Jodhpur 134th, Jaisalmer 10th, Dungarpur 14th, Chittorgarh 16th, Bharatpur 76th, Barmer 28th, Ajmer 97th, Alwar 35th, Banswara 12th, with two more deaths, Jaipur toll rose to 313. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (398), Jodhpur (303), Udaipur (102), Alwar (93), Jalore (92), Ajmer (88), Pali (83), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (67), Dungarpur (57), Nagaur (52), Kota (43), Churu (35), Jhunjhunu (35), Sirohi (35), Bharatpur (34), Dausa (32), Rajsamand (31), Tonk (31), Sriganganagar (29), Chittorgarh (26), Hanumangarh (22), Jhalawar (20), Sikar (18), Karauli (18), Barmer (16), Sawai Madhopur (15), Dholpur (11), Banswara (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (9), Bundi (8), Pratapgarh (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/record-1912-covid-infections-in-a-day-active-cases-over-18k/articleshow/78267503.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another ammonium nitrate ship to reach Vizag port in a week||VISAKHAPATNAM: While district authorities cancelled the no-objection-certificate (NOC) to Sravan Shipping Services private limited, another cargo ship with ammonium nitrate is on its way to Vizag and is expected to reach in five days. It may be recalled that three ships have been waiting in the waters to unload their cargo for the past one month. Over 50,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate is reportedly ready for unloading from the four cargo ships. District authorities had denied permission for unloading at Visakhapatnam port, despite it being ready for cargo handling, following the Beirut incident. There is growing anticipation among people to know if the authorities will give permission to these waiting ships for unloading or will they be diverted to other ports. District authorities in charge of issuing NOCs had inspected the store houses of Sravan Shipping in Chukkavanipalem on September 9 and had issued the company a show-cause notice on September 11. The NOCs were cancelled on September 18. District authorities and city police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha had cancelled the NOCs after company had asked for a few more days to give a reply. According to sources, Sravan Shipping’s management is planning to request the state government for special permission to unload the cargo at Visakhapatnam port. “After that, the management would follow the instructions of the government whether to continue the handling of the ammonium nitrate or to stop it,” an official at Sravan Shipping told TOI under the condition of anonymity. Demurrage charges to client will keep increasing if the vessel is kept waiting in the waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-ammonium-nitrate-ship-to-reach-vizag-port-in-a-week/articleshow/78265746.cms||Siva G
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake celebrity social media accounts take fans for a ride||Hyderabad: Several instances of fraudsters impersonating celebrities or their managers on social media to lure victims and cheat them have surfaced in the past. “They build trust with victims. As the victims feel they are speaking to a celebrity, they keep it a secret,” said a senior cyber crime official. In a recent instance, a 17-year-old was nabbed for creating a fake Facebook account in the name of MP Santhosh Kumar Joginipally. He asked people for money claiming he needed it for his friend’s daughter’s medical treatment. According to cyber crime cops, victims get a friend request from conmen who pretend to be a celebrity and immediately start a conversation. Some lure victims by offering roles in a movie or an opportunity to work with an actor. “Fraudsters pretend to be either the manager or the celebrity himself. In one instance, a man was caught for impersonating Telugu actor Vijay Devarakonda on social media to befriend lady victims,” added the officer. Last month, a man was arrested by cyber crime cops for creating fake Facebook accounts pretending to be the manager and co-singer of a Telugu female playback singer. The accused cheated people by collecting huge amounts from the singer’s social media followers. Sometimmes they pretend to be the superstars relatives and cheat fans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-celebrity-social-media-accounts-take-fans-for-a-ride/articleshow/78264323.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Jose faction seeks to disqualify truant MLAs||T’puram: The Jose K Mani faction of KC(M) has approached the speaker seeking the disqualification of the three MLAs who defied the party whip in Rajya Sabha (RS) election and the no-confidence motion against LDF government. The letter of party whip Roshy Augustine was handed over to the speaker by party MLA N Jayaraj on Tuesday. In the letter Roshy urged the speaker that the party had issued a whip to its MLAs to abstain from the no-confidence motion and RS election. But, party MLAs PJ Joseph, Mons Joseph and CF Thomas defied the party whip and appropriate action including disqualification should be taken against these MLA as per anti-defection law, he said in the letter. He said the decision to hand over the letter to the speaker was taken at the party steering committee meeting on September 6 in Kottayam. The party also decided to take steps seeking disqualification of those who were elected in the party symbol to various local bodies and have been defected to the rival camp. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jose-faction-seeks-to-disqualify-truant-mlas/articleshow/78264331.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||Man arrested on charge of molesting teenaged girl in Pune||PUNE: The police on Monday arrested a 37-year-old building material trader from a housing society in Kondhwa after a 17-year-old girl lodged an FIR accusing him of molesting her on September 16. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said on Tuesday, “The girl’s divorced mother was in a relationship with the man. The man used to occasionally stay with the mother-daughter duo. While the man and woman were not married, the girl referred to the man as ‘stepfather’ in the FIR.” Citing the girl’s statement, Gaikwad said, “Around 1am on September 16, when the girl was asleep in her bedroom, the man entered the room and molested her and gagged her mouth. When the girl kicked him and raised an alarm, he panicked and fled. On the mother’s insistence the girl told her of the incident when the former noticed her crying and they both approached us and lodged an FIR.” Gaikwad said, “Relevant offences have been registered under the IPC and Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-on-charge-of-molesting-teenaged-girl/articleshow/78264307.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Montessori school files 5 patents for inventions in drones||HYDERABAD: A Montessori school in the city has filed for five patents for inventions in drones designed by its young students to tackle new-age challenges faced by society. Patents were filed about nine months after the Blue Blocks Montessori School, Hyderabad inaugurated its Drone Research and Innovation Centre. While many of these inventions are in the design or prototype stage, the schools said that early mover advantage will be with the students as the Intellectual Property of the solution will be with them. “We hope this encourages other young innovators and sets a benchmark in the country, which is also the aim of the new National Education Policy. We give special focus on creating innovation zones encouraging children to use their creative thinking and innovative approach in creating meaningful outcomes through skill-based and experiential learning. We believe that every child is capable of having a patent in his/her name, before leaving school, and that’s what we strive to achieve at Blue Blocks,” said Pavan Goyal, founder, Blue Blocks. He said that there is an urgent need to overhaul the Indian education system by phasing out the current methodology and pedagogy and transforming it to learning through practical experience, real-time learning outcome and emphasis on innovate and invent,” Conceptualized by children aged between 6 years and 10 years, the five inventions are focused on providing solutions to challenges such as rescuing a person from a borehole, providing medical assistance without human contact, automated security, monitoring health parameters, and providing essential items to the user.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/montessori-school-files-5-patents-for-inventions-in-drones/articleshow/78264287.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Drug bust: No film personalities named in SIT’s 8 chargesheets||HYDERABAD: The special investigation team, which was constituted in 2017 to probe Tollywood drug racket, has filed eight chargesheets so far. But, none of them names film personalities. In an RTI reply to Forum for Good Governance (FGG), the directorate of enforcement of excise department said that eight charagesheets were filed in the metropolitan sessions judge court in Hyderabad. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said: “Special investigation team has examined top-level actors in the case. But, none of them figures in the chargesheets. They (SIT) failed to name the buyers. If there is a seller, there are always buyers. In one of the chargesheets, the SIT has mentioned that drugs were bought online by the accused from foreign countries.” The SIT has registered 12 cases overall and grilled around 62 persons, including 12 leading Tollywood actors and actresses. In one of the chargesheets, it is alleged that a music instructor, and a 22-year-old student, were caught with LSD drug bots and dimethoxybromoamphetamin (DOB), also known as brolamfetamine, which is a psychedelic drug. In another case, the special investigation team named a resident of Chandrayangutta and said he was supplied cocaine by a manager of a pub. In third case, it said that another two men from the city were involved in the drug racket. They purchased LSD online on dark web using cyrptocurrency and two others were also named. In the fourth chargesheet, the SIT named another person who purchased LSD on internet. He also sold them for Rs 300 to Rs 800 per blot, while original is sold at Rs 1,800 to Rs 3,000 per blot. The SIT also named foreign nationals in the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-bust-no-film-personalities-named-in-sits-8-chargesheets/articleshow/78264304.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 23, 2020||Mysuru||Excise dept raids farm, finds 200 ganja plants||Shivamogga: Excise department officials on Tuesday raided a farmer's maize and ginger field at Kannur village in Soraba Taluk of Shivamogga and found 200 ganja plants. The ginger farm surrounded by maize crop belongs to Gangadharappa, Parashuramappa and Huccharayappa, who fled during the raid. Deputy commissioner of excise department Ajith Kumar told TOI, “A 30-member team conducted raids at various locations in Soraba taluk on Tuesday. We found more than 200 ganja plants, worth Rs 5.5 lakh at Kannur. The accused are at large and we will trace them.” In a separate raid, Thirthahalli police stopped a car at a check post near the town and recovered 2kg ganja. They also arrested Jishan, Jeenath, Jabbir and Mubharak who were in the car and seized the vehicle. The accused were bringing the ganja from Karkala to Thirthahalli via Agumbe, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/excise-dept-raids-farm-finds-200-ganja-plants/articleshow/78261825.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Signs of stubble burning found, govts told to act||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Tuesday wrote to both Punjab and Haryana governments stating that early signs of stubble burning had started appearing on satellite imagery and action was required to ensure the situation did not get worse. EPCA in its letter said that, while this spell was not likely to impact Delhi’s air quality index, urgent measures were required, including providing farmers with equipment and assistance to prevent burning of stubble in each district. The body has also asked the states to set up control rooms through which dispersal of machinery and non-compliance on the ground could be monitored. In the letter, EPCA said, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research estimate, which used INSAT-3, 3D and NASA satellites, 42 fire counts were recorded in Punjab on September 21 , 20 on September 20 and zero on September 15. While no significant activity has been recorded in Haryana yet, EPCA has asked it to be prepared and take similar action on the ground. “…while the impact on air pollution is currently minimal as the wind speeds are high and there is dispersion, the fact is that stubble burning season has started and it needs to be urgently addressed as per the directions of the Supreme Court,” said Bhure Lal, chairman, EPCA. The pollution control body added that both in-situ and ex-situ measures had been specified by the Supreme Court, but urgency was required on the group to see its implementation. “Please take urgent review of the actions that need to be taken as per these directions and ensure there is implementation on ground and machines are procured and available to farmers at affordable rates,” said the letter. The air quality in Delhi generally starts deteriorating around mid-October, when traditionally stubble burning season commences in Punjab and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/signs-of-stubble-burning-found-govts-told-to-act/articleshow/78264354.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Business||Unlock 4.0 unlocks job market||Chennai: Unlock 4.0, the fourth stage of the phased reopening of the country, has unlocked more job opportunities since lockdown.Data from job portals and HR consulting firms show that hiring activity in the month of August was up by an average 10-15% month-on-month from July as business activities resume. However, on a year-on-year basis, the job market continues to see a slump owing to the pandemic. However, year-on-year, hiring is still down by 35% in August, as per Naukri, online job portal.High volume sectors such as Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI), Information Technology (IT), and BPOs are leading the growth in talent demand in August, while the most-affected FMCG and hospitality/travel are slower in recruitment plans. Naukri’s JobSpeak Index — a monthly Index that records hiring activity based on online listings — stands at 1,413 for August, which is an improvement of 12% in hiring compared to July when the index stood at 1,263. Telecom (57%), real estate (34%), insurance (21%), and BPOs and IT services (16%) were a few sectors that registered maximum uptick in hiring with reopening of various industrial activity, Naukri.com’s data suggests. As pandemic continues to impact consumer spending, FMCG and hospitality sectors were flat in August versus July.Job portal TimesJobs’ monthly recruitment index RecruiteX noted a 4% month-on-month gain in talent demand in August. Building on their growth trend that started in July, both the BFSI and IT sectors recorded 8% MoM growth each in August, RecruiteX data showed. “Core roles as banking, sales, business development saw most talent demand, followed by customer services, engineering roles, Sanjay Goyal, Business Head, TimesJobs said. Our data indicates that revenue generation and customer serving roles were much sought after in August, he adds. Geographically, metro cities reclaimed their spot as job hubs after taking a dive in the past few months due to the lockdown.Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai recorded growth in talent demand to the tune of 27%, 3% and 7% respectively, RecruiteX data showed. However, Delhi-NCR saw a dip of 2% in hiring activity. Naukri.com observed sequential growth in hiring across all metro cities and job market in tier-2 cities also grew, but at lesser rates. For instance, Chandigarh and Kochi saw 8% and 7% MoM jobs growth in August, respectively. HR firm Teamlease said the company counted a total of 30,000 jobs on their platform in August compared to 25,000 jobs in July. “We see a 20% hike in hiring activity between July - August 2020,” Kaushik Banerjee, VP & business head - Teamlease.com, said. EdTech is seeing a 35% uptick, vis-a-vis 2020 projections and Byjus, WhiteHat Jr, and Vedantu are a few top hirers, he said. Teamlease data also showed that healthcare has been the biggest gainer post unlock 4.0. “For instance hospitals are hiring qualified nurses and healthcare workers at almost Rs 50,000 per month- around 2.5x times their regular income,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unlock-4-0-unlocks-job-market/articleshow/78258707.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Development Authority plans to issue freehold lease online||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Tuesday decided to issue freehold lease to the plot owners who will deposit 10-year lease amount collectively. The landholders who have taken the lease deed (patta) from the JDA after depositing one-time lease amount of eight years will be contacted by the JDA. “The JDA will offer these owners to procure the freehold lease after depositing additional two years’ lease money. The amount for remaining two years can be deposited online,” said a source. The JDA has also decided to develop an online system for accepting the application and issuing freehold lease. Explaining the freehold lease concept, an official said, “At present, an owner can claim a right on a residential property only for 99 years. In current scenario, the state government levies eight times of the lease money, payable one time to grant 99 years’ lease on residential properties. Once the one-time lease money is deposited, the allottee receives a certificate from the department. For the freehold lease, the department charges increased lease money amount by 10 times from the normal eight times.” The freehold lease system was introduced in the state three years ago. However, not many plot owners have subscribed to the offer as it looked infeasible. An official source said, “The owners can forward to full ownership rights. However, majority of the plot owners have paid lease money for eight years. Even, the time period of old plot owners expires, they pay eight years’ lease hold, which gives them 99 years’ right.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-plans-to-issue-freehold-lease-online/articleshow/78265394.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crop damage guidelines can be reworked: Gujarat CM||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani said in the Gujarat assembly on Tuesday that crop damage norms that have been drawn up under the Mukhyamantri Kisan Sahay Yojna can be reworked after consultations with the opposition and other stake holders. During a discussion on the crop damage compensation scheme in the assembly on Tuesday, a number of MLAs from both the ruling party and the opposition, said some farmers of their constituencies had not been covered in the survey conducted for crop damage because of excessive rainfall this season. Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani said that there is a need to adopt a scientific approach in assessing excessive or deficient rainfall while determining compensation. On Monday, the government said that a Rs 3,700 crore assistance package will be given to about 27 lakh farmers who have suffered crop damages this monsoon. The government survey said there was crop damage in 37 lakh hectares (in 123 talukas of 20 districts) of the total 51 lakh hectares under cultivation. “We have based our crop damage compensation norms on guidelines of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). However, they are open for consultation. We have introduced this for the first time. The norms can be reworked,” the chief minister said. Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani contended that going by the state government’s parameters, another 108 talukas ought to be included in the assistance package. “Ghogha taluka with 78% rainfall and Mandvi taluka with 375% rainfall this season have been included. In that cases, there are another 108 taluka which have received rainfall within this range. The amount of compensation also should be increased,” he demanded. Agriculture minister R C Faldu listed out the various provisions and crop damage guidelines under the Mukhyamantri Kisan Sahay Yojna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crop-damage-guidelines-can-be-reworked-cm/articleshow/78263162.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Pune||Police clueless on firm CEO murder motive||PUNE: The rural police would re-examine various property transactions to establish the motive behind the murder of a partner-cum-CEO (50) of a farm near Kanhe Phata at Vadgaon Maval two months ago. Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch said the police had checked all land deals of the victim, Milind Manerkar, but nothing suspicious was found. The investigators have so far recorded statements of 50 people, including the sole eyewitness accompanying the victim when the latter was shot at on July 22 by two assailants. Manerikar’s family, friends and employees at the farm were also questioned. “Relatives of Manerikar told police he never mentioned about any threats from or problems with anyone,” Ghanwat said. Deputy superintendent of police (Lonavla division) Navneet Kanwat said, “We have a clear CCTV footage showing the two assailants, but both had their faces covered with masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-clueless-on-firm-ceo-murder-motive/articleshow/78264317.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Cargo ferry service to Maldives flagged off at Tuticorin||MADURAI: Cargo ferry service from Tuticorin and Cochin in Kerala to Kulhudhuffushi and Male in Maldives was jointly launched by Union minister of state (independent charge) for ministry of shipping and minister of state for chemical and fertilizers Mansukh L Mandaviya and minister of transport and civil aviation of Maldives, Republic of Maldives, Aishath Nahula through video conference on Monday evening. Launch of the service fulfills the commitment by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Maldives in June last year, followed by the announcement by external affairs minister S Jaishankar during his virtual meeting with the foreign minister of Maldives on August 13 this year. During its maiden journey, a vessel, ‘MCP Linz’, with a capacity of 200 TEUs of containers and 3,000 tonnes general cargo carried 16 TEUs of containers and 2,000 tonnes of cement from Tuticorin. The vessel sailed from Tuticorin to Cochin on Monday, from where it will sail to Kulhudhuffushi Port on September 26 in North Maldives and then to Male Port on September 29. The ferry service operated by the Shipping Corporation of India will run thrice a month and will provide a cost effective, direct and alternate means of transportation of goods between the two countries. Aishath Nahula said that an event will be organized to receive the ferry at Kulhudhuffushi port, which will be attended by her, foreign minister of Maldives Abdulla Shahid and members of the parliament in the Maldives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cargo-ferry-service-to-maldives-flagged-off-at-tuticorin/articleshow/78265398.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||595 new cases take Covid tally past 27,000 in Coimbatore; toll rises to 392 with four deaths||COIMBATORE: Covid-19 tally in the district crossed the 27,000-mark on Tuesday, when it recorded 595 new cases, even as 507 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. The count now stands at 27,157, of which 4,559 are active cases. At least 22,206 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. The toll, meanwhile, shot up to 392, with the state including four more Covid-19 deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin. In another development, around 180 CPM cadres protested in front of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and the ESI Hospital, demanding more focused attention on Covid-19 patients and care for them. CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas invited the protesting CPM cadres in his room and told them that patients were discharged only after getting cured completely and that testing them for a negative report was stopped as per the Indian Council of Medical Research protocol and not for any other reason. He said the hospital had adequate ventilator and oxygen supply beds. A four-member team has, meanwhile, compiled a list of private and government hospitals, which accept Covid-19 patients, along with their phone numbers to help the needy with hospital beds. It was around a week ago when one of the members of Namma Kovai, a WhatsApp group comprising citizens, government and police officials, posted a message in the group about a relative testing positive for Covid-19 and seeking to know immediate availability of a hospital bed. Two members - S V Subramaniam, assistant vice-president of Kirtilals, and R Raveendran of Residents Awareness Associations of Coimbatore – responded and managed to find a bed after calling up some of their contacts. Now, the team has two more members - Edwin of Footloose dance studio and S Natarajan, PR head of Pricol. Subramaniam said, “We have publicized the list of hospitals and Covid care centres that we have compiled and our mobile phone numbers. Anyone may contact us for a bed. We have contacts in at least six big hospitals including the ESI Hospital, PSG Hospitals and the KG Hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/595-new-cases-take-covid-tally-past-27k-in-dist-toll-rises-to-392-with-four-deaths/articleshow/78264375.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No-confidence motion passed against SCB VP||Secunderabad: All seven elected ward members of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), who had moved a no-confidence motion against Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) vice-president J Rama Krishna, unanimously passed the no-confidence motion against Ramakrishna. A special board meeting was convened by the SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy on Tuesday, in the presence of the president cantonment board (PCB) Brigadier Abhijit. Ramakrishna, who represents ward number V of the Cantonment, resigned from his post at the meeting on Tuesday. Addressing the media, J Maheswara Reddy, who will take over as the SCB vice-president, said that the vice- president will be elected soon. The tenure of the present elected body, which has been extended twice, will end in another four months. Ramakrishna had resigned from the primary membership of the TRS recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-confidence-motion-passed-against-scb-vp/articleshow/78264350.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro resumes operations today after gap of 5 months||JAIPUR: Jaipur Metro Phase 1 and Phase 1(B) will resume operations from Wednesday with strict measures in place to arrest the spread of coronavirus. The service will be operational on the entire stretch from Chandpole to Badi Chaupar for the first time after chief minister Ashok Gehlot inaugurates the newly constructed underground corridor in the Walled City at noon. For public, services will open at 4 pm. A JMRC official said, “While Metro service on Phase (1) corridor (Mansarovar to Chandpole) will be restored after five months, newly constructed underground corridor (Chandpole to Baddi Chaupar) will be made operational for the first time. The Jaipur Metro Phase-I(B) 2.34-km corridor from Chandpole to Badi Chaupar was completed and received the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety nod during lockdown.” To ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside trains will be done. Wearing masks will be mandatory for passengers and staff. “No person will be allowed to enter inside the station without a mask. Also, passengers can only travel using smart card. The service of token system has been suspended,” added an official. Official claimed after the new corridor is inaugurated, the train will run on its regular schedule from Thursday. “Now, Metro makes 170 trips between Mansarovar and Chandpole every day. Trains arrive every 15 minutes from 6.25am to 8am and after 8am trains arrive within 10 minutes,” the official added. Jaipur Metro will ferry commuters from Chandpole to Badi Chaupar at Rs 6 on the 2.4km underground corridor. The fare for the entire 12.06 km corridor (Mansarovar to Chandpole) will be Rs 22. “The tariff is comparatively cheaper than other means of transport. People commuting to Walled City from Sindhi Camp, railway station and Sodala use the Metro as it is cost-effective.” The new corridor is expected to give a fresh lease of life to JMRC as it can increase its ridership. In the absence of Phase 1B, the performance of Phase 1A of Jaipur Metro was ‘poor’ as the average ridership dipped. “At present, an average 20,000 passengers commute through Metro daily, as against the projected figure of 1 lakh. But Phase-II is expected to boost the numbers,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/metro-resumes-operations-today-after-gap-of-5-months/articleshow/78265399.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NGT reserves orders in Tellapur lake case||HYDERABAD: National Green Tribunal (NGT) southern bench has reserved its judgment in Tellapur lake encroachment case against several housing societies and big-ticket builders in Tellapur. Their fate will be decided in the ruling, which is expected soon. The NGT bench, meanwhile, asked officials not to take coercive action till a verdict is given. Revenue and irrigation departments had earlier recommended cancellation of NOC and nala permissions. NGT in the recent order said: “The interim order passed by this tribunal will continue against the committee not to take coercive steps against the alleged violation till the judgment is pronounced.” Earlier, the irrigation department and revenue officials filed a joint action report with NGT, stating that they have recommended for cancellation of NOC and Non-Agricultural Lands Assessment Act permissions for several builders and housing societies in Tellapur area. A joint committee of HMDA commissioner, Sangareddy district collector and irrigation department officials submitted the report in NGT. Software Engineers Employees’ Housing and Welfare Association secretary Uday Kumar Chava said: “In 2011, based on these documents from irrigation and revenue departments, we secured permission from HMDA to build two towers of 15 floors each and 15 villas. Since the association’s land was close to Chellikunta (survey Nos. 398/1 and 398/2 of Tellapur) and the land was not within FTL, HMDA has instructed the association to gift an extent of 9 metres of land along the lake as part of the buffer zone requirement. We complied with this and an extent of 1,800 square yards was surrendered to HMDA. In 2016, we obtained a fresh NOC.” He said they did not violate any clause prescribed by the HMDA. “The land that we own has always been a patta land and was classified as a ‘metta’ and to cultivate dry crops like sunflower. It can be verified in the pahanis since 1950. The contours of Chellikunta lake clearly show that the slope of the lake is towards the north and west and the lake’s outlet drain is to the west of the lake. Our land lies in the east and south of the lake,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-reserves-orders-in-tellapur-lake-case/articleshow/78264366.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Hardeep Singh Puri justifies need for Central Vista revamp||NEW DELHI: The government told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the facilities and amenities in the existing Parliament House Building commissioned in 1927 are “highly inadequate” to meet the current demand of the Parliament. It said the current building was not meant for bicameral Parliament and has been over-stressed through large-scale retrofitting done over the years. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri gave these details in his response to a question from Trinamool Congress MP, Mala Roy on “rationale need behind the Central Vista Redevelopment project in the light of economic doldrums”. Puri said the tender for construction of the new Parliament Building is under scrutiny while architectural plans for other buildings are under planning stage. While the estimated cost for construction of new Parliament Building is Rs 971 crore, the Tata Projects Ltd has emerged as the lowest tenderer with quoted amount of Rs 861.9 crore. Sources said the financial bid is being scrutinised and the government will spend over Rs 100 crore less than the original estimated amount. On the need for Central Vista redevelopment plan, which includes Parliament Building, Rajpath and Central Secretariat, Puri said the existing Parliament House Building was started in 1921 and commissioned in 1927 and hence the building is already 93 years old. It has been declared a heritage grade-I building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/puri-justifies-need-for-central-vista-revamp/articleshow/78264403.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||Five-year-old girl raped by 22-year-old man||Rajkot: A five-year-old is battling for life after allegedly being raped by a 22-year-old man in Morbi on Monday evening. The accused, Ravi Badhel, was tacked down by the locals, thrashed and handed over to police. Badhel, a native of Madhya Pradesh, used to work as a painter with a local contractor. Police said that the girl, whose father works as labourer in a ceramic unit, used to daily go to a temple close to her house at around 7:30pm to have 'prasad.' Badhel lived in a rented house near the survivor's house and knew about this routine. "On Monday evening, when the girl did not return home at her usual time, her parents started searching and found her injured and bleeding in bushes near the temple. She was taken to Morbi Civil Hospital and late in the night rushed to Rajkot government children hospital as her condition deteriorated due to excessive bleeding," said RB Tarparia, investigating officer, Morbi B-division police station. Meanwhile, locals living in the area had seen Badhel near the temple and traced him. They thrashed and handed him over to the police. The girl’s parents are natives of Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-year-old-girl-raped-by-22-year-old-man/articleshow/78261870.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Man kills wife, ends life in Kanyakumari||MADURAI: A 39-year-old man in Kanyakumari district hacked his wife to death before he hanged himself at their house on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as Rajasekar, 39, and Thangam, 30, of Kurunthancode village. The couple has an 11-year-old son and a 10-year-old daughter. Inquiries revealed that Rajasekar was a coconut tree climber. His addiction to alcohol left the family struggling in poverty. This has forced Thangam to start work at a cashew factory close by. The couple frequently quarrelled as he objected to her going to work and suspected her conduct. They quarreled on Monday night as well. Late in the night he hacked her to death in the bedroom and later ended his life by hanging in the front of the house. Eraniel Police retrieved the bodies and sent them to the government hospital for postmortem. Police said that the case will be closed as the accused is not alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-kills-wife-ends-life-in-kanyakumari/articleshow/78265401.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Jewellers celebrate decline in gold prices||AHMEDABAD: In a boost to jewellery sales ahead of the festive season, gold prices declined sharply by Rs 1,000 per 10g over the past two days. The price of the yellow metal stood at Rs 52,200 per 10g, against Rs 53,200 on Saturday. Jewellers believe a dip in prices will bring customers back to the market. Jigar Soni, vice president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said, “After the Shraddh period ended, we have already seen some movement of customers for small ticket size purchases. People have accepted that prices may not fall further below the Rs 50,000-mark and are making purchases. Sentiment is still weak, but we expect that if prices remain stable at this level, it will fuel gold jewellery purchases.” “People are keeping tabs on prices and inquiries for jewellery have gone up over the past few days. The pent-up demand will now open up for jewellery during the festive season because several functions that were to be held in May were deferred till the end of the year,” said Manoj Soni, an Ahmedabad-based jeweller. Jewellers say that at least 70% of purchases continue to be made by exchanging old gold whereas only 30% of customers are making fresh purchases. The ticket size of purchases has also gone down drastically. The sharp drop in gold prices is attributed to the appreciation of the rupee against the US dollar. “International gold prices fell below the $1,900-mark per ounce late on Monday and were at $1,911 on Tuesday. The increase was triggered by a massive fall in global equity markets and a fresh fears of a second lockdown in Europe. However, in line with the appreciation of the Indian rupee, gold prices continued to fall here,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). Industry experts say that demand for bullion has revived and investors who had sold gold to book profits are beginning to re-enter the market with investments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jewellers-celebrate-decline-in-gold-prices/articleshow/78263189.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Mummy at Albert Hall to be shifted to first floor||JAIPUR: The Albert Hall authorities have decided to shift the 2,300-year-old Egyptian Mummy from the basement to the first floor. Around four-feet of water accumulated at the basement of Albert Hall following torrential rain on August 14 in Jaipur. Over 18,000 antiquities were damaged, however, timely action saved the priceless mummy when authorities shifted it by breaking the glass cover. The museum has been closed since August 14, but now authorities have decided to open it on September 27 that coincides with World Tourism Day. Rakesh Chholak, superintendent of Albert Hall, said, “It has been kept on ground floor since August 14. It was first such incident that occurred in Albert Hall. We have decided to shift the mummy to first floor. The shifting will be done on Wednesday. The old glass box will be renovated and put for public display.” The mummy is named as Tutu which belonged to a family of priests who were devotees of Kehm in Egypt’s Ptolemaic age (322 BC to 30 BC). The mummy was kept in the basement with proper lightings that used to give a feeling of walking inside a cave. But to prevent any such incident to happen, it was found necessary to shift the mummy. Heavy rainfall on August 14 had affected Albert Hall museum and office of state archeology and museum department, Jaipur. Thousands of correspondence files of archeological department were damaged and were placed on the floor of the Albert Hall museum to dry. It took more than two weeks to dry them up. A three-member team from Indira Gandhi National Centre of Arts also visited Albert Hall last week to access the damage done and will give advice to the authorities to save and secure whatever left. The team will soon appoint two people to guide Albert Hall authorities in the work of restoration for which they would be paid by the authorities. In the basement of the museum, more than 18,000 antiquities are present that were underwater for three days before the water was pumped out. Those items were paintings, photographs, ceramic pots and statues. They were chronically arranged, but due to flood, their position is now being disrupted and it would take months to assess the damage caused to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mummy-at-albert-hall-to-be-shifted-to-1st-floor/articleshow/78265402.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kozhikode||CPM flouting norms in appointing CU staff: Firos||Kozhikode: Muslim Youth League general secretary P K Firos has alleged that the CPM is trying for backdoor appointments to 116 teaching posts in Calicut University. Addressing a news conference here on Tuesday, he said appointments in the university should be made by filling the backlog and by following stipulations on reservation. But as per the order issued on March 3, 2020, the university decided to make appointments without filling the backlog. The order says all the files related to the appointments should be manual files, he said. Firos said there are enough reasons to suspect that the insistence on manual files is to make room for malpractice. The notification does not mention which are the reserved vacancies. “Minister K T Jaleel should serve the Muslim community not by serving dates but by ensuing that the community gets its constitutional rights,” he said. “The crime branch has given a report in court that the case related to the appointments in Kerala University should be cancelled. It is a message to other universities that those who support malpractice will not be punished,” Firos said. Demanding stoppage of all appointment procedures, Firos said it should be handed over to the Public Service Commission or be done in a transparent way. He warned of agitation by MYL if CPM moves ahead with the appointments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-flouting-norms-in-appointing-cu-staff-firos/articleshow/78264405.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Goa Lokayukta orders action against cop for not filing FIR||PANAJI: The Goa Lokayukta has ordered a disciplinary inquiry against PI Nolasco Raposo for not registering an FIR in a theft case even after the complainant submitted CCTV footage of the incident. He also criticised police brass for not “penalising” officers who fail to discharge their duty in such cases. Justice P K Misra (retd) directed the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against Raposo, and stated that “the question of suspension and/or transfer is required to be considered by the DGP/state government”. Misra said that Raposo clearly violated directions issued by the Supreme Court in the Lalita Kumari case. The Lalita Kumari case pertains to a landmark judgment from 2013, when a constitution bench of the SC headed by then CJI P Sathasivam issued guidelines regarding the registration of an FIR. Among other things, the apex court made it mandatory for police to register an FIR if the information available points to a cognisable offence, and in such a situation, no preliminary inquiry is permissible. In the case before the Lokayukta, Jasvinder Singh, owner of a bar and restaurant at Candolim, filed a complaint alleging trespass, criminal breach of trust, theft, and damage of certain property against two known and other unknown persons who came to the restaurant. The incident was captured on CCTV. Singh told the Lokayukta he had filed complaints about the incident, but that no action was taken. Misra said that theft and trespass are obviously cognisable offences as per the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) “in this institution”. “Perhaps the CrPC available at the police station shows such offences as non-cognisable, and perhaps for that reason, the PI thought it proper not to register the FIR,” he said, adding that Raposo was bound to register an FIR, and wasn’t supposed to make preliminary inquiries relating to the veracity of the allegation. The Lokayukta also said that senior officers like the IGP and DGP are not bothered about starting disciplinary proceedings against such errant officers even though the SC has said that action should be taken against those not discharging their duty. Misra thus directed that an FIR be registered in the Candolim theft case, and that the investigation be entrusted to a police officer other than Raposo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-orders-action-against-cop-for-not-filing-fir/articleshow/78265412.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu traders’ body seeks further lockdown relaxation||MADURAI: Members of the Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited have made an appeal to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami seeking further lockdown relaxations for the betterment of trade. The members who met the CM in Madurai before he headed to Ramanathapuram, thanked the government for announcing relaxations. They said unlock had helped 75% of business activity revive and further relaxation would help businesses bounce back to 100%. They suggested resuming road transport to neighbouring states like Kerala, Karnataka and Pondicherry. They also sought permitting public road transport till 10 pm so that traders and business travellers can return home the same day and allow hotels and commercial establishments till 10 pm. They also sought to reopen shops inside temples. They also sought resumption of wholesale vegetable and fruit shops at their original markets that were shifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-body-seeks-further-lockdown-relaxation/articleshow/78265403.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hardik Patel seeks suspension of bail condition in Ahmedabad court, government opposes||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel has again moved the city sessions court requesting it to lift its bail condition which prohibits him from leaving Gujarat for 12 weeks so he can attend important political events in Delhi and brief his lawyers in the Supreme Court. Earlier this year, the court imposed the condition that Patel cannot leave Gujarat without permission from the court while granting bail after his arrest for skipping court hearings in the 2015 sedition case. After Patel was elevated to working president by the party, he requested relaxation of the bail condition, but the court on July 30 refused to grant any relaxation to this effect. Last week, Patel filed another application seeking relaxation of the bail condition for 12 weeks. He submitted that since he has been appointed to an important position, he needs to attend various events of the Indian National Congress in Gujarat and Delhi. Moreover, Patel also argued that there are four different cases filed by him pending in the Supreme Court. He has to brief his advocates and for this he needs to go to Delhi. However, the investigating agency has opposed the demand. It cited various breaches of bail conditions imposed on Patel by the Gujarat high court as well as the trial court. He has not informed the court about a change in his addresses and he did not mark his presence after returning to Gujarat as mandated by the HC. He had remained absent during court proceedings in the sedition case on 61 occasions. He has delayed the trial by remaining absent at court hearings, said public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt. In his affidavit, the investigator stated that all are equal before the law. Merely because Patel is a working president in the Congress party, his request for bail condition relaxation cannot be granted. The court has posted a hearing on this plea for Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hardik-seeks-suspension-of-bail-condition-govt-opposes/articleshow/78263197.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha urges Centre to defer coal block auction||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Tuesday urged the Centre to postpone the coal auction process for three months fearing it would not generate the desired revenue owing to a fall in prices triggered by Covid-19. In a letter to Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi, state steel and mines minister Prafulla Mallik said if auctions are held at present, it will have an adverse impact on the state’s revenue collection from the coal sector. Nine of the 38 coal blocks listed by the Centre for auction for commercial mining in the first phase are from Odisha. These blocks include Chendipada, Chendipada-II, Machhakata, Mahanadi, Radhikapur (East), Radhikapur (West), Brahmanbil & Kardabahal, Kuraloi (A) North and Phuljhari (East & West). These coal blocks are located in the Talcher and Ib Valley of the state. Around 10,750 million tonnes of coal are said to be reserved in these nine blocks. Though the coal ministry had initially planned to auction 41 blocks, it later revised the list to 38 blocks. “The pandemic has severely affected the mining business across the country. Also, there has been significant fall in cost of various grades of coal compared to the previous years. If the auctions are allowed at this stage, chances are the bids will be low. Since the state government gets royalty based on the coal price, the auction process will hamper collection of royalty,” Mallik said. Market sources said there has been around 20 to 25% fall in the cost of coal. With the Centre planning to complete e-auction of these blocks between October 19 and November 9, the minister said the auction process should be resumed once the market and the Covid situation improve. The decision to allow commercial coal mining was announced by the Centre in June as part of its Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan that aims to make India self-reliant in energy sector and boost industrial development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-urges-centre-to-defer-coal-block-auction/articleshow/78263194.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||After 2 yrs, apparel expo starts today on virtual platform||Jaipur: The international textile and apparel fair, Vastra, that provides marketing opportunities in global markets to textile and garments manufacturers in state will take place from today. The event, which was eagerly waited by the manufacturers after the gap of two years, will happen on a virtual platform unlike the past six editions of the event. After the Centre stopped sponsoring in 2018, RIICO too did not show interest in the event leading to it’s postponement for the past two years. But now the current RIICO administration wants to revive the event which opens up many opportunities for the local businesses. RIICO MD Ashutosh AT Pednekar said, “the current scenario, when travel and person to person interaction is restricted, a virtual edition was the only option. The event at this point of time holds a lot of significance given the textitle and garment industry requires all the help that they can get. We expect a goo number of the buyers who are the key to revive the sector. This is an ideal platform for the Indian textile and apparel industry to reach out to potential buyers in India and abroad to enhance business prospects.” In 2017, the event held last, 306 foreign buyers from 54 countries visited the event that had 252 exhibitors, including 150 from Rajasthan. For the 5-day virtual edition that starts from Wednesday, the organiser of the event along with RIICO has enlisted over 500 buyers and over 80 exhibitors. “About 80% of the exhibitors are from Rajasthan and the rest are from other states, “ said a member of the Gucci’s organising committee. A member of the Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan, which is working with the FICCI and RIICO, said that the pandemic has battered the industry and every one is looking for opportunities where ever possible. Hope Vastra bring some relief to the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-2-yrs-apparel-expo-starts-today-on-virtual-platform/articleshow/78265409.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Many wait for private buses to hit road||MADURAI: N Selvamani, a marketing executive from Madurai, has been waiting to visit his mother in his native place at Virudhachalam in Cuddalore district since the beginning of the lockdown. Inter-district movement of people has been in place since September 7 after relaxations were announced by the state government. But, a fan of private buses, he is waiting for private operators to begin the service. “I am not keen on travelling on government buses for two reasons. I will not get the comfort of a private bus. Safety is other reason. Many people travelling on government buses are not wearing masks or following social distancing. I can wait for one more week or two for the private buses to hit the road,” he said. Safety, reduced travel hours, comfort, friendly crew and flexibility of stops are the some of the features of private buses even though they charge little more than the government buses. V Vijayakumar, a regular bus traveller, said that people prefer private buses when a lone woman is travelling. The bus crew helps them board, awake them on time and drop them at the right destination. “My mother wants to visit her relative’s house in Chennai. I have been waiting for the private buses to start operation to send her,” he said. Hersom T Thomas, a private bus enthusiast from Nagercoil, said that those who have been regularly travelling on private buses either use personal cars or rental cars to travel now. Many have postponed their trips hoping for the private buses to start operations. Madurai District Omnibus Owners’ Association Mydeen Basha said that his employees are getting a lot of inquiries from their regular passengers. They are willing to start operations if the government accepts their demands, which include waiver of road tax, extension of insurance and 100% seat occupancy. “Road tax comes to around Rs 4 lakh for a vehicle for six months. At a time when we are faciing financial problems without revenue, forcing us to pay the tax is nothing but adding insult to injury. For the last six months, we have been spending from our pockets to retain the bus crew and vehicle maintenance,” he said. He said that a few other states have announced tax waiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-wait-for-private-buses-to-hit-road/articleshow/78265405.cms||V Devanathan
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Railway staff get awards for averting accidents||MADURAI: The general manager of Southern Railways has announced cash awards to two railway employees as their timely action prevented a major accident on the Samayanallur-Kudalnagar section in Madurai division on September 14. In the morning of September 14, B Vasu, a grade II track maintainer working as a keyman on the down line between Dindigul-Madurai section, noticed a welding failure on the right hand side rail of the down line. He informed the station manager through track maintainer T Krishnan, who is a gatekeeper at level crossing 356. Realizing that a goods train has already left Samayanallur at 9.21 am and entered the block section, Krishnan immediately gave the stop signal. The loco pilot of the goods train on observing the gate stop signal indicating danger, stopped the train. Officials reached the spot and attended the welding failure. The GM appreciated the timely action of the keyman and gatekeeper for averting a major accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railway-staff-get-awards-for-averting-accidents/articleshow/78265410.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Jaipur||Mahout from Bihar hangs self in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A mahout at Hathigaon in Jaipur committed suicide on Tuesday morning. According to sources, the reason was marital discord. The mahout, who hailed from Bihar, was found hanging in his room. His colleagues claimed that on Monday night he had cooked food for them and gave no indication that he was planning to take the extreme step. Police are investigating the matter. The deceased has been identified as 30-year-old Rajpal Paswan. “We found no suicide note and at present cannot confirm the reason behind the suicide. He was found hanging in his room on Tuesday early morning and the body has been kept in the mortuary. We will question the other mahouts also to find the reason for this suicide,” said an official of Amer police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mahout-from-bihar-hangs-self-in-city/articleshow/78265404.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana student dies in Australia, body to be flown to Hyderabad by end of this week||HYDERABAD: Hari Shiva Shankar Reddy Nagaram, a native of Vikarabad district and pursing higher studies in Australia, passed away due to a subarachnoid haemorrhage on Monday. The body of the 25-year-old will be flown back to the city by the end of the week. Subarachnoid haemorrhage is a type of stroke caused by bleeding into the space surrounding the brain, which could be caused by an aneurysm or head injury. Hari from Haridaspalli of Dharur mandal in Vikarabad district had gone to Australia to pursue MS in information technology in Southern Cross University in Lismore. Umadevi Gudur, president, Queensland Telugu Association, said they were making arrangements for Hari, including a final viewing for friends and family on Thursday. “A few days ago, Hari told his friends that he was feeling very tired after he finished his work. When his friends convinced him to have something to eat, he said he would take a shower, but took too long. His flat mates got suspicious and when they broke open the door, found he had collapsed,” said Umadevi. Hari was working at a south Indian restaurant part-time. Since then, Hari had been on life-support with a panel of doctors speaking to his parents — Nagendramma and Sai Reddy — every day. He was their only son, Umadevi said. On Monday, Hari’s parents gave permission to stop life support after which the youngster passed away around 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-student-dies-in-oz-body-to-be-flown-to-hyd-by-end-of-this-week/articleshow/78264407.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||Lok Sabha passes three labour code bills, Rajya Sabha to take them up today||NEW DELHI: Amid boycott from major opposition parties, including Congress, Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed three important labour code bills — the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, the Industrial Relations Code, and the Code on Social Security. The bills provide for social security to workers in organised and unorganised sectors while consolidating 29 labour laws under four codes. The bill was supported by TDP, JD(U), BJD and YSR Congress. Replying to the debate, labour minister Santosh Gangwar said the objective of the bills was to provide a healthy and safe working environment to 50 crore workers. He said the bills consolidated and amended laws regulating the occupational safety, health and working conditions of people employed in establishments. The bills also consolidate laws related to trade unions and conditions of employment in industrial units. The bills will be taken up by Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The Code on Social Security consolidates laws relating to social security with the goal of extending social security to all employees and workers either in the organised sector or the unorganised sector. BJP MPs, taking advantage of the opposition's absence, said Congress had failed to move on the issue when it was in office. Gangwar said those who walked out of the House had done little for workers when they were in office. The consolidation of all labour laws under four codes was done after extensive consultations with state governments and other stakeholders, he added. The minister said the government had incorporated three-fourths of the recommendations of the parliamentary standing committee, which scrutinised the codes, in the bills. On Saturday, Gangwar had introduced the three labour code bills in the House. A fourth bill on Code on Wages was passed earlier. Pinaki Misra of BJD suggested that the new labour codes could have provided for minimum health and safety standards. He sought a relook at the definition of 'workers'. Margani Bharat of the YSR Congress supported the bills and said the codes would push forward ease of doing business in the country as well as help in attracting more foreign direct investment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lok-sabha-passes-three-labour-code-bills-rajya-sabha-to-take-them-up-today/articleshow/78266229.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hospitals have to share Covid patients’ info with kin daily: Govt||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Tuesday asked all hospitals — government and private — to update relatives of Covid patients on their condition at least once a day, even if not asked to do so, through WhatsApp and text messages. For this, dedicated helpdesks will have to be set up by the hospitals. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, in a notification, said each Covid care facility has to mandatorily establish round-the-clock helpdesks with dedicated telephone numbers. There must be enough staff in these centres to attend to all calls to provide information to the relatives of patients admitted. The numbers will be displayed and shared with the attendants. “Apart from telephonic communication, the helpdesk shall use social media like WhatsApp to communicate voice notes and pictures of patients with their attendants,” the notification said. The government said the hospitals would collect the phone numbers of the attendants when the patient is admitted and update them with general information about the patient’s condition either through SMS or WhatsApp at least once daily. The government also advised hospitals to have dedicated conference room outside the Covid-19 facility with provision of TV and camera, which can be connected with CCTVs installed inside the hospitals, so that an attendant can see his or her patient and talk to him/her. The government said in case hospitals that offer free treatment to patients and get the cost reimbursed from the government failed to provide information to patients’ kin, the government would withhold the monetary claims made by the hospitals against such patients. The government has tied up with private hospitals for free facilities in all 30 districts. A technical committee of the heath department will decide on complaints from attendants regarding non-sharing of patient information by the hospitals. “Compliance with the helpdesk is directly related to the overall satisfaction of the patient as well as the attendants. Non-compliance with the same shall be seriously viewed and shall be considered as negligence in duty for the patient concerned,” the government said. The government has asked the hospitals to comply with the order within a week and intimate the helpline number to it. The ACS-health, when contacted by TOI, said the decision was taken in view of complaints from patients’ relatives that they were not getting any information on status of the patients. “Since attendants are not allowed inside Covid hospitals, both patients and attendants are anxious,” he said. The attendant of a patient admitted in a Covid hospital in city welcomed the move. “This should have been done when the hospitals started admitting Covid patients. My father has been admitted for three days. It’s impossible to know whether he is improving,” said the 23-year-old resident of Patia area in city. Private hospitals too welcomed the move. “This is good. We already have dedicated Covid helpline through which patients are talking to their kin on a daily basis,” said a spokesperson of AMRI Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hospitals-have-to-share-covid-patients-info-with-kin-daily-govt/articleshow/78263210.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kochi||First tribal student from Palakkad gets into IIT||PALAKKAD: A tribal student from the remote Kalkandiyur tribal hamlet in Kottathara on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border of Attapadi passed GATE and got admission for MTech at IIT-Palakkad. M Krishnadas, belonging to the Irula tribal group, is the first tribal from the district to get admission into any IIT. He is the son of Makkulan and Savithri who are daily wage earners. His brother is a high school student in Attapadi. Krishnadas completed BTech from NSS Collge of Engineering, Palakkad. He studied in Pattancheri Government High School. He was spotted by K Vijayasekharan, retired Principal of KKM HSS, Vandithavalam. The retired principal took Krishnadas to live in his house and gave him special tuitions in Mathematics and English. “My achievements are due to the help of my mentor Vijayasekharan master. This is an encouragement to many deprived tribal students,” Krishnadas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/first-tribal-student-from-palakkad-gets-into-iit/articleshow/78264458.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC gives slum dwellers two weeks to vacate government plot||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has granted two weeks’ time to the hutment dwellers of Gokulnagar, behind Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar, to vacate the government plot at Sector 13/14. Justice S H Vora said that if the residents fail to vacate the plot following the notice issued by the executive engineer two months ago, the authorities will carry out an eviction drive and they can demolish constructions. The slum residents had approached the HC demanding an urgent hearing on Saturday as the authorities had told them that they would start the demolition drive on Saturday morning. They requested the HC to direct the government to provide alternative shelter under the policy of 2013 and the regulations of 2010. On hearing government pleader Manisha Shah and after perusing earlier HC orders rejecting their eligibility for alternate accommodation, the HC rejected the plea for intervention. The HC took notice of an earlier exercise undertaken by the government authorities to grant the benefits of the 2003 policy to residents who fulfilled certain criteria. It received 599 applications from residents of these hutments and 128 of them were found to be eligible for alternative accommdation. The HC observed that despite the rejection of their claims, the residents claimed benefit of policies under which they are not eligible. Holding that the government authorities were right in their process of eviction, the HC took into consideration the Covid-19 situation and granted the residents two weeks to vacate the plot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-gives-slum-dwellers-two-weeks-to-vacate-govt-plot/articleshow/78263206.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit police launches drive to trace 31 children missing since 2008||PILIBHIT: District police has reopened old files and launched a drive to trace 31 children who have been missing since 2008. A special team, headed by in-charge officer of anti-human trafficking cell Umesh Solanki, has been set up by superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav for the purpose. According to the SP, as many as 335 children aged between 9 and 16 years went missing from 2008 to 2019 in the district. Of these, 304 were rescued. The special team has started collecting the children's photographs and details once again. "Now, their separate files will be maintained by the anti-human trafficking cell. Their details have been shared with the national and state crime records bureaus,” he said. In coordination with and child helpline of different districts, the special team will strive to search for the missing children in shelter homes, orphanage and mental hospitals. A close eye will also be kept upon scavengers and child traffickers, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-police-launches-drive-to-trace-31-children-missing-since-2008/articleshow/78258771.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Video shows councillor threatening AMC officer||Ahmedababad: A video of the BJP councillor from Vejalpur, Dilip Bagaria, has gone viral in which the councillor is seen protecting an illegal construction in a society. Bagaria is seen threatening an officer of the estate department for issuing a notice. Bagaria claimed the officer asked for a Rs 25,000 bribe to permit the construction of the house in Satyanarayan Society. On Tuesday, the video went viral showing Bagaria threatening the officer in front of a house where construction is going on. He goes on to say that he is a politician and the officer should follow what he says. When the officer insisted on issuing the show-cause notice, Bagaria tells him to leave immediately. It is also alleged that Bagaria even called the deputy estate officer and threatened him. When contacted, Bagaria said “Construction within the society was going on and it was the house of a former BJP office bearer from the area. The officer, without any complaint said the residents should pay him Rs 25,000 or he would seal the house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/video-shows-councillor-threatening-amc-officer/articleshow/78263216.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||545 cases, 12 deaths in south districts of Tamil Nadu; 602 test positive in central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: Covid-19 cases continue decline in the southern region of the state, as it recorded 545 cases and 12 deaths on Tuesday. The tally in the 10 southern districts rose to 1,07,133, which include 5,730 active cases. The region also recorded 99,598 recoveries and 1,805 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region of the state on Tuesday recorded 602 fresh cases taking the tally to 46,805, which include 5,306 active cases. The region also recorded six deaths taking the toll to 654. For the second consecutive day, the ten districts reported less than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases. The most number of cases on Tuesday were reported in Tirunelveli (91), followed by Kanyakumari (77) and Madurai (61). The active cases in Tirunelveli have gone down to 934. Madurai’s tally has climbed to 16,024 on Tuesday. With 759 active cases, the district is only behind Tirunelveli (934) and Tuticorin (775). Ramanathapuram reported only eight new cases and remains as the district with the least number (215) of active cases in the region. However, the 12 deaths reported on Tuesday were in Tenkasi (3), Dindigul (2), Theni (2), Sivaganga (2), Tuticorin (1), Kanyakumari (1) and Madurai (1). The Covid-19 death rate in the region is 1.7%. Madurai and Sivaganga continue to have the highest death rates (2.4%) in the southern region. In the central region, Thanjavur reported the highest number of positive cases (155) and three deaths on Tuesday taking the toll to 9,650. According to district collector M Govinda Rao, there was no specific reason for the increasing number of positive cases. “It is because of the increasing number of public movement,” he said. Tiruvarur and Trichy recorded 116 and 113 fresh cases. One death each has been reported in the two districts. Pudukottai reported 89 positive cases and one death. Cases were also reported in Karur (56), Nagapattinam (46), Ariyalur (20), and Perambalur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/545-cases-12-deaths-in-south-dists-602-test-positive-in-central-region/articleshow/78265417.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore airport has handled more passengers than its capacity: Data||COIMBATORE: In another reminder to the state government to complete the process of land acquisition for expansion of the city airport as soon as possible, data from last year shows that the Coimbatore International Airport is already handling more passengers than its capacity. The civil aviation ministry says the airport, which has domestic and international flights, had handled 28.4 lakh passengers, compared to handling capacity of 20 lakh passengers. The numbers have also been steadily increased by 10% to 20% a year. Replying to a question raised by member of Parliament Vishnu Prasad MK, minister of state for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri admitted that many airports, including Coimbatore, was handling more passengers than it was capable of. He said the ministry had a budget outlay of Rs 25,000 crore to expand multiple airports, but the process was getting delayed due to land acquisition issues. Until last year, when Jet Airways shut operations resulting in the number of passengers being handled falling by 6.7% or from 30 lakh people a year to 28 lakh people a year, the Coimbatore International Airport has been seeing a steady growth in passenger traffic. From handling 15 lakh passengers in 2014-15, it doubled to 30 lakh passengers in 2018-’19, which is 50% higher than its passenger handling capacity. “There were times last year, especially in the afternoons, when the security hold became so full that people had to stand and wait for their flight,” says frequent flier Santhosh J. “The place where security checks our ticket and ID card and baggage screening counters during weekday mornings are already packed,” says airport enthusiast and businessman J Sathish. However, the state government has hardly acquired 11.22 acres of the required 627.89 acres marked. This is despite more than 90% of the landowners agreeing to the price offered and even submitting all the necessary documents. They claim that so far Rs 275 crore of the Rs 2,500 crore project has been released, which is 10% of funds required. Officials on the ground say this fund too has not arrived completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-airport-has-handled-more-passengers-than-its-capacity-data/articleshow/78264457.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Doctors hail passage of bill to protect medical professionals||MADURAI: Doctors and healthcare providers welcomed the passage of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in both houses of the parliament. The bill aims to protect all medical professionals, including doctors and other frontline Covid-19 workers, in the wake of the many incidents of attacks on them. As per the bill, violence against healthcare providers during an epidemic is a non-bailable offence punishable with fine and jail term up to 5 years. President of the Madurai branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr VN Alagavenkatesan, thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister of health and family welfare, Harsh Vardhan, for passing of the bill. However, doctors are hoping for a law to be enacted to protect doctors and health care workers, even when it is not an epidemic situation. Notably, in December 2019, a PG doctor was assaulted by kin of a patient at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai and a protest was staged by doctors. The Tamil Nadu chapter of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI-TN), similarly, while welcoming the move, urged the government to enact a law which provides adequate safety cover to medical fraternity in discharging their duties at all times. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-hail-passage-of-bill-to-protect-medical-professionals/articleshow/78265415.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 paves way for a Slow food campaign against Cancer||Thiruvananthapuram: With researches pointing finger at fast-food culture as one of the triggering factors for cancer, a slow food movement was proposed by Ashakiranam, cancer-care project of Caritas India, to check the spread of the disease in the state. The slow-food movement amid Covid-19 pandemic aims to promote organic farming in thousands of houses in the state and encourage people to partake food cooked using the vegetables grown in their backyard. Titled ‘Jeevani’, the project will be formally inaugurated by agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar on Thursday. The project aims to prevent the source of cancer at grassroots level by promoting healthy lifestyle by producing, conserving and consuming good food. Fr Paul Moonjely, director of Caritas India, said it was the rapidly increasing number of cancer patients in the state that prompted the organisation to propose the project. “Our activities include creating awareness and providing support in the form of palliative care and financial to the needy. After four years of cancer-care campaign, we now want to deal with the root cause of cancer — changes in lifestyle and food habits. Hence, we are promoting organic farming,” Fr Paul said. The organisation has mooted the project also as a corollary to ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ project envisioned by the state government to address possible food scarcity if Covid-19 situation continues to be grave. “These days, people spend more time in their houses. There is a renewed interest in farming among people during this pandemic and we are trying to engage them in organic farming by providing all possible support,” said Fr Paul. The project is implemented through social-service societies across 32 dioceses in the state. The aim is to cover over nine lakh families across the state. Ahead of the launch, 28,326 volunteers have enrolled for the project. A 20-member resource team has been formed to spearhead the initiative. The organisation will provide seed, manure and agriculture, in addition to offering support by resource people. Fr Paul said networking with the government system, mobilising resources daily and awareness among people remains the challenge they face in their activities. Seeds and saplings for the project will be procured from dioceses having nurseries and open market. “Kerala was among the leading states in agriculture, but now we have become a consumer state. The rice we eat now does not get stale and it is due to preservatives used in it. The idea of Jeevani is to make people understand the importance of cultivating vegetables they need to consume. A market-oriented exploitation is happening, and we need to promote sustainable agriculture,” said Haridas V R, climate change head at the organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-19-paves-way-for-a-slow-food-campaign-against-cancer/articleshow/78263245.cms||Anasooya.S
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ICT Academy, Norka Roots launch tech courses||Thiruvananthapuram: ICT Academy of Kerala, in association with Norka Roots, has launched innovative technology courses online that provide great job opportunities in India and abroad. Courses offered are in robotic process automation (RPA), full stack developer, data science and analytics, cyber security, digital marketing and extended reality (XR). Norka Roots will offer 75% of the course fee as scholarship for the courses, admission to which will be through an entrance test. Candidates, who successfully complete the courses, will be offered internship at TCS iON. The course duration will be 350-400 hours. Candidates with graduation in any subject, students who are awaiting final semester results can apply for the courses. Live classes, recorded lessons, facilities to clear doubts, examinations to analyse academic progress, projects for skill development and study tools for reference are available on ICT Academy’s digital platform. Candidates, in any part of the world, can avail the training program virtually. Expert guidance will be available throughout the course session. The entrance exam will be held on October 15, 2020. The last date for registration for the courses through the website https://ictkerala.org/course-registration/ is October 5. Classes will commence on October 27. For more details, contact- 0471-2700811/12/13; 80781 02119. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ict-academy-norka-roots-launch-tech-courses/articleshow/78264509.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 11 flights cancelled from Sardar Vallabhbhai International airport||AHMEDABAD: Eleven flights from Sardar Vallabhbhai International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad were cancelled on Tuesday. These included four to Delhi, three to Hyderabad and one each to Nagpur, Pune, Goa and Bengaluru. Sources said these flights operations were cancelled due to operational constraints as heavy rains lashed many parts of the country. Flights cancellation have become common ever since flight operations resumed at the city airport. Airlines sources said that due to inadequate passenger load, they are forced to cancel flights. Apprehensions about travelling amid the pandemic have hit passenger footfalls at SVPI airport and data from Airports Authority of India shows domestic passenger footfalls here declined by 84% in July 2020. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-flights-cancelled/articleshow/78263235.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Activists seek pulses, salt & oil under PDS||Bhubaneswar: A group of civil society organisations here have jointly launched a campaign to press the state government into providing dal, edible oil and iodized salt in Odisha’s food security scheme. The state-level campaign — ‘Kuposhan jadi kariba dura, dali, tela, luna nischita kara’ (if you want to eradicate malnutrition, ensure supply of dal, oil and salt) — has been launched jointly by Atmashakti Trust, Odisha Shramajeebee Mancha and Mahila Shramajeebee Mancha. The aim of the campaign is to ensure nutritional food security under the state’s food security scheme. The campaign was born after an online survey, undertaken with 10,769 families in 16 districts, showed that families needed dal and edible oil in the PDS to ensure nutritional food security. As part of Covid distress alleviation measures, 1 kg of chana dal is being provided to BPL families or PDS beneficiaries every month. Nearly all the families surveyed said this had benefited them to a great extent. The state government, however, is planning to stop the allocation of dal from November, prompting the civil society organisations to launch their campaign. The survey results revealed that 63% of the families said the 1kg chana dal lasted them between one and five days, while 27% of the families consumed it in six to 10 days. Nearly 76.45% of the families reported that they were consuming the dal in one meal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/activists-seek-pulses-salt-oil-under-pds/articleshow/78263232.cms||Sandip Mishra
September 23, 2020||Bhopal||Six months post lockdown, artistes see a ray of hope as stage in city comes alive||Bhopal: Months of lockdown and weeks of curfew imposed during the unlock turned people’s lives upside down, literally, in Covid season. But for those singers, dancers, actors, artisans, musicians and folk artists, who were totally dependent on live performances, it not merely caused trauma, but also acute financial crisis. Hence, the first live stage event ‘Rang Sangeet’ hosted by MP School of Drama on Monday, saw several artistes break into tears as the three-day fest opened at Chabutara Manch, amidst serenity and greenery on MPSD premises. Those who are associated with any of the creative art forms, especially stage and theatre, claim that it is not just lack of employment, but also the fact that they couldn’t be near the stage that caused even more anguish. With this first stage event staged in City of Lakes, a lot of artistes across the country have been motivated, said director of MPSD, Alok Chatterjee. “Being an actor, whenever I see the spotlights on the stage, my heartbeats increase. So, when the government gave us a green signal to organise the stage events from September 21, following strict social distancing and Covid norms, we thought of starting on day one itself. This three-day event will be attended by 100 people each day, on the first come first serve basis. All these events are being streamed live on social media too,” said Chatterjee. There are so many full-time theatre artistes who are working as daily-wagers. They need more such live events, to not only earn a decent living, but also to come out of depression, stated Damoh-based civil engineer-turned theatre artiste, Vishwanath Patel. “My father has a small field, so I didn’t starve, but there are a lot of rural artistes, who are landless. They are really depressed and struggling to come to terms with Covid-induced social, mental, financial woes. I’m hopeful soon many more artistes will get a chance to get back to stage,” said Patel. Day one of the Rang Sangeet fest saw Bhopal-based singer Rajeev Singh present some of the most popular songs used in the iconic plays of some of the theatre doyens, including Habib Tanvir and B V Karanth. “It is an honour to open the maiden event during unlock on stage along with my 11-member troupe. We now have to innovate to keep our traditional art forms alive. It’s a challenge; the show must go on,” said Rajeev. Seasoned vocalist and a faculty member of drama school, Mohd Rahimuddin, said, “It is a day of celebration for all the artistes. After being parched for a creative outlet, it is indeed a baby step towards normalcy. It’s also a ray of hope for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-months-post-lockdown-artistes-see-a-ray-of-hope-as-stage-in-city-comes-alive/articleshow/78258854.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake cop was part of 35 robberies across Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A day after Ramol police apprehended Kirit Amin, who used to pretend to be a cop and rob people, it emerged that along with his wife and five aides, he was involved in 35 cases of robbery across the state in the past three years and had taken a total of Rs 1.30 crore from several people. Police sources said Amin, 31, his wife Bhavna, 31, residents of Jeevan Arya Residency in Vastral and their aides Javed Chauhan, 31, from Antarsuba village in Kheda; Jagmohan Shastri, 58, from Rakhiyal village in Thasra taluka of Kheda; Wasim Syed 32, from Antarsuba; Ankur Patel, 24, from Hathijan and Pankajsinh Rathod, 34, from Parabdi village near Vinzol were arrested. Police said Kirit and his aides were nabbed when they were going towards SP Ring Road. When cops stopped Kirit, he said he was a PSI with Amraiwadi police and showed them an identity card bearing the signature of DCP Zone 5. Cops found that the identity card and signature had been forged and detained him along with the others for questioning. He revealed that he and his aides would lure people with the promise of gold at low prices or investment schemes with whopping returns. When the victim went to meet a member of the gang, Kirit would pose as a cop, take the money and flee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-cop-was-part-of-35-robberies/articleshow/78263301.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Water level rises in rivers after 2 days of rainfall||Bhubaneswar: The low-pressure induced rain for last two days prompted rise in water level of the Jalaka river and three more rivers — Brahmani, Baitarani and Budhabalanga. This panicked people already affected by flood. An official report said Jalaka was flowing a little above danger mark in Balasore district while rest three rivers at different points were flowing below danger mark. However, the government officials are keeping a close watch on the rivers’ water level. An official in water resources department cautioned that the Mahanadi river system, which witnessed flood last month, may again see a rise in water level. This is due to heavy rain forecast on its upstream under influence of Sunday’s system, which has now moved to land and was lying over Chhattisgarh .  The government officer said the Hirakud reservoir in the wake up heavy rainfall warning on its upstream, increased its outflow on Tuesday compared to inflow. Director of regional IMD centre H R Biswas said rainfall in the state would decrease after the system moved to land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/water-level-rises-in-rivers-after-2-days-of-rainfall/articleshow/78263297.cms||Siraj Mohammad
September 23, 2020||Mysuru||Upset with delay in release of funds for houses, tribals write to CM||Mysuru: Members of various tribal communities in Kodagu district are living in partially-completed houses, awaiting release of money from the government to finish construction of their homes. However, with months dragging into years, members of the tribal community have decided to write to chief minister BS Yediyurappa to draw his attention to the apathetic attitude of the government, and ensure disbursal of the complete compensation. Members of the Jenu Kuruba community account for a sizeable percentage of the tribal population in Kodagu district, as do those belonging to the Yerava and Soliga communities. Members of these communities were evicted from their dwelling in the forests, and they have since been living in Virajpet and Somwarpet taluks in houses mostly made of mud and stones. Under the ‘Samagra Girijana Abhivrudhi Yojane’, the state government undertook a project to construct homes for members of tribal communities. Each house was to be constructed at a cost of Rs 2 lakh, and the money was to be credited to the bank accounts of the tribals in four instalments. Most of the beneficiaries of the scheme are members of the Jenu Kuruba and Yerava communities work on the coffee plantations in Kodagu. While they have received the first instalment – Rs 50,000 – after the foundation for their houses was laid, they are yet to receive money for the walls that have been built over them. President of the Kodagu district unit of the Karnataka Rajya Mula Adhivasigala Rakshana Vedike JK Prakash, himself a member of the Jenu Kuruba community, told TOI, “Our houses are in a poor condition. We started construction of our houses only after the government assured us of ensuring payment under the scheme. Officials are refusing to release funds citing the pandemic. We have approached local leaders and tribal officers, but to no avail.” He said that around 500 people who were selected to receive funds under the scheme between 2012 and ‘15 were living in houses that are yet to be completed. Owing to the heavy rain that the district has been receiving in the past two years, the people have had to live under tarpaulin sheets, which are serving the purpose of a roof. The affected people have written to both Yediyurappa and former CM and leader of the opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah to direct the officials concerned to disburse the pending amount. “We did not have the money to send the letter, but we pooled all our money and sent them via speedpost,” Prakash added. Over 49k tribals in hilly district Tribe Population in Kodagu Jenu Kuruba 15,302 Yerava 26,533 Soliga 1,217 Nayaka, Beda, Valmiki and others 6,062 Total 49,114||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/upset-with-delay-in-release-of-funds-for-houses-tribals-write-to-cm/articleshow/78261908.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Those who chose Gujarat University online exam option still clueless||AHMEDABAD: Those students who had opted for online examinations in Gujarat University are clueless about their exam schedule as the university has organized the pen-paper examination before it. After opting for the online tests, GU students have become more insecure about their future also because not only that there is no schedule in sight, but also because they have not heard anything about the exam from the university. After GU offered option for online exams, nearly 10,000 students in their final-year degree courses and postgraduate courses had opted for the same thinking that this would be a comfortable option in the worsening situation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. These students have been waiting to hear from the university. They are clueless about which types of device they will have to use; whether they will have to go to any exam centre or they can take test sitting at home; and what are the options for them in eventuality of any technical glitch, sources in the university said. In the meanwhile, GU organized physical exams and more than 60,000 students appeared and now they are waiting for their final results. Like GU, the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) also announced that it would organize online tests and has successfully done it for more than 70,000 students pursuing their final-year engineering courses. It has completed two rounds and declared results also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/those-who-chose-gu-online-exam-option-still-clueless/articleshow/78263273.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Steady rise in active cases, recoveries go beyond 1L||Thiruvananthapuram: The state on Tuesday recorded 4,125 Covid-19 positive cases when 38,574 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total recoveries in the state crossed one lakh after 3,007 people were discharged on the day and the total cured cases now stands at 1,01,731. However, the number of active cases is steadily increasing with 40,382 now under treatment across the state. Among the new cases, 3,970 are locally transmitted cases in which 87 are health workers and eight Coast Guard personnel from INSH. The sources of 412 cases are unknown. As many as 122 people who had come from other states and 33 from abroad are also among the new cases. Total deaths moved to 573 as 19 more deaths were confirmed on the day. The deceased are Anandan, 76, and Beevikunju, 68, from Kollam; Latha, 40, Dharmadasan, 67, Aravindakshan Nair, 68, Radhakrishnan, 68, Saiyadali, 30, Preeji, 38, Shameer, 38, Mohammad Hani, 68, Appu, 70, Balakrishnan, 81, and Surendran, 54, from Thiruvananthapuram; Satyavati, 70, from Kannur; Fathima, 67, and Abu, 72, from Malappuram; Rajan, 58, from Palakkad; Gopala Menon, 79, from Thrissur and P Balan, 86, from Ernakulam. Thiruvananthapuram, 681, continued to top the list of daily cases, which was followed by Malappuram (444), Ernakulam (406), Alappuzha (403), Kozhikode (394), Thrissur (369), Kollam (347), Palakkad (242), Pathanamthitta (207), Kasaragod (197), Kottayam (169), Kannur (143), Wayanad (81) and Idukki (42).  There are a total of 2,20,270 persons under observation across the state, of which 25,782 are in hospitals. On Tuesday, 2,430 people were admitted to the hospitals. Till now, a total of 24,92,757 samples have been sent for testing. At present, there are 639 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/steady-rise-in-active-cases-recoveries-go-beyond-1l/articleshow/78263315.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bareilly||Man found hanging at home; woman takes pesticide, dies in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Two alleged cases of death by suicide were reported in two police station circles here. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said Rohit (46) was found hanging at home by his wife on Monday night. The couple had quarrelled earlier in the day and his wife along with their four children had gone out. When she returned home at about 10.30 pm, she found him hanging. Jai Prakash Singh, SHO of Gajraula police station, said Reena Devi (28) allegedly consumed an insecticide due to perpetual domestic violence. A complaint to the effect was lodged by her brother. She had been married for eight years. Her husband, Dharmpal, and unnamed in-laws were booked under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-found-hanging-at-home-woman-takes-pesticide-dies-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78257733.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kozhikode||KVASU vets save another pup in Malaysia||KOZHIKODE: A team of veterinary surgeons at Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) at Pookode in Wayanad has once again saved the life of a puppy located over 3,000km away in Malaysia through a tele-guided surgery. In a second such surgery done through live-streamed tele-guidance in the past five months, the three-month old puppy named “Budthi” was successfully operated for a very rare birth disorder at a hospital in Penang province of Malaysia. The puppy was brought to a veterinary hospital after it experienced difficulty in swallowing food. Dr Shibu Sulaiman, an alumnus of KVASU who is the head surgeon at the hospital, tentatively diagnosed the puppy to be suffering from a very rare, birth disorder in the opening of its oesophagus, the food pipe, which was not opening normally to send the food down from its mouth. Shibu consulted the case details with surgery specialists at KVASU and also at the University Putra Malaysia. The diagnostic department at the varsity helped and guided him to confirm the diagnosis using video fluoroscopy as ‘cricopharyngeal dysphagia’. This rare disorder was to be corrected by a surgical procedure known as cricopharyngeal myectomy, where a small portion of the muscles guarding the opening of the food pipe is cut and removed. Beside the dog’s size, the peculiar and complex anatomy of the region to be operated, was a great challenge for the surgeons. Shibu said that being a very rare disorder, very few people across the world had performed this rare surgery, and hence it was a challenge to correct it surgically. “I discussed the same with veterinary friends, surgeons and practitioners across universities in the US, the UK, Bangkok, Australia and the Netherlands for advice and knowhow if anyone had performed corrective surgery for this disorder,” Shibu said, adding that one university which had performed this procedure was neither willing to share the technical advice nor its video for him to perform the corrective procedure because of client-patient privilege. When Shibu approached surgeons at KVASU, they agreed to tele-guide the procedure from Pookode, though they had not encountered this rare case or done such a surgical procedure, said Dr Bipin K C, the head of the University Veterinary Hospital at Pookode. Apart from Dr Shibu, surgeons in Malaysia who conducted the surgery comprised Dr Teh Ai Ling, Dr Amal Bhaskar and Dr Lee Perng. “The success of the tele-guided surgery shows that the method can be adopted for complicated surgeries and also paves the way for collaboration and sharing of expertise across borders,” Bipin said. The seven-hour long surgery was completely tele-guided from Pookode on September 7. Shibu said that following surgery, the puppy was observed for more than a week at Windsor Animal hospital and was discharged after it was able to swallow food normally. In April, KVASU vets had saved the life of a puppy named Max through a tele-guided surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kvasu-vets-save-another-pup-in-malaysia/articleshow/78264519.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Red chilli prices to fall in next season: Tamil Nadu Agricultural University||COIMBATORE: The price of red chillies, which is now around Rs10,000 per quintal (100kg), would come down to Rs8,500-Rs9,000 for the crop that is to be cultivated during October-November, said the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell (Demic). Experts at the cell said the chilli harvest in Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh was expected to be very good this year. “The export demand has come down due to the lockdown. There is also a good inventory of red chillies in cold storage. These factors would bring down the price of red chillies, as per the survey among farmers and traders,” an official said. A release from Demic said chilli would be grown in the state during October-November. “Mundu and sannam are the major types of chillies grown in Tamil Nadu. Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar and Thirunelveli are the major districts cultivating chillies and the crop area is normal during this year.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/red-chilli-prices-to-fall-in-next-season-tnau/articleshow/78264515.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kochi||Post-Covid complications a real cause for concern||KOCHI: The hospitals here are now seeing patients returning with post-Covid complications, two to three weeks after their discharge. Pulmonologists and infectious disease experts in government medical colleges in the state said that several patients, those with even mild or moderate Covid symptoms, are now returning to the hospitals, complaining of either serious conditions such as residual intravascular clotting in the lung or post-Covid lung fibrosis. Many have also complained of minor problems such as anosmia that persists for more than six to eight weeks after discharge from the hospital, besides diarrhoea, chronic fatigue and lack of energy for a variable period of time. A few patients continued to be highly anxious even after discharge. At Thiruvananthapuram medical college, some PG doctors, who had mild symptoms till discharge, after two weeks, complained of breathlessness while walking or washing clothes. “We investigated and found some infiltration in the lungs and was treated with steroids. We expect patients who developed Covid pneumonia to return after two to three months with pulmonary problems, including fibrosis,” said Dr Jayaprakash B, pulmonologist, Thiruvananthapuram medical college. Data from Mumbai shows that 27% of patients who have recovered from Covid pneumonia have developed pulmonary fibrosis after discharge. In Kasaragod, which was the epicentre of Covid infection during the second phase, now patients are returning after 30-90 days with complaints of lung lesions as well as mental breakdown. “So far, we have not seen any child with post-Covid problems,” said Kasaragod-based pulmonologist Dr Narayana Pradeep. However, the real extent of the post-Covid complications in Kerala is not yet known, as there is no documented data available in the state. But experts treating Covid patients have suggested to the government that a pulmonary function and CT-test of the lung should be done on each person during discharge to assess if there is any damage to the lungs. However, the government is yet to respond. Meanwhile, anticipating post-Covid health issues, as per revised treatment protocol, now patients with lung involvement are given corticosteroids for two weeks even after discharge to prevent the post-Covid pulmonary fibrosis. “Many patients with Covid pneumonia whom I have discharged have complained of exceptional breathlessness, which could also be due to residual intravascular clotting in the lung. And those who have recovered from Covid ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) also present with post-Covid lung fibrosis and exertional breathlessness,” said Dr Fathahudeen, nodal officer for Covid-19, Ernakulam. He added that there are many asymptomatic Covid patients who while in quarantine suddenly collapse or are found dead and this, “I strongly believe is due to silent intravascular coagulation”. Meanwhile, Kozhikode medical college is set to be the first government hospital to start a facility for post-Covid follow-up of discharged patients. Already, Aster Medcity in Kochi has started a similar unit after they saw an increase in patients coming with post-Covid complications. “We want to know if post-Covid patients, especially those who had pneumonia, develop any complications and what further treatment they require. Emphasis will also be on ensuring that their liver and kidney function is normal, besides providing occupational therapy,” said Dr Sheela Mathew, Kozhikode medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/post-covid-complications-a-real-cause-for-concern/articleshow/78263346.cms||Preetu Nair
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||KMC allots additional funds for fight against virus||Kolkata: Ahead of September 30, when its budget deadline is supposed to lapse, Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators at KMC, on Tuesday presented approximately Rs 4,300-crore budget for continuing with the expenditure for essential services till March 2021. Additional funds were allotted to KMC health and solid waste management (SWM) departments for fighting the pandemic.“We have allocated additional funds to the health department for carrying out Covid-19 tests and conducting surveys related to the deadly virus. We have also taken care of the massive sanitization need and hence allotted extra funds to the SWM department,” Hakim said. Besides these two departments, water supply department has been allotted substantial funds for improving the distribution network.Amid the pandemic, the Trinamool-run board is also taking preparations for polls that have been postponed after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. Hakim on Tuesday said he was ready for the election and expressed hope that citizens were keeping an eye on the development work undertaken by the KMC board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-allots-additional-funds-for-fight-against-virus/articleshow/78264540.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kochi||Archbishop Joseph Chennoth laid to rest||ALAPPUZHA: The body of Archbishop Mar Joseph Chennoth (77), the Vatican’s apostolic nuncio to Japan, was laid to rest at St Thomas Church, Kokkamangalam in Cherthala on Tuesday evening. The funeral of the archbishop, who died earlier this month, was held with full state honours. Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, archbishop Mar Antony Kariyil, archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam, bishop Jacob Manathodath and others attended the funeral service. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala expressed grief over his death. His body, which was brought to Kochi from Japan, was kept in the morgue of Lisie Hospital in Kochi on Monday. On Tuesday, his body was kept in the chapel of Lisie Hospital and St Mary’s Basilica for the public to pay last respects. Later, his body was taken to his ancestral house at Kokkamangalam in Cherthala. After that his body was brought to the church. Mar Joseph Chennoth became Vatican’s ambassador to Japan in 2011. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/archbishop-joseph-chennoth-laid-to-rest/articleshow/78264574.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Organizers want e-pass at pandals in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several Puja organizers are toying with the idea of using e-passes for crowd management at some of the biggest Pujas in the city after Kolkata Metro’s successful resumption of services using the same. Anjan Ukil, in charge of the south zone of Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organization of some 35 Puja clubs in Kolkata, said, “Discussions are on for replicating Metro Railway’s system of e-passes. We are waiting for Thursday’s meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee to understand if it’s feasible.” Ukil, a member of Ballygunge Cultural Puja Committee, added, “Kolkata Police must give its assent suggestion as it will be in charge of crowd control.” “The passes may be needed for peak hours. Pandal viewing usually starts around 6pm and goes on till 2am. The eight hours can be divided into slots,” said Partha Ghosh, general secretary, Shib Mandir Durga Puja. For the rest of the day, no pass would be needed. Supriyo Chakraborty, general secretary, AE Part 1 Block Committee, said, “E-passes will be extremely useful. They will save the cost of printing VIP passes and minimize the risk of infection. People can download the digital passes with codes on their smartphones and display the same to enter the pandals.” Asked if it could be done, Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the government had engaged to develop the Pathadisha Metro e-pass, said, “I guess so. We have the algorithm. We have to replace the Metro stations and the booking slots with the pandal-hopping peak slots.” Chatterjee added, “But Durga Puja is a festival and one must consider people’s sentiment before working on e-passes for pandal viewing. Those who don’t have passes shouldn’t feel deprived and one must be extremely cautious while developing a system that can address the sensitive issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/organizers-want-e-pass-at-pandals/articleshow/78264529.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Goa||Dhavalikar suffers heart attack, in GMC||Panaji/Ponda: Less than a month after he recovered from Covid-19, MGP president and former minister Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar suffered a heart attack on Tuesday afternoon. He is being treated at the state-run, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. “His condition is stable but the next 48-hours will be crucial for him,” said a senior GMC doctor. His son Viraj rushed him to the nursing home in Ponda after he complained of chest pain in the afternoon. “After the initial treatment, he was referred to GMC. GMC doctors said his condition is stable,” said his brother, former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-suffers-heart-attack-in-gmc/articleshow/78264585.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fish market suffers Rs 1.3 crore fraud during lockdown||KOLKATA: The Patipukur fish market, one of the biggest wholesale markets of fish in the city that was shut for days after being hit by the Covid crisis, has now suffered another blow. An FIR has been lodged against the cashier and his henchmen for duping them of Rs 1.3 crore during the pandemic period. The accused was initially pulled up in November last year and warned of consequences. Finally, when one of the traders wanted to settle the dispute during the pandemic, the cashier allegedly threatened him and even attacked him with help of his associates. Based on the complaint filed by fish trader Pradip Das, Tallah police has registered an FIR. According to Das’s complaint, he had appointed the accused — then merely a 17-year-old — in 2005 to maintain the accounts of his fish supply business at the Patipukur fish market. In November last year, the complainant detected that the accused cashier had begun misappropriating money. By the time the market was temporarily shut down during the lockdown, the accused allegedly siphoned Rs 1.3 crore. The book of accounts was found to have been allegedly doctored. The misappropriation has not only affected Das’s business, the future of many fish traders, who run their businesses as a cooperative with Das, are at stake. “This was for his wrongful gain and thereby cheated the complainant. While the complainant kept trying to recover the amount, the accused allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. On August 30, around 6 pm, the accused along with at least 10 of his associates came to the shop of the complainant and physically assaulted him with a sharp object and a stick. He has since been threatened often,” the FIR stated. Das had to be hospitalized after the attack. A case under criminal breach of trust, defraud and cheating has been registered at the Tallah police station. “We are investigating the case. The victim has so far being claiming that he is being framed with a number of motives. We are taking help of a few experts who will help auditing the documents. We are also not ruling out the business rivalry angle,” said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fish-market-suffers-rs-1-3cr-fraud-during-lockdown/articleshow/78264534.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Hospitality industry demands 50% cut in power charges||Ludhiana: Furious after the state government failed to announce any relief for them by hiking the capping on the number of guests allowed per function, those in hospitality industry are now demanding that the government gives them waiver of 50% in power charges if it does not want to give any relief in terms of guest count. According to businessmen, the power bills are killing their industry as already they are paying one of the highest rate of above Rs 10 per unit as they are only allowed to install commercial connections and coupled with the high minimum charges the power bills are draining their finances. Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “It seems that the government is not going to take a decision on our demand of increasing the number of persons allowed to attend marriage and other functions. So, it’s better we focus on how to survive this gloomy period and save our units like hotels, banquet halls, marriage palaces, etc. from being permanently closed. The heaviest burden on us is of power bills. Therefore, we request the state government to reduce the power tariff on our industry by 50% as we can no more afford such high expenses being slapped on us.” Rakesh Sharma, general manager of a hotel, said, “The rate of power per unit is costing almost more than Rs 10 to us under the existing power tariff and power bills constitute majority of our expenses. Right now, the situation of our industry is very bad, particularly due to the capping on the number of guests allowed per function. But since no decision has been taken by the government on it, then it is the need of the hour that our operating expenses are reduced. So, power charges should be reduced immediately by 50% by the state government, so that our financial condition improves.” According to Amarjit Singh Sant, president of Ludhiana Marriage Palace Welfare Association, “The minimum power charges on the commercial connections are very high and given the present situation it is very difficult to absorb these. Therefore, either the government reduces the power tariff applicable on us or allows us to use industrial meters on which the rate of per unit is almost half as compared with that applicable on the commercial meters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hospitality-industry-demands-50-cut-in-power-charges/articleshow/78263372.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru airport gears up to handle more flights||MANGALURU: Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) is banking on airlines to start extra flights to bring it out of the pandemic-induced downturn in passenger traffic. SpiceJet has set the ball rolling by reintroducing flights to Delhi, and Bengaluru. This is besides its daily flight to Mumbai. Air India and IndiGo, the other state and private airlines operating to MIA are planning to ramp up services from the airport in a phased manner. As per the flight schedule that SpiceJet has filed with MIA, the airline started direct flight on Delhi-Mangaluru-Delhi sector on September 22. The flight will operate on Tuesdays and Sundays. SG761 leaves Delhi at 10.10am and reaches MIA at 12.35pm and leaves as flight SG762 at 1.10pm to reach Delhi at 3.55pm. The fares range between Rs 6,206 for Spice Saver and Rs 7,406 for SpiceMax as per fare chart on the airline’s website. The airline has also introduced additional flights to Bengaluru every Wednesday and Thursday starting today. This is in addition to daily flight to Bengaluru. Flight SG3328 leaves Bengaluru at 9.45am and reaches here at 10.30am. Flight 3329 leaves MIA at 11am and reaches Bengaluru at 11.55am. The fares are Rs 2,529 for SpiceSaver and Rs 3,730 for SpiceMax. This is in addition to daily flights SG 1035 and SG 1027. Air India too has re-started flights from Mangaluru. It is operating a flight — three days a week on Mumbai-Mangaluru-Kochi-Mumbai sector. Flight AI 681 leaves Mumbai at 2.45pm and reaches here at 4.20pm. This flight leaves for Kochi at 5.20pm and reaches there at 6.20pm. On the return leg, the flight leaves Kochi at 7.20pm and reaches Mumbai at 9.30pm. The average occupancy between Mumbai-Mangaluru and Kochi-Mumbai is around 95%. IndiGo is operating five flights — two to Bengaluru daily, one to Mumbai four days a week, one daily to Hyderabad and one to Chennai three days a week. IndiGo has scheduled an ‘Air Bubble Flight’ to Dubai on September 26. The passenger load that was in single digits has since gone up to three digits indicating a rebound in passenger confidence, the airline executive said. Relaxation in quarantine norms in Karnataka has spurred the spike in passenger traffic. V V Rao, airport director, MIA told TOI that the airport which at its peak handled around 80 movements per day is now handling around half the capacity. Exit of Jet Airways from the scene has opened up slots. Airlines are free to start flights to Mangaluru. The formal restart of the academic season will rekindle demand for flights to this education hub, Rao said adding MIA is ready to make the airport a hub of flight activities once again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mia-gears-up-to-handle-more-flights/articleshow/78261942.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Daily case count dips in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Health authorities in Kolhapur have little to rejoice as despite the number of Covid-19 patients being reported in a day nosediving and more patients getting discharged from hospitals, the daily fatality rate continues to be on the higher side. In the last few days, an average 450 Covid-19 cases were being reported per day in the district compared to 900-1,000 cases per day the week before. The number of patients recovering from the infection has surpassed the number of cases being reported as now, over 700 patients are being discharged on an average per day. A week ago, active cases accounted for 31% of the total cases in the district. The active case percentage has now dropped to 27.73%. However, the daily fatality rate currently is 2.42% compared to 2.12% a week ago. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “We have observed that the daily case count is entering the plateau stage. The number of patients discharged is more since now we are discharging patients in eight days. Earlier, we were keeping patients for two weeks. As per the epidemiological rule, we have passed six weeks of the surge in Covid cases. The daily cases being reported are less than expected. However, the number of deaths is still very high and we are taking all efforts to bring down the fatality rate.” Experts say there are many reasons for the surge in Covid deaths, most important among them being the delay in getting patients admitted. Officials claim that the major hurdle of shortage of oxygen has been done away with. Currently, there is adequate supply of oxygen but the hospitals have been advised not to administer oxygen to all patients. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “We have asked the oxygen manufacturing companies to ensure maximum supply of oxygen for medical purpose. An oxygen generator plant will be set up at the sub-district hospital of Gadhinglaj and Isolation Hospital in Kolhapur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/daily-case-count-dips-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78261971.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||At Rs 3,800/quintal, onion prices hit season’s highest||Nashik: Shortage of onion supply in the Lasalgaon APMC pushed the average wholesale prices to season’s highest on Monday in an indication of the direction the kitchen staple is headed. The average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon APMC was Rs 3,800 per quintal on Monday, a rise of Rs 1,300 per quintal since Friday. Onion prices have hit Rs 30-35 per kg in the retail markets of Nashik, while they were selling in the range of Rs 40-45 a kg in Pune. Interestingly, the average wholesale onion prices have shot up despite the centre banning on onion export. Traders and market observers said the retail prices are expected to touch Rs 50 a kg in Nashik’s retail by this month-end. According to APMC sources, the average wholesale onion prices are expected to touch Rs 5,000 per quintal by September end. “The arrival of onions has dropped by 50% in the past few days due to rains. The arrivals of onions at Lasalgaon, which was around 15,000 quintals a day around 8-10 days back, have dropped to 7-8,000 quintals a day,” said APMC officials. Farmers are reluctant to bring their produce into the market these days due to the heavy rainfall. “The onion crops in South India, Madhya Pradesh have damaged at large due to heavy rains. Hence, the demand for the onions from Nashik district has increased and also led to the rise in average wholesale onion prices,” APMC sources said. Onion trader Manoj Jain said usually, fresh kharif onions start arriving in the market by October 15. “The arrivals of the fresh onions will be delayed by at least a month in the district as most of the fresh kharif onion crop has been damaged due to heavy rains. Hence, there will be scarcity of onion in October and November,” he said. There had been a scarcity of onions last year too. The average wholesale onion prices had recorded all-time high at Rs 8,625 per quintal on December 16, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-rs-3800/quintal-onion-prices-hit-seasons-highest/articleshow/78241236.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Diarrhoea cases nosedive, courtesy Covid protocol||Kolkata: Covid preventive protocol seems to be working effectively as far as prevention of diarrhoeal diseases are concerned. There is a drastic drop in the number diarrhoea cases at the Beliaghata ID Hospital, the state’s only referral hospital for such ailments.Till March, the hospital was getting the usual number of cases. “The drop in number of diarrhoeal cases started from April,” said Asish Manna, the medical superintendent and vice-principal of ID Hospital.Every year, the hospital treats around 15,000 patients who need hospital care for diarrhoeal diseases. But till August this year, only 3,270 patients were admitted for treatment, a major chunk of it — 2,785 — were treated till March. Though the number of diarrhoea cases tends to rise during summer and rainy seasons between April and August, only 485 cases were reported this year.“Covid-prevention measures like hand hygiene is definitely one of the reasons for the sharp drop in the number. Also, people have turned to home-cooked food and healthy lifestyle,” said infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray.According to public health experts, people are still avoiding social gatherings like community worship, fairs and mass gatherings like weddings, previously due to the lockdown and now because of social distancing norms. “Earlier, we would get hundreds of people at one go from the same social or community gathering after consuming contaminated food. Now, since most people are still avoiding such events, this is also one of the causes for the dwindling numbers of diarrhoea cases,” said Anima Haldar, principal of ID Hospital. Doctors said that main causes of diarrhoeal diseases include consumption of contaminated water and food and not washing hand properly before eating. The ailment causes dehydration because the body keeps losing water and salt. It affects the infants, young children and the aged severely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diarrhoea-cases-nosedive-courtesy-covid-protocol/articleshow/78264558.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Dengue fear grips residents of Giaspura flats||Ludhiana: Swachhta mission loses its meaning when one visits Giaspura flats and adjoining areas as heaps of garbage and choked sewerage are giving tough time to the residents in flats as well as the surrounding localities. The residents fear spread of some disease in these area as after Covid cases, now even dengue cases are being reported from city parts. However, the area councillor showed helplessness while saying that there was shortage of sanitation employees in the ward and that was why they were unable to maintain hygiene there. It seems when the situation will go out of hands and people start falling ill only then the authorities would realise the need to take action. The residents rued that they had approached the area councillor and other representatives several times but no solution had been provided to their problem and they were forced to live in such conditions. A resident of the area, Jaswant Kumar, rued that, “It is going to be a dangerous thing if any disease spreads in the area because it will become difficult to control its spreading.” He said every year many people fell ill in this area but still no attention was being paid towards the cleaning. Another resident of the area Ashok Kumar shared that the sewerage in the flats remained choked because it was not cleaned regularly. He said one suspected dengue death also took place nearby but still no action has been taken till date and all residents were at risk. Yet another resident Sandeep Shukla claimed that people who were living here were very poor, so the authorities did not care about their health. He said sewerage water and garbage were major issues but still nobody cared for the safety of these people. BJP councillor Sonia Sharma said, “There used to be 64 sanitation employees in the ward but 17 were shifted to some other ward. After that we did not get replacement for these sweepers despite several requests.” She said they took up the matter again with mayor Balkar Sandhu but the problem remained the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dengue-fear-grips-residents-of-giaspura-flats/articleshow/78263380.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Aurangabad||School topper’s SSC result withheld over torn graph||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) has withheld the SSC result of a girl from Parbhani after a graph paper attached with her answer sheet for mathematics was found torn. The incident has left Rabi Uss Sehar Shaikh — who had topped in all the internal exams conducted at her school — and her parents shocked. The girl’s father, Maroof Shaikh, on Tuesday said his daughter has been going through mental trauma despite there being no lapse or mistake on her part. “My daughter had submitted the complete answer sheet along with the graph paper intact to the invigilator. Both the invigilator and the chief of the examination centre concerned accept the same. We had learnt that the answer sheets were sent to evaluator’s place this year due to the pandemic. The answer sheet carrying a graph paper might have been damaged in transit,” he said. The examination concerned was held between February and March this year and the results were declared on July 29. The MSBSHSE had summoned all the stakeholders, including the girl and the authorities at the examination centre, who deposed before the inquiry panel on September 5. Shaikh said he fears that the MSBSHSE might take unwarranted and stern action against his daughter. “We sensed that the inquiry panel was pointing to the rules without taking into account the possibility of damage to a graph paper during additional transportation. It will be a grave injustice if my daughter is failed in the examination, causing her academic loss as well as mental harassment,” he said. When contacted, acting president of MSBSHE, Aurangabad division, Sugata Punne said any incident of tearing of an answer sheet or part of it amounts to exam malpractice. “The inquiry panel must have looked into all aspects of the incident by taking into account the submission of the student and other stakeholders. We will take our formal stand in the incident shortly as per final remarks made by the inquiry panel,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/school-toppers-ssc-result-withheld-over-torn-graph/articleshow/78261992.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Cool car-park paint in New Town to counter heat effect||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is taking up a pilot project to paint the concrete surface of a car parking area with cool reflective paint, which has high solar reflectance index, to prevent the area from becoming an urban heat island. An urban heat island is a built-up area with temperatures that are higher than its adjoining surroundings. Officials said the method will be replicated at more car parking areas after evaluating results of the pilot project. A meeting was recently held with experts of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) to decide on ways to take forward the green initiatives in New Town. According to experts, to prevent large air areas from becoming urban heat islands, one concrete car parking area could be painted with cool reflective paint that will help keep the surface level cool.“The reflective paint is meant to see that such parking zones near the New Town business club, Tata Medical Centre and Eco Park do not become urban heat islands. A large area of these parking lots remains empty as around 60% of space gets occupied every day on an average. Besides, cars start to come mainly after noon and the entire parking lot generates a lot of heat due to direct sunlight on the concrete road surface,” said an official. NKDA has already issued an advisory to house owners to use reflective paints on rooftops to reduce the heat load on air conditioners. “We are now trying to replicate the model in public spaces,” an official said. NKDA and Hidco have been working on various green technologies to reduce the amount of heat that is generated in urban areas and to reduce carbon emission. Initiatives like installing solar rooftop panels, rooftop gardens, vertical gardens on Metro pillars have already been implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cool-car-park-paint-in-new-town-to-counter-heat-effect/articleshow/78264576.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 23, 2020||Kolkata||Social distancing ignored as people crowd first few Metro coaches to reach exits faster||Kolkata: Implementing social distancing norms on the Metro is proving to be a difficult task during peak hours as people tend to crowd the first three or four coaches in their zeal to exit stations faster. On Tuesday, 46,711 people rode the north-south Metro, which is the city’s lifeline, and 127 travelled on the truncated Salt Lake stretch of East-West Metro.According to the new norms, 400 people can board a rake at a time and 50 can be accommodated on a single coach. Only 16 can sit and the rest must stand. Kolkata Metro authorities are allowing people to access stations only after booking e-passes that are valid only for an hour. The authorities have managed to control the crowd at stations as one cannot book passes for a station if the count is full for a particular slot. However, it is not possible to have the 400 divided equally in eight compartments during peak hours. And the cap of 50 passengers in a coach nearly always is exceeded. Reason: Most commuters would tend to crowd inside the first three or four coaches only because they want to reach the exit stairs faster.Visits to the Metro stations during peak hours on Monday and Tuesday revealed that for Up journeys, more people are on the first three coaches while fewer commuters are on the rest of the compartments. Social distancing norms in the crowded compartments are compromised. This is a common sight at stations like Tollygunge, Kalighat, Rabindra Sadan and Esplanade, if one is riding between 9am to 11.30am (morning peak hour). Similarly, for a Down journey, commuters would reach for the first three or four compartments while boarding from Dum Dum, Central station and Esplanade stations. In evening peak hours (4.30pm to 7pm), people throng the first three or four compartments while taking trains from stations like Central, Esplanade and Park Street.“Although the total number of passengers at a time is 400, the last three or four compartments tend to have fewer than 50 people on board and the first three would have way more than 50. Since only 16 can sit, most of these extra commuters stand throughout the journey, thus compromising social distancing norms,” rued a station superintendent. People seem to be getting restless since the stoppage time has increased from 20 seconds to 30 seconds.Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi is aware of the mismatch of numbers. “The only way we can address the issue is by counselling the passengers and asking the RPF personnel in coaches and stations to be more vigilant,” he said. On Monday, Joshi convened a review meeting at Metro Bhavan where he stressed on RPF personnel’s alertness all the times to ensure social distancing among commuters.Metro Railway plans to reduce peak-hour frenzy by bringing down the 10-minute gaps to eight minutes and increasing the number of trains from 15 to 18. “But this can happen only after trains have been filled to capacity. We want to carry 1 lakh commuters in the 110 daily trips. Today, nearly 47,000 commuters travelled. More trains can be added when the optimum commuter count has been achieved,” GM Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/social-distancing-ignored-as-people-crowd-first-few-metro-coaches-to-reach-exits-faster/articleshow/78264572.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: This WhatsApp group hosts a lit fest every week||KOCHI: For the past few months, every Saturday a WhatsApp group that follows a format of a digital literary festival in reverse, where readers celebrate a poet they love with multimedia recordings of readings and critical notes, would come alive. Launched by short story writer Indu Menon and theatre activist Satheesh G Nair, the group Poetree has so far celebrated the writings of 15 poets, including K Satchidanandan, P P Ramachandran, S Joseph, Anwar Ali, Anitha Thampi and Veerankutty. “In writing, a major issue was the presence of godfathers who can make or destroy writers. This is really widespread in Kerala and especially increased during the lockdown period. We planned this as a platform for women readers but when we felt that it was restricting the diversity of topics, we opened it out for all,” said Menon, adding that the group was launched as part of democratising the discussions around literature and improving its quality. Apart from sessions focusing on individual writers, which last two hours, the group has also organized focus sessions on translations, queer poetry and another on Onam. Menon feels that one reason for the group’s success is the sense of intimacy it provides because the members were limited unlike Facebook which often attracts a crowd. “We announce the poets and topics earlier and if someone wants to be part of the particular programme they have time and space to think about it,” she said. In each session focusing on writers around 25 to 30 poems are presented as video or audio or critical notes on particular aspects of the poem. “The interaction was beyond what I had expected. Around 28 people read my poems, some of them uploaded videos and audio recordings,” said poet M R Renukumar. Renukumar said while attending literary events often organizers would not have any inkling on their work and would seek the information from the writers. “The discussions would be namesake. Here, people seemed to be more informed about me as a writer though not many critical observations were made,” he said. The event, which begins with a formal inauguration, would end the next day when the writer responds to readings with a Facebook live in The Arts Space page maintained by the organizers. Satheesh felt that the diversity of the group which comprises academicians, students and readers made the difference. “For a serious student of poetry or a reader who wanted to learn deeply about the writer the activity was helpful,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-whatsapp-group-hosts-a-lit-fest-every-week/articleshow/78263383.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 23, 2020||Kolhapur||More patients in Sangli rural, city shows decline||Kolhapur: The Covid-19 infection has spread to rural areas in Sangli district more than cities. Official figures show that the cases of Covid-19 are on a decline in the city and more cases have been found in the rural areas in the third week of this month. As many as 4,436 positive cases were found in rural areas between September 13 and 19, while the Sangli-Kupwad municipal corporation registered 1,769 positive patients. The same trend is seen in Covid-19 deaths also. Rural parts recorded as many as 189 deaths against 60 deaths in the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation limits. The same trend was noticed on September 20, when district got 811 new cases, 401 were from rural areas. Municipal corporation registered 307 new patients. Out of 31 deaths, recorded on Sunday, seven are from municipal corporation while rest are either from urban pockets, governed by municipal councils or rural areas. Rural parts have recorded average 500 to 600 every day in the last week, when municipal corporation added 200 to 300 new cases every day. The municipal corporation crossed double-digit mark in recording death for twice, while rural parts recorded more than 20 deaths every day in the past week. The district has reported 29,332 positive cases till Sunday night, of these municipal corporation has 12,207 patients. Rural areas have 12,729 patients, while other urban pockets had 4,396 positive cases. Rural areas have, now, the highest number of deaths. It has recorded 503 deaths till Sunday night, while municipal corporation had 421 deaths. The other urban areas had seen 178 deaths till Sunday night. Shirala, which had become a major worry for the administration at the beginning of pandemic, has arrested spread of virus. It has so far recorded 1,267 positive cases. Walva tehsil has been recording higher number of positive cases, replacing Miraj as seen in the month of August. Walva tehsil has recorded 3,044 positive cases, while Miraj has 2,950 cases. Miraj continues to have the highest number of deaths – 138 followed by Walva – 99. Tasgaon tehsil has reported 1,773 patients so far and has seen 64 deaths. District has 9,256 active patients till Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/more-patients-in-sangli-rural-city-shows-decline/articleshow/78262023.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||NMC may make it mandatory for IMA to provide doctors, med staff||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is likely to make it mandatory on the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik, to provide doctors and other medical staff as it is not getting adequate staff. Civic officials said they have increased the salaries of doctors, but they are still not getting staff despite floating advertisements and conducting interviews twice. During the recent general body meeting, the civic administration had admitted that both Zakir Hussain and Bytco Covid hospitals have only four physicians, that too on part-time basis. The officials said they are in the process of floating an advertisement to conduct interviews for a third time. This time, they will make it mandatory for IMA to provide doctors if they do not get response to the recruitment drive. Earlier, the NMC had floated an advertisement for 843 posts of doctors, medical and paramedical staff for its various Covid care centres and Covid hospitals. It had issued appointment letters to 710 candidates, but only 527 medical staff have joined, leaving 300 posts vacant. “We wanted 10 physicians (MD medicines), but we got only four from private hospitals; two each are working on part-time basis in Zakir Hussain and Bytco hospitals. Meanwhile, we have got one physician from government, who has been appointed at Bytco hospital,” said a senior civic health official. “Moreover, we wanted 50 MBBS doctors, but we got only five during interviews held in July and August,” said the official. “We are already in the process of floating an advertisement to recruit over 300 doctors, medical and paramedical staff. Walk-in interviews will be held within a week. We are, however, doubtful about the response considering the past experience,” said the officials. When contacted, IMA president Sameer Chandratre said that the four physicians at Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals have been provided by the association. “Private doctors are already treating Covid-19 patients through 65 private hospitals in the city. Moreover, IMA doctors are providing services to Covid-19 patients in Nashik district civil hospital and Medical college hospital. Around 25 private physicians have tested Covid-19 positive in the city. The IMA is already making efforts to treat patients in civic, government and private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-may-make-it-mandatory-for-ima-to-provide-doctors-med-staff/articleshow/78241266.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Former councillor writes to mayor on measures against dengue||Ludhiana: A former councillor from ward number 57, Inder Aggarwal, has submitted a memorandum to mayor Balkar Sandhu on Tuesday while raising the demand for the formation of a committee to buy advanced equipment for fighting dengue. From ward number 57, Manju Aggarwal is the councillor on whose behalf Inder handed over the memorandum. He demanded that in one week fogging should take place twice and medicine should be sprayed properly in each ward on regular basis. Road gulleys should be cleaned so that water should not get stagnant in an area. Everyday there should be checking of stagnant water in the area and he was ready to be part of this drive, he added. The ex-councillor said already they were fighting a pandemic and in case dengue cases spread it would become difficult to handle the situation. He said the small handy machines were purchased around 10 to 15 years back and were now not in working condition. He said the fogging was taking place with the help of big machines but these were unable to cover even a single ward properly. He said in ward number 57 there were at least 100 streets but at one time not more than one or two streets were being covered. He said fogging which was being done these days was merely an eyewash. He said only road construction work was not called development, rather better health and sanitation facilities should be provided by the civic body. The mayor after receiving the letter said that he had come to know about some technical snag in some machines, so he had demanded report from the officials. He said they would get these repaired or even purchase new machines and wherever it was required, fogging would be done intensively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/former-councillor-writes-to-mayor-on-measures-against-dengue/articleshow/78263403.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Man, boy held for sexually assaulting minor girls in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A construction worker was arrested for sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl in the city on Monday.  The accused was identified as Dinesh, 25, a native of Villupuram district. A few weeks ago, he visited Masakkaliplayam in Coimbatore for construction work and was staying in a rental room. On September 17 night, a group of children were playing near his house when he took away a four-year-old girl to his room and sexually assaulted her, police said. Parents of the minor girl lodged a complaint with all women police (east) at Ramanathapuram who then arrested Dinesh under sections of the Pocso Act. Dinesh is a repeat offender in a Pocso case last year.  In another case, a 17-year-old college student from Rathinapuri was arrested for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. The minor boy was booked under sections 5 (l), and 6 of the Pocso Act and was sent to a home for juveniles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-boy-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girls/articleshow/78264620.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Pvt labs will have to provide daily HRCT reports||Kolhapur: The district administration is planning to make it mandatory for private laboratories and diagnostics centres to providereports of all the high-resolution computerised tomography (HCRT) scans conducted by them on a daily basis in order to facilitate swab sample collection of the Covid suspects. It has been observed that the suspected patients are skipping swab testing and with or without advise of the doctors directly going for CT scan of the chest. If a pneumonia-like condition is observed then the patients are directly going for treatment in private hospitals. The authorities are finding it difficult to trace such patients and get to to know about them only after their demise. Aman Mittal, chief executive officer of Kolhapur ZP said, “I have asked the officials to write to the scanning centres and make a closed ground on messenger service application for getting the daily HRCT reports from them. After analysing the reports by our doctors, the arrangement for swab collection will be made. We are also planning to set up swab collection centres at private scanning centres as it will help us trace all the Covid patients.” According to some experts the imaging of the lungs help detect Covid infection better than RT-PCR testing. They even claim that the swab testing only helps infection in the nose or throat. As per the standard protocol, after RT-PCR testing, blood oxygen saturation level is measured and primary scan of lungs is carried out in case there is hypoxia. “Our aim is to bring down the death rate to zero. The private hospitals too have to provide the details of any Covid patient admitted with them so that we can carry out containment measures,” Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pvt-labs-will-have-to-provide-daily-hrct-reports/articleshow/78262050.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||We have lost one of the greatest artistes of Goa: CM on Ashalata||Margao: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has mourned the death of film actress Ashalata Wabgaonkar who passed away of Covid-19 in Satara, Maharashtra, on Tuesday. In a tweet, Sawant said that with Wabgaonkar’s demise, “we have lost one of the greatest artistes of Goa. Remembering her wonderful performances and contribution to Indian cinema. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family.” Wabgaonkar had spent her childhood in Palolem, Canacona. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat also condoled her death. “She was completely committed and devoted to her work as an artist and literally breathed her last while performing her duty as an artist. Her splendid performances in more than 100 plays and films will keep inspiring the generations to come,” Kamat said in a condolence message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-have-lost-one-of-the-greatest-artistes-of-goa-cm-on-ashalata/articleshow/78264630.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Business||ED lens on Rs 1,000 crore payouts in Chinese betting apps case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has claimed that it is investigating major beneficiaries of the payouts from Paytm and HSBC Bank accounts of illegal betting transactions worth Rs 1,000 crore run by Chinese nationals using banned apps. The payment gateways were allegedly used for overseas transactions. On Tuesday, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court in Hyderabad sent a Chinese national and two others to eight days of ED custody. The ED had arrested the Chinese national Yan Hao and two of his Indian associates (Dhiraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor) on September 15 in connection with its online betting and money laundering case. “Investigation under PMLA to identify the major beneficiaries of the payouts from Paytm and HSBC Bank accounts is under progress. Summons have been issued to various persons, including the Chinese nationals who are the directors of the company,” the ED said on Tuesday. The probe against these banned Chinese apps, illegally operating in India, revealed that related websites also ‘acted as payment aggregators for multiple apps which were banned by Google Play store for lax technical security, data theft or betting activities’. “The accused were also planning to set up an NBFC for micro credits but their request for license was declined by regulatory authorities. The quantum of fraud may be more than Rs 1,000 crore. The custodial interrogation of the three accused is underway to unearth the entire scam,” ED said. Chinese nationals floated two companies, Dokypay Technology and Linkyun Technology, in an online betting scam. These companies were behind a large number of websites which attract gullible persons to become members and to place bets on various online apps which promised attractive rewards on simple games of chance. “Paytm and Cashfree were used to collect money and pay commission to all these agent members. Hundreds of websites were created to promote online betting under the garb of e-commerce,” ED claimed. Earlier, the agency had conducted searches at 15 locations in Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and Pune which resulted in seizure of 17 hard disks, five laptops, phones and crucial incriminating documents. The ED has also frozen Rs 47 crore held in four accounts in HSBC Bank. Watch Chinese betting apps: ED hunts for Rs 1,000 crore payout beneficiaries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-lens-on-rs-1000cr-payouts-in-chinese-betting-apps-case/articleshow/78266222.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Civic parking spots fail to stop illegal parking in Nashik city||Nashik: Rampant illegal parking continues to be a cause of traffic chaos across the city despite the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) setting up designated parking spaces ar various locations.The traffic problems just get compounded during the monsoon when the wet roads develop potholes. Vehicular movement reduces to snail’s pace on most rainy days.All major roads in the city, especially those in areas with commercial establishments, like the old city area, Shalimar, CBS, College Road, MG Road, Gangapur Road, Nashik Road, Jail Road, Cidco and others are facing these problem. Many residents said that earlier, motorists used to think twice before parking their vehicle in “no parking” areas. Fines and the fact that the illegally parked vehicles could be towed acted as deterrents. The absence of the city traffic branch’s towing vehicles has now given more leeway to the parking offenders. Police officials, however, said they were not going easy on erring motorists. Action taken by the police was almost negligible in April due to the Covid-related lockdown. Once the lockdown was partially eased, the cops started taking action again.Officials of the traffic branch said the traffic police personnel were taking photographs of illegally parked vehicles on their handsets and sending the e-challans to the motorists. The motorists must pay the fines online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-parking-spots-fail-to-stop-illegal-parking-in-nashik-city/articleshow/78262065.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Poor road infra, speeding snuffing out lives on city roads’||Being the member of the apex decision making body on road safety, Kamaljit Soi, who is member of National Road Safety Council, is the most vocal voice on road accidents and fatalities in Punjab, especially in Ludhiana. He talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on various issues related to road safety, especially after the recent National Crime Records Bureau data for 2019 showed a dismal record for the the industrial town How do you look at the road safety scenario in Ludhiana? Ludhiana loses over 365 people every year and more than 500 are seriously injured in road accidents. The fatality rate is as high as 69%, making Ludhiana one of the most dangerous city on the roads in the country. Although there are various reasons for this high fatality rate but I consider poor road infrastructure as the main reason as this can easily be improved with little effort. Ludhiana road infrastructure is bad from road or traffic engineering point of view, the design of roads are inherently unsafe (there is very little separating opposing traffic flows, eliminating cross traffic and providing wide shoulders and traffic lanes and poor visibility compounds the problem ). This we can find on Jagraon flyover, Gill flyover, apart from just separating the traffic, no effort is being made for a safe infrastructure. What is ailing the system? No road safety audit is done and roads are laid without proper planning. You will not find road markings and road furniture is absent from most of the roads. Every where in the world we talk of crash barriers, here in Ludhiana you will find big concrete blocks spread everywhere like static death traps on the roads. If a car/two wheeler driver hit these concrete blocks death is certain. Is it the poor knowledge and understanding of the civic authorities or is it the lack of money for safe road furniture or scant respect for human life. No coordination between the agencies like police, national highway authorities, PWD, mandi board, etc. Ludhiana Police always go overboard in improving the conditions themselves. The work which the municipal corporation or other agencies should do is being done by Ludhiana traffic police officials, which at times proves counter-productive as the job of a civil engineer/road safety expert is being handled by policemen with little knowledge of even basic principles of traffic management and mobility planning. What is causing more accidents in Ludhiana? Poor alignment of roads, hampering of vision at important junctions and slippery surfaces at many places, having no safety road furniture, no road markings/no zebra crossings, encroached footpaths, etc. make the situation complex and worse from the traffic point of view. Regulating traffic movement by installing traffic signals, traffic islands, road markings and regulatory signs such as “stop” and “give way” signs. Assisting the driver with warning and destination signs to avoid danger and confusion can reverse the situation a bit. Overspeeding has been the main reason for majority of accidents in Ludhiana as per a recent NCRB report of 2019. Why is it so? Speed is the single biggest factor contributing to road deaths in Ludhiana. Over 40% of fatal collisions are caused by excessive or inappropriate speed. We don’t have any mechanism to enforce speed limits in Ludhiana. And the famous FOBC- Fear of being caught as far as overspeeding is concerned in Ludhiana is not there. People drive at reckless speed endangering their own and others’ lives. What should be done to check the fatalities? Having enough space to walk on the streets and even crossing them without any trouble. Commuting within a city is not just about cars or buses, it’s also about the pedestrians and cyclists. Having dedicated paths and spaces for pedestrians not only encourages people to walk more but also prevents possible road traffic accidents. There is an urgent need to provide sufficient sidewalks, zebra crossings and pedestrian signals. There should be no car zones/ no motorized zones/only pedestrians markets in city. Secondly, well-lit streets are essential for cities to ensure safe travel during the night. Non-functioning streetlights are not only a serious safety hazard for pedestrians but also a cause of major car accidents. Sound traffic management and enforcement of traffic rules and regulations can reduce the time for commuting, accidents, etc. There is a need to deploy adequate traffic police personnel at busy locations and use of technology to enforce traffic laws. The promptness of response of emergency services can be the difference between life and death. Be it medical assistance or firefighting, a shorter response time by emergency services can avert major disasters from occurring. What other steps can be taken to check accidents? Good public transportation in many ways can reduce traffic and accidents in a city. There is also need for creating adequate parking spaces for vehicles, lane markings and dividers. The need is to create a city that has a good road safety culture, adequate signage and banners on the roads along with dividers and speed breakers. Road safety is a topic that not only needs to be taught to children in school but there is also a need for measurements to ensure road safety for children. There is a need to spread safety awareness campaign for children and putting abundant signs outside schools and universities. Good quality roads cannot only help in traffic management but also reduce the chances of accidents. There is an urgent need in constructing and maintaining smooth surfaced roads. Do you think that there is a need for fresh survey of dark spots now that many under construction roads, which had large number of such spots, are nearing completion? Yes, there is an urgent need to have fresh assessment and analysis of the black spots being identified in the last three years. The construction work is going on at many places on many roads, so the black spots should be revisited, analysed, rechecked for proper correction, so that no innocent lives are lost there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/poor-road-infra-speeding-snuffing-out-lives-on-city-roads/articleshow/78263424.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Traders again raise demand to open shops on Sundays||Ludhiana: Two weeks after Saturday lockdown was lifted by chief minister Amarinder Singh, the shopkeepers dealing in non-essential goods, specially garments, are still not satisfied as they are reporting no gains in their business. According to traders, until they are allowed to open shops on Sundays they will be at the receiving end still as majority of their retailer and wholesale customers come out for shopping on Sundays. The businessmen are of the view that instead of Sunday they should be allowed to close the shops on any other day of the week, preferably Monday, or let the market committees decide about it. This demand of doing away with Sunday off has been raked up by the traders dealing in non-essential goods. Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of Punjab Pardesh Beopar Mandal, said, “We do not know who give such useless advices like keeping non-essential goods shops closed on Sundays and allowing hotels and restaurants to operate on the same day. The government must understand that this is the season time for some of the trades, especially wholesale garment markets, where from decades majority of business is being conducted on Sundays as clients from other cities and states come for shopping come on that day. Now, with Sunday being lockdown such customers are turning up in less numbers as earlier after closing their shops and offices they used to come on Saturdays to Ludhiana and do their purchasing on Sundays here after which they used to return to their cities. Some customers from nearby cities used to come on Sunday itself and return back after purchases. But now with Sunday being strictly off they will have to stay in Ludhiana for more than one night and it will lead to wastage of time for them.” According to Manpreet Singh Bunty, president of Akalgarh market, which is one of the biggest wholesale and retail garments market, “With Saturday lockdown gone there is a bit of relief for us, but still our sales are not even 40% of previous years as at this time of the year we used to do brisk business. The major reason for this is the lockdown on Sundays due to which we are unable to open our shops. Whether it is retail customer or wholesaler, both prefer Sunday for purchasing since they are free from all other tasks and duties on this day. The most worrying fact at this moment is that right now the winter garments have started arriving in markets and this is the only time to book the orders and any kind of delay in sales will cost us dear as customers will not wait and they will go to other markets like Delhi to purchase their stocks. Therefore, the government should immediately lift this restriction and allow us to open our shops on Sundays. We are ready to close on Monday or any other weekday chosen by government and market committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traders-again-raise-demand-to-open-shops-on-sundays/articleshow/78263462.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Sugar factory won't be shut, will be brought under agri dept: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday assured sugarcane farmers that the Sanjivani Cooperative Sugar Factory at Dharbandora in Ponda will not be shut permanently. Sawant and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar held a meeting with the farmers about the future of the factory. Kavlekar said that a decision will be taken about transferring the sugar factory from the cooperation to the agriculture department in order to get central funding to run the unit. “Lots of people have approached the chief minister, farmers and me to restart the factory under the public private partnership mode. After discussing the issue in detail, the government will take a decision about restarting the factory,” he said. Kavlekar also said, “The chief minister has made it clear to the farmers that the sugar factory will not be closed” adding that till the factory is re-started, the government will decide on how much amount should be given for sugarcane cultivation. “The government will support sugarcane farmers,” Kavlekar said. “If farmers want to grow sugarcane then they can continue and if they want to grow some other crop, they have the freedom,” he said, adding that he did not have a date when the factory will be restarted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sugar-factory-wont-be-shut-will-be-brought-under-agri-dept-cm/articleshow/78264629.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Trichy||Covid mortality rate plunges in Trichy city||Trichy: Covid-19 casualties in Trichy city have declined drastically in a month with mortality rate plunging from 1.9% in August to 0.3% in September. Focussed screening of senior citizens and routine conduct of fever camps for two months were cited as reasons for this. In July, Trichy city had recorded a total of 2,132 positive cases of which 35 people died. In August, 1,947 people were infected, of which 37 succumbed to the disease. But in September, out of a total 1,375 infected as on September 28, only five deaths have been reported. While the fresh positive cases in September have declined by 29% compared to those in August, the deaths plunged by 86% in the corresponding period. Previously, such a low mortality rate in the city had prevailed in June. Among the four zones, mortality rate was high in Ariyamangalam and low in Ponmalai. Civic body officials said that the sudden surge of up to 35 deaths in July forced them to devise a strategy for senior citizens as a majority of the casualties was from the group. Door-to-door fever screening in the last two months identifying senior citizens and simultaneous conduct of fever camps for RT-PCR testing have paid off. “Focussed screening of senior citizens and identifying vulnerable locations have helped us to not only reduce the mortality but also the infection rate in September 2020,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy corporation said. The civic body even used the electoral roll to identify septuagenarian residents. Close to 32,000 senior citizens were identified in the drive. “People aged above 50 were given priority in testing during the fever camps, such measures helped as early intervention,” the commissioner added. Increased awareness among residents to test themselves after witnessing mild symptoms was cited as another major reason. To keep the mortality rate low, the civic body said they will host fever camps continuously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-mortality-rate-plunges-in-trichy-city/articleshow/78394293.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi rain loss estimated to be more than Rs 290 cr||MANGALURU/ UDUPI: The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada saw life returning back to normal on Tuesday, although there was light to moderate rain at most places in these districts, with isolated heavy rain, it did not raise any concern like it did in the last two days. The damage to private and public property has been extensive in Udupi district, and preliminary estimates have put it at Rs 290 crore. “We still have to get reports from some departments, after that we will be able to give comprehensive figures of losses. We have sent a request to the state government to release Rs 40 crore in the interim to carry out the necessary relief work,’’ said deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha. The loss estimates include private properties, public and PWD roads, bridges, schools and college buildings as well as agricultural properties. He confirmed that all evacuees had returned home from the relief centres. Regarding the ban on traffic on the Mala Kudremukh National Highway-169 for two days from Monday, the DC said that he will assess the situation on Wednesday in view of the red alert, and take a decision on opening the road for traffic. A section of the road witnessed landslides and a tree getting uprooted, which damaged a vehicle, following which DC banned traffic in view of public safety. On the building whose retaining wall had collapsed at Manipal, the DC said the building was safe for human habitation after he inspected the building and surrounding areas along with officials from NHAI. Three places in Uttara Kannada received the heaviest rain in the state in the last 24 hours. They were Nandolli (154mm) in Yellapur Taluk, 150 mm at Chanagara in Ankola Taluk and 149 mm rain at Mugwa in Honnavar taluk in Uttara Kannada. While Uttara Kannada received the highest rain at 67mm on the coast, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada received 48mm and 42mm of rain, respectively. In the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Tuesday, Dakshina Kannada received an average of 42 mm rain, with Bantwal and Puttur taluks receiving 46 mm rain. Mangaluru, Belthangady and Sullia taluks received 41mm rain each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-rain-loss-estimated-to-be-more-than-rs-290-cr/articleshow/78262067.cms||Stanley Pinto
September 23, 2020||Mysuru||Ready to renew lease of land to Bal Bhavan: Muda||Mysuru: Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) chairman HV Rajeev has said the authority is ready to renew its lease of land to the District Bal Bhavan Society. Bal Bhavan is spread over 10 acres of land granted by Muda to the society at the Banni Mantap. After inspecting the Bal Bhavan campus along with State Bal Bhavan Society chairperson Chikkamma Basavaraju recently, he said the society chairperson had urged Muda to renew its lease period for another 30 years to resume its activities for children. He said he has asked Bal Bhavan chairperson to submit a detailed project report about the new initiatives of the society including its plan to demolish the dilapidated amphitheatre and library building and rebuilding the same besides revival of toy train, boating services, development of amusement park and the activities it had been conducting for children. Chikkamma Basavaraju said the society has planned to develop the campus in Mysuru on the lines of Bengaluru Bal Bhavan, making it an exciting place for celebrating children’s birthdays and conducting summer camps apart from improving amusement facilities in public private partnership. Construction of commercial establishments in the campus and fixing fees for joy ride services will help Bal Bhavan generate its own revenue as the funds it is getting from the government is inadequate, she said. The society has initiated fund-raising from private donors and corporate houses like Infosys as its foundation chairperson Sudhamurthy and other MNCs have expressed their willingness to improve Bal Bhavan which is the only government-owned campus that provides platform to nurture the talent of the poor and underprivileged children, she added. The society is expected to submit its detailed project report to Muda this week, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ready-to-renew-lease-of-land-to-bal-bhavan-muda/articleshow/78261078.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Zoo subway to be completed by Oct||Mysuru: From November visitors to the Mysuru Zoo can hopefully use the subway to cross from the Zoo to the parking centre across without any hassles. The construction of the subway connecting the Zoo and the parking centre was taken up to prevent traffic jam and movement of tourists on Shalivahana Road. The work was taken up in January at a cost of around Rs 1.9 crore by the Mysuru Zoo and is expected to be completed by October-end. The subway work has been taken up by Bengaluru-based construction company, Vinyas Builders. The subway will be 24-metre long, 10-ft tall and 4.9 meters wide.  The project was expected to be completed within six months but was delayed due to the pandemic and incessant rain.  Mysuru Zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni told TOI, “vehicles have been allowed to ply on the stretch. Only after the rain recedes, the concrete can be laid. It will take another month to complete the work. It should be completed by the end of October.” After the civil work of the subway is completed, they will take up painting of the tunnel in the second phase. The theme will be paintings of animals and messages on wildlife conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-zoo-subway-to-be-completed-by-oct/articleshow/78261127.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Car lands on scrap trader, he survives||AHMEDABAD: A scrap trader from the Ghatlodia area of the city survived a bizarre accident on Saturday evening, after a speeding car that got launched into the air landed on him near Vaishnodevi Circle on SG Road, states a complaint filed with SG-2 Division traffic police on Tuesday. The scrap trader suffered a fractured leg and other injuries, while the car driver escaped with just minor injuries.  Ambalal Gadri, 40, a resident of Lakshmangadh no Tekro in Ghatlodia and native of Panotiya village in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan, earns his livelihood by moving about with his hand-cart using and buying and selling metal and paper scrap. On Saturday evening, he was going about his work and was going to pick up some scrap from a granite tiles seller on the service road beside SG Road. When he was negotiating with the seller, the driver of a sedan on SG Road lost control over his vehicle which got launched into the air and landed on Gadri. Gadri states in his FIR that after the car landed on him, he fell to the ground and as the car engine was on, it continues to move a bit. He somehow managed to extricate himself but the car moved and struck him, causing him injuries all over his body. The driver of the car exited the vehicle as he did not suffer any major injury. A crowd gathered around and someone called an ambulance. Gadri was taken to Sola Civil hospital from where he was referred to Asarwa Civil Hospital. He was later admitted in a private hospital in Ghatlodia. Gadri said that driver of the car, who was unidentified, promised to make good his medical expenses but did not fulfil his promise. On Tuesday he filed a complaint with SG-2 Division traffic police against the unknown driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-lands-on-scrap-trader-he-survives/articleshow/78263487.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mysuru||Admissions dip in PU colleges, arts stream worst hit||Mysuru: While new academic session is set to commence soon, hundred of seats are lying vacant in many courses at several pre-university colleges in the district. The ongoing I PU admission process is reflecting a change of trend post pandemic. Several PU colleges in the city are facing poor admission to the I PU course. The admission is lowest in general arts stream compared to previous years as students are opting for diploma courses and other skill-oriented programmes. According to college principals, humanities stream is worst hit this year. According to them, the enrolment has come down drastically due to the uncertainty over the admission process and the financial crisis amid the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Mysuru pre-university education department deputy director Geetha GR said barring a few prestigious PU colleges in the city, admission has dipped in most of the institutes, including many premier colleges. “Those colleges where admissions were crossing 1,000 mark till last year have recorded only 150-200 admissions this year,” she explained the current situation. “This year, several SSLC students failed to clear English paper. They are appearing for the supplementary examination. We are confident that admissions may pick up after the results are out,” she said. On poor demand for the humanities stream, she said the stream is preferred by only a limited number of students wanting to pursue civil service and other competitive exams.“Rest choose science or commerce streams,” she said. “We had admitted about 75 students each in humanities, commerce and science streams last year. But this year, it has come down to 30 in humanities, 50 in commerce, while science stream recorded 80 admissions,” said Kadanur Shivegowda, principal of Govt PU College at Devaraja Mohalla. “In general, admission to arts stream has dipped by around 30% while commerce stream lost around 15% students. Science stream is still in demand,” he added. People’s Park Government PU College principal Nagamma said, “We have 64 students enrolled for commerce, 46 for humanities and 17 for science stream this year. Last year, we had 250 new admissions for I PUC. Four new PU colleges for girls have come up near our college and so the strength at our college is drying up.” “We are devising strategies to attract more students to the college and I am confident about it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/admissions-dip-in-pu-colleges-arts-stream-worst-hit/articleshow/78260775.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 23, 2020||Hubballi||Excessive rain spells doom for North Karnataka farmers||Dharwad: Heavy rains continued to wreak havoc in Dharwad district for the third day on Tuesday as several streams were in spate. Heavy rains that began pounding on Sunday night continued till Tuesday early morning. According to official sources, from September 1 to 22 Kalghatagi taluk received 168mm of rain as against the normal of 112mm while Dharwad taluk received 143.5mm as against the normal of 124 mm. Hubballi taluk had 135.4mm against the normal of 111mm and Kundgol received 129.5mm as against the normal of 114mm. Navalgund taluk got 162mm against the normal rainfall of 136mm. Dharwad district saw a departure of 621 per cent as it received 739 mm in last 22 days as against the normal of 597 mm. Farmers in the district have already lost green gram, black gram and other cereals due to flooding of fields in August and early September. The rains in last four days has spelt doom for soya bean growers. Farmer Bhimappa Dindalkopp of Uppina Betageri said farmers were expecting a good harvest but the rains have played spoilsport. “Heavy rain is more dangerous than drought because the former involves investments on man power, seeds, fertilizers and other farm inputs. When there are no rains, we don’t undertake sowing and hence there is no question of investment. But in case of damage due to excess rains, it not only destroys the crop but also leads to financial loss,” he said. Tupparhalla and Bennihalla streams are in spate creating havoc in villages in Navalgund and Dharwad taluks. The Hulikeri tank in Alnavar, which had caused havoc last year, is full to the brim. Water has gushed into fields in the district causing large scale damage to green gram and other standing crops. Dharwad city, which saw intermittent heavy rains starting Sunday had some respite from rain on Tuesday. However, the rains have left several low-lying areas inundated. Big potholes on major roads added to the woes of the pedestrians as well as motorists. Officials said some houses in the rural areas are partially damaged and the extent of loss is being assessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/excessive-rain-spells-doom-for-north-karnataka-farmers/articleshow/78263318.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP leader slaps private secretary of Chandigarh civic body commissioner||CHANDIGARH: A senior BJP leader allegedly slapped the private secretary of the MC commissioner, triggering an uproar at the MC office on Tuesday afternoon. The incident took place when a BJP delegation led by state general secretary Rambir Bhatti went to meet MC commissioner K K Yadav to discuss problems faced by village residents. As the commissioner had already scheduled a meeting with former Mayor and Congress leader Harphool Kalyan, he called him inside. At this, BJP leaders waiting outside the office argued with Yadav’s personal staff. During the course of the arguments, a senior BJP leader and party spokesperson allegedly slapped the MC commissioner’s private secretary, Jatin Saini. Immediately afterwards, BJP leaders started raising slogans against MC commissioner K K Yadav and accused him of corruption. Members of the MC workers union also raised slogans against the BJP and its leaders. The situation was controlled after the intervention of the police. Jatin Saini has submitted a complaint against BJP leaders who manhandled him at Sector 17 police station. Chandigarh Congress leaders objected strongly to the behaviour of the BJP leaders and demanded registration of FIR as well as timely action against the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uproar-in-mc-office-as-bjp-leader-slaps-mc-commissioners-pa/articleshow/78263465.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||All weather stations clock 100mm rainfall in one day||Panaji: All weather stations across the state on Monday recorded over 100mm rainfall. The India meteorological department (IMD) said the total seasonal rainfall in Goa from June 1 to September 22 is 158 inches. “This could be the highest spell that took place this monsoon. There probably may not be any strong spell for the coming week,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. With the state having received a total of 10 inches of rainfall in 2019, this year it is expected that the seasonal total would cross last year’s mark. IMD has issued heavy rainfall warnings for isolated places in Goa. The week will end with light to moderate rainfall, IMD sources said. “The state has received 39% excess rainfall so far this season,” said former NIO scientist, M R Ramesh Kumar. “On Monday, Goa received the second highest rainfall of this season, with all the stations receiving intense rainfall that is more than 100mm in one day,” Kumar said. Mormugao received 19.86 cm and Panaji received 173.3mm followed by Dabolim with 164.8mm. Sakhali received the lowest amount of rainfall with 105.6mm. The Pernem rain gauge station has so far received the highest amount of rainfall with 4,860mm since June 1, the highest for this season. The lowest rainfall for this season has been recorded at Mormugao with 3450mm till September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-weather-stations-clock-100mm-rainfall-in-one-day/articleshow/78264636.cms||Nida Sayed
September 23, 2020||Goa||Poonam Pandey files assault plaint against husband||Poinguinim: Sam Ahmed Bombay, husband of Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, was arrested in Canacona on Monday for assaulting his newly-wed wife and threatening to kill her. He was later released on bail. SP (South) Pankaj Kumar Singh said, “At 3pm Monday, Bombay assaulted Pandey at their hotel in Canacona, abused her with filthy language, used criminal force and threatened to kill her.” Police registered an FIR under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentionally insults), 506(ii) (criminal intimidation), 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC. The couple was married on September 1 and arrived in Goa on September 16. Since then they have been staying at the same hotel. “They had some difference which is why they fought,” Singh said, adding that two days ago they had a similar heated argument. After the fight, Pandey informed the hotel staff who called the police. During the investigation, Pandey was medically examined at a hospital. Singh said that witnesses have been examined and CCTV footage has also been analysed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poonam-pandey-files-assault-plaint-against-husband/articleshow/78264632.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Apartment secretary among four held for theft||Mangaluru: Mangaluru city police have arrested four persons in connection with the recent theft of Rs 51 lakh and 250gram jewellery at an apartment in Idya, Surathkal. Naveen, who plotted the housebreak theft, is the apartment’s secretary and an ex-armyman. The arrested persons are Naveen of Surathkal, Raghu C, Amesh A of Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, and Santosh of Belthangady. The incident took place at Jardin Apartment on August 17. Police have recovered Rs 30.85 lakh, 224gram jewellery, an SUV and a motorbike used for the crime. Announcing the arrests and the recovery of stolen cash and valuables, Mangaluru city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash termed it “an excellent crime detection”. The police acted on the complaint by Vidya Prabhu, whose apartment was targeted, and arrested the accused. Vidya’s husband, who ran a fuel station, died due to pancreas-related disease a month ago. The couple never stayed in their apartment, but only visited it once a while, according to police. They lived at an independent house a few km from the apartment. “Naveen knew the couple’s movement as his house is right below their flat. He works as a manager at a local bar. As he knew the couple would visit their flat only for official work, he thought they would also keep cash from their transactions at the fuel station. Being the secretary of the apartment association, he hatched a plot to target the locked flat,” Vikash said, adding Naveen had taken voluntary retirement after serving the Indian army for 15 years. Naveen had also been in touch with some criminals in Kerala, and he discussed his plans to target the couple’s flat. Raghu, Amesh and two others, on being assigned the job, travelled to Mangaluru. According to sources investigating the case, they stayed at a rented room 3-4km from the apartment. Naveen also roped in Santosh, a steward at his bar. “The accused neither used a cellphone nor have left any major clue — they executed the heist meticulously. Many teams worked on the case probing it from many angles, but to no avail. The only clue helped us nail them was the CCTV footage,” said an investigating officer. A case has been registered at Surathkal police station. A search is on to arrest two others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/apartment-secretary-among-four-held-for-theft/articleshow/78261227.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Cases of low value theft stump Manimajra residents||Chandigarh: Residents of Modern Complex, Manimajra alleged that some unidentified persons have been stealing clothes and other such articles from their verandahs for the last few days. They said the miscreants targeted three such houses in the last one week. The accused were caught in CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene. Manimajra police registered a DDR on the complaint of the residents and have started a probe. Talvinder Singh, president, Manimajra Housing Complex, Sector 13, three incidents of low value theft have came to light from September 16 till date. He said miscreants barged into the society and decamped with clothes, shoes and tubs from verandahs of two houses at around 6.30pm on September 18. Society resident Prem Sagar, said CCTV footage of the area revealed two persons coming on a bike and stealing clothes as well as other household articles from two houses. He said clothes and plastic tub were also stolen from his house on September 16. Residents said the boundary wall of the society has been damaged from various places and there are no barbed wires on the wall. Talvinder Singh said they reported the matter to the local police and submitted a complaint against the unknown persons. However, residents said since low value articles are stolen, police do not show any interest in catching the accused. Rajinder Kumar, owner of the grocery shop, Manimajra said three miscreants entered his shop after breaking the locks at around 3:30am on Tuesday. Another shopkeeper noticed them and raised an alarm. At this, the accused fled on a scooter without taking anything from the shop, he said. On August 1, D N Jauhar , a resident of Sector 37 and former chairperson of the PU law department reported that an unknown person stole a pot with valuable plants from his house. The incident was recorded on CCTV camera. On his statement, Sector 39 police registered a case of theft against unknown persons. A number of videos of miscreants stealing milk pouches from city booths have been circulated and often, people do not submit a formal complaint in such low value thefts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-of-low-value-theft-stump-manimajra-residents/articleshow/78263482.cms||Pawan Tiwari
September 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Seized liquor destroyed, villagers’ spirit on new high||RAJKOT: Four years ago, thousands of villagers in Rajasthan’s Tonk district had gone berserk when rumours spread that gold coins were found from an abandoned stone quarry. The villagers descended in such large numbers on the rainwater-filled site that police had to issue prohibitory orders. On Tuesday morning, over half-a-dozen women from Bharadiya area of Keshod in Junagadh district made a similar mad rush. The women including the elderly ones, were seen collecting a liquid from a puddle in a frenzied manner and filling their bottles from the carrier of a dumper truck. These women living in nearby shanties had not found traces of yellow metal but a liquid of similar colour which Junagadh police had seized over the months. Bharadiya area, which is largely a stone crushing locality was the site used by Junagadh police to destroy the smuggled bottles of liquor by bulldozing them. After crushing 17,374 bottles of liquor, cops left the site even as alcohol covered the ground, which was dry until then. The bottles were collected by Keshod and Shil Police Stations. As the men in khakhi left, six to seven women rushed there with their utensils, buckets and bottles to collect liquor. On seeing liquor draining out from the carriage of the dumper, the women stood under it to fill their bottles. The dumper truck was used to bring the liquor stock to the crushing site. Sources said that when somebody asked these women, they said that their children have cold and they will use the alcohol to cure it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-destroy-seized-liquor-villagers-spirit-gets-a-kick/articleshow/78262147.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Unstable hillock in Vasco threatens five more homes||Vasco: The tragic death of a senior citizen at New Vaddem, Vasco, on Monday, has highlighted the dangers faced by at least 50 more people living in the vicinity. Apart from the two houses that were damaged by a large boulder, five more are likely to meet with a similar fate in the absence of a retaining wall to contain the loose mud. The police have instructed these residents to immediately shift elsewhere or to stay only in the front portion of their homes as boulders stuck midway are likely to roll further down. However, left with no alternative, the residents continue to stay there. In an earlier incident, a house was saved from damage on two occasions after loose boulders rolled downhill and struck a well behind the residence. Santosh Naik, an advocate who lives in the area, said that he had asked the authorities time and again to take immediate action as landslides had become a regular phenomenon over the past couple of monsoons. Mormugao municipality chairperson Nandadeep Raut said Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida had moved a file for the construction of a retaining wall there and that the project is in the process of being approved. He requested the government to provide financial assistance to the affected families. MMC vice-chairperson Reema Sonurlekar said Ajit Borkar, who lost his mother, Anita, in Monday’s tragedy, has moved to a small house rented by his relatives and friends. “The family of the adjoining house are also searching for a new place to live in as their home has been damaged too,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unstable-hillock-in-vasco-threatens-five-more-homes/articleshow/78264670.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 23, 2020||Goa||Eight local superfoods set for mega cultivation boost||Margao: The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Margao, functioning under the auspices of the state’s agriculture department has embarked upon an ambitious project of promoting indigenous “super foods” of Goa. Eight crops having highly nutritive value and native to the state have been identified to be promoted for cultivation under the project. Director of agriculture Nevil Alfonso said that amla (gooseberry), suran (elephant foot yam), drumsticks, katte konngam, a type of sweet potato, ragi or nachnne (millets), colocasia root locally known as maddi, jackfruit and Korgut variety of rice have been identified as the superfoods. “These superfoods are traditionally grown in the state and have high nutritional value, besides multiple health benefits,” Alfonso said. Promoting cultivation of these crops and providing training and technology dissemination to farmers and self help groups (SHG) of remote areas of the state is the primary responsibility of the KVK under the project, the groundwork for which has already begun. Chandrahas Dessai, zonal agriculture officer, said that awareness campaigns will be held in all talukas soon. “The focus will be on value addition of the crops by adopting appropriate post-harvest technology, training for which will be provided to women self-groups. Forming farmers producer organisations (FPO) in every taluka for marketing these products is also among our objectives,” he said. The KVK is presently conducting webinars for interested farmers sensitising them about the benefits of superfoods. It has tied up with the state’s women and child development department to draft anganwadi workers to serve as the project’s foot soldiers in the remote villages of Goa. “Drumsticks and amlas, particularly, are great immunity boosters, ” pointed out subject specialist, Geeta Velingker, of the KVK. “Our stress will be on value-addition of the crops as they have very limited shelf life. Flour can be made of katte konngam and maddi, which can be used for the preparation of a variety of bakery items, including cakes and biscuits.” Plans are also afoot to organise study tours of the farmers to other states to visit tuber research centres, once the pandemic situation improves. Several SHGs from Quepem had stored katte konngam during the season, which are now being sold in supermarkets in the cities, it was informed. “Interestingly, the problem is that people from cities do not know how to consume them. We are now working on building awareness among the consumers by way of holding webinars and other platforms,” Velingker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eight-local-superfoods-set-for-mega-cultivation-boost/articleshow/78264735.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 23, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC serves notice to engineer over low pH level water||Mangaluru: Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has served a show cause notice to an assistant executive engineer, for the supply of water with low pH level to the city for more than three months during the lockdown. The MCC commissioner said that it was found during the inquiry that the pH level of water supplied to the city was low, and the city corporation will act against the official based on the reply to the notice. Opposition leader Abdul Rauf had brought to the notice of the previous council meeting held on August 13 that the MCC was supplying drinking water to over five lakh people in the city without treating it properly at its plant in Thumbe. Following this, the council had resolved to conduct an inquiry through the then MCC commissioner. “The normal pH level of water should be between 6.5 and 7.5. However, a report of the water sample analysis showed the pH level to be between 6.3 and 6.4. Though it is not a dangerous level, prima facie there is negligence on part of the official. Hence, we have issued a show cause notice to an assistant executive engineer. We will take action if negligence is proved,” said MCC commissioner Akshy Sridhar, at the council meet held on Tuesday. Corporator Naveen D’Souza from the Congress said the water billing mechanism in the city should be streamlined by appointing sufficient staff and holding water adalats once in a month. “People have been receiving inflated water bills due to a faulty billing system. Officials have waived many such bills after people approach them with complaints. To solve such issues, the water billing mechanism should be made efficient and adalats should be held every month to redress grievances of consumers,” he added. Former mayor and senior Congress corporator Shashidhar Shetty said that the minimum slab of the water tariff should be reduced further to benefit poor families. Mayor Diwakar said that the monthly water adalat programme will be commenced soon. The commissioner said more staff will be appointed to make the water billing system more efficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-serves-notice-to-engineer-over-low-ph-level-water/articleshow/78262117.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Senior citizen dies at Vasco as boulder crashes into house||VASCO: A 65-year-old woman was crushed to death late Monday night after a loose boulder rolled down a hillock at New Vaddem, Vasco, and ripped through her home located at its foot. Her 35-year-old son, however, had a miraculous escape. The tragedy occurred at around 10.50pm on Monday after heavy rain caused three boulders to loosen and roll 20m down the hillock. One of them, around 10ft tall, tore through the walls of the house of Anita Borkar and crushed the senior citizen who was believed to have been sleeping on the floor in the centre of the bedroom. Sources, however, said that fire and emergency services personnel found Borkar’s body in a different corner of the house, indicating that she was either awake when the incident occurred, or had tried to escape. Her son Ajit, an employee at Goa Shipyard Ltd, was asleep on a bed in the same room but escaped unhurt. The second boulder that rolled down the hillock rested against the wall of a house adjoining Borkar’s residence, while the third stopped midway. There were three members in the next house. Both houses are divided by a single wall. Station fire officer Dilip Bicholkar said Borkar’s body was retrieved at around 3am after a four-hour-long operation amid heavy rain, darkness, crumbling walls and chances of a further mudslide. “The body was found buried under four feet of debris. We had to cut through the stone with the help of labourers from the Mormugao Municipal Council,” Bicholkar said. Rescue personnel have pegged losses at Rs 5 lakh. The fire and emergency services have requested the mamlatdar to ask the PWD to move the boulder from the spot as it does not have the machinery required for the task. Vasco fire station staff involved in the operation included station fire officer Francisco Mendes and fire officers Bharat Shetye, G R Bhatdesai, Sachin Sawant Devendra Kerkar, Manjunath Shetty, Tushar Bandodkar, Milind Naik, Vinay Vernekar Prakash Kotagi, Meghnath Kankonkar and Ritesh Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/senior-citizen-dies-at-vasco-as-boulder-crashes-into-house/articleshow/78264656.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: When dry lakes and vacant plots become playing fields||CHENNAI: In a majority of the areas added to the city corporation nine years ago, dried-up lake beds or open plots of land serve as sports fields. There are no playgrounds. Chromepet resident V Santhanam loves table tennis but hasn’t played it for the past 30 years because there is no indoor stadium. “We have a population of 3 lakh and we need to travel 20km-30km for a good stadium,” says the 82-year-old. The few private facilities available are costly and are always booked by members, he says. Greater Chennai Corporation, which has not set up any playground in the added areas for more than 10 years, has this year planned two grounds in Seemencheri and Aservathapuram after repeated requests. In Nanganallur, with a population of at least 1 lakh, there are two indoor courts for badminton and table tennis in a park and an open space but no playground, says V Rama Rao, an activist and long-time resident. Of the 185 playfields in the city, the added areas have just 25, most of them lacking a lot of facilities. “In Pallavaram, Chromepet and Avadi, dried lakes and empty plots are the only locations where children play. Even parks are small. There is just no open space,” says David Manohar, an activist. V Kuppan in Adambakkam has a similar concern. “There is no space to even walk,” he says, adding that most people use service lanes of subways. Avadi resident T Maran, who coaches the junior Indian badminton team, says there are facilities at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium but maintenance is an issue. “When it comes to badminton, the government and corporation have set up some really good courts in the past few years but there is a lack of good coaches and second is no expert or player is consulted when such a facility is set up. In Shenoy Nagar, two really good badminton courts are not as per norms. They can only be used for training.” A few like in Mandaveli and in Kotturpuram are reserved for politicians. While Santhanam says several vacant spaces in areas such as Mudichur, Perungaluthur, Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Road, Meenambakkam can be used if the government has the will, Rama Rao points out that in many cases, land marked for playgrounds is either stuck in litigation or in red tape. When TOI tried to reach K A Sengottaiyan, minister for school education, youth welfare and sports development, his personal assistant said he had received many representations about OSR lands, meant for playgrounds, being encroached. Corporation deputy commissioner (works) said the civic body would address the issue of creating facilities in added areas. Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu representatives say there are plans to set up courts for kabaddi, volleyball and other games, but none in the added areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-dry-lakes-and-vacant-plots-become-playing-fields/articleshow/78263563.cms||Komal Gautham
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Public nab chain snatchers in Shanthimedu area, beat them severely||COIMBATORE: Two men were caught red-handed while snatching a gold chain weighing nine sovereigns from a woman in Shanthimedu area near Periyanaickenpalayam on Tuesday. They were severely beaten up by the public before handing over to police. The Periyanaickenpalayam police identified the accused as R Adbul Rahif, 25, an autorickshaw driver from New York Avenue at Podanur, and K Rasool, 21, of Kurichi Pirivu in the city. An investigation officer said Abdul was facing a public nuisance case at Podanur police station and Rasool, a theft case at Singanallur police station. According to him, the incident took place when Rathna, 35, wife of Mani, of Vasantham Nagar near Shanthimedu at Periyanaickenpalayam, was heading to a grocery shop by walk around 8.15am on the day. “Abdul and Rasool were waiting near the shop on a motorcycle. Rasool, who was riding pillion, snatched the gold chain from Rathna and attempted to escape from the area. However, she raised an alarm and the public caught the duo red-handed,” the officer said. The public then tied them to a pillar using rope and beat them severely. Later, they were handed over to the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who registered a case against the duo and arrested them in the evening. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/public-nab-chain-snatchers-beat-them-severely/articleshow/78264750.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man taking bets on IPL match nabbed in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Cops of the city crime branch late on Monday night held a man from Surendranagar for allegedly inviting bets on an IPL (Indian Premier League) match from a five-star hotel near Sola overbridge on SG Road. According to an FIR filed with detection of crime branch (DCB) police, a cop got an input that a man was taking live bets on sessions of a match between Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) and Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) in room number 507 of the Hotel Fern on SG Road. A team of crime branch rushed to the hotel, parked their vehicle outside it and walked towards the room. When they reached room number 507, they found that door was half open and they barged into it where they found the accused Sameer Dholakia, 36, a resident of Mitra Mandal Society in Surendranagar. The FIR mentions that Dholakia using his cellphone and a laptop was taking bets on two different phone applications and RCB was batting at the time of police raid. It further states that Dholakia told cops that he had taken a login ID and password from the operators of the two different apps to take bets on IPL cricket matches being held in Dubai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-taking-bets-on-ipl-match-nabbed/articleshow/78263562.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BSUSC advertises 4,638 posts of assistant professors||PATNA: After a gap of seven years, the Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) on Tuesday advertised altogether 4,638 posts of assistant professors in 52 subjects being taught in 13 universities of the state. The last advertisement was issued by the Bihar Public Service Commission in 2013. The vacant posts have been advertised only after getting a clearance of university-wise reservation roster from the authorities concerned. Earlier, the state education department had sent its requisition to the BSUSC on Sunday for appointment of assistant professors. The entire process was delayed due to some changes made in the statute for appointment as desired by chief minister Nitish Kumar and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi. Sources said the BSUSC advertised the posts well before the imposition of model code of conduct for the forthcoming assembly elections, despite several hurdles. According to the ad displayed on the commission’s website, registrations will start on Wednesday. The last date for online submission of application forms is November 2 and that for receipt of the downloaded hard copies along with the xeroxed versions of the required documents via speed post is November 24. BSUSC chairman Rajvardhan Azad told this newspaper, “If everything goes well, the interview of the shortlisted candidates is likely to begin in the second week of December. It will be conducted by six boards in two shifts each so that all the appointments are made as soon as possible.” He added, “To start with, the commission will take up those subjects in which the number of posts is relatively less.” At present, the BSUSC, which was constituted early last year, has a chairman and six members. The university-wise vacancies mentioned in the ad are Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University (2), Veer Kunwar Singh University (428), Magadh University (381), Purnea University (213), Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (377), Patna University (273), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (276), Lalit Narayan Mithila University (856), Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (192), Patliputra University (462), Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (603), Munger University (245) and Jai Prakash University (319). The subject-wise vacancies include sociology (424), English (253), Urdu (100), Persian (14), Maithili (43), Sanskrit (76), Hindi (292), history (316), ancient Indian history and archaeology (55), home science (83), personnel management and industrial relations (18), geography (142), political science (280), economics (268), philosophy (144), public administration (108), rural economics (8), physics (300), chemistry (300), botany (332), mathematics (333), zoology (261), music (285), Bangla (23), Arabic (2), environmental science (26), commerce (104), literature (112), vyakaran (31), astrology (36), karmkand (17), dharmashastra (5), purana (9), darshan (3), Ambedkar thought (9), anthropology (4), geology (5), Gandhian thought (5), law (2), Angika (15), statistics (4), education (17), biochemistry (10), electronics (1), Pali (12), Prakrit (22), Nepali (10) and Russian (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bsusc-advertises-4638-posts-of-assistant-professors/articleshow/78264847.cms||B K Mishra
September 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Need to put in proactive measures ahead of festival season: Experts||Bengaluru: With the nine-day Dasara festivities coming up next month, experts foresee another spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. They fear shoppers flocking market areas like KR Market in Bengaluru for fruits and flowers could turn into superspreaders since social distancing is impossible to enforce in these marketplaces. Experts say the government must devise strategies in advance to prevent a surge in cases. Dr V Ravi, professor and head of the department of neurovirology, Nimhans and member of the technical expert committee formed by the government, said: “You can’t maintain social distancing in a place like KR Market. The need is to innovate strategies to decentralise KR Market and shift it to open areas where people can maintain social distancing. Wearing a mask should be enforced strictly.” Dr CN Manjunath, Covid task force committee member and chairperson of the expert committee, said the spike in Covid cases post Ganesh Chaturthi was largely linked to people visiting marketplaces. “Gatherings in markets are a concern,” Dr Manjunath said. “Wearing a mask should be made mandatory. However, people do not wear masks properly or worse they remove it while speaking which is a major concern. People do not seem to understand that the virus can spread while speaking. The mask should cover the nose and mouth.” He was of the view that Dasara must be a low-key affair. Congregations must be avoided, said Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and head of Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, who is also a member of the technical experts’ committee. “Innovative communication campaigns must be devised to ensure people take all necessary precautions ahead of the festive season. These strategies must to be devised by local self-governments,” Dr Babu said. For Covid infections to spread, certain factors must be considered like duration of exposure and whether the spreader is sneezing, coughing or talking loudly besides how a mask is worn, Dr Babu said. “Indoor congregations are more contagious and problematic. General rules are to ensure no crowds, but if it is inevitable, it is better to meet relatives and friends outside than indoors,” Dr Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/need-to-put-in-proactive-measures-ahead-of-festival-season-experts/articleshow/78262646.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 23, 2020||Hubballi||Late BJP leader Ananthkumar’s birth anniversary celebrated||Hubballi: The 61st birth anniversary of former Union minister and late BJP leader Ananthkumar was celebrated at Vibhava Industries, Noolvi near here, by inaugurating a computer training centre and launching a sapling-plantation drive. Suvasini Narayan, sister of Ananthkumar, inaugurated the event. The computer training centre, a CSR initiative of Vibhava, will help rural women be tech-savvy by learning computer courses free of cost. Vibhava CEO Nandakumar called upon the villagers to make the best use of this facility and also spread awareness among the needy in 40 nearby villages. Later, the dignitaries planted saplings under Ananthkumarji Sasyaagraha, according to a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/late-bjp-leader-ananthkumars-birth-anniversary-celebrated/articleshow/78262807.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vadodara has 74% of ventilator beds occupied||VADODARA/RAJKOT: As on Monday morning, Vadodara had 74% occupancy of ventilator beds and 76% of ICU beds. In absolute numbers, the overall occupancy was 59% — out of 5,470 total beds, 3,215 were occupied. Experts said that there are sporadic instances of non-availability when the patients prefer specific hospitals or want to get admitted near their residences. “At two hospitals run by us, all the ventilator beds are full. Many times, patients from outside Vadodara are brought in critical conditions but we cannot admit them unless somebody gets discharged,” said Dr Mohammad Hussain from Baroda Muslim Doctors Association which runs Muslim Medical Centre at Panigate which has 140 beds and 16 ventilators and Kalavati Hospital which has capacity of 50 beds and six ventilators. Dr Vinod Rao, OSD for Covid-19 in Vadodara, said that they have issued instructions that no hospital would deny service to any patients even if all their beds are occupied. “Instead, they should assess need of the patient and refer to a hospital which has spare vacant beds or ventilators,” he said. In Rajkot, out of 2,500 beds, about 1,000 were available on Monday morning including 225 at PDU Civil Hospital, giving 40% vacancy. The occupancy was higher in ICU beds as 230 out of 422 or 55%. “Hospitals have also been started at Jasdan, Dhoraji and Gondal to reduce the rush at Rajkot from the district,” said a senior Rajkot district official. At Jamnagar, the emerging hotspot for the viral infection, the occupancy was one third, said authorities. The scenario in Surat is different – the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) claimed that out of 7,454 total beds available at SMIMER Hospital, New Civil Hospital, private hospitals and community isolation centres, only 18.2% are occupied. “The patients do not face any difficulty in admission for the treatment,” said a senior official. (With inputs from Vijaysinh Parmar from Surat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vadodara-has-74-of-ventilator-beds-occupied/articleshow/78265506.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man booked for rape, cheating||HYDERABAD: An HR employee of an IT firm was arrested for cheating a woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused was booked under rape and cheating charges. According to cops, the accused had maintained a sexual relationship with the victim promising to marry her. However, later he started avoiding the complainant. On Monday, the victim, lodged a complaint against him . (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-rape-cheating/articleshow/78264765.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara has 74% of ventilator beds occupied||VADODARA/RAJKOT: As on Monday morning, Vadodara had 74% occupancy of ventilator beds and 76% of ICU beds. In absolute numbers, the overall occupancy was 59% — out of 5,470 total beds, 3,215 were occupied. Experts said that there are sporadic instances of non-availability when the patients prefer specific hospitals or want to get admitted near their residences. “At two hospitals run by us, all the ventilator beds are full. Many times, patients from outside Vadodara are brought in critical conditions but we cannot admit them unless somebody gets discharged,” said Dr Mohammad Hussain from Baroda Muslim Doctors Association which runs Muslim Medical Centre at Panigate which has 140 beds and 16 ventilators and Kalavati Hospital which has capacity of 50 beds and six ventilators. Dr Vinod Rao, OSD for Covid-19 in Vadodara, said that they have issued instructions that no hospital would deny service to any patients even if all their beds are occupied. “Instead, they should assess need of the patient and refer to a hospital which has spare vacant beds or ventilators,” he said. In Rajkot, out of 2,500 beds, about 1,000 were available on Monday morning including 225 at PDU Civil Hospital, giving 40% vacancy. The occupancy was higher in ICU beds as 230 out of 422 or 55%. “Hospitals have also been started at Jasdan, Dhoraji and Gondal to reduce the rush at Rajkot from the district,” said a senior Rajkot district official. At Jamnagar, the emerging hotspot for the viral infection, the occupancy was one third, said authorities. The scenario in Surat is different – the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) claimed that out of 7,454 total beds available at SMIMER Hospital, New Civil Hospital, private hospitals and community isolation centres, only 18.2% are occupied. “The patients do not face any difficulty in admission for the treatment,” said a senior official. (With inputs from Vijaysinh Parmar from Surat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-has-74-of-ventilator-beds-occupied/articleshow/78270309.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 23, 2020||Nashik||PSI, constable held for seeking bribe||Kolhapur: A police sub-inspector and a constable, who were on the run since the past three days, were arrested by the anti-corruption bureau late on Monday night. Both of them were wanted for their alleged involvement in a bribe case, following the arrest of a man who used to work for them. Sub-inspector Abhijit Shivaji Gurav and constable Rohit Ramchandra Powar produced themselves before Rajarampuri police in Kolhapur. They were immediately arrested by ACB. Both of them were attached to Rajarampuri police station and were evading arrest. Preliminary investigation reveals that both Gurav and Powar had promised a man, who was allegedly involved in a gambling den case, that he would not be made the accused in the case. The duo, along with one Rohti Rajendra Sorap who used to work for them, demanded Rs 60,000 from the man on the pretext of not filing a case against him. The man approached ACB and informed them that he had previously paid Rs 20,000 to the suspects. The ACB team laid a trap following the man’s complaint and arrested Sorap when he was accepting the cash from the complainant on Saturday. An ACB official said that Sorap had accepted the money on behalf of Gurav and Powar. ACB officials said that they were investigating the case to ascertain whether other police personnel were involved in the racket. They said they have taken the statement of seven police personnel so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/psi-constable-held-for-seeking-bribe/articleshow/78262201.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for harassing women||HYDERABAD: A 21-year-old man was booked for harassing by sending random messages on WhatsApp and Instagram. He also sent obscene videos and photos.  Based on the complaint of one victim, police arrested him and sent in remand on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-harassing-women/articleshow/78264805.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||3 held for selling illegal drone cams||Hyderabad: Three accused were arrested for selling drone cameras illegally at LB Nagar Metro Station. The accused were identified as Badavath Suman, Palle Sridhar, and Kommu Hanmanthu all residents of SR Nagar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-selling-illegal-drone-cams/articleshow/78264782.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC nod: RAT for accused after arrest||AHMEDABAD: There will not be any more wait for accused before being produced in courts as the Gujarat high court has granted its approval to the state government’s decision to do away with the time-consuming RT-PCR test in favour of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) to ascertain arrested persons’ Covid-19 status ahead of producing them before judicial official. To avoid stretching 24-hour police custody limit because RT-PCR test results take longer, the HC had suggested the sate government last month to consider RAT for Covid testing of arrested accused. The public health department came out with a circular on September 11 instructing all police officials to carry out RAT on arrested persons before producing them in court. Citing ICMR guideline, the circular said that any other test apart from RAT may be done on accused upon doctor’s suggestion. Accepting this method, the high court on Monday ordered the government to give maximum publicity to the circular. “Home department shall send the same (circular) to each and every police station and all police personnel shall be intimated and made AWARE of the same. Inspector General, Prison shall also be sent for him to intimate to all concerned,” the HC order reads. The high court further directed its registrar general to send the circular to all district courts, and requested all principal district judges to circulate it to each judicial officer so that, “at any time in future, if, an accused is produced beyond stipulated time of 24 hours, the ground of RT-PCR test may not be entertained”. The issue came before the HC after one of the accused in the Popular Builder case, Virendra Patel, was not produced in court for two days after his detention. His wife filed a habeas corpus petition alleging that it was illegal custody because her husband’s status was not certain even beyond 24-hour police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-nod-rat-for-accused-after-arrest/articleshow/78265534.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based NFC plays key role in Nuclear-tech self reliance||HYDERABAD: As India is on the verge of realising it’s next big plan of producing more green energy, the city-based Nuclear Fuel Complex (NFC) has made a significant contribution to the country’s first, biggest, and completely indigenously produced 700MWe pressurised heavy water reactor (PWHR) that has been set up in Gujarat. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on July 22 announced that the Kakrapar Atomic Power Plant-3 had achieved criticality, describing it as a ‘shining example’ of ‘Make in India’. Parliament was informed by Union minister Jitendra Singh on September 18 that KAPP-3 would be commissioned and operationalised in November this year. “The message that we are delivering to the world is that India has achieved the level of maturing in PWHR technology,” NFC chairman and chief executive Dinesh Srivastava told TOI on Tuesday. “India has everything to manage more of the 700MWe PHW reactors that will come up, produce, and manufacture every component in-house. We are not dependant on any other country,” he said. At NFC, which comes under the Department of Atomic Energy, a new technology was developed for making the pressure tube for the reactor. The steam generator tube was also successfully developed as a substitute for what was an imported item. For the first time, a 37-elements fuel bundle was produced with a new design for the reactor. All this achieved and more components were designed and manufactured in-house, achieving improved technology and processing. “When we are producing nuclear power for the needs of the country, what also has to be borne in mind is that the green energy produced should also be given at a competitive rate. So manufacturing costs for both present and future needs will be at the most economic level for all the components,” Srivastava said. The Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) has set up 22 PHW reactors with 20 of them being 220MWe and two 540MWe reactors. Initially, the reactors were set up with technology from Canada. But when the denial regime started, India started working towards self-reliance and produced the reactors on its own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-based-nfc-plays-key-role-in-n-tech-self-reliance/articleshow/78264824.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Pvt employee hit by drunk driver, dies||Hyderabad: A private employee died after being hit by a drunk lorry driver. The victim was on his way home from his workplace in Attapur. A case was registered against the lorry driver and he has been sent to judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-employee-hit-by-drunk-driver-dies/articleshow/78264814.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 recoveries in Nashik surpass new cases||Nashik: The ratio of new Covid-19 cases to recoveries has dropped n the past three days as more patients have been discharged from various facilities in the district than those testing positive. Earlier, the number of new patients registered per day exceeded the number of recoveries during the same period. However, between September 19 and 21, as many as 2,518 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in Nashik city while 3,653 patients recovered during the same period, said the civic officials. “There had been a spike in the number of cases in the last 10 days. Now, those patients have started recovering. That is why the number of recovered patients per day is more than the number of new patients,” said a senior health official from the Nashik municipal corporation (NMC). The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients, which was 83.6% on September 18, has now increased to 87.1% due to the rise in recoveries in the past three days. Though the number of patients have doubled in the city over the last 25 days from 22,308 cases on August 27, to 44,406 patients by September 21, the death rate has dropped to a great extent. The Covid death rate has reduced from 2.1% on August 27 to 1.5% on September 21 — which is the lowest since May 31. Civic officials have increased tracing of suspected Covid-19 patients along with speeding up the process of antigen tests for early detection of cases. The tests have helped in providing immediate treatment to those affected, thus increasing the recovery rate and lowering the death toll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-recoveries-in-nashik-surpass-new-cases/articleshow/78262213.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 23, 2020||Agra||Fudging of Covid-19 test numbers: CHC in-charge & lab assistant suspended||AGRA: In-charge of a community health centre (CHC) and a lab assistant were suspended and the services of two contractual doctors were terminated on Tuesday in Mathura, days after a video purportedly showing one of them giving his nose and throat swab samples to a health worker to meet the daily target of Covid-19 testing went viral. The alleged malpractice was taking place in Mathura’s Baldeo CHC. An inquiry committee, comprising additional chief medical officer Dr Rajiv Gupta, who is also the nodal officer of district level infection prevention committee for Covid-19, and Dr Devendra Agarwal, conducted a probe and held them guilty of misconduct. Dr Gupta told TOI that the inquiry report has been submitted to the UP government. He confirmed that the employees against whom action has been initiated were found guilty. He said these include CHC in-charge Dr Yogendra Singh Rana and a lab assistant Vikas Tewari. The contractual doctors were Dr Rajkumar Saraswat and Dr Amit. He said the doctor in the video was identified as Saraswat. Officials told TOI that Dr Saraswat admitted that he had given 13 of his own throat and nose swabs, as the sample size was too low to be sent to the chief medical officer for testing and Dr Amit had shot the video that went viral. Dr Amit told media persons that all contractual doctors were allegedly being forced by the CHC in-charge to adopt unethical practices to show sufficient sample collection even if patients don’t turn up. The Mathura district administration has set a target of 1,500 Covid-19 tests per day as per the direction of the state government. In the video which surfaced on social media on Sunday, the doctor at Baldeo CHC can be heard admitting that the “sample size was too low to be sent to the CMO office” even as someone, likely a colleague, is heard dissuading him from giving “too many of his own samples”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fudging-of-covid-19-test-numbers-chc-in-charge-lab-assistant-suspended-2-docs-terminated/articleshow/78262210.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Two arrested in murder case of criminal on police record||Nashik: The crime branch of the city police has arrested two persons in connection with the murder of Nawaz, alias Baba Babbu Shaikh, who was shot on Saturday night in the DGP Nagar area, under the Upnagar police station.The police said the suspects arrested on Tuesday have been identified as Amir, alias Sameer Shamim Khan alias Murgiraja, a 30-year-old from Eklahara Road area, and Arjun Piwal, a 30-year-old resident of the Jail Road, in Nashik Road area.The police had got the information that Piwal was hiding near the Sula Winery in the Gangapur area. The cops then arrested him. After being interrogated, Piwal revealed the whereabouts of Amir, who was then arrested from Dhule. The police said one more suspect in the case is yet to be arrested. The suspects had shot Nawaz over a previous feud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-arrested-in-murder-case-of-criminal-on-police-record/articleshow/78262214.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Quality tech developed indigenously||HYERABAD: The Kakrapar Atomic Power Plant-3 is being described as a demonstration of what the country’s nuclear engineers, technical personnel and workers both in the public and private sector can achieve, with bigger targets set. “NFC has manufactured the pressure tube, which is the most critical component for the safety and life of the reactor. We have developed a new manufacturing process. With the superior quality that is given, it is expected that the reactor will have a much longer life with all the safety requirements,” Srivastava said. With the NPCIL new designs for the components, NFC manufactured and delivered them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quality-tech-developed-indigenously/articleshow/78264830.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Parents of students of St Germain stage protest over school fees||Bengaluru: Parents of students of St Germain Academy on Tuesday staged a protest against the school management for refusing to reduce fees in view of the pandemic even after repeated requests. The protest was held outside the school in Bengaluru. “Many of us have suffered job losses and salary cuts,” said a parent, who is paying an annual fee of Rs 70,000. “While many other schools have reduced fees, our school has not budged. In junior classes, there are only two periods every alternate day. Also, we are not using many of the school facilities.” Another parent said, “We had asked for a break-up of the fees. We’re ready to pay tuition fees, but there are facilities students don’t use now. Fees collected under those heads should be reduced.” Parents said they reported the hike to the block education officer. “He said they cannot take action as it’s an ICSE school,” a parent said. “The management had asked us to send mails, but they haven’t replied, so we decided to meet the management in person.” The school management told TOI it had assured parents they will look into the issue. “While we had distributed forms for concession for individual parents, they are not willing and are demanding a fee reduction for everybody. Our director was not on the campus. The decision has to be taken by the trust under which the society is registered,” said an administration staffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/parents-of-students-of-st-germain-stage-protest-over-school-fees/articleshow/78262680.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||12 persons, 1 juvenile, held for attack on Ambala ADC||Jaskaran Singh | TNN Ambala: Ambala DC Ashok Kumar Sharma and SP Rajesh Kalia on Tuesday said 12 persons have been arrested for the attack on ADC-cum-secretary, state road transport authority (RTA) and her team when they were checking overloaded vehicles. Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) has sought a report on the incident from the Ambala SP. SP Rajesh Kalia said, “The team has arrested 12 accused. Two of them, Amrit Pal alias Buta Singh and Sachin were arrested on September 18. Six accused, Deepak, Mani Singh, Rajender Singh alias Bablu, Gurdev Singh alias Raju, Prem Singh alias Fauji were arrested on September 19. Two accused, Gagandeep alias Gagan and Kulwant Singh were arrested on September 21. An accused Gurwinder Singh was arrested and a juvenile was taken under observation on September 22.” Police said all the persons who appeared in the videos have been identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-persons-1-juvenile-held-for-attack-on-ambala-adc/articleshow/78263613.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||1,154 new cases in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 1,154 Covid-19 positive cases, including 906 from the city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 66,217. The district also recorded 1,988 Covid-19 recoveries, including 1,312 from the city. Moreover, the district also crossed the mark of 1,200 Covid deaths in the district on Tuesday. Of the recent deaths, 12 were reported from the city limits. The death toll stands at 662 in the city and 1,205 in the district. The rise in number of recoveries in the last four days has also reduced the number of active Covid patients in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1154-new-cases-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78262225.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Steps taken to ensure supply of remdesivir in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state health department on Tuesday intervened after the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) complained of shortage of remdesivir injections. The government was assured that by Tuesday late evening a batch of 6,800 remdesivir injections will reach distributors in Gujarat. By Wednesday 24,000 injections will be made available across the state with the Union government having given clearances to a few NOCs on priority. A shortage was experienced since last six days after a few pharma manufacturing plant outside Gujarat had to stop operations owing to Covid infections spreading in the facility. The state principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi held a meeting with six pharma majors and sought speedy availability of remdesivir injections. “Remdesivir availability suffered a small setback last week due to supply issues outside state. But that has been overcome. A total of 6,800 injections have reached the state,” says FDCA commissioner H G Koshia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/steps-taken-to-ensure-supply-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78265540.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Land owners can’t be punished in JVs, declares TNRERA||CHENNAI: In a relief for land owners who are part of joint venture housing projects, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has ruled that the owners are not party to the case if undivided share (UDS) has been registered for homebuyers. The state’s realty regulator underscored that the ‘promoter’ is alone liable for action against whom homebuyers can proceed for violation of RERA Act. The order said a company registered under the Companies Act and represented by its managing director is a legal person who can sue and be sued. The complaint pertains to a housing project named Vardhana Constellation in Coimbatore being executed by Sree Vardhana Builders Pvt. Ltd. While two separate complaints were filed by homebuyers against 12 persons including eight land owners as respondents, queries were raised whether the landlords were party to the complaint. In the order, TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravanan said landowners of the project site have executed general power of attorney to the developer. In turn, the developer had executed sale deed for UDS in favour of homebuyers and entered into a construction agreement for delivery of apartments. “Only the first respondent (company) comes under the definition of promoter under the RERA Act and can be proceeded and made liable by the homebuyer for any violation or contravention of the provisions of the Act,” the order said. The real estate regulator said a previous order delivered last year cannot be applied in the present case. It was a case of owners who had executed power of attorney to a third party and not in favour of the builder, besides no sale deed for UDS was executed in favour of the homebuyer. “In this case, the developer has entered into a registered joint venture agreement with the land owners and power of attorney, besides the promoter also executed the sale deed for UDS in favour of the homebuyer," the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/land-owners-cant-be-punished-in-jvsdeclares-tnrera/articleshow/78263698.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,402 new Covid cases, 16 deaths in 24 hours in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday recorded 1,402 positive cases, taking the total to 1.26 lakh. It was the fifth consecutive day for the state to record 1,400-plus daily cases. The new cases include 298 from Surat, 185 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Rajkot, 136 from Vadodara and 123 from Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 64% of the daily cases. With the update, the total cases in Rajkot reached 8,029 and Vadodara 11,013. The cumulative cases in Ahmedabad and Surat are 35,389 and 26,735 respectively. Rajkot and Vadodara added the last 1,000 cases in seven and eight days respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 16 patients, taking the death toll to 3,355. The deaths in Gujarat include five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, two from Rajkot, and one each from Amreli, Gandhinagar and Surendranagar. The cumulative deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 1,788, 736, 169 and 127. A total of 1,321 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.06 lakh. The discharges include 281 from Surat, 152 from Rajkot, 130 from Jamnagar, 124 from Ahmedabad and 114 from Vadodara. With the update, the share of active cases remained at 13% of the total cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 84.3% and 2.7% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1402-cases-16-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78265578.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Tourism corp hit hard as losses mount||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation (TSTDC) is incurring huge losses as it’s not even regaining a quarter of its pre-Covid revenue. “While the pre-Covid revenue was Rs 5crore per month, we are getting only Rs 50 lakh a month even now,” said B Manohar Rao, managing director, TSTDC. Rao says the lack of inter-state travel and boating activities are among the reasons for the low footfall. While most state-run tourism destinations as well as ASI managed monuments have opened up to the public, very few takers means revenues has remained low. “The Central government has not yet given its nod for boating, one of the key draws at several sites across the state,” said Rao. Tourist destinations and hotels run by the TSTDC including Bogatha waterfalls, Laknavaram lake and Haritha hotels, have opened their gates for tourists but officials only foresee a turnaround in these places from the November-December period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tourism-corp-hit-hard-as-losses-mount/articleshow/78264841.cms||Uttara Varma
September 23, 2020||Nashik||‘Make proper plans of large irrigation projects’||Nashik: Water resources minister Jayant Patil on Tuesday directed the officials of the water resources department (WRD) to make proper planning of large irrigation projects so that north Maharashtra and Marathwada regions will get adequate water. Patil also asked the officials concerned to speed up small irrigation projects in a time-bound manner. He was in Nashik city on Tuesday to review the irrigation department projects in the region. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, deputy speaker of the state legislative assembly Narhari Zirwal, Nashik ZP president Balasaheb Kshirsagar and other senior WRD officials were present during the meeting. “The review of proposed irrigation projects in Nashik district is being held once a month after the Maha Vikas Aghadi government came to power. Apart from making financial provision to complete these projects, the government is taking all measures to ensure that Nashik, Ahmednagar and Marathwada will get adequate water from the Godavari basin,” said Patil, adding that diversion of water will be planned wherever it is possible so that these regions will get water. “Our focus will be to complete the proposed small irrigation projects in the region and make adequate financial provisions. Moreover, we will also raise funds to complete the large irrigation projects,” said Patil. The water resources minister also said that the state has made provision of 10% funds to complete the works related to water channels and canals in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/make-proper-plans-of-large-irrigation-projects/articleshow/78262234.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 positive voters asked to abstain from voting in PUTA polls||Chandigarh: In view of spiralling number of Covid-19 cases on Panjab University campus, returning officers have urged campus residents and employees not to come to the polling station to cast their vote in the Panjab University Teacher Association election if they have any Covid-19 symptoms. A total of 600 voters will exercise their franchise in the elections scheduled on September 25 and 26. Returning officer Professor Vijay Nagpal asked 22 voters who are Covid-19 positive not to visit the polling station in larger public interest. Prof Nagpal said pamphlets with names of contestants in both teams would be pasted at every voting booth. He said contestants would offer these to voters but accepting it is not mandatory. He also said voters have to bring their own pens. Voters who have tested positive for Covid-19 or are waiting for reports or are in quarantine are requested to abstain. Professor Nagpal said that he has not received any objection from the 22 faculty members who were asked to abstain. On Tuesday, he said, he asked others showing Covid-19 symptoms not to visit the polling station on the scheduled day. The returning officer also said he received a representation from the faculty to postpone PUTA elections on the lines of the senate but he is not authorised to take a decision on this. Precautions at polling stations - Wearing mask is compulsory - Voters to leave the venue immediately after casting their vote - No spitting in public places - Thermal screening to be done for every person entering the venue - Foot-operated hand sanitisers to be kept at all entry and exit points and common areas at the venue - Gloves to be provided to all voters - Voters to bring their own pens||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-positive-voters-asked-to-abstain-from-voting-in-puta-polls/articleshow/78263672.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||NEP will lead to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’: Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the new National Education Policy (NEP) will play a key role in creating ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) besides establishing India as a global education destination. “I firmly believe that the future of a nation is what its youth is today. Your dreams are going to shape the reality of India. That's why this is the time to be future-ready and future-fit,” he said in an address to the 22nd convocation of IIT (Guwahati) through a video conference. The PM said NEP is for the youths of the 21st century, who will lead the world and make India the global leader in science and technology. The NEP, which is designed to ease the burden of classroom teaching and examination on students, will play an important role in the country's march forward, he said. The PM urged IIT-Guwahati to establish a centre for disaster management and risk reduction, saying it can play a major role in the government’s ‘Act East Policy’ which will also give the north-eastern region a new identity and opportunities. Lauding the efforts of IIT-Guwahati in adopting new technologies, especially for inventing new equipment during the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, “ I am also happy to know that IIT-Guwahati is leading in integration of science and technology in BTech courses. I am fully confident that inter-disciplinary programmes will make our education all- round and futuristic.” The PM said Assam and the north-east are full of possibilities, but floods, earthquakes, landslides etc plague the region. “To deal with these problems, a high degree of technological support and intervention are needed. I request IIT-Guwahati to set up a Centre for Disaster Management and Risk Reduction to provide expertise for dealing with the problems and transform them into opportunities," he said. Modi said the north-east is at the centre of his government's ‘Act East Policy’, and the region is the gateway to India's relations with South East Asia. “The base of India's relations with these nations have remained culture, commerce, connectivity and capacity. Now education is going to be a new medium of engagement. IIT-Guwahati can become a big centre for all this. North-east will get a new identity. This will also result in new opportunities.” Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and II-Guwahati Dirctor T G Sitharam were part of the virtual function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nep-will-lead-to-atmanirbhar-bharat-modi/articleshow/78266235.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||It should be ‘jail & jail, no bail’ in ‘honour killing’ cases, says SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the basic rule of “bail not jail” did not apply to heinous honour killing crimes and in such cases, it should be “jail and jail”. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian made the remark while denying bail to one S Yuvaraj who is in jail pending trial in a 2015 case where he allegedly murdered a 21-year-old Dalit boy for speaking to an upper caste girl. In 2017, the SC had reversed the Madras HC’s decision to grant him bail. The bench also extended the deadline for completion of trial by six months delayed due to lockdown and closure of courts. Refusing the bail plea from the accused’s counsel, the CJI said, “The basic rule of bail and not jail does not apply to these cases. What harm do a boy and girl commit by talking to each other? If one resorts to murder or harming the couple for falling in love or marrying, then there could be no leniency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/it-should-be-jail-jail-no-bail-in-honour-killing-cases-says-sc/articleshow/78266271.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 23, 2020||Chennai||IIT Madras tech turns fabric into sewed garment, virtually||CHENNAI: Small fashion boutiques and designers could now virtually visualise a piece of fabric into any neatly sewn Indian garment on a mannequin or a model for sale on online portals by using a software developed by an IIT-M-incubated startup. The software, Fab3D, developed by Tri3D, can convert flat images of fabrics or garments like saris into photorealistic 3D images of models or mannequins wearing them and could save time and money spent on conventional photoshoots. Sumanth Alwala, co-founder, Tri3D and an IITM alumnus, said the software has gained more interest among small and big vendors in the past three months when e-commerce business picked up pace with more brands selling online during lockdown. “We started a year-and-a-half ago and now have more than 150 active customers and 80% of them are small vendors from remote locations. Nearly half of them approached us in the past three months and we are seeing a steady increase in retailers enquiring and wanting to use our technology,” he said. Sumanth Alwala partnered with Nitish Reddy Parvatham, an IIT Bombay alumnus. In the past three months, more than 20,000 products were catalogued and uploaded in e-commerce portals and social media platforms for sale and 60,000 products in the past one year through the software. The developers said their software, which took two years to develop, could be a substitute for conventional model photoshoots and save time and money for small vendors, boutique designers and weavers. Alwala said a seller has to upload an image of a sari exposing six to seven feet of the fabric in the software and choose one of the nearly 70 different templates including those with props to generate a 3D image of their choice, be it draped on a model or a mannequin, within 10 minutes. Similarly, a piece of an unstitched fabric could also be visualised into a finished garment like a shirt, trouser or a dress. Fashion designers could use the tool to mix and match fabrics into any outfit and the developers can make new templates with new styles that designers come up with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-tech-turns-fabric-into-sewed-garment-virtually/articleshow/78263723.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad takes up Cycle4Change challenge||AHMEDABAD: The city, which has joined the India Cycles4Change Challenge, will host an event called ‘Ahmedabad Cycles4Change’ on Sunday. As part of the larger initiative, the AMC and other stakeholders have identified a 50km road network to develop cycling lanes in the city. India Cycles4Change Challenge is a programme conceived under the Smart Cities Mission of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. It is a Government of India endeavour to inspire and support Indian cities to implement cycling-friendly measures in response to the Covid-19 situation. As part of the drive, Smart City Ahmedabad Development Limited and the AMC, supported by local organizations and cycling groups, have organized the ‘Ahmedabad Cycles4Change’ event. The CEO of the Smart City Mission, Nitin Sangwan, said: “This is a different kind of cycling ride as we have to follow Covid protocols.” Sangwan went on to say: “Hence there is no start or end point. Citizens are encouraged to wear a white T-shirt and cycle from their homes in the morning on a suggested route to show solidarity.” Sangwan added: “We are encouraging citizens to share pictures of the ride using #AhmedabadCycles4Change on their social media accounts.” He said the effort is meant to promote cycling among the masses and help them appreciate the health benefits. Smart City Ahmedabad Development Limited and local organizations are also mapping potential cycling routes for commuters in the city. As for Sunday’s ride, it has drawn 1,500 registrations from across the city. Also a 20-member team for India Cycles4Change Challenge has been formed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-takes-up-cycle4change-challenge/articleshow/78265575.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||From high of 9.3k to low of 2.7k, dist testing takes a hit||Nagpur: RT-PCR tests are considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing, but in Nagpur district Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) are dominating. In September, the number of RT-PCR tests has come down significantly, leading to lower positivity rate as compared to days when fewer RAT tests were done.Nagpur, which had conducted 4,124 RT-PCR tests on September 9, conducted only 1,177 tests on September 21. This means that despite having the capacity, not enough RT-PCR tests are being done. Among the many reasons behind this decline in RT-PCR tests is the dependence on rapid antigen tests (RAT). Sources told TOI that the administration is now relying more on RAT. Figures also show the same trend.In September, 56% of the total tests were RAT while only 44% were RT-PCR. However, those who test negative on RAT are expected to go for RT-PCR tests for confirmation. Recent directives by the state have insisted on this protocol, but it is clearly not happening in Nagpur.Secondly, there have been issues with labs in the city. Nagpur district’s biggest and oldest laboratory — at IGGMCH — was closed for disinfection after nine officials and workers tested positive two days back. Even though the lab resumed work from Tuesday, fewer tests were conducted due to limited manpower.Another lab at Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Science University (MAFSU) has been conducting zero tests for Nagpur city over last four days. It resumed work on Tuesday, and conducted 177 tests. Thirdly, three private labs in the city have faced disciplinary action for not updating their records in real time. After this the most prominent lab stopped testing. The other two labs also reduced testing to get time for the real-time data updation process. This has reduced RT-PCR tests in private labs drastically. District health authorities said more RAT are being conducted these days because they give results quickly and can be efficiently done in rural set-up too. But dependence on this is leaving many positive cases unreported, which is borne out by the data. Days on which more RT-PCR tests are conducted, the sample positivity rate in the district is higher.In September, more RT-PCR tests than RAT were conducted on six days — September 6, 7, 10, 14, 15 and 18. Sample positivity rate — which remains slightly above 25% on an average in September — increased to 31% on these six days. Even average sample positivity rate of these six days is 28%, a sharp increase from the average. This suggests that many people who would have tested positive in RT-PCR must been missed in the RATs.Health department officials claimed, though, tests have gone down on some days because people are not turning out for testing. A senior official blamed rains for fewer people reporting at sample collection centres in last three-four days. However, the condition at centres is completely opposite. People are lining up at sample collection centres from early in the morning and having to wait for hours for their turn.Numbers Tell A Tale56% of total tests done in September in Nagpur were RAT (average 3,907 tests per day)44% tests were RT-PCR (average 3,085 tests per day)26% average positivity rate in 21 days of September31% average positivity rate on 6 days when more RT-PCR tests were done than RAT3 days when less than 6,000 tests were done7 days when more than 8,000 tests were done9,306 tests, maximum in a day on Sept 122,672 tests, least tests in a day on Sept 211,177 least no. of RT-PCR tests in a day (Sept 21), after pvt labs got notices on Sept 151,495 least no. of RAT tests in a day (Sept 21), after pvt labs got notices on Sept 151,500 RT-PCR tests done on Sept 22, half the average number||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-high-of-9-3k-to-low-of-2-7k-dist-testing-takes-a-hit/articleshow/78264840.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Nashik-Pune highway potholes get temporary fix||Nashik: Motorists on the Nashik-Pune highway are having a tough time negotiating the potholes that have developed in the stretch from Nashik Road till Khed following incessant rainfall. However, going by senior officials of the toll companies on the highway, the problem would continue until the rain fully stops. They will then be able to take up the work of properly filling the potholes with hot-mix. Right now, the potholes are being filled with granules. The officials said they recently completed the work of filling the potholes near Sangamner. The situation is also not good near Khed, Ale Phata, Manchar and at various other places. “Currently, we have to fill the potholes with granule sub-base (GSB), though we understand that this could get washed away following heavy showers. However, we have to do this continuously or else, there would be too many potholes on the road by the time the monsoon is over and we are able to take up the work of asphalting the road with hot-mix,” said an officer of NHAI. The Nashik-Pune highway has a heavy volume of vehicular traffic as not only a large number of people commute between the two cities, there are also many industrial areas along this highway, which witness transportation of goods to these two cities. NHAI officials said that workers were rushed to all the places where there were potholes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-pune-highway-potholes-get-temporary-fix/articleshow/78262253.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 2,100 Covid cases, 19 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 2,166 new cases of Covid-19 positive cases and 19 deaths across the state with the government increasing testing across all districts. So far, the state has recorded 1,74,774 novel coronavirus cases and 1,052 deaths, while 1,44,073 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. There are 29,649 patients in either government and private hospitals or at home, receiving treatment. Authorities said 53,690 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the state on Monday, out of which 44% were of primary contacts and 12% were of secondary contacts of patients who tested positive over the last couple of days. According to the details of the total cases recorded in the state so far, 30% are symptomatic cases. The GHMC area recorded 309 new cases, the highest among districts, followed by 166 cases in Rangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-2100-covid-cases-19-deaths/articleshow/78264846.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Covid waste handlers remain uninfected||Nashik: Even as novel coronavirus cases are on the rise in Nashik, 100 workers of a private firm involved in collection and disposal of Covid-19 waste have so far remained uninfected. These workers have been collecting Covid-19 trash from April. Also, they have been working round-the-clock in shifts to carry out the job apparently undeterred by the high risk involved in this entire task of collection and disposal of PPE kits, masks, gloves doctors, nurses and para medical staff of these hospitals. Chetan Bora, owner of the private firm mandated by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), told TOI that none of these workers have taken leave since April to ensure that the task of collecting and disposing Covid-19 waste does not get hampered. “It speaks volume about their commitment despite the health risk involved in the work. We have provided them with PPE kits, masks and gloves and each one of them undergo Covid-19 test at regular intervals. We are also providing them with medicines to boost their immunity as suggested by doctors,” said Bora. He added that if any of these workers would have contracted the infected at some point during the course of duty, the entire process of collection and disposal of waste would have been severely impacted as the other workers would have to be quarantined immediately. At present, the private firm is disposing of over two tonne of Covid-19 waste of entire Nashik district every day, including about 1.5-1.7 tonne from the city. About a month back, the daily collection of Covid-19 trash in the district was around 1.5 tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-waste-handlers-remain-uninfected/articleshow/78262263.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Cong demands judicial commission into purchase of medical equipment||Bengaluru: During a seven-hour debate on the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Congress called government efforts — both state and central — to control the pandemic a “miserable failure”. Leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah also demanded a judicial probe into the alleged scam of Rs 2,000 crore in purchase of medical equipment to fight the pandemic. The JD(S), though, stopped just short of supporting Congress’ demand, insisting it did not want to “overburden” the chief minister with more misery what with floods too in several parts of the state. A reply to the demand is scheduled for 10am on Wednesday. When the house convened on Tuesday, Congress moved an adjournment motion to discuss the alleged scam and efforts by the government to tackle the pandemic. However, as has been the convention, speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri converted the motion into a discussion. Siddaramaiah began by targeting the central government for its failure to control inbound international flights in early 2020, when WHO had first issued a warning of the pandemic. He pointed out that Karnataka, which had fewer cases initially, had zoomed to seventh position in the country with over 8,500 deaths. “Amid all this, there was a purchase of equipment which was three to four times the actual price. We estimate the scame to be Rs 2,000 crore,” Siddaramaiah said. Reiterating claims, he said there was misappropriation in procurement of PPE kits, ventilators and hand sanitisers. He also ridiculed the decision to give contracts to companies that did not have any experience in providing the equipment needed. “The contract for hand sanitisers was given to SpyAgro Industries based in Andhra Pradesh, while that for pulse oximeters was given to Latha Steel and Furnitures. What does a furniture company have to do with oximeters?” ridiculed Siddaramaiah. He also pointed out possible scams on spends for containment zones. He said Rs 65,000 to Rs 70,000 was spent on each of the 34,000 zones. “We demand a judicial commission to probe purchase of medical equipment,” he said. KPCC president DK Shivakumar made an emotional appeal to the government over its failure to deliver financial assistance promised to auto drivers and barbers and also touched on the “inhumane” disposal of the dead in Ballari. “We need accountability not just a response. Why is the government afraid of handing it to a judicial commission?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cong-demands-judicial-commission-into-purchase-of-medical-equipment/articleshow/78262449.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Several accused testing positive is cause of concern for police||Mysuru: Of the seven who were arrested in a theft case in KR Nagar, Mysuru, three tested positive for Covid-19. A woman accused of violating the Excise Act in Bettadapura police limits, Mysuru, was also found infected, while one of the three juveniles arrested in the recent temple theft attempt case had also contracted the novel coronavirus. Karnataka police personnel say given the nature of their work, they are at great risk of contracting the infection, especially since a number of accused whom they arrest test positive. However, cops say while the situation is worrying, it isn’t alarming. An inspector said it is impossible for lower ranked personnel to maintain social distance with the people they arrest. They have to be in close proximity to the accused especially from the time of arrest till they are remanded in custody. “They have to escort them to court and take them to hospital for the Covid test,” the inspector said. “We are taking all precautions, but we are a worried lot too.” R Shivakumar, additional superintendent of police, Mysuru, said, “Officers have to go into quarantine every time an accused they handled tests positive. There have been several cases of accused testing positive after arrest. Covid test has been mandatory for every accused and those who test positive are housed in Covid Care Centres. Jail authorities seek a test report before taking them in.” AN Prakash Gowda, deputy commissioner of police (law and order) said personnel are taking adequate precautions to keep infections at bay. “Every accused arrested in any criminal cases is being subjected to Covid test,” he said. “The accused are first taken to a centre where tests are conducted and only then produced in court from where they are generally sent to judicial custody.” Vipul Kumar, IGP and chief of southern police range of five districts in south Karnataka, admitted that some of the accused had contracted infection and it is a cause of concern for personnel, but insisted that it is not alarming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/several-accused-testing-positive-is-cause-of-concern-for-police/articleshow/78262567.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Grain market traders oppose hike in parking charges||Times News Network Chandigarh: Members of the Grain Market Association, Sector 26, observed a strike on Tuesday against the proposed hike in parking fee. Association members said business has already been hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the proposal of the market committee to levy five times higher rates of parking this year would impose additional burden on customers and others. They pointed out that the main entrance to the Grain Market has been closed by police barricading, hindering easy access to the market and observed complete strike on Tuesday, said association president Ram Karan Gupta. Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM), the apex body of traders, also supported the protest by the grain market association. CBM chairman Charanjiv Singh said they have given full support to the protest by the grain market association. He said authorities should support traders and customers to revive the economy and steps like increasing parking fees would create hurdles in the process. He said they hoped that authorities would withdraw the tender of higher parking rates. Members threatened to stage an indefinite strike and rope in more traders from various markets if the “arbitrary tender” was not withdrawn. In the evening, the grain market association submitted a memorandum to SDM Nazuk Kumar, who is administrator of the Market Committee in Sector 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/grain-market-traders-oppose-hike-in-parking-charges/articleshow/78263725.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC bite: 205 hospitals fined for mosquito menace in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In the time of Covid, cases of chikungunya are on the rise in the city. In the first 22 days of September, chikungunya cases registered a 39% jump as compared to the whole of September 2019. Bhavin Solanki, the medical health officer of the AMC, said that in the first 22 days of September this year, 107 chikungunya cases were reported against 77 in the 30 days of September 2019. However, dengue cases have recorded a considerable decline. In September 2019, 1,966 cases of dengue were reported. This year, only 220 have been registered in the first 22 days of September. Against an average of 65 cases per day in 2019, this year the average is 10 per day. To control the breeding of mosquitos in the city, the health department has been inspecting hospitals. On Tuesday, the department issued notices to 205 hospitals over mosquito breeding sites on their premises. Fines to the tune of Rs 1.13 lakh were collected from these 205 hospitals. Officials said that Satyamev Hospital in Chandkheda was fined Rs 30,000; Kapadia Hospital (Sabarmati) was fined Rs 10,000; and Delux Hospital (Indrapuri) was fined Rs 8,000. Hospitals that were fined Rs 5,000 included Retina Foundation (Shahibaug), Bharati Vallabh (Shahpur), Dr Bharat Mehta (Maninagar), Shaishav (Indrapuri), EPIC (Gota), Shalby (Jodhpur), Sanjivani (Bodakdev), Suvidha (Thakkarnagar), and Vipul Children (Naroda).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-bite-205-hospitals-fined-for-mosquito-menace/articleshow/78265576.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Greens rage against limestone mining in wildlife route||CHANDRAPUR: Objections were raised over the clearance to the proposed Parsoda limestone mine of Reliance Cement Company Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Birla Corporation Limited, during a public hearing held here on Tuesday. While NGOs strongly objected to the mine coming up in 756 hectares of land adjacent to Painganga river in Korpana tehsil, saying it was located on the wildlife corridor to Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal and Kawal Wildlife Sanctuary in Telangana, villagers demanded compensation for the land on Western Coal Fields (WCL) grounds and jobs against each 7/12 document. RCCPL is building a mega cement plant in Mukutban in Yavatmal district and has applied for acquisition of 756 hectares of land for excavation of limestone — basic raw material for cement production — in Korpana tehsil. Four villages — Parsoda, Kothoda (Khurd), Kothoda (Buruk) and Govindpur — are going to be directly affected by the mine. Painganga river, which is located just 250 meters from the mine, separates the cement plant from the proposed mine. The NGOs pitched high resistance to the mine during the hearing, claiming that wildlife dispersing from Tadoba to Tipeshwar, Kawal and the Kanhalgaon sanctuary used the land earmarked for mining. State wildlife board member and honorary wildlife warden, Bandu Dhore said although there is no forest area under the proposed mining site, it acts as a regular corridor as there is forest on either side within one kilometre distance. “We are pursuing the matter with the forest department and would press it with higher officials to ensure that the precious corridor remains undisturbed. Protection of corridors is a must for conservation of wildlife and hence we are going to raise the demand of re-survey of the project site from the wildlife point of view,” he told TOI. Member of regional empowered committee of ministry of environment, forest and climate change, Suresh Chopne said the company had prepared no wildlife management plan, overlooking the cumulative impact on the forest and wildlife in the area. “While the mine will disturb the corridor, it will also severely deplete the water level in adjacent area. The farmers whose lands have not been acquired will face grave paucity if the mine comes up,” he warned. NCP leader from Korpana, Abid Ali pointed out that district administration had said all four villages being affected by the mine fall under forest land in an affidavit submitted to high court in public interest litigation — Gomewad vs state government. He claimed the government had provided the pattas (Class-2) of the land to the villagers back in year 1978. However, later the 110 villages in Rajura, Jiwti and Korpana teshil, including four affected villages at the mine site, were declared to be on the forest land. “As the matter is pending with the high court, will the company hand over the compensation to land owners or will it deposit it with the forest department,” he asked. Ali also demanded fair compensation for the land on WCL ground, and jobs against each 7/12 document. He sought direct negotiation with villagers over the rates, instead of sticking to the rates given in the ready reckoner. Environment activist Sudhir Paliwal raised objection claiming that the proposed mine will have adverse impact on physical characteristics like channel geometry, bed elevation, substratum composition, flow velocity and discharge capacity. He pointed out that there is no plan to protect the river from bank and bed erosion beyond its stable profile. Paliwal raised several objections in e-mails to Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regional office, but neither MPCB nor the company answered his queries and said the answers would be sent to their board headquarters. The company management, in its reply to other objections, said the principal chief conservator of forests had given them clearance claiming there is no tiger reserve/sanctuary, wildlife corridor and biosphere reserve in 10km range of the mine site. RCCPL officials said the survey carried out for environment impact report revealed there was no schedule-1 species found in 10km surrounding of the proposed site. They claimed that the mine will have no pollution or any other kind of impact on the river. On the demand of compensation and jobs, the company officials said they would adhere to government regulations and directives. The convener of hearing — MPCB sub-regional officer Ajeet Patil and company officials rushed through the answers and did not respond to the queries raised by Deepak Dixit of Prakurti Sanghatana and Sudhir Paliwal of Vidarbha Environment Action Group. CORRIDOR OF CONTENTION RCCPL building cement plant in Mukutban over 756 hectares of land Four villages to be directly affected by limestone excavation mine NGOs object saying mine falls on wildlife corridor from Tadoba to Tipeshwar, Tadoba to Kawal and Tipeshwar to proposed Kanhalgaon sanctuary Villagers seek compensation for WCL land and jobs against each 7/12 document||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-rage-against-limestone-mining-in-wildlife-route/articleshow/78264861.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal pesticide poisoning victims sue Syngenta in Swiss court||NAGPUR: A survivor of 2017’s pesticide poisoning episode in Yavatmal and kin of two deceased have filed a plea against Swiss pesticide maker Syngenta International at a court in company’s home own country demanding damages. The case has been filed in the civil court for the city of Bale. Pesticide Action Network (PAN)-India through which the litigation has filed has demanded Syngenta should be refrained from selling brands like Polo which is a diafenthiuron-based pesticide to farmers in India. Polo product is banned in Switzerland where the company is based, says Pesticide Action Network (PAN)-India. The three victims claimed that using Polo had led to the deaths and incapacitation. PAN-India has also made a complaint before the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The person who survived is unable to carry out physical labour, says PAN-India. The NGO has not disclosed names of the litigants. In 2017, over 80 farmers and farm workers, had died of accidental inhalation of pesticides while spraying. A majority of the deaths was in Yavatmal. Polo made by Syngenta was among the pesticides reported to be used by the deceased. A large number of them had fallen sick too. The victims were reported to have been using other brands too. Narsihma Reddy of PAN-India told TOI that out of the 250 cases scanned, there was enough evidence that included police records in the three that Polo had been used by the victims. A meeting of lawyers from both the sides is expected to take place after which the hearing may begin. The litigants are two widows and a person who had used the pesticide himself. “The product is banned in Switzerland due to its hazardous nature,” he said. Devanand Pawar, an activist from Yavatmal who coordinated in getting the details, said grounds of the litigation are that the company had violated their right to life by selling the hazardous pesticide. “Syngenta has been selling Polo without prescribing any antidote in case of poisoning. This caused difficulties in treating the victims. Even the warning on the packets is not easily legible, due to the small print,” he said. Case studies of 51 other victims have also been attached in the plea. The company also said that no lawsuits have been filed against it in India for the 2017 events. Unlike other companies, Syngenta was not involved at any time in the criminal investigation conducted in the matter. “We reject that Polo was the trigger for tragic incidents in Yavatmal. Polo was not responsible for the events was also confirmed by the special investigation team (SIT) formed by the Maharashtra government after the incidents,” read an email sent by Syngenta. Between 2013 and 2019 the company has trained over 42 million people in the safe use of crop protection product, the vast majority of whom are small scale farmers in Asia, Africa, and South America. Polo is registered by the Central Insecticide Board and Regisratoin Committee, said the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-pesticide-poisoning-victims-sue-syngenta-in-swiss-court/articleshow/78264845.cms||Shishir Arya
September 23, 2020||Nashik||32 people admitted in police CCC in 2 days||Nashik: As many as 32 people were on Sunday admitted to the Covid Care Centre set up by the city police for police personnel and their families at its headquarters along the Gangapur Road. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said that he was taking a stock of the situation on a daily basis to ensure that the patients admitted to the centre were given proper treatment by medical staff. Nodal officer of the CCC Prashant Deore said that a total of 32 patients have been admitted in the last three days. The covid facility has been set up for city police, rural police, personnel of the Nashik Road Central Jail and their family members. CP Deepak Pandey said, “I would be personally visiting the Covid facility regularly to ensure that all the things are streamlined there and the patients are also satisfied with the facilities provided in the facility. My endeavour will also be to provide moral support to the patients admitted there so that they remain relaxed and recover quickly from the contagion.” Police officials said that they have provided all the needed facilities at the Covid facility so that there is no need for the patient to go anywhere or to a superior facility. In addition, the centre will also deploy four ambulances to ferry patients from their homes to the facility soon. At present, two ambulances have already been deployed by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/32-people-admitted-in-police-ccc-in-2-days/articleshow/78262272.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 23, 2020||Chennai||Incinerator along lake: Chitlapakkam residents voice concern||CHENNAI: Chitlapakkam residents have expressed reservations about the local body’s plans to set up an incinerator on the Chitlapakkam lake bund. Residents said no public hearing was conducted about the legalities or the possible environmental impact of setting up a waste incinerator in a residential neighbourhood. Chitlapakkam Town Panchayat officials confirmed the plan to set up an incinerator near the lake at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. TOI had reported in June that the eco-restoration of Chitlapakkam tank had hit a block as the local body was unable to identify an alternative site for dumping garbage generated by the town panchayat. Recently, residents learned of the town panchayat’s plans of setting up an incinerator. “We have asked the authorities about the technical details -- whether it is permanent or movable, capacity and combustion temperature. There is also the worry about whether the residue will be dumped in the lake itself,” said P Viswanathan, convener of the Chitlapakkam residents’ association. Residents are worried because the water body was being revived owing to consistent efforts from residents’ associations. A portion of the lake was used as a garbage dump by the public and the local body for decades and there were several encroachments. “Even now the waste is collected in the segregation unit in the lake itself and then taken to a landfill,” a resident said. With plans to set up an eco-park in the water body, the garbage dump was cleared and clearing of legacy waste is underway. “We had requested authorities to transport the waste generated to any other common dumping site as we are told that the amount of waste is only 5 MT. We want to know whether it is approved by the TNPCB and all norms and clearances. We are also objecting to the utilisation of the lake space,” said Viswanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/incinerator-along-lake-residents-voice-concern/articleshow/78263729.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Doctor, cops force man to admit Covid positive wife||NAGPUR: In a strange incident, a man from a well off family took his 32-year-old Covid positive wife and newborn baby home against medical advice, hours after delivery by caesarean section, allegedly over payment of bills. The caesarean section patient was taken away from the hospital without any IV fluids or medication administered in postoperative period after high drama. The move left the treating gynecologist and staff at another private hospital baffled, and apprehensive about legal challenges if the woman’s condition were to deteriorate. The woman had been brought to the maternity home around 2am Monday with complaint of labour pains and bleeding. Her RT-PCR test had been done on Saturday as protocol mandates it before delivery due date. But the Covid report was awaited. The gynecologist told TOI she had advised the woman to get admitted at Government Medical College as her Covid status was not clear. “Since she was not ready, I admitted her on humanitarian grounds as she was in labour and asymptomatic. The husband too requested her delivery at my hospital, though we don’t have Covid facilities,” the doctor said. At 8am, as foetal heart rate started dropping, a caesarean section became necessary. “I again tried to get her Covid report but the lab said it was still awaited,” the doctor said. Without knowing Covid status, the doctor performed the C-section and delivered the child since it was in danger. At 11.30am, the patient’s Covid report turned out to be positive. “I requested the husband to shift her to a Covid hospital,” the doctor said. The husband told the doctor he preferred a private hospital on Kingsway, but no bed was available there. “He was reluctant to shift her to either of the medical colleges,” the doctor said. Later, the doctor helped him find a bed at another private hospital near Jamtha, where the mother and baby were shifted. Here, around 4.30pm, the husband allegedly told the private Covid hospital staff that he will not pay any fee. At 8.30pm, the gynaecologist was shocked to learn that the man and his wife had left the private hospital. The man’s phone was also switched off. Finally, the gynaecologist traced him to his house on the city outskirts, but he refused to get his wife admitted to any hospital. The doctor said the man kept on insisting his wife was comfortable and didn’t need admission. The doctor went to the man’s house, and also sought help of the cops and local health authorities, who also reached the spot. They confronted the man and warned he would be placed under arrest in case he obstructed hospitalization of his wife. The woman was finally shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital around 1.30am on Tuesday. “He even made only partial payment to us,” was all the gynaecologist could say in the end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doc-cops-force-man-to-admit-covid-ve-wife-newborn-after-c-section/articleshow/78264848.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 23, 2020||Meerut||Arms smuggler, 2 aides arrested in Amroha||Bijnor: Kingpin of a gang involved in arms smuggling for the past 15 years was arrested along with two accomplices in Amroha on Tuesday. Three .9mm pistols, five countrymade weapons and some 153 cartridges were seized from their possession.Amroha police has been running ‘Operation Bullet’ to keep a tab on criminals in the district and received a tip-off about the gang. Giving details, Vipin Tada, Amroha superintendent of police, said, "Police raided a house in mohalla Katara Gulam Ali after a tip-off about weapons smuggling. Three criminals -- Adarsh Sharma from mohalla Katara Gulam Ali and Shivam Sharma and Deepak Sharma from Moradabad -- were arrested."Deepak is the gang's leader. A case has been registered against the culprits and they have been sent to jail, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/arms-smuggler-2-aides-arrested-in-amroha/articleshow/78262280.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 23, 2020||Coimbatore||More CCTV cameras to keep Coimbatore under tight surveillance||COIMBATORE: The state government has decided to install 1,400 advanced CCTV cameras in the city at a cost of Rs 17 crore. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said, “Presently, the city is under the surveillance of 21,000 CCTV cameras. We have been installing CCTV cameras on various streets with the help of public. We had sent a proposal to the state to fix 1,400 advanced CCTV cameras at important junctions and entry and exist points of the city in January.” He likened the CCTV camera to a third eye and said no one could escape from the same. “CCTV footage could be used as an evidence when it comes to crimes and accidents. The more the number of CCTV cameras, the more the chances of bringing down the crime rate in the city.” CCTV cameras would be used for monitoring the law & order situations and prevention and detection of crimes, Sumit Sharan said. Another police source said, “Advanced high-resolution cameras will be procured under the project. We have identified 716 places in the city to install them. All the cameras will be linked to the master control room, which will be set up at the city police commissionerate.” The source said more video walls would be put in place at the master control room, where additional manpower would be deployed to monitor CCTV camera footages. “Once the administrative sanction for the project comes through, a tender will be floated to implement the project.” Neighbouring Tirupur would, meanwhile, get 1,200 CCTV cameras in city limits at an outlay of Rs 12 crore. The Tirupur city police had also earlier sent a proposal for 1,200 CCTV cameras to the state government. Tirupur city police commissioner G Karthikeyan said they had already identified places to install the CCTV cameras. “After the allotment of funds, the project will start.” He also said the CCTV footages would come handy in solving cases. “A burglary was reported in the city during the day a few days ago. The burglar had covered his face. However, his image was recorded in a CCTV camera and the footage helped us to arrest him.” Karthikeyan said the CCTV cameras would help monitor the traffic and law and order issues, besides helping to prevent and detect crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-cctv-cameras-to-keep-city-under-tight-surveillance/articleshow/78264874.cms||A Subburaj
September 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: GIHED-CREDAI property show goes online||AHMEDABAD: Considering the Covid-19 situation and the increased popularity of online marketing in the new normal phase, the real estate body GIHED-CREDAI has decided to organize its annual property show online this year. The virtual property show will be held for nine days during the festival of Navratri from October 17 to 25. The announcement was made by Gujarat Institute of Housing and Estate Developers (GIHED), which is the Ahmedabad city chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI). As part of the virtual expo, 60 stalls have been planned for real estate developers, allied industries and banking partners. “The virtual property show has received a good response from industry stakeholders and the organizers have got more bookings for stalls than expected,” the realty body said in a statement. GIHED-CREDAI has been organizing the property show every year since 2005 and this year, it will be held online for the first time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gihed-credai-property-show-goes-online/articleshow/78265566.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Gram panchayats told to slap fine on those flouting rules||Nashik: With Covid-19 cases increasing in rural parts of the district, the Nashik zilla parishad has instructed all gram panchayats to slap fine on those who are found moving around in villages and market places without wearing face masks. Also, those who do not follow social distancing in public places will be fined. Chief executive officer of Nashik zilla parishad Leena Bansod said that Covid-19 cases will continue to rise if people do not take precautionary measures. “On our part, we are spreading awareness among people to wear mask, maintain social distancing and wash their hands regularly. Gram Panchayats are also collecting fine from people who are found flouting rules,” Bansod said. Officials said that there could be even more rise in the number of patients as ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign has been initiated. Under this campaign, health teams are visiting every household to check the health of patients, enquire about those with co-morbid conditions and refer them to hospitals if they were not taking medicine for their health condition. Further, those having symptoms of novel coronavirus are also being referred to hospitals for getting themselves checked or treated for the contagion. ZP officials also said that there were sufficient number of beds at Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in the rural parts of the district in case if there is a sudden rise in the number of patients during the campaign. At present, Covid -19 hotspots in the district are Niphad with 713 cases, Sinnar with 536 cases, Igatpuri 396, Nashik taluka with 393 cases and Malegaon rural with 315 cases. As on Tuesday morning, there were a total 3,466 active cases in rural parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gram-panchayats-told-to-slap-fine-on-those-flouting-rules/articleshow/78262286.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Protests, rallies could churn out superspreaders, experts fear||Bengaluru: The commencement of the state legislature’s monsoon session on Monday also kicked off a spate of protests at Freedom Park and Maurya Circle in Bengaluru by various organisations that are seeking to draw the attention of the government as well as lawmakers. However, experts fear these gatherings — hundreds and sometimes thousands of people in close proximity with each other — could turn superspreaders of the SARS-CoV2 virus. For example, hundreds of farmers and labourers from across the state have assembled in Bengaluru to protest the state government’s APMC and land reforms ordinances. Doctors say these protesters are at great risk of contracting Covid-19 since there is zero social distancing and widespread improper use of masks at these rallies. These congregations are likely to result in a spike in Covid numbers and the effects will be known in a couple of weeks, experts told TOI. The experts committee constituted by the government had prescribed certain restrictions on gatherings like limiting the number of participants besides stipulating social distancing, wearing of masks and hand hygiene. But it had not envisaged scenarios like protests and rallies. “The idea of including protest gatherings while drawing up the rules did not occur to anyone,” said Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson of the expert committee. “I’m not saying protests should or should not be held, but ideally there should be no large gatherings during a pandemic and especially now since cases are spiking. Protests are going on across the country and it’s for governments to address issues and ensure protests are withdrawn. Protests should not be allowed to drag on.” Experts, who have been guiding the government on Covid management, say what is happening on the ground is exactly opposite to their suggestions. “When I watch TV and see the way people are ignoring safety measures, I’m very worried,” said Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, member, Covid 19 expert committee formed by the government. “In April, there were concerns raised about a religious congregation that was held in Delhi, although there were fewer cases at that time. But now, many protests are happening at a time when cases are spiking.” Authorities are aware of the adverse effects of protests, but are helpless. “It is a major worry. Social gatherings can accommodate not more than 100 people as per the rulebook,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad. BBMP officials said they have no role to play as it’s the police which gives permission for protests. When contacted, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, said people should understand their responsibility in stopping the spread of the virus. “I’ve told BBMP to take action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/protests-rallies-could-churn-out-superspreaders-experts-fear/articleshow/78262518.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 23, 2020||Meerut||Childhood dream fulfilled: First woman combat aviator’s kin on achievement||Meerut: Back home in Ghaziabad’s Sanjay Nagar, Sub-Lt Kumudini Tyagi’s family is an elated lot. When she scripted history on Monday by being only one of the first two women combat aviators in the country, they called it the fulfilment of a childhood dream. Kumudini’s father Pravesh Tyagi said, “It is a proud moment for the entire family. She wanted to join the armed forces right from her school days. When a few of her friends cracked the NDA exams, she said that she will also make it. She has now graduated as an ‘observer’ (airborne tactician) in the helicopter stream of the Navy, that too, in a historical first for the country.” The Tyagis trace their roots to Meerut’s Kharkhauda and Kumudini often visits her ancestral home there. The family moved to Ghaziabad in 1983, where she completed her schooling and BTech in computer science. She was then commissioned to the Indian Navy in 2018. The pandemic, however, has added a tinge of gloom to the celebrations. Pravesh said that it’s been almost a year since Kumudini visited them last. “We met her last in November. She was planning to come home in March but then Covid-19 struck. This is an extremely happy and emotional time for the family. We understand that serving in the armed forces comes with its own challenges, the virus outbreak has added to it.”Sub-Lieutenants Kumudini Tyagi and Riti Singh got their “wings” as “observers” to handle the myriad sensors and other systems on board multi-role helicopters, which are armed with weapons to take on enemy submarines, at naval air station INS Garuda in Kochi on Monday. Till now, women have only been allowed on fixed-wing aircraft like P-8Is and Dorniers, which take off and land ashore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/childhood-dream-fulfilled-first-woman-combat-aviators-kin-on-achievement/articleshow/78262282.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 23, 2020||Meerut||FIR against private hospital in Meerut after six Covid-19 deaths due to 'negligence'||Meerut: At least six Covid-19 patients died due to alleged negligence at a private hospital in Meerut recently, a charge which prompted the divisional commissioner to form a panel and probe all the 194 deaths which took place in the district due to the pandemic so far.After the findings of the Meerut’s deputy chief medical officer GK Mishra, an FIR was also registered against the manager and the owner of the hospital under IPC section 304 (a) (causing death by negligence) and under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.At 2.6%, Meerut’s case fatality rate is much higher than the UP’s average of 1.4%. It is also one of the worst Covid-19 affected districts of the state with at least 194 deaths.Meerut’s divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram also directed that all the private hospitals should send information about Covid-19 patients to the government authorities on a daily basis.“A four-member investigation committee should be formed to probe all Covid-19 related deaths. This committee should include Meerut’s chief medical officer, principal of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College and two representatives from Indian Medical Association. This committee will investigate the Covid-19 related deaths and see if any negligence has been done in the treatment of the patients,” Meshram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fir-against-private-hospital-in-meerut-after-six-covid-19-deaths-due-to-negligence/articleshow/78262289.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 23, 2020||Nashik||NMC installs around 67k LED bulbs, project to be completed in 3 months||Nashik: Around 67,000 of the total 92,000 LED bulbs have so far been installed across the city under the smart light project by the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL). An NMSCDCL official said that the project is to be completed within the next three months. “The smart LED streetlights have been installed with functional features like remote dimming control, remote on-off option, timer and GPS Map representation. The streetlights will be monitored through the Command Control Centre, which is being set up at Panchavati divisional office of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC),” he said. “The centre will monitor everything including the timing of switching on and off of the lights, as per guidelines defined by the National Lighting Code,” the official added. The project is being implemented on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model under the Smart City mission and was awarded to M/s TP Luminaire Pvt Ltd, a part of Tata Projects Ltd, in August 2019. It is expected to save 60% energy and a total of 5% of the revenue will be shared with the NMC on a monthly basis. Currently, the NMC is paying Rs 2.75 crore towards electricity bill every month for the streetlights. The two industrial estates, which are located in the limits of NMC, will also get LED streetlights under the project, something that has been demanded for a long time by the industries. There have been frequent complaints about the defunct streetlights in both Ambad and Satpur industrial estates of the MIDC and the NMC’s plans to replace existing streetlights with LED bulbs will definitely give a big relief to the industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-installs-around-67k-led-bulbs-project-to-be-completed-in-3-months/articleshow/78262316.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Small pvt hospitals treating Covid patients face shortage of Remdesivir||Nashik: With many of the small private hospitals in the city treating Covid-19 patients reeling under shortage of Remdesivir drug for the last one week, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik chapter, has urged the civic administration, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) and the district administration to arrange for adequate supply of the drug. There are 65 private hospitals, including five big corporate hospitals, in the city treating Covid-19 patients. “All the private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, barring the big corporates, are facing shortage of drugs since the last few days. Usually, the small hospitals collectively require 350 vials of Remdesivir per day for treating the critical Covid-19 patients,” said president of IMA, Nashik chapter, Samir Chandratre. “Each critical Covid patient requires six vials of the drug in five days and it is necessary to complete the medication. The government hospitals have enough stock of the drugs. It is only the small private hospitals reeling under the shortage,” said Chandratre. According to the in-charge of a private hospital treating Covid-19 patients, they are not getting Remdesivir for the last one week. “Patients who are on oxygen beds required the drug. We manage it from the agencies. Barring one or two days, even these agencies did not have stock of the drug in the last week,” said the in-charge. Civic officials admitted about the scarcity of Remdesivir. “We immediately approached the FDA on Monday, which said around 1,100 vials of Remdesivir were made available to the private hospitals by evening. They also told us that they have directed the company manufacturing te drug to ensure its adequate supply,” said an NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/small-pvt-hospitals-treating-covid-patients-face-shortage-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78262301.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 23, 2020||Meerut||UP court issues non-bailable warrant against a nagar palika chairman for 'cow slaughter'||Strap: On Friday, 6 persons were found 'killing a cow' in a farmhouse owned by the Kiratpur chairman Bijnor: A court in UP’s Bijnor district on Tuesday issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against a nagar palika chairman and three others after they didn’t appear before it in connection with a case of alleged cow slaughter registered against them.According to local police, Bijnor’s Kiratpur nagar palika chairman Abdul Mannan is absconding. Police said that as the next legal step, properties of Mannan will be attached. The case against Mannan was registered soon after six persons were arrested during a police raid at a farmhouse in Kiratpur on Friday. They were allegedly slaughtering a cow in the farmhouse owned by chairman Mannan. Police said four more accused, including Mannan, are absconding and efforts are on to arrest them.According to Bijnor’s superintendent of police Dhatamveer Singh, “The court has issued NBW against the accused. If they don't surface now, their property will be attached.”According to an estimate, about half of those booked under stringent NSA this year were facing cow slaughter allegations. The BJP-led state government has taken a tough stance against killing of cows, considered sacred to Hindu faith.ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-a-nagar-palika-chairman-for-cow-slaughter/articleshow/78262299.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 23, 2020||Goa||Two men attack lawyer in car||Margao: Two motorcycle-borne assailants tried to attack a lawyer and social activist Amar Naik while he was proceeding from Sanguem to Costi in his car Tuesday night. Naik, however, escaped unhurt. Naik, in his complaint to the Sanguem police, said the incident occurred at 9pm along the Sanguem-Taripanto road. Naik said one of his assailants hurled a heavy object on his car and fled. The windshield of the car was completely damaged. Sanguem police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-men-attack-lawyer-in-car/articleshow/78264991.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chennai||Enforcement of pandemic rules most stringent in north Chennai||CHENNAI: The enforcement of Covid-19 rules, including imposing penalties for not following social distancing, moving without masks and spitting in public, is more vigorous in north Chennai compared to the central and southern parts, data released by Greater Chennai Corporation shows. Of the Rs 2 crore in fines collected till Monday, 50% was from residents and shopkeepers in Thiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Tondiarpet and Royapuramzones in north Chennai, with Royapuram alone accounting for Rs 44 lakh collected. Around 32% of the total fine collected is from Central Chennai, 12% from the south Chennai and the rest collected by tahsildars from across the city. Sources in the corporation said the fine collected in Royapuram is highest in wards 57 (Sowcarpet) and 59 (George Town), extremely crowded places with markets and residential neighbourhoods. P Akash, corporation regional deputy commissioner (north), told TOI the violations were higher in north Chennai. “Since this is a relatively under-developed area compared to central and south, the awareness among people is also less,” he said. Zonal level officials said three teams were formed at the ward level, drawn from the health, engineering and revenue departments. “Each team has been given daily targets, for instance collection of Rs 2,000-Rs 5,000,” said a zonal level official in Central Chennai. Akash said the individual number of offenders fined for not wearing masks may be higher, but since the fine for establishments is higher, the total amount under that head would be higher. The fine for not wearing masks is RS 200, Rs 500 for spitting, Rs 500 for not maintaining physical distancing and Rs 5,000 for shops not following standard operating procedures. An official in Madhavaram said many tea shops and roadside establishments were not following norms. “If the patrons at such shops are found not wearing masks, we fine the shop owners,” the official said. An official in Anna Nagar said that they record videos on their mobile phones before fining people for spitting and not wearing masks. “Otherwise, they demand proof and fight with us. If I see someone spitting on the road, at least I shout at them, if I’m unable to fine,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/enforcement-of-pandemic-rules-most-stringent-in-north-chennai/articleshow/78263754.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 23, 2020||Meerut||Criminal with 38 cases shot in both legs in encounter||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police on Monday shot Sonu Sakka, a hardened criminal with 38 criminal cases — including five cases of murder and 11 of attempts to murder, as well as Rs 50,000 on his head — in both legs, during an encounter in Muzaffarnagar. Synonymous with terror in the district, Sonu also has cases of loot, Gangster Act and Goonda Act registered against him. According to sources, the encounter took place near Pinna village, when police were conducting a vehicle checking drive and tried to stop two suspects on a bike. Both suspects fired at the cops as they tried to escape, but after a gun battle, Sonu was arrested while his associate escaped. A police constable sustained a bullet injury in the exchange of fire. Both the constable and Sonu were taken to district hospital, where they are being treated. According to police, Sonu is accused of murdering Asif, a youth whose bullet-riddled body was recovered in Nagar Kotwali police station area, on August 23. According to Muzaffarnagar senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav, “Sonu Sakka is among top 10 criminals of the district. He was wanted at two police stations and had Rs 50,000 bounty on his arrest. Further inquiry has been ordered in the matter.” Police sources said they have recovered an illegal weapon and bullet from Sonu’s possession. Several police teams have been sent to different locations to arrest his associate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/criminal-with-38-cases-shot-in-both-legs-in-encounter/articleshow/78262314.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 23, 2020||Surat||‘People returning are testing Covid-19 positive in good numbers’||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) chief, Banchhanidhi Pani, said on Tuesday that though the Covid-19 situation was under control still people need to be cautious and take all necessary precautions while out at work. “As the economy opened up, a large number of people have started returning to the city and travelling has increased. Over 1.50 lakh migrants have already returned to the city. We have observed that people coming from outside are testing Covid-19 positive in good numbers,” said Banchhanidhi while addressing via Facebook live. “We have set up testing points at the city entry points, railway stations and at the bus depot in city to conduct Covid-19 tests on those who are coming into the city. At toll booth entry points, we conducted 19,394 tests of which 380 people were tested Covid-19 positive. At Palsana check-point, 55,048 tests were conducted of which 81 were tested positive,” Pani informed. “We have started mass Covid-19 testing targeting ‘super spreader venues’ where large people gather like fuel stations, tea stalls, garage and street food vendors among others. Two days ago, 12 workers of a fuel station were tested positive,” he added. “We have come to know that people are booking banquet halls for their birthday celebrations. Since these halls are centrally air-conditioned, attending guests should wear masks and organisers should make a list of guests who attended it. If anyone is infected with Covid-19, SMC can track those people,” the civic body chief said. “Covid-19 infection is very complicated and people should not believe that if a patient is recovered, they are fine. It creates many complications which can last for months and need medication. We will soon start Covid-19 follow up centres for those patients who need medications after recovery” Pani warned. Surat city has so far reported 19,905 Covid-19 cases and 660 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/people-returning-are-testing-covid-19-positive-in-good-numbers/articleshow/78262352.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Unnati Group, Lupin Labs donate 1-month supply of vitamins to Nagpur cops||Nagpur: To acknowledge and honour the tireless efforts of police personnel in fighting the Covid pandemic, Unnati Group and Lupin Laboratories Limited have come forward to honour Nagpur police department by donating 1-month immunity enhancing medicines for all 8,000 police personnel. They have also donated two electric scooters. Unnati Group led by Hemang Parikh is a city-based business house having interests in automobile and pharmaceuticals. Vijay of Lupin Laboratories thanked Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar and Dr Anup Marar, director of Orange City Hospital & Research Institute, convener of Vidarbha Hospital Association, for involving them in this noble task. Dr Marar said, “When need of providing Vitamin C, Zinc and D3 for all police brethren was raised by CP Amitesh Kumar as soon as he joined duties in Nagpur; I sought help of my friend Hemang, who immediately agreed to shoulder complete responsibility of arranging the same. No words can express gratitude to him for consenting to coordinate lakhs worth of medicines apart from donating two electric scooters.” Nagpur police led by Amitesh Kumar thanked Unnati Group and Lupin Laboratories for recognizing the contribution of police personnel in this altruistic manner. During the Police Covid Hospital inauguration, the medicine consignment was officially handed over by Unnati Group and Lupin Laboratories to CP Amitesh Kumar in the presence of Chiranjeev Prasad, Nilesh Bharne, Dr Sandeep Shinde, and all senior police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unnati-group-lupin-labs-donate-1-month-supply-of-vitamins-to-nagpur-cops/articleshow/78282812.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 23, 2020||Nashik||done14,000 bikers booked in Aug for flouting helmet rule||Nashik: The traffic branch of the city police fined 14,420 two-wheeler riders in August, the highest number in a month this year, for flouting the helmet rule. In July, similar action was taken against 7,377. Police have launched a crackdown on people riding two-wheelers without wearing helmets as most accident fatalities or serious head injuries are caused by flouting the rule. A senior police inspector of the traffic branch said that after the lockdown came into force in the last week of March, police went easy on two-wheeler riders who were not wearing helmets for a month. “However, the traffic on the city’s roads started increasing from May. It was noticed that a large number of motorists had forgotten the the compulsory helmet rule, following which it was decided to take strict action,” said the officer. The PI said that of late, most policemen click the photo of the concerned motorists on their device along with his/her vehicle number, get the details of the motorists from the vehicle registration and dispatch an e-challan to him/her. Police said that in over 80% of deaths of bikers in road accidents is due to head injuries as they were not wearing helmets. Going by police records, 253 road accidents were reported from the city in which 83 people lost their lives. In 213 accidents, two-wheeler riders were involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/done14000-bikers-booked-in-aug-for-flouting-helmet-rule/articleshow/78262324.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Six held for duping senior citizen on pretext of insurance settlement||Chandigarh: Cyber cell of UT Police busted a fake call centre racket with the arrest of six persons, who allegedly duped people on the pretext of settling old insurance policies, on Monday. Police also recovered 30 mobile phones and cash from their possession. Rashmi Yadav, DSP, Cyber Cell, said the accused have been identified as Yogesh Verma, 38, a resident of Dhakoli, Pranav of Ambala Cantt, Haryana, Manish Kumar Rai of Derabassi, Mohali, Subham Bhardwaj of Sunny Enclave, Sector 125, Mohali, Arjun Yadav of Rajiv Colony, Sector-17, Panchkula and Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Jahawarpur village, Derabassi, Mohali. In his statement, Nirmal Singh, a resident of Sector 44, said he received a phone call in June and the caller said Rs 25,000 of his old insurance policy is pending with the company. He said if he wants to claim the amount he needs to deposit documents and other fee. Later, the complainant deposited around Rs 16,54,000 in different bank accounts. Ajudhya Dass Rajpoot of Sector 42 said he was duped of Rs 2,0,0000 on the pretext of Reliance Nippon insurance policy maturity. Cyber cell police have registered a case and started a probe. Scrutinising phone numbers and bank accounts, police reached the fake call centre set up by the accused in Zirakpur. During a raid, cyber cell sleuths recovered Rs 4 lakh, 30 mobile phones, 10 registers and SIM cards from a fake call centre in Zirakpur. Police said the accused generally targeted senior citizens who had purchased insurance policies and lured them into depositing money on the pretext of the huge amount of maturity. On Tuesday, police produced the accused in local court and obtained three-day police remand for further investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/six-held-for-duping-senior-citizen-on-pretext-of-insurance-settlement/articleshow/78263768.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: With 3,816 new Covid cases, count crosses 2.5 lakh, positivity rate at 6%||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported the lowest positivity rate, 6.47%, since September 8 on Tuesday when the city logged 3,816 fresh Covid cases and 37 deaths. While the city reported the lowest positivity rate, the death rate was the highest in the past 10 days. The death rate on Tuesday was 0.86%, which was 0.83% a day before and 0.68% on September 12. A total of 59,013 tests were conducted in the last one day. These included 49,554 rapid antigen tests and 9,459 RT-PCR tests. Covid positive cases, which remained above 4,000 for days together, have been below 4,000 for the last three days. The number of active Covid-19 cases increased to 31,623 from 30,941 a day ago with 3,097 people recovering from the coronavirus. There has been a recent surge in Covid cases in Delhi largely due to the number of tests being increased multiple times so that the prevalence of infection can be detected, and isolation and treatment efforts can be initiated at the earliest. Till now, Delhi has conducted 26.4 lakh – 1,38,829 tests per million, which the government says is highest in the world. Delhi has so far reported 2.5 lakh positive cases, out of which 2.16 lakh people have recovered and 5,051 people have lost their lives. According to the latest information, 7,051 out of 15,804 beds in Covid hospitals are occupied and 8,753 beds are vacant. The number of people under home isolation has gone up to 18,464 and the containment zones have increased to 1,937.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-with-3816-new-covid-cases-count-crosses-2-5-lakh-positivity-rate-at-6/articleshow/78266288.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Week after, traffic trickles back to Himachal||Panchkula: A week after the Himachal government opened borders, doing away with the need for travellers to have registration or e-pass, flow of traffic at the Chandimandir toll plaza on the Himalayan Expressway has increased. Toll Plaza officials hope that the situation here will soon go back to pre-covid days. Officials said they used to receive around 40,000 vehicles per day or even more. As soon as lockdown was announced in March, traffic flow at the Chandimandir Toll Plaza situated on the Himalayan Expressway dipped by around 92%. Starting from March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was announced, traffic flow has reduced. Manager at Chandimandir Toll Plaza, Navdeep Thakur, said, “Currently, there is less awareness among people. When the borders were opened on the first day, we didn’t see a major hike in traffic flow, which will increase with time. Also, we witnessed a huge rush on the weekend.” Officials said it's only been around one week since Himachal Pradesh has opened its borders and in that time, the numbers touched a maximum of 36,786 on Saturdaysign. “Out of the 36,786 vehicles, around 25,449 were ones who did the transactions through FASTag and the rest were cash transactions. We are at around 70% of FASTag transactions till date,” said Navdeep. He said FASTag transactions increased in numbers but the average remains near 70%. Currently, there are 14 lanes, seven on each side at the Chandimandir toll plaza out of which one is for the cash transactions on each side. After recent orders of authorities, prices increased for monthly and unlimited journeys in a day while rates of single journey remained the same. Earlier when the Himachal borders were closed, Morni became a popular hotspot for people and many locals used to visit Morni for a fun time. Box - Vehicles per day September 14 - 28,910 September 15 - 30,875 September 16 - 31,802 September 17 - 31,326 September 18 - 34,471 September 19 - 36,786 September 20 - 35,791||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/week-after-traffic-trickles-back-to-himachal/articleshow/78263778.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chennai||Two on ventilators die in Tamil Nadu hospital after power cut||TIRUPUR: Two Covid-19 patients on ventilators died at the Tirupur GH on Tuesday shortly after power supply was disrupted when construction workers accidentally damaged electricity cables on the premises, sparking allegations by their kin that this was the cause of death. The government denied the allegation, saying oxygen supply to those on ventilators was not disrupted as a back-up generator kicked in. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said power was disrupted for 40 minutes from around 11am when workers building a medical college in the hospital compound inadvertently damaged power cables. But, he said, the two patients, Yasoda, 67, and Gouravan, 69, continued to get oxygen supply as the generator was working. “They were really sick. Their oxygen levels were low since Monday. The death was due to Covid infection,’’ he said. However, he admitted that the two died during the period when there was no power in the Covid ward. The two families alleged that there was no power supply for three hours from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm, and not just for 40 minutes, and that this had disrupted oxygen supply. “We admitted Yashodha on Saturday after she had trouble breathing. Since then, she was on ventilator and she was recovering well. It is only after the power supply was interrupted that her oxygen level started to drop. Subsequently oxygen cylinders were brought in, but she died,’’ alleged one of her relatives. The collector said there were 20 other patients who were on ventilator in the Covid-19 ward. ``All of them were in a stable condition and oxygen supply was not interrupted to them or any of the 147 oxygen points in the hospital,’’ he said.An inquiry has been initiated against the construction contractor, and further action would be taken against him, the collector said. While opposition leaders including DMK president M K Stalin have condemned the state government, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said that a proper inquiry would be held. ``Action would be taken if anyone was found to be at fault,’’ he said. Yasodha from Murugananthapuram in Tirupur was admitted to the hospital on September 19 and Gouravan from Venkatesapuram in Tirupur on September 21 Both of them were put on ventilators since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-on-ventilators-die-in-tn-hosp-after-power-cut/articleshow/78262347.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 23, 2020||Nashik||Man booked for outraging modesty||Nashik: A business head of a company in the industrial unit of Ambad has been booked by the Ambad police for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman working with the same company. Based on the complaint filed by the woman, the police have booked the suspect under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intend to outrage her modesty), 354D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). As per the complainant, her boss had been outraging her modesty from August 15 to September 9 by touching her indecently on one or the other pretext. Upset by the constant harassment, the woman spoke about it to her husband after which they lodged an offence with Ambad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-booked-for-outraging-modesty/articleshow/78262331.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Ranchi||Cov recoveries past 80%-mark, test rate beats nat’l average||Ranchi: The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand went past 80% for the first time with 1,427 patients declared cured on Saturday, taking the number of total persons cured beyond the 60,000-mark. At 81.17%, the state now has a marginally better that the nation figure of 80.9%. In another milestone, with a massive hike in testing capacity over the last month, Jharkhand on Tuesday surpassed the national of tests per million (TPM) average. As per the state health department data, Jharkhand’s average TPM was 48,725, marginally better than the national figure of 48,501. Meanwhile, the state recorded 15 Covid casualties and 1,207 fresh in 24 hours, taking the toll to 641 and the cumulative caseload to 73,948. Of these, 13,200 are active cases and 60,027 have recovered. East Singhbhum continued to report highest number of deaths with seven casualties, West Singhbhum reported four deaths while Bokaro, Hazaribag, Dumka and Koderma one each. Ranchi and East Singhbum also recorded the highest number of fresh infections with 278 and 124 new infections, followed by Palamu (110) and West Singhbhum (105) cases. Saraikela and Hazaribag reported 73 and 71 cases respectively. The positivity rate remained around 4.5% with 26,763 samples tested through the day. Jharkhand also saw an improvement in its positivity rate as cumulative positivity rate of Jharkhand stood at 3.96% till date in comparison to national rate of 8.51%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-recoveries-past-80-mark-test-rate-beats-natl-average/articleshow/78264537.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 23, 2020||Ranchi||House debates Covid scenario, passes eight bills||Ranchi: While the first half of the concluding day of this year’s monsoon of the assembly was rocked by sloganeering and protests, the second half saw business as usual with the assembly passing eight bills and debating the Covid-19 outbreak. The House debated on the Covid-19 scenario after speaker Rabindranath Mahto accepted a motion initiated by Poreiyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav on the issue. While Yadav lauded the efforts of the state government in containing the pandemic, he criticized the Centre for its lackadaisical approach. “Had the Centre not delayed the lockdown, the deadly virus would not have reached Jharkhand,” he claimed. Yadav also said the government must think on reopening the schools as the growth rate of new cases are relatively lower across the state barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad districts. However, BJP’s Ranchi MLA CP Singh charged the government with failing to contain the virus. “Jharkhand’s growth rate was 2.2% which is higher than many states such as Maharashtra, Telangana, MP and others. The facility at the hospitals are poor and I have seen it myself,” Singh, who recovered from Covid-19 in July said. CPI-ML MLA Vinod Singh stressed that there must be adequate compensation and Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey called for infrastructure augmentation at the hospitals. Health minister Banna Gupta assured the House that situation in Jharkhand was very much under control. The House also passed eight bills through voice vote. They are Jharkhand State Service Guarantee (Amendment) Bill, Penal Code (Jharkhand Amendment) Bill, Jharkhand Mineral-Bearing (Covid-19 pandemic) Cess Bill, Jharkhand Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Bill, Jharkhand State Physiotherapy Council Bill, Jharkhand Fiscal Responsibilities & Management (Amendment) Bill, Jharkhand Goods and Services (Amendment) Bill and Jharkhand Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The BJP lawmakers had suggested that the motor vehicles taxation amendment bill, mineral-bearing area cess bill and physiotherapy council bill to the select committee, which was turned down by the speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/house-debates-covid-scenario-passes-eight-bills/articleshow/78264633.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||HC stays arrest warrants in Laxmi Vilas sale case||JODHPUR: In a relief to three of the accused in the Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel disinvestment case, the Rajasthan high court on Tuesday stayed the CBI court order to summon the accused, including former Union disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal, by arrest warrant and directed them to appear before the court on October 8 to furnish personal bonds and sureties. The accused, Lazard India Limited MD Ashish Guha and Bharat Hotels Limited MD Jyotsana Suri — apart from Baijal — had moved the HC seeking stay on the interim order of the CBI court. Justice Dinesh Mehta also directed the petitioners not to leave India without permission and listed the matter for hearing on October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-arrest-warrants-in-laxmi-vilas-sale-case/articleshow/78266295.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mumbai||Poll papers: Sharad Pawar gets I-T notice, says govt loves us||MUMBAI: NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday disclosed he had received a notice from the Income Tax department seeking additional information and verification on the affidavits filed by him during the 2014 and 2020 Rajya Sabha elections. A week ago, the I-T department had sent similar notices to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his son, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule, an MP from Baramati. Taking a swipe at the BJP-led government, he said, “I’m happy the I-T department has sent me a notice. It reflects the government’s love for politicians like me.” “I will submit my reply within the stipulated period else there is a fine of Rs 10,000 per day. We feel BJP is pursuing its agenda against political opponents by sending I-T notices,” he added. Pawar said the notice has been sent on the basis of a report submitted by the Election Commission of India. “The I-T department had acted on the basis of findings submitted by the ECI,” Pawar said. In the 2014 affidavit, Pawar had assets of Rs 32.1 crore, while in 2020, it was Rs 32.7 crore. The NCP supremo expressed strong displeasure over what he termed the indifferent attitude of RS deputy chairperson Harivansh when the House took up the agriculture bills. “I have never seen such a presiding officer. The presiding officer should be impartial. It was found he did not allow the Opposition members to submit their views. He did not even listen to the rules mentioned by them,” he said. Pawar said when opposition members found there was no scope for justice, they entered the well and were unilaterally suspended for the rest of the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/poll-papers-pawar-gets-i-t-notice-says-govt-loves-us/articleshow/78266300.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 cases drop in Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, but death rate remains a worry||VIJAYAWADA: Even though the Covid-19 caseload in Krishna district has come down significantly, the fatalities due to the infection seem to be on a rise. A total of 398 deaths due to Covid-19 have been registered in the district until Monday. Officials say that the infection rate has come down and most cases at the moment are from among high-risk groups. Krishna has been registering a dip in number of new cases since the first week of August. But the number of deaths has not gone down in proportion. Altogether, Krishna has seen 121 Covid-19 deaths since September 1, which has become a cause for concern within the district administration. According to health authorities, most Covid-19 deaths are among people above the age of 55 or those with other health complications. Dr Mohan Vatsalya, a Vijayawada-based doctor said, “Infection rate in the district has come down as herd immunity is developing. Though the recovery rate is good, many Covid-19 patients with secondary complications are dying.” “We are following ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) protocols and giving steroids to save lives. People with health complications and senior citizens should be very careful,” Dr Vatsalya added. Meanwhile, the Krishna district administration has observed that around 65% of new cases registered in the district are from villages. Officials are using smart pulse survey details to alert close contacts of Covid-19 patients. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz had directed officials to set up village-level control rooms to detect cases early and provide timely treatment. He has also asked officials to focus on contact tracing and alert all primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients through SMS. The collector has asked health wing officials to send all high-risk patients to Covid-19 hospitals instead of advising home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cases-drop-in-krishna-but-death-rate-remains-a-worry/articleshow/78262650.cms||Venu Lanka
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept asks PWD to seek nod for work in tiger corridor||NAGPUR: After the TOI report on threat to wildlife corridor made famous by tiger Jai, the forest department has asked the Public Works Department (PWD), national highway division, to take permission from the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) for widening the road between Paoni and Nilaj. The project threatens to cut the tiger corridor between Umred-Paoni-Karhandla-Ghodazari wildlife sanctuaries, Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Bramhapuri forest division. On September 15, TOI reported how the forest department was ignoring the expansion of Highway 247, which runs in a U-shape from Saoner-Kamptee-Mauda-Kuhi-Wadoda-Umred-Nilaj-Paoni-Adyal-Bhandara. Several patches on the highway have already been widened and the work has reached the doorstep of the tiger corridor between Paoni-Nilaj. There are several records of tigers using this corridor patches to reach Bramhapuri and Tadoba and vice-versa. “After TOI report, I called all details. Even if former Bhandara deputy conservator (DyCF) says some patches were denotified for road development in 1908 and 1914, this doesn’t apply to the entire stretch falling in the corridor. PWD will have to abide by the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and seek permission from NBWL and NTCA,” said P Kalyan Kumar, chief conservator (CCF), Nagpur. Section 38 (O) (1) (b) of the amended Wildlife Act empowers chief wildlife wardens to “evaluate and assess various aspects of sustainable ecology and disallow any ecologically unsustainable and use such as mining, industry, and other projects within the tiger reserve.” Secondly, Section 38 (O) (1) (g) of the WPA directs to “ensure that the tiger reserves and areas linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another protected area or tiger reserve are not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses, except in public interest and with the approval of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and on the advice of the NTCA.” “Hence, PWD will have to put the proposal before the chief wildlife warden followed by approval from the state wildlife board (SBWL) and then NBWL,” said Kumar. He added earlier PWD in 2017 had applied for clearance but the application was not in proper format. The user agency is yet to submit a formal proposal. Acting Bhandara DyCF YB Nagulwar said, “On Sept 18 we have written to PWD that it will need NBWL and NTCA nod for widening in corridor patches. The two highly sensitive corridor patches where mitigation steps will be needed include Wai and Nishti near Paoni.” When asked about a joint survey by PWD and forest department on July 7, Nagulwar said, “It was not a survey but a spot visit. We have written to PWD officials and are waiting for their reply.” PWD officials said, “We have been following up the issue since 2017. We are ready to take mitigation steps but the forest department should identify the spots.” The report titled ‘Collars & Crossing Zones’ released in May 2017 by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, recommended animal underpasses. “A breakdown in the connectivity within these landscapes may endanger the ecosystem and gravely affect the landscape and population dynamics. The report was based on radio collar data of two tigers Bittu and Sriniwas from Umred-Karhandla. These tigers used over 3,000 sqkm area having roads, railway lines, canals, and transmission lines,” it revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-asks-pwd-to-seek-nod-for-work-in-tiger-corridor/articleshow/78263955.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 7,553 fresh cases, tally rises to 6.39 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,553 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,39,302. The Covid-19 related toll jumped to 5,461 as 51 more people died due to the disease. About 10,500 people recovered from the disease on Tuesday. There are currently 71,465 active cases with 5,62,376 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 88%. Other than Prakasam and Vizianagaram, all districts achieved at least 85% recovery rate. It was above 95% in Kurnool and Anantapur districts. Chittoor became the first district to cross the 600 Covid-19 fatality mark. Guntur touched the 500 deaths-mark after Chittoor. Of the 51 deaths registered on Tuesday, eight are from Chittoor, six each from Anantapur and Visakhapatnam, five each from Krishna and Prakasam, four each from East Godavari and Kurnool, three each from Guntur, Kadapa, Nellore and West Godavari, and one from Srikakulam. East Godavari reported 1,166 fresh cases on Tuesday, followed by West Godavari 981 and Chittoor 902. East Godavari continued to top the Covid-19 table of the state with 88,935 infections. The neighbouring West Godavari is in the distant second place with 59,697 cases, followed by Chittoor 56,117, Kurnool 54,491, Anantapur 53,651, and Guntur 50,584. Krishna, which was the pandemic epicentre in the initial months of the outbreak, has the lowest caseload of 24,507 cases. And it is the only district to not have crossed the 30,000 case mark. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 52.29 lakh tests, including the 68,829 people tested for novel coronavirus presence on Tuesday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 12.2% against the national average of 8.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-7553-fresh-cases-tally-rises-to-6-39l/articleshow/78262675.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Riots mayhem planned at ‘secret’ meet: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: The chargesheet in the Delhi riots conspiracy case has concluded that a “secret meeting” held on the midnight of February 16-17 at Chand Bagh was the “genesis” of several brutal murders, including that of head constable Ratan Lal and Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer Ankit Shar ma. “It was on this date the key conspirators made up their mind the final showdown of the pan-Delhi protests will be executed in the north-east, Shahdara and south districts with the areas of Chand Bagh and Jafrabad as the initial hotspots,” says the chargesheet. ‘Initial spark ignited at Chand Bagh’This meeting was attended by three core members of Pinjda Tod — Natasha Narwal, Devanagna Kalita and Gulfisha Fatima — who have been arrested and charged in this case. They allegedly coordinated and received 300 women on the afternoon of February 23 in northeast Delhi. According to the chargesheet, it was this group of women from Jahangirpuri who precipitated the first round of organised violence in the riots. “After lighting the initial spark, these ladies were sent back to Jahangirpuri and their success story was shared by Kalita in a phone call with another suspect X (name withheld as he has not been arrested),” says the chargesheet. One Tabrez from northeast Delhi was coordinating the transport arrangements for these women. “The expenses incurred by Tabrez in hiring seven vehicles were paid to him upon arrival at the ‘66-foota-road’ by Kalita and Narwal. The movement of buses and women is corroborated by the statements of vehicle drivers and their mobile phone details,” the chargesheet states. Building up its case for a conspiracy, the chargesheet explains: “There was a clear and cogent understanding between the key characters who attended this meeting that the protest sites, currently located in side lanes in Muslim-dominated areas would need to be shifted and converted into ‘chakka jaam’ at carefully chosen sites located on arterial/busy roads, in proximity to mixed population areas, for paralysing the normal movement of traffic and flow of life and engineer riots.” The ‘chakka jam’ was supposed to be followed by attack on policemen and members of the public and destruction of public property through arson and other means, according to the chargesheet. Among others present at the meeting were Mohammad Ayub, Saleem Khan, Ibrahim and Shadab Ahmed who were arrested for the murder of head constable Ratan Lal; and Mustaqueem, arrested for the murder of Rahul Solanki. “It is not a mere coincidence that while the weapon of offence was financed by Tahir Hussain, the finance for cartridges used in the murder of Rahul Solanki came from Suleman Siddique, one of the persons who had attended this secret conspiratorial meeting,” the document claimed in order to establish how the secret meeting played a crucial role in precipitating the violence. The chargesheet adds that one Athar Khan, who was the key convener of this meeting, had received an important phone call from Suspect X on February 23, the same time when the final movement of 300 odd women protestors from Jahangirpuri — who were to later precipitate the violence at Jafrabad — was being coordinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-mayhem-planned-at-secret-meet-delhi-police/articleshow/78266304.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Start session from Nov 1: UGC to universities||NAGPUR: The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Tuesday issued guidelines to universities across India for starting their academic calendar of 2020-21 that has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic by as much as four months. Accordingly, the classes for first year undergraduate and postgraduate courses would commence from November 1 in offline, online and blended mode depending on the situation in their jurisdiction. The apex body also directed universities and institutions to refund full fees of students in case they cancelled admissions or migrated to other colleges, as a special case in Covid-19 pandemic, due to job and income losses of their parents. “The admissions to first year programmes for session 2020-21 will be completed by October-end. The last date to fill up vacant seats shall be November 30,” the apex body stated in statement. UGC also allowed institutions to slightly defer their academic session till November 18 in case the results of qualifying examinations were delayed. “The teaching and learning process may continue in offline/online/blended mode,” it clarified. In order to avoid financial hardship being faced by parents due to lockdown and related factors, UGC directed colleges to refund full fees on account of cancellation of admissions/migration of students till Nov 30 for this session. “To be crystal clear, the entire fees including all charges are refunded in totality (zero cancellation charges) on account of cancellation/migration. On cancellation/withdrawal of admissions up to December 31, the entire fee should be refunded in full after deduction of Rs 1,000 only towards processing,” the UGC clarified. All these decisions were taken in a meeting held on Monday on the start of a new academic session amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The guidelines were declared by union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ through his Twitter account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/start-session-from-nov-1-ugc-to-univs/articleshow/78263967.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Registrations of 2 pvt hospitals cancelled||Eluru: West Godavari district health authorities have cancelled the registration of two private hospitals for three months. Registrations of Murali Krishna Hospital in Eluru and Gayathri Hospital in Bhimavaram have been cancelled for allegedly raking in huge sums of money by offering Covid-19 treatment. The hospitals have been charged with violating government order number 77. Authorities have sealed both hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/registrations-of-2-pvt-hospitals-cancelled/articleshow/78262692.cms||Samson Raj
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Unending woes: Auto drivers being fined for docu renewal||NAGPUR: Even though the central government has extended the validity of documents related to Motor Vehicles Act and Central Motor Vehicles rules (fitness certificate, all types of permits, driving license) till December 31 this year, the state transport department is levying late fee on autorickshaw drivers for renewal of various documents including permits. Recently, Kishore Somkuwar, an autorickshaw driver, paid Rs 200 as late fee for renewal of his autorickshaw permit which had expired in July 2020. Somkuwar claimed many other autorickshaw drivers paid similar late fees for validating various documents with the city RTO. Considering the situation arising out of Covid-19 outbreak, the ministry of road transport and highways had stated that if documents mentioned in the list reached their date of expiration on or after February 1, 2020, and fresh documents in their place could not be granted due to the nationwide lockdown imposed by the government, they would be considered valid till December 31, 2020. “Despite MoRTH order, the state’s transport department is levying late fees from autoricksahw drivers for validating various documents that had expired during lockdown,” claimed president of Vidarbha Autorickshaw Chalak Federation Vilas Bhalekar, who has submitted a memorandum to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and transport minister Anil Parab in this regard. Despite repeated attempts, transport minister Anil Parab was not available for comments. A senior official from the RTO expressed helplessness and said that the city office has already communicated the issue to the transport commissioner in Mumbai. Bhalekar blamed Maha Vikas Aghadi for ignoring autorickshaw drivers and considering only private bus owners and their issues. He pointed out the state government recently gave 50% concession on road tax to bus and taxi operators for the six months of lockdown, whereas the government did nothing for autorickshaw drivers. “Instead, the government is levying late fee on us,” said another autorickshaw driver Chandu Thakre. Autorickshaw drivers hail from poor families. Nearly 20,000 of them in Nagpur city are struggling to make a living. Though they were allowed to ply from June 5, many are still struggling to arrange their daily meals with poor number of passengers. To add to their woes, financial institutions have started seeking repayment of loan from this month, claimed the drivers. “Most drivers either ply autos on a daily rent basis or have bought vehicles on loan,” said president of autorickshaw union operating from railway station Altaf Ansari. Ansari said, “Our livelihoods have been destroyed by the pandemic. We do not see any hope as the state government has done nothing for us.” Bhalekar is demanding the government should release Rs5000 to each driver so they do not die of starvation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unending-woes-auto-drivers-being-fined-for-docu-renewal/articleshow/78263979.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Lammasingi’s strawberry farmers brace for losses due to pandemic||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 outbreak and poor marketing and storage facilities have dealt a double blow to strawberry farmers in Visakhapatnam Agency. Strawberry farmers fear that there will be a fall in the area under cultivation this season. A number of tribal farmers in Lammasingi, Siripuram, Rajapakala and other areas under Chintapalle mandal in the Agency have been cultivating the winter dawn variety of strawberry over the past few years and have reaped profits. The plant, which requires a cool climate to grow, is especially suited to Lammasingi which has moderate to low temperatures throughout the year. Speaking to TOI, Vanumu Rajkumar, a tribal farmer who grows strawberry in Lammasingi and has inspired other farmers to take up cultivation of the fruit, said, “ In 2019, over 10 farmers cultivated the fruit on an extent of around 40 acres in and around Lammasingi. This year, that area is expected to decline to 20 acres on account of Covid-19.” Strawberry fields in the region have also grown to be a major attraction for tourists between December and March. Visitors to Lammasingi would also participate in plucking of the fruit. “We are not sure about the huge footfall of visitors this year due to Covid-19 and we don’t have marketing and storage facilities for the fruit, so we have decided to reduce the area this season,” Rajkumar said, adding, “I had around Rs 4 lakh in profits from strawberry from 2017 to 2019, but this season, I have my doubts.” Another farmer, Satyanarayana, said he would bring strawberry saplings from Pune in the last week of September and the plant would start yielding fruit from the early December and continue till the last week of February. One acre can support between 18,000 to 22,000 saplings. The plants are developed using tissue culture and priced between Rs 12 to Rs 15 each. Each plant yields around 1.5 kg to 2 kg of fruit. Cultivation requires drip irrigation and farmers invest between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 4 lakh per acre. D Sudhakar, a resident of Vizag who would visit Lammasingi with his friends on weekends, said last year he visited the region at the time of plucking of the fruit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lammasingis-strawberry-farmers-brace-for-losses-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/78262788.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Many netas support demand to cancel winter session in city||NAGPUR: Days after MLA Vikas Thakre dispatched a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding to cancel winter session of the state legislature to be held in the city from December 7, legislators from opposition parties endorsed his demand while those from ruling combine opposed it with riders. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who is member of Business Advisory Committee (BAC) that decides the session’s schedule, said, “It’s too early to comment on issue.” When asked whether a session could be held in July instead of December, like his government had experimented in 2018, the former CM said they weren’t prepared properly at that time when the official business was disrupted because of waterlogging in Vidhan Bhavan premises. “We will take a decision later,” said guardian minister Nitin Raut, adding he has discussed the issue and the city’s Covid situation with the authorities during an online meeting held on Monday evening. Raut attended the meeting from a hospital in Mumbai, where he’s been admitted after being tested positive for Covid-19. Thakre’s appeal, however, hasn’t found takers among the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance. Shiv Sena MLA Ashish Jaiswal believes that the session should be held in the city as decided by the BAC. “If government is considering a two-day session like in Mumbai last month, then it wouldn’t be feasible to conduct it in the city. Only if they’re holding it for at least three weeks, then it should be held in Nagpur to discuss the problems of the region. It could be deferred till January depending on the situation at that time,” he said. On the fate of patients put in MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan, which have been converted into Covid Care Centres (CCC), the Ramtek MLA said legislators would stay in hotels and other places. “Even otherwise, which leader stays in MLA Hostel,” he asked, while ruling out any possibility of monsoon session in the city. First-time MLC Pravin Datke supported Thakre’s demand saying holding session would put citizens here at a big risk of Covid-19 spread, as a large number of people from across the state would arrive in the city. “MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan quarters are already used for patients. Where will they move if told to vacate for accommodating guests from Mumbai? A good option is to conduct monsoon session here in July like in 2018. By that time, the pandemic is expected to reduce substantially,” he said. Thakre, also a former mayor, had requested CM to convene winter session in Mumbai and use the funds thus saved for upgrading the city’s health infrastructure. Washim MLA Amit Zanak says if the winter session is held in Mumbai, it would save over Rs70 crore, as it already has required infrastructure and facilities for it. “The funds saved should be diverted for improving health care facilities in all 11 districts of Vidarbha, where Covid-19 situation is very precarious and many fatalities are being reported every day. In smaller districts like Washim, we’re facing shortage of equipment like ventilators for patients. We divert such patients to Akola and Amravati during emergencies. We badly need these funds,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-netas-support-demand-to-cancel-winter-session-in-city/articleshow/78264049.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Eight held in Vizag for burglaries||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police on Tuesday arrested eight persons in three separate incidents for involvement in property offences. In the first case, Gajuwaka police arrested four persons and sent one juvenile to a juvenile home for involvement in a house break-in at BC Colony. The arrested were identified as N Naveen, E Sai Krishna, P Madhu and K Sai Teja. Police recovered stolen property worth Rs 80,000 from the gang. Deputy commissioner of police (crimes) V Suresh Babu said Naveen and the juvenile carried out the break-in and the other three received the stolen property. PM Palem police arrested two persons, including an autorickshaw driver, for assaulting and robbing a passenger of Rs 15,000. The arrested were identified as S Lakshmi Narasimha Murthy (27) and G Durga Sairam (24), both residents of Arilova in the city. Police have recovered Rs 10,000. Two more persons, N Chandra Sekhar (20) and D Rohit (20), were arrested for pickpocketing near the Railway Station in the city. Police recovered Rs 5,000 from the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/8-held-in-vizag-for-burglaries/articleshow/78262765.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chennai||Philosopher who could pack a punch and more||M R VenkateshLudwig Wittgenstein, one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century, once described the philosopher as a "fly in the fly-bottle", constantly tussling with questions. For H R T Roberts, a rare combination of a perceptive thinker, a sharp analytical mind, a dedicated, lovable philosophy teacher at Madras Christian College (MCC), who passed away in Bengaluru on September 16, the metaphor happened to vary. He would have completed 94 years on September 21.Harry Roberts, as he was popularly known in MCC, was also an avid boxer, which metaphorically anchored his friendly philosophical jousting from within the ring, so to say, re-visiting philosophical and religious traditions from both historical and contemporary perspectives. Wittgenstein, his most favourite thinker, had written the first draft of what later became an outstanding work ‘Tractatus’, revolutionising analytical philosophy and stunning his teacher Bertrand Russell at Cambridge in the 1920s, from the World War I field trenches. A strange tangential touch was seen in Harry Roberts’ life too, as he had his brush with conflict zones in a 20-year stint with the Indian Air Force. He retired as a Squadron leader and returned to his alma mater MCC to teach philosophy in 1969-70 until he retired as professor in 1985. In fact, Harry had seen action during the 1962 Indo-China War that had made him a lot more wiser. Equally memorable was his exchange with boxing champion Mohammed Ali, who had come down to old Madras in the 1980s. Harry Roberts did an unusually candid interview with him for Doordarshan. After the interview, remembers K P Shankar, a long-time colleague of Roberts who was in touch with him till his last days, the world boxing champion apparently sought a comb from the ‘bald’ interviewer, a swing which the philosopher-pugilist smilingly took with grace. Philosophy was a passion for him, which his gregarious external self would hardly reveal. But his sharp arguments had always a friendly pugilist touch as Harry believed a claim or a position is contested by a reasoned argument and not by emotive outbursts. There was this anecdote on the MCC campus, known for having nurtured great scholars like Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, C T K Chari, John Mathai, about a conversation between Harry Roberts and his PhD guide Chari on Wittgenstein’s philosophy of religion. "Harry, I know your thesis would be in perfect logical order," Dr Chari commented with his inimitable wry humour during the thesis submission. But Roberts enjoyed such punches and shared it humorously with his students. Harry always spoke up with concern for students and particularly came down against ragging in the vast, wooded MCC campus.While the perspectives of modern western philosophy, from Descartes to Wittgenstein, constantly tussled with the Catholic faith of his family, Harry Roberts, after his retirement, relocated to his home at Whitefield in Bengaluru. His self-deprecating wit was tinged with sadness when he termed Whitefield as "the last outpost of the Anglo-Indians in India". He is survived by his wife Joan, three sons and a daughter. (The writer is a former student of H R T Roberts and a senior journalist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/philosopher-who-could-pack-a-punch-and-more/articleshow/78266314.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Many applications of data science||Visakhapatnam: A 15-day faculty development programme on data science and its applications in STEM concluded at Andhra University on Tuesday. Data science has emerged as an interdisciplinary field, combining theories and techniques of various fields like information science, mathematics, statistics and management. It has become an integral part of many industries like agriculture, healthcare, risk management, fraud detection, marketing analytics and public policy among others. About 800 people attended the programme. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/many-applications-of-data-science/articleshow/78262801.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Chennai||DMK takes up Mekedatu dam row with Narendra Modi||CHENNAI: A DMK delegation of MPs, led by parliamentary party leader T R Baalu, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and urged him not to sanction Karnataka’s detailed project report for construction of the Mekedatu dam on the Cauvery near the inter-state border. Baalu said the PM assured the delegation he would not do any “injustice” to Tamil Nadu. The delegation handed over a letter to Modi from party president M K Stalin. The meeting comes in the wake of Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa calling on the PM to seek his intervention to implement the dam project. In his letter, Stalin expressed disappointment over Yediyurappa’s request to the PM for early approval for the project despite opposition from TN. The proposed dam is in violation of the final award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal that came in 2007, as well as the judgment of the Supreme Court in 2018. “It is detrimental to the interest of TN farmers and the drinking water needs of the people,” the DMK chief said. A screening committee of the Central Water Commission (CWC) in November 2018, gave a go ahead to Karnataka to prepare DPR for the Rs 5,912 crore Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project. The TN assembly unanimously passed a resolution in December 2018, condemning the CWC for granting permission to Karnataka to prepare a DPR and urged the water resources ministry to withdraw the permission. But Karnataka submitted its DPR shortly thereafter, and the Edappadi K Palaniswami government had opposed the dam agenda at four meetings of Cauvery Water Management Authority. The government may write yet another letter to the PM. Condemning Karnataka’s move, PMK leader S Ramadoss, an ally of the NDA, on Sunday said it was “frightening to think of the repercussions” in the event of a sanction from the Centre for the dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-takes-up-mekedatu-dam-row-with-modi/articleshow/78266315.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Fighting odds, tribal development department keeps kids’ education going||NAGPUR: For the 5 lakh-odd tribal school students in Maharashtra, a delayed academic session is as bad as the pandemic itself. Spread over almost 6,000 remote villages, many of these students rely on residential schools run both directly and through grant-in-aid by the state’s Tribal Development Department (TDD). The department ensured that even though hostels and schools are closed, the new academic session started on time through a unique initiative called ‘Unlock Learning’. TDD, through its commissionerate in Nashik, formed a state level core group in June 2020 to ideate on and design an education programme for almost 4.75 lakh tribal children from Std I-XII. The core group included stakeholders from the administration side as well as teachers and experts in tribal affairs. Teachers were given responsibility of 20-25 students from villages in the vicinity of five to seven km radius of school. They visit the students once in 10 days and conduct bilingual, multi-grade, activity-based group sessions with all requisite precautions related to Covid-19. Teaching children in their native language, wherever possible, also helped bridge the gap. Thus, for these students the academics have started even though school buildings are closed. Kiran Kulkarni, who was holding charge as tribal commissioner till last week, conceptualized and oversaw this initiative. Having done his doctorate in tribal issues and also being the commissioner for the last two years put him in the perfect position to push the idea through. “The challenge is to facilitate education in the tribal ecosystem. The dilemma we face is the conflict between culture conversation and mainstream. Credit goes to my entire team that came up with suggestions by pointing out ground realities and innovating to overcome them,” said Kulkarni. In case of tribal students, the challenge for delivery of education is a big one. Online or digital learning cannot be the ‘go to’ option since hardly 30% students are able to access smartphones and internet, that too with limited connectivity. Sandip Rathod, addtional commissioner of TDD (Nagpur), handled the tough terrain of Gadchiroli by using innovative methods. “Due to floods, the commute could get hampered at any point of time. So we would send teachers there with a 15-day module, as constant to-and-fro won’t work. They stayed there for a fortnight after which a new person replaced them for a similar duration,” said Rathod. He added that almost every student had been covered under the initiative. “I would say 99% of our students have been covered by teachers. In fact we don’t mind teaching students from other schools too. Our purpose is only to keep the process of education going,” said Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fighting-odds-tribal-devpt-dept-keeps-kids-edu-going/articleshow/78264073.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Gates of Prakasam Barrage still open||Vijayawada: All 70 crest gates of Prakasam Barrage remained open on Tuesday as 3.2 lakh cusecs of water was released into the Bay of Bengal. Irrigation authorities expect the inflows to come down by Thursday morning. Officials continued running flood relief camps. Meanwhile, joint collector Madhavi Latha inspected the village secretariat at Guntupalli village on Tuesday. She inspected the applications for rice cards and the disbursement process. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gates-of-prakasam-barrage-still-open/articleshow/78262817.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu CM says explanation will be sought from SRB on his criticism of farm bills||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said explanation would be sought from the party Rajya Sabha member S R Balasubramaniam (SRB) for criticising the agriculture bills during the debate in the House. SRB’s views were diametrically opposite to the party’s stand, which EPS himself had made clear a day earlier. The lone party MP in the Lok Sabha had supported the bills too. Interestingly, including SRB, all AIADMK members supported the bills in the RS. Palaniswami was responding to mediapersons’ queries at Ramanathapuram and Madurai. The CM said the MP had made it clear that it was his personal opinion and not that of the party. On the reasons for supporting the bills, he said, “We will support anything that benefits farmers and people of Tamil Nadu and oppose anything that affects them”. He said some parts of the Central bills had already come into existence in Tamil Nadu through a legislation that the state had passed last year. It was benefiting farmers, he said. Ironically, the DMK, which is opposing the Central legislations, had supported the state legislation, which is identical in nature. “Misled by politicians, who lack understanding of the agriculture sector, there are protests by farmers. The opposition parties also are protesting,” he said. The CM said the bills would not affect the minimum support price, which is already in vogue, and urged the farmer community not to heed to the false propaganda of the opposition. He rubbished the claim that corporates and traders would gain control of the farm lands. Hereafter, farmers will not have to destroy crops owing to steep fall in prices of commodities, especially tomatoes, he said. Reacting to the demand for a second capital, he said, “Every district is asking (to be announced as second capital). How many can we announce?” Responding to a question on rise in custodial deaths in the state, he said such deaths would be probed and the government would take action against those guilty. Palaniswami took a dig at Stalin saying he (EPS) was meeting people in person, unlike DMK chief M K Stalin, who was meeting people online. “Sitting at home, sporting goggles, gloves, mask and shoes, he is meeting people online,” said EPS. “I think he is consulting astrologer,” he said, reacting to Stalin’s claim that his party would come to power in 8 months. “People will decide who will come to power and not Stalin,” he added. Asked what would be the party’s stand if Sasikala, on her release from prison, decided to work for AIADMK, EPS quipped, “The question is unnecessary now”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-says-explanation-will-be-sought-from-srb-on-his-criticism-of-farm-bills/articleshow/78266318.cms||---
September 23, 2020||India||Amending rules to make FB, Google more accountable: Govt||NEW DELHI: The government is working on amending the IT rules for intermediaries like Facebook and Google to make them more responsive and accountable, the Parliament was informed on Monday. “The ministry of electronics and information technology is in the process of amending the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, to make the intermediaries more responsive and accountable,” junior electronics and IT minister Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. The rules are currently being finalised, he added. Dhotre said Section 79(1) of the IT Act, 2000, grants intermediaries a conditional immunity with regard to any third party content uploaded on their platforms. However, this immunity is subject to provisions of certain other sections of the Act, he added. The intermediaries are expected to disable any unlawful content relatable to Article 19(2) of the Constitution as and when brought to their knowledge, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amending-rules-to-make-fb-google-more-accountable-govt/articleshow/78266317.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Buldi main road proposed as vehicle-free zone||NAGPUR: The cacophony of vehicles and hawkers in congested Sitabuldi main road would be over soon. The Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) is to propose this road as a vehicle-free zone in order to curb congestion and pollution. NSSCDCL has begun the survey of “Street for People” in the main Sitabuldi market. The initiative is part of the ministry of housing and urban development of the central government. Currently, the main road witnesses congestion almost the entire day due to encroachments by hawkers on both sides. The survey of main markets will go on for seven days for selection in the “Street for People” pilot project. The campaign was launched on Monday evening by NSSCDCL chief executive officer Mahesh Moroney, south zone’s senior PI (traffic) Parag Potey was also present. The survey is being conducted under the Cycles for Change Challenge initiative to justify World Car Free Day. Under this survey, Moroney asked the shopkeepers about the effect of banning the entry of vehicles in Sitabuldi market. He told them creating a vehicle-free zone would also benefit the hawkers. Parking for cars and motorcycles will be arranged elsewhere, it was informed. Shopkeepers, hawkers and citizens responded well to the survey. He said that “Street For People” would increase footfalls in Sitabuldi market and would benefit everyone. Some citizens asked how would elderly or weak persons walk. Moroney clarified e-rickshaws would be arranged for them as well as bicycles. He said efforts were underway to reshape the Sitabuldi market. Shopkeepers will be allowed to bring goods to the shops at night. The survey was attended by M Chandak Company, Khadi Village Industries, Gopichand Ambhore, president of Hawkers Union and other citizens. After taking into account the response to the survey, suggestions and feedback of the citizens, further measures will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buldi-main-rd-proposed-as-vehicle-free-zone/articleshow/78264085.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Universities non-teaching staff to go on strike||NAGPUR: The non-teaching staff of all non-agricultural universities and colleges across Maharashtra have announced a sit-in agitation from September 24, and a proper strike from October 1, to press for various demands, including implementation of seventh pay commission. A statement by the Maharashtra State College Universities Employees Action Committee (MSCUEAC) informed that all university and college staff will participate in this strike. “Except non-agricultural universities, all other government employees are getting benefits of seventh pay commission from January 1, 2016, as per the revised pay structure. However, the entire staff in universities like Nagpur are being deprived of the benefits. It’s clear discrimination towards hundreds of non-teaching staff working in these institutions from the government. It’s clear violation of Constitution of India’s directives regarding equality,” the statement said. The MSCUEAC’s call for agitation was supported by Maharashtra University Employees Federation, Maharashtra University Backward Classes Employees Federation, Maharashtra Universities Officers’ Forum, Maharashtra State Non-Government College, Non-Teaching Staff Federation, and others. On behalf of Maharashtra University Employees Federation, a statewide agitation was started on June 30, 2019. The then minister of higher and technical education convened a joint meeting of all statewide university and college unions on August 30, 2019. He requested them to withdraw the agitation by promising to solve the seventh pay commission and other issues. Accordingly, the agitation was withdrawn. However, nothing moved further till date, forcing the unions to restart protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/univs-non-teaching-staff-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/78264120.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government likely to challenge court's stay||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will challenge the high court's order staying its decision to reserve 80% of the ICU beds in 33 private hospitals exclusively for Covid patients. The order was issued on September 12 to ensure enough beds are available for critical Covid-19 patients. Though 1,000 ICU beds are still vacant in the capital, the ICU beds in private hospitals again have a high occupancy rate in the wake of the recent rise in Covid cases. Defending the order, a source said, "It is extremely important to reserve ICU beds in private hospitals to deal with increasing Covid-19 cases. We will be challenging the order of the high court." With the demand for ICU beds growing with more Covid cases, Delhi government had directed 33 private hospitals with 50 beds or more to keep 80% of their high dependency unit beds exclusively for corona patients. The government claims that the occupancy rate in the city's Covid hospitals are pushed upwards also due to many people from nearby states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan rushing to Delhi for better treatment. Health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said over 30% of the beds were currently occupied by outsiders and most of these patients needed intensive care. "Over 1,500 outside patients are currently admitted to ICU wards in the city," he had said. The government order, issued by its health and family welfare department, stated that in the recent past, it had been observed that the majority of the ICU beds in private hospitals were occupied. However, if in some hospitals, non-Covid patients are already admitted to more than 20% of the ICU beds, these beds, once vacant after their discharge, will be kept for Covid-19 patients, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-likely-to-challenge-courts-stay/articleshow/78266333.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Mumbai||Second infection more severe for four Mumbai health workers: Lancet||MUMBAI: Reinfection of Covid-19 has been confirmed using whole genome sequencing in four healthcare workers from Mumbai. All four have a more severe Covid-19 infection as compared to their earlier episode, according to a preprint published on The Lancet medical journal’s website. The four reinfected patients include three doctors from the BMC-run Nair Hospital and another healthcare worker from Hinduja Hospital. The research — conducted by the two hospitals along with the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB) in Delhi — found 39 mutations within eight genomes (four samples each of the first infection and four samples from the second infection). “For all four HCWs (healthcare workers), the second episode had more symptoms, with constitutional manifestations and illness that lasted longer than the first episode,” said the paper whose main authors include Dr Jayanthi Shastri from Nair Hospital and Dr Sujatha Sunil from the ICGEB. “Frontline healthcare workers are exceedingly exposed to SARS-CoV-2 and reinfections are a possibility. An RT-PCR positive test does not confirm reinfection. Only whole genome sequencing (WGS) of the viral isolates from the different episodes can confirm a reinfection,” Dr Sunil said. While the first Covid infection was asymptomatic to mild in these healthcare workers, all needed hospitalization the second time around. None of them, however, developed breathlessness or infection in their lower respiratory tract. “This can perhaps be explained by their young age,” Dr Shastri added. One of the main aims of the paper is to underline the risk, a repeated one at that, faced by healthcare workers. “Older HCWs may experience more severe respiratory involvement,” she added. Reinfection cases are being reported from across the world ever since the first confirmed case in Hong Kong reported a month ago. “Phylogenetic analysis of the eight complete sequences with 52 other samples from India collected between the months of April-July revealed that these samples clustered together showing they were part of the same larger clade and aligned close to the Wuhan reference strain,” said the paper. The team found that the reinfected staff had D614G mutation, which is known for having a spike protein that makes it easier for the virus to infect people. “The D614G mutation is associated with severe infections in people, but these youngsters were not so mild,” said Dr Sunil, adding that their second infection was “severe” only in comparison to their earlier infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/those-reinfected-have-more-severe-infection/articleshow/78266324.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 23, 2020||India||‘Testing wasn’t a must when Trump visited’||NEW DELHI: Faced with a question in Parliament on whether or not members of US President Donald Trump’s delegation were tested for Covid-19 during his visit this year, the government said Tuesday that at the time of his visit, February 24-25, there was no requirement of mandatory test for travellers coming from foreign countries. “Pandemic status to diseases is given by WHO which declared Covid-19 a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The requirement of mandatory universal screening of all international passengers arriving in 21 airports in India for Covid-19 was implemented by the Government w.e.f March 4 2020,” said MoS (MEA) V Muraleedharan in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/testing-wasnt-a-must-when-trump-visited/articleshow/78266349.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Nagpur||Need to increase tracing & testing of Covid-19 patients in state: Tope||Nagpur: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday expressed concern over four districts in Vidarbha witnessing a big spike in Covid-19 cases. He’s on tour of four districts in the region for a review of the pandemic situation in Nagpur, Chandrapur, Amravati and Bhandara. Speaking to the media on arrival at the airport, the health minister stressed on controlling rising cases and subsequent deaths in all these districts by increasing RT-PCR testing. He pointed out that in many cases rapid antigen cases were showing negative results, but patients were later turning out to be positive. “There’s need to reduce workload on hospitals by stressing on home quarantine of asymptomatic patients. Where testing is less, there’s risk of spread of infection.” Accompanied by medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, home minister Anil Deshmukh and NCP MP Praful Patel, Tope said the state's average per million testing is 40,000, which should be maintained. “In districts, where testing is less than 40,000, we should work on maintaining the state average. At many places tracing of suspicious contacts of positive patients is not done, which needs to be looked after,” he said. Rejecting opposition’s charge of Nagpur and Vidarbha being neglected by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the minister said they were taking weekly review of Nagpur and other places. “There might be a jump in cases due to an increase in the number of testing, but we need to increase oxygen beds to prevent deaths, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/need-to-increase-tracing-testing-of-covid-19-patients-in-state-tope/articleshow/78295214.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 23, 2020||India||Iconic UK company to make guns in UP from November||Famous British firearms manufacturing company Webley & Scott (W&S), which armed the Allied forces during the two World Wars and produced weapons for at least 15 countries, will mark its presence in the Indian subcontinent from November with the manufacturing of arms from its new unit in UP’s Sandila (Hardoi), barely 30 km from Lucknow. It will be the first foreign company to manufacture firearms in India. The handgun manufacturing giant has joined hands with Lucknow-based Sial Manufacturers Pvt Ltd for the project and will begin operations with the production of revolvers. The new unit will manufacture its .32 revolver in the first phase. First-Ever Tie-UPIconic co plans to make ammo, pistols, airguns & shotgun here Talking exclusively to TOI over the phone from Birmingham (UK), co-owner of Webley & Scott John Bright said, “Later, we will manufacture pistols, airguns, shotgun and ammunition as well.” “We decided to invest in India and in the state of Uttar Pradesh keeping in view the vast market potential. The idea to expand our business got shape after discussions with the Sial family in 2018. We entered a new joint venture for the manufacture of firearms and airguns in India for the Indian domestic market. We got the licence to manufacture firearms in India in 2019,” said Bright. He said the original design of the Mark IV .32 pistol of 1899 would be used to cater to the Indian market in the first phase. “A team of 15 experts from England visited India to set up the facility in Sandila, which took us four months,” he said. Joginder Pal Singh Sial of Sial Manufacturers, the all-India distributor of W&S products, said: “The government’s support and the Centre’s ‘Make in India’ policy helped the project take final shape.” “The cost of the .32 revolver will be Rs 1.6 lakh. We will give stiff competition to the arms manufactured by ordnance factories. People will now get world-class weapons at their doorsteps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iconic-uk-company-to-make-guns-in-up-from-november/articleshow/78266361.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 23, 2020||Goa||Covid fear delays cancer patients from seeking treatment||While the pandemic has brought with it various physical and financial concerns, the medical fraternity is battling an unforeseen worry. Oncologists, in particular, have more reason to be concerned as patients delay treatment or diagnosis. “Cancer is progressive in nature, and delays render treatment difficult,” says Margao-based oncosurgeon Jean Louis de Menezes. World over, when Covid-19 raised its head in March, all the hype around the virus saw people shutting themselves indoors and shunning all social places. This included hospitals. “In the last eight years I have saved a lot of patients. However, from mid-July things are suddenly different,” says surgical oncologist attached to Manipal hospital, Dr Eugene Rent. He rues how the fear of Covid has let cancer get the upper hand. From seeing a cure rate of 90% to 100% in stages 1 and 2 and a cure rate of 50% to 60% in stage 3, he says he is now seeing many come in with the disease in the advanced stage. “Afraid they will catch the virus if they come to a hospital for treatment, some of my patients who were diagnosed with stage 1 and 2 cancer chose to delay treatment,” says Rent. The result, he says with the disappointment of a doctor who had a curable case on hand, is that just a few short three-four months later they are coming with breathlessness, jaundice and water collecting in their stomach. “Basically, they are coming with stage 4 cancer. Somebody who had a 90% cure rate now is nearly incurable,” he adds. Menezes additionally sounds a note of caution for those who also have suspicions of cancer. “In the case of cancer, delay of a day or two is OK. But treatment should be timely. The line of treatment will be decided by the doctor,” he says, adding that during the pandemic he, like many other doctors, saw the sad results of patients deciding to either delay treatment or diagnosis. Rent chooses to put the death threat posed by both cancer and novel coronavirus in perspective by turning to statistics. “With coronavirus you have a 98.8% chance of survival. The death rate of the virus is 1.2%. With cancer your survival chances change with the progress of the disease. So don’t delay treatment. In cancer, loss of time is loss of life,” Rent says. Dr Mahadev Swamy, hemato oncologist, says that people need not fear hospitals because every precaution for the protection of patients, medical personnel and safety is taken. Rent weighs in to explain the greater likelihood of one catching the virus at a grocery store where people are not using masks properly and are touching things. “Do we have to be this scared of going to a hospital where everyone from the security guard to surgeon knows everything that needs to be known about preventing the spread of the disease? ” he says. He adds that he is not underplaying the coronavirus, just pragmatically pointing that the pandemic is here to stay and there are ways to prevent the disease and continue with life. “This applies to check-ups for heart diseases, strokes, asthma, neurological disease, and, most importantly, for antenatal check-ups,” Rent says. For those worried about the cost of treatment in times when jobs have been lost and salaries cut, doctors point to solutions like the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana card. Nothing, they say, is excuse enough to delay cancer treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-fear-delays-cancer-patients-from-seeking-treatment/articleshow/78264697.cms||Anuradha Das
September 23, 2020||Goa||As eight succumb, fatalities reach 369||Panaji: Goa reported 736 recoveries and 590 new cases of Covid-19 that marginally brought down its tally of active cases to 5,513 on Tuesday. Goa’s Covid-19 death count rose to 369 with eight people succumbing to the disease. Five people died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, two at ESI-Covid hospital and one at Chicalim primary health centre in Vasco. Two patients—a 60-year-old man from Chandor and a 79-year-old woman from Mangor hill, Vasco—died within half an hour of admission. The man did not have any comorbid conditions but both patients had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome. Other deaths include that of two women and four men in the age group of 30 to 90 years old. A 32-year-old man from Kankavli, Maharashtra, who had liver cirrhosis succumbed to the virus at GMC after six days of treatment. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said they are attempting to step up services at South Goa district hospital, which was designated as Covid hospital last week with 150 beds. “Two hundred beds have been ordered for the hospital and if needed more beds will be added. We can go up to 566 beds,” Rane told reporters on Tuesday. Stating that there are a lot of challenges before them, he said “We are also looking at how to regulate the oxygen supply to hospitals,” he said. He said a new ward – 115 – in GMC which will be under the pulmonary medicine department was slated to be commissioned on Tuesday evening while ward 113 will be used as an isolation facility. He said they have 270 ventilators, and orders for high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) units have been placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-eight-succumb-fatalities-reach-369/articleshow/78264733.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||Sept average daily death rate double that of August||Panaji: The state’s daily average Covid death tally in September is double that of last month. The small state has been reporting an average of eight deaths each day this month, compared to an average of four last month. Covid-related deaths in September have already surpassed August’s total of 149 Covid mortalities. September reported 174 deaths till date, exceeding August’s tally within the first 18 days of the month alone. While August’s death toll touched the 100 mark on August 23, this month 100 Covid-related mortalities were reported in the first 13 days of September. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday admitted there was a problem of beds in government hospitals and said that the Goa Medical College (GMC) and the Ponda subdistrict hospital are filled to capacity. “This is a very challenging task and the government has responded positively to see that people get the maximum benefit,” he said. He added that GMC is waiting for the hand over of ward 115, which will be headed by Dr Durga Lawande, head of department of pulmonary medicine. Ward 113, an isolation ward, will be linked to ward 115 where patients will be immediately tested so that Covid treatment can “instantly” begin, he said. “As of today there are 227 patients admitted and GMC’s capacity cannot be increased any further. All the 227 beds are full. Work is on to gradually step up the capacity of the South Goa District hospital. There are 150 beds at the hospital and we have ordered 200 more to make it 350,” he said. Mild to moderate cases will be treated at the South Goa district hospital, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sept-average-daily-death-rate-double-that-of-august/articleshow/78264761.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 23, 2020||Goa||Tele counselling for kids in distress||Panaji: The national commission for protection of child rights has set up a toll free number to provide free tele counselling for children during Covid-19 times. Children are faced with unique challenges and stress during the pandemic and can turn to the helpline for support, chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights, advocate Sushma Mandrekar says. “Parents are going out for essentials, to work, and for other activities, but children have been stuck indoors for months now. They have never been indoors for so long and this could psychologically affect them,” Mandrekar says. The Samvedna helpline can be used by children in distress, including those whose family members have tested positive for Covid. It is available between 10am and 1pm and 3pm and 8pm, from Monday and Saturday, on 18001212830. “Not all children understand Covid and concepts like social distancing. Some are being neglected with the family testing positive and others have become victims of domestic violence. They can share their difficulties and any issues with counsellors on the helpline,” she added. The helpline is currently operational in Hindi and English Mandrekar said, adding that local counsellors could be roped in to have counselling in Konkani too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tele-counselling-for-kids-in-distress/articleshow/78264773.cms||---
September 23, 2020||Goa||BJP releases e-book on work done during pandemic||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday launched an e-book documenting the work done by BJP karyakartas during the lockdown and pandemic. “We have already submitted the first phase of the e-book to the Union government. The second phase of work on the book will start soon,” Sawant said. Speaking at the launch function, Sawant said that when next pandemic occurs, “people can open this book and see how BJP worked during this pandemic”. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that during the pandemic, BJP set up a war room to help people stranded in Goa. “When got phone calls from those stranded in Goa, BJP karyakartas provided them with essential commodities,” Tanavade said. The e-book was concept of the national BJP. All states were directed to prepare the e-book.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-releases-e-book-on-work-done-during-pandemic/articleshow/78264808.cms||---
