September 24, 2020||Goa||From the Valley, a female footballer to present her views to PM today||PANAJI: Afshan Ashiq doesn’t hide the fact that she once pelted a stone at policemen back home in Kashmir. It was three years ago, but since that instinctive or rather protective action in support of the girls who she trained, the goalkeeper-cum-coach has come a long way. Ashiq is now the captain of Kashmir’s women’s football team. She coaches youngsters too. For some time now, she’s been knocking on the doors of the senior national team. But while that door has remained locked so far, there’s a window of opportunity for the goalkeeper as she prepares for an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. Ashiq will join the likes of Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli, two-time Paralympic gold medallist Devendra Jhajharia and fitness influencer Milind Soman, among others, for the Fit India Dialogue session with the Prime Minister. “I was really surprised to hear that a female footballer from the state has been chosen,” Ashiq told TOI on Wednesday. When it’s time for her to speak, Ashiq knows what she has to focus on. That stone-pelting incident is now a thing of the past. The goalkeeper who dons colours for the Mumbai-based Premier India Football Academy, has much more on her mind. “I am very excited. The Fit India programme completes one year, and being a female person from my state, I’ll have a chance to speak about our problems. What we are suffering, how sportspersons don’t go out and prove themselves. The focus will be on sportspersons and fitness,” she said. Nobody knows better than the 26-year-old how women’s sports has taken a backseat in the state. Ashiq herself took to football at age 17, a time when everyone told her it’s too late for a new beginning in sports. “Everyone said this was not the age to start. I was positive, and wanted to make up for everything with dedication and hard work. Unfortunately, there was no girls team, so I trained with boys at Real Kashmir FC. “The problem with parents (in Kashmir) was that they didn’t want their girls to go out due to the absence of a female coach. They wanted me to become a coach and train them. I took to grassroots coaching, did my coaching licence through the state association and became the first female football coach from here,” said Ashiq. A goalkeeper, she has her own goals too. At the Premier India Football Academy (PIFA), she hones her skills, determined to become the first women footballer from the region to make it to the national team. “The dream is to represent the country. Am working hard. I hope one day, inshallah, that will happen,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-the-valley-a-female-footballer-to-present-her-views-to-pm-today/articleshow/78283170.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 24, 2020||India||Water quality in Ganga, Beas, Sutlej, Chambal and Swarnarekha did not improve during lockdown period, says a CPCB report||NEW DELHI: Quality of water in the rivers Ganga, Beas, Chambal, Sutlej and Swarnarekha did not improve during the lockdown period, possibly due to the discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage, says the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in a report on water quality of 19 rivers during the lockdown period. It notes that the water quality in Ganga had even deteriorated at certain stretches. The report, released on Wednesday, says six rivers – Baitarani, Brahmani, Brahmaputra, Mahanadi, Narmada and Pennar - showed "full compliance" with the primary water quality criteria for outdoor bathing standard during pre-lockdown and lockdown period. It says the water quality of two rivers - Sabarmati and Mahi - remains unchanged in terms of compliance. Total seven out of 19 major rivers in India recorded an improvement in water quality in April, as compared to the period before the lockdown, which may be attributed to availability of adequate infrastructure for management of sewage in the catchment of the respective river bodies and might had adequate dilution. The State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) had collected samples from 387 monitoring locations during pre-lockdown (March) and lockdown (April) period and analysed the data. The analysis showed that 331 out of 365 monitored locations for dissolved oxygen (DO), 355 monitored locations for pH, 298 monitored locations for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and 299 monitored locations for Faecal Coliform (FC) were complying with the outdoor bathing water quality criteria. Improvement in water quality was also noticed in Cauvery, Godavari, Krishna, Tapi and Yamuna. The report says that it may be attributed to minimal industrial effluent discharges in view of closure of almost all industries, no human activities involving disposal of worshipped puja materials and garbage, no anthropogenic activities such as outdoor bathing, washing of clothes, vehicle washing and cattle washing and no pilgrimage activities during lockdown phase. The report says the water quality has not improved during the lockdown period in case of rivers Beas, Chambal, Ganga, Sutlej and Swarnarekha. It attributed it to discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage and pollutant concentrations at their highest levels due to negligible dry season flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/water-quality-in-ganga-beas-sutlej-chambal-and-swarnarekha-did-not-improve-during-lockdown-period-says-a-cpcb-report/articleshow/78284424.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 24, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 280 new Covid-19 cases 5 deaths||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday reported 280 new coronavirus cases, taking the state's tally to 13,049 while five more fatalities pushed the death toll to 135. The state also saw recovery of 446 positive patients. Meanwhile, the ADC to governor Bandaru Dattatraya has tested positive for the infection following which the entire staff of the governor was five days home quarantine. Fresh positive cases were reported from 17 in Bilaspur district, 25 from Chamba, 11 from Hamirpur, 56 from Kangra, one from Kinnaur, 34 from Kullu, six from Lahaul-Spiti, 30 from Mandi, 27 from Shimla, 17 from Sirmaur, 28 from Solan and 28 from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-280-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/78284612.cms||Anand Bodh
September 24, 2020||India||CAG slams French companies for not fulfilling Rafale offset terms||NEW DELHI: French firms Dassault Aviation and MBDA, the main companies in the Rs 59,000 crore contract for 36 Rafale fighters inked in September 2016, have been slammed by the national audit watchdog for their failure so far to fulfil offsets obligation in offering advanced technology to India. The French companies are required to plough back 50% of the contract value to India as offsets or re-investments under the deal. Tabled in Parliament on Wednesday, the CAG report on “management of defence offsets” said the two French firms have so far failed to deliver on their initial promise in September 2015 to discharge 30% of their offset obligation by offering “high technology” to DRDO. The CAG report, however, itself admits that discharge of offsets in the Rafale deal are spread over seven years from the date of signing the contract, with no such obligation in the first three years. The report, however, also criticises the fact that the maximum discharge of the offsets - 57% by MBDA and 58% by Dassault - is slated only during the last or seventh year (2023). Read AlsoOperating ratio poor, Railways engaged in window dressing: CAGNEW DELHI: The Indian Railways resorted to “window dressing” for presenting the working expenses and operating ratio in a better light for 2018-19, the federal auditor, CAG has flagged in a report tabled in the Parliament on Wednesday. In its report on railway finances, the CAG found, “If advanceThough the CAG report dwells upon several defence deals, the Rafale contract is noteworthy because it led to a political dogfight between the BJP-ledgovernment and Congress. The Supreme Court had in November last year rejected review petitions for a probe into the 36-fighter deal. Referring to different deals, including the Rafale one, the CAG report said: "In many cases, it was found that foreign vendors made various offset commitments to qualify for the main supply contract, but later were not earnest about fulfilling these commitments.” In the Rafale deal, DRDO had in April 2016 identified six new technologies to be acquired from Dassault and MBDA. But the firms did not agree on transfer of five technologies as most of them were not within their core competence. “The sixth DRDO proposal was to obtain technical assistance for indigenous development of engines (Kaveri) for the light combat aircraft. But the defence ministry (MoD) has stated that the vendors had yet not been able to confirm their capability for doing the requisite upgradation,” said the CAG report. “Thus, it is not clear if even this technology transfer will take place, and there is a need for MoD and DRDO to identify and acquire the right technologies in order to comply with the directions of the Defence Acquisitions Council in September 2016,” it added. Calling for a major overhaul of the entire offsets policy, the report said it has “scarcely met the objectives” of inducting advanced technology and bolstering the domestic defence industrial base despite India being among the largest arms importer in the world. There has been “negligible” foreign direct investment and DRDO has also not acquired “any high technology” so far. “The audit noted the tendency to offer discharge of the substantial portion of obligations in later years, nearer the end of the contract period,” said the report. It also said the discharge of offset obligations is significantly short of target, for which penalty has not been levied and collected as required. From 2005 till March 2018, 46 offset contracts worth Rs 66,427 crore were signed with foreign vendors. Under these contracts, Rs 19,223 crore worth of offsets should have been discharged by the vendors by December 2018. However, the figure stands at only Rs 11,396 crore. Moreover, only Rs 5,457 crore of these offset claims submitted by the vendors were accepted by the MoD. The rest were largely rejected as they were not compliant to the contractual conditions and the Defence Procurement Procedure. Read this report in BengaliWatch National audit watchdog CAG slams French companies for not fulfilling Rafale offset terms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dassault-mbda-yet-to-fulfil-offsets-obligations-under-rs-59000-crore-rafale-fighter-deal-cag/articleshow/78284307.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 24, 2020||Goa||Want to win I-League with Churchill, say new coach Varela||PANAJI: Churchill Brothers FC have made their intent clear for this season with the signing of Spanish coach Fernando Santiago Varela. Goa’s only side in the I-League last won the title in 2013 and it’s been a long wait since then. They have been putting impressive performances every year, but eventually lose rhythm. In the last edition, hopes were high when they thumped eventual champions Mohun Bagan 4-2 in their own den but then lost steam midway. With Mohun Bagan joining hands with ATK to ply their trade in the Indian Super League and East Bengal also following their Kolkata rivals, Churchill now have a good chance to add a trophy to their cabinet. “I’m proud to represent Churchill next season in the I-League. I thank president (Churchill) Alemao, Valanka (Alemao) and whole Churchill family for trusting me. I’m looking forward to start with all the players and show it to our fans that we will fight for the I-League this year,” said Varela in a video message on Wednesday. The UEFA Pro Licence holder is not new to India, having coached Gokulam Kerala FC last season. Varela won the Durand Cup for Gokulam Kerala. Gokulam Kerala even finished the league in sixth spot, two places better than Churchill before the season came to an abrupt end in March after the coronavirus pandemic brought sports activities to a standstill. Churchill are now slowly developing their squad after the departure of key figures. Trinidad and Tobago striker Willis Plaza joined Mohammedan Sporting Club ahead of the Second Division I-League Qualifiers, while defender Robert Primus will also feature for Bengaluru United FC. Midfielder Glan Martins (ATK Mohun Bagan) and Ponif Vaz (NorthEast United FC) are the other two local talents that have moved to greener pastures. However, Churchill have signed Honduras striker Clayvin Zuniga from CD Municipal Limeno on a one-year deal. The 29-year-old has experience in the CONCAF Champions League. He has represented his country in the U-20 and U-23 tournaments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/want-to-win-i-league-with-churchill-say-new-coach-varela/articleshow/78285640.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
September 24, 2020||India||SC calls Delhi House notice to Facebook coercive, panel defers hearing||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday frowned upon the tone and tenor of “coercive” summons issued by the Raghav Chadha-headed peace and harmony committee of Delhi assembly seeking appearance of Facebook India vice-president Ajit Mohan, prompting the legislature to postpone the hearing involving the social media platform official till October 15. Finding the going tough before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi deftly bailed out the Chadha-led panel from the embarrassment of the court staying the summons. Singhvi said no proceedings concerning Mohan would be held so long as the court was seized of the matter. “The senior counsel for the legislative assembly of National Capital Territory of Delhi, on instructions, states that the meeting scheduled for today (Wednesday) already stands deferred and no further meeting will be fixed till the next date,” the bench said. The panel’s pitch was queered by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Mohan and Facebook, respectively. They cited the two summons of the assembly panel to argue that the suggestion that non-appearance could be construed as breach of privilege of the House rendered the directive to Mohan a coercive exercise. They also questioned whether the panel had jurisdiction to inquire into Delhi riots, which being a law and order issue fell squarely in the domain of the Union government and Parliament. They also doubted whether non-appearance of an individual before a committee of the assembly could be construed to be a breach of privilege of the House. “We as lawyers are asked by parliamentary panels to appear and explain legal positions relating to many issues. If we cite our inability to appear before it, would it be construed as breach of privilege? The classical understanding of constitutional provisions relating to breach of privilege related to anyone obstructing the working of the House,” they said. Salve and Rohatgi also drew the court’s attention to the press conferences of Chadha prima facie holding Facebook to be complicit in the Delhi riots. Singhvi attempted to deflect the focus on the alleged untenability of the summons by saying it was merely advisory and there was no question of any breach of privilege. The bench said, “What you (Singhvi) are arguing may be the correct course. But that is not what is stated in the notice summoning the petitioners. Now that they have got a good counsel, you must advise them to correct the tone and tenor of the notices.” Importantly, the SC also issued notices to Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha as Salve said though the petitioners sought no relief against the two Houses of Parliament, they needed to be parties in the proceedings “because in his perception, there may be some interplay of the powers of the Delhi assembly and the secretariats in question”. The petitioners had termed the summons as a pre-meditated exercise, given Chadha’s accusation about Facebook’s complicity in the Delhi riots. Singhvi said the panel was engaged in a fact-finding exercise into Delhi riots as many witnesses deposed about misuse of Facebook during the clashes. “The panel is desirous about devising a mechanism to stop misuse of Facebook during such situations in future,” he said. Mohan’s petition said, “There is no law that empowers a state legislature, including a committee formed by that legislature, to take coercive action against any person unless the person obstructs or impedes its legislative functions. The rights and liberties of persons are protected by fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution, and coercive action cannot be taken against any citizen unless that action has been authorised by law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-calls-delhi-house-notice-to-facebook-coercive-panel-defers-hearing/articleshow/78285858.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 24, 2020||India||Sudarshan TV violated programme code, issued notice: Govt||NEW DELHI: Days after the Supreme Court asked the Union government why it had not examined alleged programme code violations by Sudarshan TV's series on alleged infiltration of civil services by Muslims, the information and broadcasting ministry on Wednesday issued notice to the channel citing 13 counts of violations by its 'Bindas Bol' programme. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph that the ministry had served notice on the channel and asked it to respond to allegations of violations of programme code by September 28. "It will be better to defer hearing till the channel responds to the notice and the authorities take a considered decision," he said. The ministry said Rule 6 of the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994, barred telecast of any programme which offends good taste or decency; contains anything obscene, defamatory, false and suggestive innuendos and half truths; contains attack on religions and communities; or visuals contemptuous of religious groups or which promote communal attitude likely to incite violence; stereotypes ethnic, linguistic and religious groups. Sudarshan TV has telecast four of the 10 episodes of the programme before the SC stepped in on September 15 to stop further telecast, finding the content prima facie "insidious" and "stereotyping" the entire Muslim community. Though the court later conceded that pre-telecast ban should be resorted to in rarest of rare instances as it violated right to free speech, it had asked the government why it did not take any step after the channel gave a bald assurance before telecasting the programme about its compliance with the programme code. The bench said interim stay on telecast of the programme would continue till further orders. The bench, while deferring hearing on the PIL seeking ban on telecast of the programme to October 5, said, "Since a notice to show cause has been issued by the central government to the fourth respondent (TV channel) today, the hearing of the present proceedings is deferred to October 5. The notice shall be dealt with in accordance with law and the central government shall submit a report to this court indicating the outcome of the notice. Since the notice has been issued during the pendency of these proceedings, further steps in pursuance of the notice to show cause shall be subject to the result of the present proceedings and to such orders as may be passed by this court." In response to an August 28 notice from the I&B ministry, the channel had said that the programme was compliant with the programme code and it was ready to face action if the programme was found breaching the code. However, the ministry extracted 13 instances from the programme which allegedly violated the programme code. The ministry asked the channel to show cause why action be not taken against it under the Cable Television Network (Regulation) Act, 1995, and the binding conditions for grant of permission under the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines of 2011. Watch Programme code violation by TV channel, show-cause notice issued: Centre to SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sudarshan-tv-violated-programme-code-issued-notice-govt/articleshow/78285908.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 24, 2020||Business||No plan for mandatory pharma code, says government||NEW DELHI: For over four years the government has been maintaining that it was drafting a mandatory code on ethical marketing of pharmaceuticals with penal provisions since the voluntary code had not worked. But it has now admitted in Parliament that it has no intention of making the code mandatory. On September 18, when chemicals minister DV Sadananda Gowda was asked if the government had decided to make the Uniform Code for Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices (UCPMP) mandatory, he said no. This is a u-turn from the government reply in the Lok Sabha on May 15, 2016 when it said: “...code was reviewed and it was now decided to make it statutory. Once the code is made statutory it is expected that the unethical practices could be controlled more effectively.” Again, on June 2016, in Rajya Sabha, then minister Ananth Kumar, while answering a question about nexus between companies, hospitals and doctors to overcharge patients for medicines, admitted that the voluntary code introduced the previous year was not working well and added that the government was considering making it compulsory. However, in his reply in the Rajya Sabha on Sep 18, the current minister when asked if the implementation of the voluntary code had not shown any results, the minister said that the UCPMP being voluntary, there was no provision for the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) to directly deal with complaints about unethical practices. TimesViewThis is a strange flip-flop. The government seems to have taken four years to decide that it can do nothing. Since there is no evidence to suggest that its earlier conclusion that the voluntary code hasn’t worked was wrong, the rethink can only mean that the government lacked the will to create the code it had promised.The minister further stated that as per the voluntary code, any complaint received against a pharma company was to be handled by an ethical committee for pharma marketing practices to be constituted in each pharmaceutical association. He added that the DoP was following up with the associations to implement the code effectively. However, the minutes of a meeting held by the DoP secretary on August 21 with pharma and medical devices associations recorded a FICCI representative pointing out that associations could “only do naming and shaming and suspend or expel the offender company from the association” and that “the company would remain in the market”. The FICCI representative suggested that the redressal council in one of the associations ought to have the authority to take away the licence of the offending company. Interestingly, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), tasked by the DOP to oversee UCPMP implementation, in response to a Right to Information (RTI) application conceded in its reply on September 7 that it is neither mandated nor authorised to monitor pharma marketing practices. This admission from the NPPA came just a few days after it instructed pharma associations and companies on August 26 to submit quarterly reports on the implementation of the code to its office. “It is sheer absurdity that the government is trying to monitor the implementation of the UCPMP, which is a self-regulatory mechanism of the pharma industry. The DOP secretary has admitted that under the UCPMP, action against companies can only be taken by pharma associations. In essence there is no role for the government in enforcement. Yet an eyewash exercise is underway to make pharma associations submit quarterly reports to the NPPA,” said Malini Aisola of All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN). “The icing on the cake is the government’s reply in Parliament stating that it has no plans to make the UCPMP mandatory. We have been pressing for a legal instrument to replace the voluntary code and submitted evidence of unethical practices. Yet, DOP has not held a single consultation with civil society on this in the last two years,” pointed out Aisola. Watch No plan for mandatory pharma code, clarifies government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-plan-for-mandatory-pharma-code-says-govt/articleshow/78285961.cms||Rema Nagarajan
September 24, 2020||India||SC ruling: Lawyers’ body summons Prashant Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Close on the heels of the Supreme Court holding Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court, the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) has asked the activist-advocate to explain why his enrolment shouldn’t be revoked. Citing his conviction by SC for the contemptuous tweets against judiciary — where it also imposed a token fine of Re 1 — the BCD, under its newly-elected chairman and senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, has asked Bhushan to appear in person or via video conferencing on October 23. BCD’s move followed a resolution passed on September 6 by the Bar Council of India asking its Delhi chapter to take a legally-mandated decision in this matter, keeping in mind Bhushan’s conviction. A bar council of a state grants licence to a person to practice as a lawyer and has wide powers such as suspending or taking away the right of its members in certain situations to practice under the Advocates’ Act. The BCD served a notice to Bhushan and gave him 15 days’ time to respond to it. “… Why proceedings under Section 24A (disqualification for enrolment) and Section 35 of the Advocates’ Act be not initiated against you in view of your tweets in question and conviction under suo motu contempt petition by the Supreme Court of India,” the notice asked. It said that in case he does not choose to appear before the council, the proceedings will be conducted in his absence. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra (retired) had convicted Bhushan for his two tweets against the judiciary and imposed a fine of Re 1 on him. He was directed to deposit the fine with the Supreme Court registry by September 15, failing which he would have to undergo three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-ruling-lawyers-body-summons-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/78286280.cms||---
September 24, 2020||India||India's Covid toll crosses 90k, last 15k deaths came in 13 days||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 fatalities crossed the 90,000-mark on Wednesday, the last 15,000 deaths coming in just 13 days, even as the number of fresh cases in September so far went past the two-million mark, much more than over 1.9 million cases which were recorded in August. With 86,825 new infections on Wednesday, India’s Covid-19 count in September reached 20,44,570, which is the highest recorded in a month by any country in the world. The country surpassed its own record of 19,87,705 cases, which it had added to the Covid-19 caseload in August. The breaching of the two-million mark in September came even as the number of fresh cases remained below 90,000 for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. The low daily count comes in the wake of reduced testing across the country in the last few days. Barring on September 19, when a little over 1.2 million tests were conducted in the country, daily testing has remained below the one-million mark since September 18, as per the figures provided by covid19india.org. India’s total caseload went past the 57-lakh mark on Wednesday at 57,27,193, while a total of 46,63,623 patients (81.4% of the caseload) have recovered. Active cases, at 9,72,496, continued to remain below the one-million mark for the third consecutive day. In a worrying sign, Kerala went past the 5,000-mark for the first time by registering 5,376 infections. Rajasthan and Arunachal Pradesh were the only other states which registered their highest daily cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-toll-crosses-90k-last-15k-deaths-came-in-13-days/articleshow/78286423.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Business||Bullet train tender opens, all seven bidders are Indian||NEW DELHI: The National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL) on Wednesday opened the bids for first tender entailing investment of around Rs 20,000 crore for construction work for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project. All the bidders for this 237 km length of the mainline falling in Gujarat are Indian companies. NHSRCL said this is one of the biggest tenders covering 47% of the bullet train alignment between Vapi and Vadodara in Gujarat. This work also includes construction of four stations on this corridor. According to an official release, three bidders involving seven major infrastructure companies have participated in the competitive bidding. Two of these are consortiums, Afcons Infrastructure– IRCON International–JMC Projects India and NCC–Tata Project-J Kumar Infra Projects, and the company that has put a bid on its own is Larsen and Toubro. Officials said the 237 km corridor will cross 24 rivers and 30 road crossings. “This entire section is in Gujarat where more than 83% of the land has been acquired for the project,” the NHSRCL spokesperson said. TOI on September 6 had reported that there is a high possibility of the government starting operations of the country’s first bullet trains project before next Lok Sabha election at least in the Gujarat portion. The land acquisition has been delayed in Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the railway ministry informed the Rajya Sabha that the delay in land acquisition before March 2020, particularly in Maharashtra, was due to “resistance of local residents at some locations.” A major portion of the project corridor – 349 km out of total 508 km – falls in Gujarat. In Maharashtra, barely 23% land has been acquired. Watch Bullet train tender opens, all seven bidders are Indian||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bullet-train-tender-opens-all-seven-bidders-are-indian/articleshow/78286429.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Business||Two more hit IPOs despite weak market conditions||MUMBAI: The rush for IPOs from fundamentally good companies continued on Dalal Street, despite weak market conditions over the last two days. One of the two offers that closed on Wednesday was among the most subscribed ones in the last five years, while the other generated demand worth over Rs 77,000 crore. Another IPO is slotted to close on Thursday, while two more will open next week. With a subscription of 149 times, Chemcon Specialty Chemicals’ IPO, that closed on Wednesday, is the year’s second-most subscribed offer, after Happiest Minds’ subscription of 151 times. Chemcon’s Rs 318-crore IPO is also the sixth-most subscribed offer in the last five years, data showed. The IPO for the pharmaceutical-grade speciality chemicals manufacturer generated a book size of Rs 33,200 crore. In the run-up to the offer, Chemcon had mobilised nearly Rs 100 crore from anchor investors. The retail portion was subscribed over 40 times, the non-institutional portion 451 times and the institutional portion 113 times. Meanwhile, the Rs 2,242-crore IPO for CAMS, which also closed on Wednesday, was subscribed 47 times with a book size of Rs 74,037 crore. The Chennai-based company, which is India’s largest registrar & transfer agent of mutual funds, had raised nearly Rs 667 crore from anchor investors a day before the IPO that had opened on Monday. In the CAMS IPO, the retail portion was subscribed 5.4 times, the institutional portion 73 times and the non-institutional portion 112 times. The IPO for Angel Broking, already fully subscribed on its second day, will conclude on Thursday. Offers for UTI Mutual Fund and Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders are scheduled to open next week, merchant bankers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/two-more-hit-ipos-despite-weak-market-conditions/articleshow/78283593.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Two contractors booked after mishap on site||PUNE: Two building contractors were booked for negligence on Wednesday after a worker (40) slipped and fell from the third floor of a site under construction at Mhasoba vasti in Manjri Budruk on September 14. The worker, Santosh Pawar from Chinchwad, fractured his waist in the fall. He is recuperating at Sassoon hospital. Pawar said in the FIR lodged from the hospital bed that he was standing on a wooden plank placed on bamboo sticks and doing plastering work. His left leg slipped and he fell from the third floor of the building. Sub-inspector Sachin Gadekar from the Hadapsar police said an inquiry revealed that the suspects had not taken safety measures at the construction site. He said, “We got information of the incident from the victim’s father after he visited us on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-contractors-booked-after-mishap-on-site/articleshow/78284173.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Business||Move to BS4 likely to shrink premium tractor seg: TMA||Chennai: With tractors in the 50 horsepower (HP) and above range set to migrate to BS4 emission norms from October 2021, higher HP and more premium segment in the market may see a sharp shrinkage. Currently the premium 50 HP and above segment of the market comprises less than 10% of the more than 8,00,000 units a year tractor market. In the ET Auto virtual seminar on the farm equipment sector on Wednesday, industry experts said Rs 1.5 lakh price mark up will make this segment contract even more post BS4 migration. “The share of the premium 50 HP and above segment in the tractor market contracted from 14% in 2010-11 when the last emission deadline came up to now. This time round, when the 50 HP and above segment moves to BS4 — the OEM deadline is October 2021 and the dealer deadline is April 2022 — this segment will shrink once more as farmers will not want to pay 20%-25% extra for a BS4 vehicle,” said TR Kesavan president of Tractor Manufacturers Association. The tractor industry successfully lobbied with the government to extend its BS4 deadline from March 2020 to October 2021 with the dealers allowed another 5 months to liquidate old stock. While the 50HP and above segment will be a test case on how well the market absorbs BS4 technology, there will be loads of potholes along the way. “Maintenance of the vehicle, changing the necessary parts when needed, the usage conditions of a tractor in India and the small farm sizes will all be factors that come into play,” said Raunak Verma, country manager, CNH. Given that Indian farmers often take off the bonnet of their tractors when they use the vehicle so that the bonnet remains gleaming new and gets the vehicle a better after market price, maintenance can be a big issue.As for exports, BS4 will not make a huge difference said Gaurav Saxena, president & CEO-international business, Sonalika Tractors. “Tractor companies are already making vehicles in different emission levels for developed markets like US and Europe so the BS4 migration will impact only domestic sales,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/move-to-bs4-likely-to-shrink-premium-tractor-seg-tma/articleshow/78283299.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 24, 2020||Patna||Headmaster in Bhagalpur axed for smoking in school||BHAGALPUR: Taking strong note of his smoking on the school campus, Bhagalpur district education officer (DEO) Sanjay Kumar suspended headmaster Binod Kumar Singh and recommended for administrative and disciplinary action against him. Action under the provisions of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act (COTPA), is likely to be initiated by the district administration. A video of the headmaster of Madarganj middle school under Sanhoula block, showing him smoking inside on the school campus, was sent to the DEO recently. The DEO ordered a probe besides personally making inquiries from the school employees and teachers. When contacted, the DEO on Wednesday said a complaint was received against the headmaster about his smoking on the campus. A local resident had also sent a video showing him smoking on the campus. He said the allegation was found true. The DEO said smoking is not only an offence as per law, but it is also against the moral and ethics of the school where innocent children get education. The COTPA, 2003 prohibits smoking of tobacco in public places. It is strictly restricted in auditoriums, movie theatres, hospitals, public transport, aircraft, buses, schools, trains, metros, monorails, taxis, airports, bus stands, railway stations, restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, amusement centres, offices (government and private), libraries, courts, post offices, markets, shopping malls, canteens, refreshment rooms, banquet halls, discothèques, coffee houses, educational institutions and parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/headmaster-in-bhagalpur-axed-for-smoking-in-school/articleshow/78283108.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 24, 2020||Business||Nearly 95% of SMEs uninsured: Irdai||Mumbai: Insurance regulator Irdai has said that the Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for insurance in the MSME sector where only 5% of the businesses are insured. To make up for this shortcoming, Irdai will be directing insurance companies to mandatorily offer a standardised cover for this segment. “A standardised product will reduce disputes in interpretation of insurance conditions and make it easier for small businesses to pick up insurance plans. I also urge all businesses to take out group health insurance policies for workers and employees,” said Subhash Chandra Khuntia, chairman, Irdai. He said that such group products were necessary in the interest of workers and also to instill confidence in them at a time when they are afraid to come to the workplace. Speaking the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce’s annual convention series on banking, financial services and insurance, Khuntia said that besides providing protection to businesses insurance helped provide investment resources for the economy. “The insurance industry collects about $100 billion a premium annual and has $600 billion of assets under management, which is available for economic development. This is going to grow phenomenally in the next few years,” he said. Speaking at the same event, LIC MD Vipin Anand said that the pandemic has heightened the awareness of insurance and given the uncertainty protection has become a basic need. “If we have to insure 100 crore Indians in life and health it will require a large amount of automation. We have taken advantage of the pandemic period to re-engineer our work processes. By end of September, we would have digitised all our processes,” said Anand. At the same time, customers were still more comfortable from buying life insurance from someone face-to-face, which would mean that industry would need 50 lakh agents. According to Anand, there was a need to rewrite the policy bond and design one which a lay policyholder can understand, which would help in addressing the trust deficit in respect of products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nearly-95-of-smes-uninsured-irdai/articleshow/78284643.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 24, 2020||Business||Bajaj Finserv launches health mgmt co||Mumbai: Bajaj Finserv has launched a company to enter the managed healthcare space. The financial services group has seen an opportunity in the healthcare sector after the government’s decision to launch the National Digital Health Mission, which involves creating a health ID for every individual and digitised storage of all health records. Announcing the launch of Bajaj Finserv Health, chairman and MD of the holding company Sanjiv Bajaj said the idea was to bring personalised, preventive, and prepaid healthcare to individuals by making all services accessible on a mobile platform. The comprehensive offering has health insurance coverage from Bajaj Allianz General Insurance and a pre-approved health EMI facility from Bajaj Finance, to protect consumers from high medical costs. The company has already empanelled 112 hospital partners, operating 200 hospitals in India, 3 diagnostic and laboratory centres having 671 consumer touch points and over 9,000 doctors registered on the platform. The healthcare services will be provided by these network partners. “The launch of this service could not be more timely as it allows you do a whole lot of things from home,” said Bajaj. Besides managing wellness programmes, the company will also have plans for management of chronic illnesses such as diabetes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-finserv-launches-health-mgmt-co/articleshow/78284461.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 24, 2020||Patna||Rain to continue till Friday in Bihar: Met||PATNA: Widespread rainfall with thunderstorm activities would continue in the state at least for three more days, Patna Meteorological Centre said on Wednesday. Shailendra Kumar Patel, a weatherman at Patna meteorological office, said moderate rainfall occurred at most places while heavy rainfall was reported from north, south-central and south-east parts in state. “This year has the second best monsoon in Bihar in the last 18 years,” he said.  The southwest monsoon is likely to remain active with above-normal rainfall for the next three days in Bihar, he said. Places which received significant amount of rainfall included Taibpur (13cm), Forbesganj and Katihar north (11cm each), Thakurganj, Munger and Khagaria (10cm each) and Kodawanpur, Ramnagar and Sahebpurkamal (9cm each). Patna received 19.2mm rainfall since Tuesday, including 5.4mm between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said moist winds blowing from both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal would trigger fairly widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Bihar till Friday. The condition formed because of the low-pressure area is pushed back to the east by building anticyclone over north-west India, which is prompting the monsoon to withdraw from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-to-continue-till-friday-met/articleshow/78282926.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 24, 2020||Patna||IT cell in Patna University soon: Vice-chancellor||PATNA: Patna University (PU) will soon have a full-fledged information technology (IT) cell for facilitating online transaction of all its essential activities. Soon after joining PU as its new vice-chancellor (VC) here on Wednesday Girish Kumar Choudhary told this newspaper, he was surprised to know that this premier university of the state did not have any IT cell worth the name even though it is supposed to carry out all its admission, examination and monetary transactions online. “How can a university think of attaining greater heights if it fails to keep pace with the fast developing technological changes? The university must have a foolproof arrangement for timely conduct of admission, examinations and results. The importance of IT tools has increased all the more during the present Covid-19 pandemic when all the official business besides academic activities are supposed to be online,” he said, adding, major problems should be found so that the remedial measures might be initiated at the earliest. No stone would be left unturned for improving the work culture of the university and raising its academic standards. Earlier, the officers, staff and teachers welcomed the new VC in his office chamber and extended their full cooperation in the all-round development of the university. The newly appointed pro-VC of PU, Ajay Kumar Singh, is likely to join within a day or two. He is to be relieved from Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University where he is heading the botany department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/it-cell-in-patna-university-soon-vc/articleshow/78282955.cms||B K Mishra
September 24, 2020||Patna||‘No waterlogging even if Patna gets 60mm rain in one day’||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) claims to be in a better position to handle waterlogging problem in several chronic areas in the city with the construction of new drainage lines connecting to pumping stations and other corrective measures taken by its engineering part. The next few days will be a big test for the preparedness as the Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted widespread rainfall and thunderstorm in the state for the next three days. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the new drainage networks have been created in the chronic areas during the last one month. “We had earlier identified water-prone areas and the engineers made temporary plans accordingly to tackle the waterlogging problem. Pipelines have been laid in areas like Rajendra Nagar (road number 2), Arya Kumar Road, Indira Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Thakurbari Road and Nepali Nagar and these networks have been connected to the pumping stations,” he said. “Work is still going on in Patliputra and Bankipore circles. As a result, no waterlogging has been reported from many areas, which were inundated for hours during the monsoon. We are also equipped with portable water pumping sets and temporary pumping stations,” Himanshu told this newspaper.  “There will be no waterlogging even if the city receives 60mm rainfall in a day. It will automatically recede in one hour,” he claimed. As per the PMC survey, there were 91 chronic areas — 21 in Bankipore, 19 each in Patliputra and Azimabad, 17 in New Capital, 13 in Kankarbagh and two in Patna City circles. City manager of Patliputra circle, Kanchan Kumari, said drainage pipes have been laid near Loyola High School while another one is being laid on the other side of the road. “We have also covered Nepali Nagar, Gandhi Nagar (ward number 2), Lalu Nagar and old Patliputra Colony. Both kachha and pakka nullahs were built in these areas as per the requirement while the engineers have also corrected the old drainage network,” she said. SK Mishra, executive officer of Kankarbagh circle, said, “We have the situation largely under control in all chronic areas. Drain augmentations were undertaken and areas were connected to sump houses, including temporary ones, to discharge rainwater.” He said Indira Nagar and Rupaspur area were connected to Saidpur Nullah. “Areas like Ram Krishna Nagar, ward 30 in Meethapur, Bajrangipur and Shri Nagar Colony, where there is no drainage network, have now been connected to the pumping station,” he said. Residents are also happy and heaved a sigh of relief from prolonged waterlogging. Manoj Singh of Ashok Nagar said, “Even the slightest rain used to flood the streets. But in the last few days, we have not witnessed waterlogging in the area.” Utpal Kumar of Arya Kumar Road said, “Finally, the civic body has completed the work and filled the dug up road. The rainwater was drained out in a few minutes. Earlier, we experienced waterlogging for several hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-waterlogging-even-if-patna-gets-60mm-rain-in-one-day/articleshow/78282895.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 24, 2020||Patna||Opposition in Bihar raises pitch against farm bills||PATNA: Protests against the farm-related bills recently passed in the Rajya Sabha seems to be gaining momentum in poll-bound Bihar with opposition parties throwing their weight behind the Bharat Bandh called by farmers groups on September 25. The opposition parties are not only criticizing the NDA government at the Centre for tabling these bills and getting them passed in haste but have also called for their own protests besides supporting the nationwide farmers' agitation. Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has demanded a roll back of the bills failing which his party will hit the roads. “Farmers are on the road and those in the government are sitting in air-conditioned rooms. We have always struggled for the poor, for labourers, farmers and the unemployed. Now we cannot sit and watch you do whatever you want. We will stand with farmers and boost their morale,” Tejashwi said. The state units of the three Left parties are also preparing to join the protest on September 25 in Bihar, an agrarian state. CPI (ML) state spokesperson Kumar Parvez said, “We had demanded loan waivers for farmers and a strict Act on minimum support price, but instead, they have passed those bills which will destroy farmers and will only benefit corporate giants.” CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar said it will not merely be moral support for the agitation, but his party members will be actively participating in the protests across the state. “Farmers have been betrayed,” said Awadhesh. CPI secretary Ram Naresh Pandey said his party members will be supporting farmers against the bills. The Upendra Kushwaha led RLSP has also announced it will be protesting on Friday to support the farmers. RLSP state spokesperson Fazal Imam Mallick said, “ During its formation, our party had raised the slogan of ‘Jai Kisan-Jai Naujawan’ and we will always stand for the farmers.” Congress plans protests against farm Bills: The state Congress has planned a series of events against farm-related bills recently passed by the Centre. Senior party leader Randeep Singh Surjewala will be in Patna on Thursday and address the media against these bills. National Student Union of India, a student wing of Congress has called for a ‘Kisan Adhikar March’ from Sadaqat Ashram up to the chief minister’s residence on Thursday. Youth wing of the party is already protesting across the state and on Monday. They burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar. Party’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said, “We are against these draconian bills which have been passed to harass farmers and benefit few giant corporates.” The party has planned for another protest at its headquarters on September 28 and will observe Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2 as Kisan Mazdoor Diwas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-in-poll-bound-bihar-raises-pitch-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78283056.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: If I join politics it will be to serve people, says ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey||Former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who took voluntary retirement on Tuesday, has created a flutter not only in the state but his decision has also drawn national attention. Pandey spoke at length with Debashish Karmakar on various issues, including why he took the sudden decision to quit and the speculation over his possible plan to enter the poll arena.You have been a public servant in your long career as an IPS officer and the state’s DGP. After retirement, how do you plan to stay connected with the masses and serve society?I will never stay away from serving the common man. There are limitations as a police officer, and one has to work within those limitations. Politics could be a medium to remain connected with the masses. The country runs on politics even the Constitution was the result of political outcomes. However, some people’s actions resulted in a crisis of trust and faith in people who see politicians with doubt. But I will try to set a new example if I enter politics. I will show how people’s confidence is won, how they are served and what being a true leader means. There is a common perception that people get into politics for money. I want to prove it wrong. I don’t deny that I may enter politics, but if I do the ultimate motive would be to solely to serve the common people. I would not enter for power or money. If those were my motives I enjoyed power as DGP and could have earned money being in service. What made you take voluntary retirement just five months before superannuation? And did speaking vociferously on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case prove costly for you?There were several allegations against me that I am acting like a political agent after I spoke on Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. In such a situation, it was not proper for me to continue with the assembly election ahead. Political parties become extra sensitive during an election and a notion was being created against me. In such a situation, even the Election Commission might have been prejudiced against me with several kinds of media reports and political statements. I thought it better to take voluntary retirement so that none could point a finger at me that I am biased. My career has been free from any controversy and none has ever blamed me for being biased. Reports in media were floating since last month about my resignation and received hundreds of calls. So it was better to go for voluntary retirement before the assembly election. You have strongly led the state’s campaign on prohibition in the state. Would you still run such a campaign?I will continue this campaign. Additionally, I will run a campaign for creating awareness among people who fight over caste and religion. Civil society is very much divided on the name of caste, and religion. After 1974, there was no JP movement like thing anywhere that got support from all sections of society because civil society is divided. You can test it by protesting even against a lower rank police officer if he is involved in corruption. You will see that those from his caste would come to his support even after knowing the truth. I want to change this situation. What developments did you bring in the state as DGP?For the first time, chowkidars across the state were brought under the jurisdiction of SPs. A DG team was formed to take important decisions related to state police and its affairs. Police headquarters was set up on the pattern of the secretariat. The institution of DGP has been made much stronger. State government’s order on it has clarified that the DGP is the chief of all police wings. This perhaps makes the post of DGP strongest in Bihar in comparison to any other state. Also, I ended politics and groupism in the state police headquarters. To stop corruption, at least 380 officers were blacklisted, more than 100 got dismissed, more than 1,000 officers are facing proceedings. Both police associations supported me in this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/if-i-join-politics-it-will-be-to-serve-people-ex-dgp/articleshow/78283203.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Ex-serviceman alleges fresh threat calls||MUMBAI: Home minister Anil Deshmukh said Sonu Mahajan, an ex-serviceman from Jalgaon who was allegedly assaulted by BJP MP Unmesh Patil and his supporters in 2016, was now receiving threat calls again. Deshmukh said he received a complaint and said Jalgaon police are investigating the case. Deshmukh recently revived investigations into the incident, in which an FIR was filed in 2019, on the direction of the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court. Deshmukh tweeted, “This is deplorable. I have instructed the Jalgaon Police to probe the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-serviceman-alleges-fresh-threat-calls/articleshow/78284585.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Patna||Students, staff told to wear masks in Bihar||PATNA: The state education department on Wednesday directed the universities to allow the research scholars and postgraduate (PG) students to visit their institutions as per the guidelines of the Union home ministry, taking all precautionary measures against the Covid-19 pandemic. In a circular issued to the registrars of all the universities, the department instructed that not more than 50% of the teachers and non-teaching staff should visit the campus on a working day and only one-third of the scholars be allowed to come to the campus daily. Regular academic activities in colleges and universities shall remain suspended till September 30, but online classes will continue as usual. State higher education director Rekha Kumari told this newspaper that no student, teacher or non-teaching staff from containment zones should be allowed to enter the campus. “The campus, laboratories and classrooms should be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized. All the students and staff have to wear masks and maintain social distancing norms. No such activity should be allowed which creates a crowd. All hostels will remain closed for students during the period,” she added. Earlier, the Union home ministry had ruled that institutions of higher education would open only for PhD research scholars and PG students of technical and professional programmes requiring practical work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-staff-told-to-wear-masks/articleshow/78282837.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Gupteshwar Pandey welcome if he contests election’||PATNA: Bihar Police Association president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh said it would be a welcome step if former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey contests elections. “He will be more efficient in my view as he has the knowledge of policing and law as well as problems faced by the common people,” he said. Singh said if Pandey joins politics, he would not be the first police officers to be so. “Earlier also, several police officers from ASI to senior ranks have contested elections. Some of them won also. Several police officers still in service aspire to contest elections,” he said. But, Singh said, Pandey was the first DGP who reached the common man as well as the police stations across the state. “No other police officer had done so much,” he said. Singh said Shambhu Yadav, who was earlier a constable, is the RJD MLA from Baramhpur and Ravi Jyoti Kumar is JD(U) MLA from Rajgir. Earlier, Som Prakash, who was a sub-inspector, had won from Obra assembly seat as an independent candidate. “Ashok Gupta, Ashish Ranjan Sinha, RR Prasad and DP Ojha were the other DG rank officers or DGP who had contested parliamentary or assembly elections, but could not win,” he said. ‘Nothing to do with rap video’: Former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said he had nothing to do with a rap video song created on him by Muzaffarpur guy named Deepak Thakur. Pandey said the youth had made the video on his own. Thakur, who had participated in a reality show, has created an exclusive video song named ‘DGP Gupteshwar Pandey Robinhood Bihar Ke’. In the video, Pandey has been praised for his policing and lifestyle. The public meeting, work and other activities like yoga and getting ready while wearing uniform in Bollywood style have been shown in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pandey-welcome-if-he-contests-election/articleshow/78283247.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 24, 2020||Patna||BJP, JD(U) guarded on ex-DGP’s possible electoral plunge||PATNA: NDA alliance partners JD(U) and BJP are guarded about their response to former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey veiled indications about a possible plunge into electoral politics as he is yet to declare openly which party he might join to contest the coming assembly election. On the other hand, the lead party of the grand alliance RJD is sure that Pandey will join the NDA camp, but said it would in no way impact the political prospects of the anti-NDA combine. “People of the state have made up their mind to replace CM Nitish Kumar with Tejashwi Prasad Yadav,” RJD spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said. “That he (Pandey) decided to take off his ‘khaki’ uniform for ‘khadi’ is his decision. I think he has made up his mind as to which party he will join,” state Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha said. Pandey took voluntary retirement from the All India Police Service on Tuesday, giving credence to the buzz in the political circles that he will take the political plunge to contest the assembly election. His previous attempt at joining politics had failed when in 2009 he had opted for voluntary retirement but was unsuccessful in getting a BJP ticket to contest in the parliamentary election that year. He later returned to service and in due course became the state’s DGP. For now, both BJP and the JD(U) on Wednesday welcomed his decision to take voluntary retirement. “Everyone has a right to decide one’s life, and so has Pandey. We respect him and his decision,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, without giving anything beyond that. However, JD(U) sources said Pandey, while being at the post of DGP, has given sufficient indication that he might finally join their party. “My inputs suggest that Pandey will join JD(U). Which assembly seat he will contest is not clear,” a party source said. In this regard, the JD(U) circles cited his “proactive support to and campaign for total prohibition in the state” – CM Nitish Kumar’s top concern -- and also the critical step of ordering the filing of the FIR in respect of actor Sushant Singh Rajput that finally led to the apex court ordering CBI investigation into it. However, other than Pandey’s campaign for total prohibition and his stand on Sushant case, the BJP circles were not so forthcoming. “We welcome his decision to take voluntary retirement for giving something back to society. He has the option to do social service, join politics or any other mode of social service that he might choose,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said, adding, if he decided to join the BJP, the party would take a call on it, as it has always welcomed into its rank retired Army and other seniors. In the past, there have been instances of retired IPS seniors hitting big in state’s politics. Retired IG Lalit Vijay Singh contested from Begusarai parliamentary seat on Janata Dal ticket in 1989, and later became minister of state for defence under then PM Chandrashekhar. Retired DGP D N Sahay was made governor of Tripura and Chhattisgarh, while retired DGP D P Ojha came a cropper in parliamentary elections from the Begusarai seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-jdu-guarded-on-ex-dgps-possible-electoral-plunge/articleshow/78283219.cms||Abhay Singh
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Minister opens amenities at Rajendra Nagar Terminal||PATNA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad inaugurated several amenities at Rajendra Nagar Terminal under Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) through videoconferencing on Wednesday. He lauded the railways for providing all kinds of amenities to passengers not only at the Rajendra Nagar Terminal but other stations of the division as well. Prasad inaugurated the 94 coach indication boards, six train indication boards and three coach guidance systems at Rajendra Nagar Terminal platforms. He also inaugurated the VIP lounge and a lift worth Rs45 lakh at platform number 1. Besides, Prasad inaugurated a rare water recycling plant installed at a cost of Rs2 crore there. The Union minister, who happens to be BJP MP from Patna Sahib, assured the railways of all possible assistance to develop and build new double discharge (DD) platforms for the trains at the Hardinge Park site in Patna. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said Rajendra Nagar Terminal has recently bagged silver rating by the Indian Green Building Council for its better upkeep and passenger amenities. The DRM hoped that railways would work hard to get platinum rating for the Rajendra Nagar Terminal next time with the full cooperation of each railway official and staff of the division. Incidentally, Rajendra Nagar Terminal was the first to get silver rating for better upkeep and environment-friendly behaviour in the ECR, the DRM added. Senior divisional commercial manager of Danapur Adhar Raj conducted the programme. Kumhrar MLA Arun Sinha, Bankipur MLA Nitin Navin, Digha MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia, Danapur ADRM Arvind Rajak and other railway officials also participated in the discussion through weblink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-opens-amenities-at-rajendra-nagar-terminal/articleshow/78282813.cms||Kumod Verma
September 24, 2020||Patna||Farm Bills: Won’t sit and watch, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday once again came down heavily on the NDA government over the farm Bills passed by Parliament. Tejashwi said the NDA had promised to double the income of farmers by 2022, but in reality farmers were becoming poorer. He also took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s DNA remark on CM Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly polls. Tejashwi told mediapersons that farmers were already suffering in the country and the new Bills will worsen the situation. “They (NDA) used to say they will not let this country be sold, but now they have sold everything and are preparing to sell farm sectors also to corporates. Where is their promise of doubling the income of farmers by 2022? Food control has gone in the hands of private players,” he said. He said the Bill allows big corporates to directly purchase from farmers. “Are farmers strong enough to bargain from these corporate giants. When farmers cannot protect themselves from middlemen, how will they raise their voice against big players? Again, in case of payment issues, their grievances can be taken to the settlement committee. We know how many rounds a person has to take to get a file moved in a government office. Imagine the harassment of farmers if it involves another district or another state,” he said. The RJD leader said the Bill would further increase the chances of black-marketing as big corporates will store the produce in godown. “The worst thing is that in case of any natural disaster like floods or hailstorm, farmers alone will be bearing the burden of loss and not the company with which they will have a tie-up. We cannot sit and watch,” he warned. Targeting CM Nitish Kumar the in context of Bihar elections, Tejashwi said, “In 2015, why nails and hair were cut and sent for DNA test? Has the report of DNA come? The language which PM had used then for a CM was not appropriate. Still, you (Nitish) are getting posters with him. This shows that Nitish has failed and is now taking the help of Modi ji.” Tejashwi also alleged that public funds were being used in making such posters. Hitting back at Tejashwi, JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad said the opposition was creating an issue for taking political mileage. “In 2006, our government had done away with the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) for the benefit of farmers and the central government is doing the same now. Farmers will be independent to sell their produce anywhere in the country,” he said and added that RJD should also speak on the treatment meted to Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh. “How can they oppose unruly behaviour? RJD is the same party whose party members had bitten late Patna west MLA Navin Kishore Prasad Sinha,” he added. Replying to the DNA barb, Nishad said it was Lalu who had earlier said Jharkhand would be carved out of Bihar on his dead body. “The same Lalu compromised with the Congress and JMM to make his wife the chief minister of Bihar and let that division happen,” Nishad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farm-bills-wont-sit-and-watch-says-tejas/articleshow/78283013.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||SC stays contempt against three former CMs and chief secretary||NAINITAL: In a major relief for the three former chief ministers (CMs) of the state - Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, BC Khanduri and Vijay Bahuguna – as well as chief secretary Om Prakash, the Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday stayed the contempt proceedings against them in the Uttarakhand high court (HC). The Uttarakhand HC had issued show cause notices to the CMs as well as chief secretary after a petition was filed before the court alleging that despite over a year after the HC’s order that directed the former chief ministers to pay the rent for services like bungalow, personal staff and subsidized electricity, they have not complied with the court’s order. The stay from the bench of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, Justice Navin Sinha and Justice Indira Banerjee came while it was hearing two special leave petitions (SLPs) filed by the state government against the HC’s order. The first SLP challenged the judgement of the HC dated June 2020 that declared the provisions of the government’s Act - exempting the former chief ministers of the state from paying dues for sops they enjoyed even after demitting office – unconstitutional. The other SLP challenged the court’s order of May 2019 directing the state to recover dues. After hearing solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta as well as Rakesh Dwivedi who appeared for the state of Uttarakhand, the apex court though dismissed the SLP challenging the judgement of the court that struck down the provisions of the Act, it issued notices to all the parties including the Doon-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK) while hearing the other SLP. RLEK was the petitioner of the PIL in which the court directed the government to recover the dues. The court will now hear the SLPs after four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-stays-contempt-proceedings-against-three-former-cms-and-chief-secretary/articleshow/78282850.cms||Prashant Jha
September 24, 2020||Business||KKR follows Silver Lake, buys 1.3% in Reliance Retail for Rs 5,500 crore||MUMBAI: After Silver Lake invested in Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL), fellow private equity fund KKR too has decided to back India’s largest retailer. The US firm will pump in Rs 5,550 crore for a 1.3% stake of RRVL, the holding company of billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s retail business. The transaction has valued RRVL at Rs 4.2 lakh crore, similar to the value assigned by Silver Lake. With the KKR deal, Ambani has sold a stake of just over 3% in RRVL to external investors for Rs 13,050 crore. The retail unit, established by Ambani in 2006, is part of his sprawling energy-to-telecom conglomerate Reliance Industries (RIL). The foreign money will help RIL finance its acquisitions (it has recently announced the purchase of Future Retail for Rs 24,715 crore and is in discussions to buy majority stake in a few online startups). It will also aid the assault on rivals Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart in the world’s second-most populous country where the Covid pandemic has accelerated a shift in consumer behaviour from brick-and-mortar retail to e-commerce. While Ambani had said that he has received strong interest from investors in the retail business, he had not specified the total quantum of stake he intends to sell in RRVL. He has, however, offered existing financial investors of his digital services and telecom unit Jio Platforms an opportunity to invest in the retail business. Both Silver Lake and KKR had invested in Jio Platforms — the former had put in Rs 10,203 crore (translating into a stake of just over 2% in the company), while KKR had infused Rs 11,367 crore (for a 2.3% stake). More investors are expected to check into RRVL as Ambani increases his focus on the consumer business, which will power the conglomerate’s profits in the coming years. L Catterton, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Saudi Arabia Public Investment Fund and Mubadala — the investors in Jio Platforms — are in discussions to acquire a piece of RRVL, which reported a profit of Rs 5,448 crore on a turnover of Rs 1.6 lakh crore in fiscal 2020. The share-sale in RRVL is part of Ambani’s broader plan of taking the consumer business public. The profile of investors who have invested or speculated to invest in Reliance Retail indicates that they see a lot of synergy between Jio Platforms and the retail business of RIL, said an analyst. Powered by Jio Platforms’ technology, JioMart, Reliance’s online grocery service which was launched in May, aims to digitise mom-and-pop stores, called kiranas, with customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kkr-follows-silver-lake-buys-1-3-in-rel-retail-for-rs-5-6k-cr/articleshow/78283810.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 24, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court adjourns hearing in missing BHU student case||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has adjourned the hearing of a letter turned PIL on the issue of a missing Banaras Hindu University (BHU) student till October 12. Hearing the PIL filed by one Saurabh Tiwari, a lawyer and BHU alumnus, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinker Diwaker and Justice SC Sharma passed the order after hearing both sides. In this letter turned public interest litigation (PIL), the petitioner had raised the incident of alleged disappearance of the student. Superintendent of police (SSP) Varanasi, Amit Pathak, who was earlier summoned by the court, had informed the court that a special team had been constituted to trace the missing student. “The police are sincerely making efforts to get the whereabouts of the missing person. Suitable departmental action has also been taken against erring officers,” the SSP Varanasi submitted before the court. The officer then asked for some more time so that further efforts can be made for searching the missing person. On which the court adjourned the hearing in the case. The court exempted the presence of SSP Varanasi on the next date of hearing. However, the court directed him to ensure that some responsible officer on his behalf must remain present in the court to apprise with the latest progress in the investigation. To recall, Saurabh Tiwari, in his letter addressed to the Chief Justice, had alleged that Shiv Kumar Trivedi, a BSc second year student of BHU, was picked up by the police from the university’s Amphitheatre ground on February 12 on the basis of a fellow student’s call to the UP police integrated emergency response service 112. During the call, the fellow student reported that Shiv Kumar was either unconscious or present at the ground in an unusual way, the PIL said. On an earlier date of hearing, the additional government advocate (AGA), representing the state government, had filed an affidavit and stated that the student, who was at a police station, ran away the next day, i.e., on February 13, 2020. No details in relation to him are available since then. However, later, an apparently mentally challenged person was brought by the police. The police suspected that he may be Shiv Kumar. Therefore, DNA and biometric tests were proposed to be conducted to determine his identity. The court on which summoned SSP Varanasi while observing, “We fail to understand why the police authorities, instead of placing on record all the details relating to the facts that happened on and after February 12 and, more specifically, after the boy ran away from the police station, which fact must have been recorded in the general diary, have filed a vague affidavit.” The court passed this order on September 22 that came to limelight on September 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/court-adjourns-hearing-in-missing-bhu-student-case/articleshow/78282659.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||Rs 306 crore loss: Vadodara rly division taps new resources||Vadodara: One of the money spinners for Western Railway, the Vadodara railway division has faced revenue loss of at least Rs 306 crore between April and September this year owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown that hit railway movement severely.In the last financial year this division had earned Rs 891.73 crore revenue between the same time period of April to September, while in this financial year, it could earn Rs 585.14 only in that period.In absolute terms, the variation comes to Rs 306.59 crore – 34.38 % - less compared to last year.In terms of freight traffic, the revenue loss comes to Rs 102.43 crore as the division has earned Rs 568.50 crore revenue against Rs 670.93 crore that it had earned last year in this period, which they claim is majorly owing to loss of passenger revenue. Against Rs 198.76 crore that it earned from passenger traffic between April 1 and September 22, its earning has reduced to just Rs 12 crore during this period. This has resulted in decline of 93.96 %.It is worth mentioning here that Vadodara is an important junction in the WR network. In the pre-Covid era, more than 230 trains passed through Vadodara railway division.Even as the national transporter has re-started train movement with introduction of special and clone trains, just one dozen pair of trains currently cross the railway division.Sources said that the total number of passengers which stood at 2.78 crore has dropped to 2.5 lakh in the last six months.But the railway division has started making efforts to generate revenue from new businesses.“WR’s multi-disciplinary business development units (BDUs) are constantly exploring new avenues to tap the freight traffic. In continuation to this, BDU of Vadodara division recently transported galvanized boxes as well as mixed general goods to Patna and New Guwahati respectively,” said Khemraj Meena, public relations officer of Vadodara railway division.“Similarly, new traffic of gypsum from Vadodara yard, containers from Dahej, rock-phosphate and edible oil from Kribhco Infrastructure Limited’s private freight terminal at Hazira and imported fertilizer from Dahej has been started recently,” he said.Officials are confident that they will be able to cover up the loss registered in goods revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rs-306-crore-loss-vadodara-rly-division-taps-new-resources/articleshow/78282627.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 24, 2020||Bhopal||Nath to urge Prez Kovind to refuse approval to agri bills||Bhopal: State Congress led by former chief minister Kamal Nath will protest with farmers against the three agricultural reform bills passed by the Union government in the Parliament. Two of the three bills are set to become law after it was passed by the Rajya Sabha on September 20. Nath said that he will draw attention of President Ram Nath Kovind on the issue and appeal that in the interest of farmers, he does not give his assent to the ‘controversial’ bills. In a statement on Wednesday, Nath said, “Whether the Centre or Madhya Pradesh, the BJP governments have always betrayed farmers. Farmers through their hard work and toil have persistently increased agricultural production, but the BJP government failed to provide them with fair price for their produce.”On Thursday, state Congress will hold press conferences in all district headquarters in support of farmers protesting against the bills throughout the country. On Monday (September 28), Congress workers and farmers of Madhya Pradesh will march to Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to the Governor, which will be addressed to the President against the three agri-reform bills – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020.From October 1 to 8, Congress will hold agitations in the district headquarters across the state. On October 10, a rally of Congress party and its farmers wing will be held here in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-to-urge-prez-kovind-to-refuse-approval-to-agri-bills/articleshow/78284165.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Business||Sebi eases rules for rights offers||MUMBAI: To make it easier for listed entities to get more capital, markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday revised fund-raising rules. These include allowing companies to make limited disclosures if they mobilise funds through the rights offer route, provided they met all the disclosure norms. The regulator decided to amend the Sebi (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations “with an objective to make the fund-raising through this route easier, faster and cost-effective,” it said through a release. The amendments allowed companies to make truncated disclosures, provided the company has been filing periodic reports, statements, information in compliance with listing regulations for last one year instead of last three years, as was required earlier. Sebi also allowed companies in which three years have passed after a change in its management. Additionally, Sebi allowed companies raising up to Rs 50 crore to not file the rights offer document with Sebi, up from the earlier limit of Rs 10 crore. Sebi also said that a company could make a fast-track rights issue, in case of pending show-cause notices due to adjudication, prosecution proceedings and audit qualification, “provided that necessary disclosures along with potential adverse impact on the issuer are made in the letter of offer”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-eases-rules-for-rights-offers/articleshow/78283668.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Admin forms task force to boost & monitor facilities across Pune rural||PUNE: A Covid-19 task force has now been assigned the task of reducing the mortality rate in rural Pune. The team, which will be headed by chief technical coordinator for Covid in the state, Subhash Salunke, is expected to carry out an assessment of oxygen supply to all district-run hospitals; telemedicine facilities for patients; and an audit of all hospital deaths so far. The mortality rate in these parts has been at 2.6%. The average mortality rate for Pune district — including Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, the cantonment boards and rural areas — is 2.2%. It should be below 1%, experts said. Salunke said the team's main focus is ensuring rural hospitals are self-sufficient with enough oxygen beds. This is being done to reduce load on city facilities, he said. “Across Junnar, Baramati, Indapur and other talukas, district hospitals will have to have enough oxygen beds and trained specialists. Moreover, oxygen supply at all these hospitals needs to be regulated and monitored by authorities," he told TOI on Wednesday. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said advisories have also been sent out to district hospitals to increase the number of oxygen beds. “Some private hospitals too have been provided help to increase bed numbers,” he said. Officials from the administration said they are reaching out to all district hospitals — across 13 tehsils and 14 municipal councils. A central government advisory has also asked Maharashtra government to boost communication on Covid protection across key districts of Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Sangli and Kolhapur. Communication pointers include use of masks, hand hygiene, physical distancing, de-stigmatisation of the illness and home isolation protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admin-forms-task-force-to-boost-monitor-facilities-across-pune-rural/articleshow/78285270.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 24, 2020||Pune||Hope and healing stem from paints, colours||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Solace in sketching, doodling, or simply gazing at a masterpiece is the balm that many people in these troubled times have found in art as a form of therapy. IT professional Ajay Mohapatra has been indulging in art therapy for a few months and it has helped his emotional health. “Working from home has caused much friction. One has to juggle a lot and it takes a toll on you. My wife and I indulged in art therapy where we expressed ourselves using the canvas, not through words. It helped calm our temperament and reduced the friction that come from always being in each other's way as we spend all the time at home,” he said. Businessman Ray Mathew said he had invested in a catering service in partnership with a friend, but they suffered losses and the business shut down. “The stress as the breadwinner for my family made me miserable and I could not focus on anything. For peace of mind, I started making mandalas with a pen and paper and it helped me focus on the good and let go of the negativity. It helped me gather myself,” he said. Shanti Jha, a lawyer who was laid off, found a way to deal through art. She said the therapy lies in making your own creation. Crayons, poster paints, water colours or even just a pencil and a sheet of paper go a long way in getting there, she added. “You are in the moment, and you let go of your tension and give way to your creativity. I get a sense of achievement when I create something colourful and beautiful and that is soothing when the pandemic has left us all feeling quite helpless,” she said. Pre-primary teacher Sara Abdul said art was a good way for children getting restless at home. “I get many complaints from parents about temper tantrums and bad behaviour. So, I make my students spend time doing art projects to keep them engaged. It helps them calm down and channelises their energy into something creative,” she added. Anubha Doshi, psychologist, mindfulness practitioner and arts-based therapist who conducts regular sessions online, said art therapy helps activate the parasympathetic nervous system which helps restore the body to a calm and relaxed state. “It is important to deal with the stress of the pandemic because doctors say fear compromises the immune system and makes you more susceptible to the infection,” she added. Operators of multi-utility arts venues in the city that have shifted their operations online said that inquires for their art therapy sessions have doubled over the last few months. People signing up for art-based classes have also increased by 100%, and many companies are having these sessions for their employees. Forum Sampat, who runs an event company specialising in art-based events, said,“During the lockdown, we conducted online virtual get-togethers, and corporate sessions. We have modified the format to use only a black pen and paper since participants could not source painting materials,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hope-and-healing-stem-from-paints-colours/articleshow/78285274.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Business||B2B SaaS cos weather the Covid-19 storm||Chennai: As businesses battle the fallout of Covid-19, 2020 is turning out to be a landmark year for majority Software as a Service (SaaS) businesses as increasing digitization and growing acceptance of remote work has made on-demand software an essential. Software in the areas of collaborative work, productivity management, and video conferencing solutions are seeing explosive growth globally. Analysts, investors, and entrepreneurs TOI spoke to said SaaS startups serving certain verticals have already met their year-end business goals and have seen almost 30%-50% growth during the past few months. Some have even gone on to seal million dollar deals and report almost 100% conversion rates. B2B SaaS startups, with focus on capital efficiency and sound unit economics, are better suited to weather such an economic crisis compared to consumer-centric ventures with insufficient cash runways and reliance on external funds, experts said. Classplus, a software provider for teachers and coaching institutes, says they have already achieved their year-end goals this year and grown over 500% in the past six months. With targeted marketing spends, SaaS players were able to optimise costs and operate efficiently during the pandemic, Mukul Rustagi, co-founder, Classplus, said. Facilio, a Chennai-based IoT SaaS startup for property management says revenue in the last four months has exceeded what they made in the 12 months prior to the pandemic. “Businesses are trying to stay afloat and sail through the pandemic. SaaS tools that are critical to run operations efficiently cannot be compromised and hence we don’t see discontinuation of subscriptions,” Prabhu Ramachandran, co-founder, Facilio, said. Facilio has signed four large enterprise deals in the period, he added. SaaS major Zoho said they had made conservative estimates at the onset of the pandemic but “they are doing much better than what they estimated at the start of the pandemic.” Businesses optimise costs and seek operational efficiencies during a crisis and will continue to subscribe for products that are critical to them, Praval Singh, VP- Marketing at Zoho, said. The pandemic has brought out the mission critical nature of SaaS for businesses, Shripati Acharya, Managing Partner, Prime Venture Partners, said. “In some sense servicing SaaS subscriptions is higher imperative to a business than even senior debt,” he said. B2B SaaS is a top investment area for the VC firm currently. At a time when consumer-oriented B2C startups are restructuring and going through layoffs owing to fall in discretionary spends, Clickpost, an e-commerce logistics provider, says their team size increased by almost 50% since June. “The last three months have been the best in terms of revenue for us since our launch in 2015,” Naman Vijay, co-founder, Clickpost, said. In an otherwise sober market, B2B software startups were second only to edtech in raising funds during the lockdown. As per Venture Intelligence, April to August 2020 saw 47 deals from the segment valued at $605 million- almost same as the $700 million raised in the same period last year. Thiyagarajan M, partner of Upekkha, a SaaS accelerator, says this is also due to SaaS founders’ fierce focus on revenue rather than other metrics such as MAUs or DAUs. “People used to talk of capital efficiency and unit economics as ‘nice to have’ earlier, but post-Covid, we may see it become a ‘must have’,” he said. Upekkha has received almost 250 applications from B2B SaaS startups for its upcoming batch compared to 100 pre-Covid.Globally, SaaS players such as Zoom, Shopify, and others are the biggest gainers of the pandemic, and 2020 is expected to be the biggest year for software IPOs with Snowflake, Unity Software, JFrog, and Sumo Logic slated to go public this month, and Palantir and Asana to follow soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/b2b-saas-cos-weather-the-covid-19-storm/articleshow/78283277.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Man develops device to rescue children trapped in borewells||Nagapattinam: Dejected over the death of 2-year-old boy Sujith Wilson at Manapparai in Trichy district, who was stuck in an abandoned bore well nearly a year ago, a 40-year-old man has invented a device to rescue children from borewells. S Nagendran, a resident of Kanni Chetti Street in Velankanni, running a lathe workshop has designed the device fitted with a camera to lift children from the borewell by monitoring through a laptop. He has expressed hope that he could rescue children from the trap within 30 minutes after reaching the spot. “I have experimented with the device several times using dolls of different weights and sizes. Only after I was satisfied, I have brought this design to the notice of the general public”, he added.He also demonstrated it at his workshop in front of the public, the way the device works. He had spent Rs 20,000 to develop the equipment, he further stated. He also appealed to the district administration to grant permission to use his device in case of any such emergencies after confirming its working method.“I felt really sad when the entire efforts put forth by the government machinery to rescue the boy Sujith from the narrow bore well in Manapparai went futile. On the day of his death, I decided to develop a device that would never let any child die in a bore well. I started to develop the device and finally, I succeeded in my efforts”, Nagendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-develops-device-to-rescue-children-trapped-in-borewells/articleshow/78285272.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Rough sea wreaks havoc along Palolem coast||Poinguinim: Strong waves pounded the Palolem coastline over the past four days, damaging several seaside properties and washing away retaining walls. Areas at Ourem were also affected. “Owners of seaside properties only stared helplessly as the high tide and consequent sand erosion weakened their retaining walls,” said Sanju Pagi, a resident. The tide rose to around seven feet, locals said, severely affecting properties along the coastline. They also attributed the damage to rampant sand excavation on the beach and urged the councillors concerned to stem such activity and make people aware of its repercussions. Deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes inspected the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rough-sea-wreaks-havoc-along-palolem-coast/articleshow/78285300.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt transfers many civil surgeons||PATNA: Altogether 1,598 new Covid-19 cases and one more official death were registered in Bihar while the state health department transferred several medical officers on Wednesday. The state Covid tally reached 1,73,063 and the toll mounted to 874. Patna has reported 201 deaths so far. Of the new cases, 219 were registered in Patna. However, 1,58,546 patients have recovered, leaving 13,641 active cases in the state. The state’s recovery rate stood at 91.61%. Health minister Mangal Pandey said 1,490 people had recovered and 1,75,585 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. So far 62,43,612 samples have been tested in Bihar, Pandey claimed. AIIMS-Patna reported four more deaths. The deceased included a 52-year-old woman from Patna, a 60-year-old man from Motihari, an 80-year-old from Triveniganj and a 57-year-old man from Chhapra. Hospital’s Covid-19 incharge, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 11 patients were discharged and 17 new were admitted. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna like Jakkanpur, Agamkuan, Rajeev Nagar and Mogalpura in Sampatchak. Muzaffarpur (89), Purnea (72), Supaul (71), Gopalganj (66), Madhepura (62), Lakhisarai (59), Araria (58), Saharsa (57) and West Champaran (55) were among the districts with substantial number of fresh cases. Meanwhile, Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Choudhary will replace Dr Vibha Kumari Singh as additional chief medical officer (ACMO) of Patna. Dr Vibha has been made the Patna civil surgeon. ACMO Buxar Dr Kamal Kishore Rai has been made the civil surgeon of Gaya and ACMO Saran Dr Saroj Kumari Singh will be civil surgeon of East Champaran. Similarly, ACMO Saharsa Dr Rook Narayan Kumar has been shifted to Araria as civil surgeon. Dr Satyendra Kumar Gupta will be civil surgeon of Samastipur. Dr Pashupati Prasad Singh, who was the medical officer at Karzan additional PHC at Athmalgola in Patna, has been made the superintendent of Guru Gobind Singh Sadar Hospital. Dr Nikarika Sharan, medical officer of chest clinic at Gardanibagh, will be regional deputy director (health services), Patna division. Dr Janardan Prasad Sukumar, ACMO Rohtas, will be additional director of TBDC, Agamkuan. Senior resident at JLNMCH, Dr Anil Verma, has been made director-in-chief (administration) and NMCH senior resident Dr Kaushal Kumar has been made director-in-chief (family welfare, infant and maternal health). Dr Umeshwar Prasad Verma, additional director (health services) Bihar, has been made director-in-chief (mental health, disaster management and medicine control).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-transfers-many-civil-surgeons/articleshow/78282751.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Trains from Jayanagar to Nepal by December||PATNA: Train services between Jayanagar in Bihar and Kurtha in Dhanusa district of Nepal are likely to be started in mid-December this year. This has become possible as railways has handed over two rakes of diesel electric multiple unit (DEMU) passenger trains to Nepal on Saturday last. Railways intends to start passenger train services in the first phase between Jayanagar and Kurtha, a stretch of 34km, and then further up to Bardibas in Nepal, a stretch of 68km from Kurtha. Work on this stretch is going on. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL) had signed an agreement with Nepal’s Department of Railways way back on May 10, 2019 to deliver two rakes of DEMU passenger trains to Nepal. Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai has designed and manufactured these rakes with the hauling capacity of 1600 HP each. These two modern rakes fitted with all kinds of amenities have been manufactured at a cost of Rs52.46 crore, he said. ‘Each train will run with the load combination of at least five coaches, including one airconditioned. KRCL chief mechanical engineer Deepak Tripathi was personally present at Jayanagar station to deliver the two rakes of DEMU to Nepal’s department of railways officially . These DEMU trains are fit to run at 110km/ hour on the tracks which have been built by Ircon with financial support from Government of India (GoI) under the India-Nepal Development Partnership programme, the CPRO said, adding the ministry of external affairs of India has, however, funded this project at a cost of Rs787 crore . Dwelling on the multiple features and importance of DEMU passenger trains, CPRO said the advanced rakes of DEMU have the advantage to operate train services from both ends without reversing locomotives. These rakes have the riding comforts for passengers. People of both the countries will have opportunities to visit the holy city of Janakpur now by train, he said, adding train connectivity between Jayanagar and Janakpur had existed five years back on the narrow gauge rail lines. Director general of Nepal railway department Balram Mishra hoped that the train services between Jayanagar and Kurtha would benefit most people of these two neighbouring countries. Besides, the train services will be extended up to Bardibas soon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trains-from-jayanagar-to-nepal-by-december/articleshow/78283071.cms||Kumod Verma
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Liquor seized from school, headmaster and cook held||MOTIHARI: A police team recovered 169 cartons of India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 12 lakh from the government middle school at Kashi Pakadi village under Rajepur police station in East Champaran on Tuesday night. Pakaridayal SDPO Sunil Kumar Singh, who led the raid, said the headmaster, husband of an assistant teacher and a cook of midday meal of this school were arrested in this connection. They were being quizzed about the liquor smuggler who had stored the prohibited item in the classrooms of the school. The SDPO told this newspaper on Wednesday that he got a specific information at 9.30pm that someone had unloaded huge quantity of liquor from a pickup van and stored the bottles in the classrooms with the connivance of teachers and staff of the school. He rushed to the spot with Rajepur SHO called school headmaster Sheo Shankar Prasad to unlock the rooms. The police seized 1200 litres of IMFL packed in 169 cartons there. Some locals informed the police that they had seen people carrying the cartons on their bikes. The SDPO said the headmaster, the husband of a woman assistant teacher and the cook of this school were involved in this racket. The cook lives in front of the school. The police were investigating whether liquor smugglers of Motipur in Muzaffarpur were involved in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-seized-from-school-headmaster-and-cook-held/articleshow/78283128.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar meets JD(U) workers for 8 hours||PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked the party workers, especially ticket seekers, to accept wholeheartedly the decision in selection of candidates for the forthcoming assembly polls due in October-November. “Having a desire to contest the election is not a bad idea. Every worker can have such desire. But once the party names a person as the JD(U) or NDA candidate from a particular constituency, every party worker and office-bearer must support that nominee,” Nitish told the ticket seekers at the party’s state headquarters. The workers had one-on-one meeting with the party president for around eight hours,” JD(U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya told TOI. Majority of the workers had reached the party office with their biodata and desire to contest the election on the JD(U) symbol. A large number of women workers, including former MPs Meena Singh and Ashwamegh Devi, also met Nitish. Manju Verma, who was removed as social welfare minister after her husband’s name cropped up in Muzaffarpur shelter home case, also met Nitish. But Verma did not reveal the reason behind her meeting with the party chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-meets-jdu-workers-for-8-hours/articleshow/78283095.cms||Madan Kumar
September 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ticket prices for Darbhanga flights double in 2 days||PATNA: The air ticket prices from Darbhanga to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai has more than doubled in just a couple of days after the bookings for debut flights to and from the north Bihar town started. On Monday, the tickets for one-way journey on all sectors from Darbhanga was available at Rs3,799. The prices surged by 114% on Delhi and 133% on Mumbai and Bengaluru routes. One ticket for Delhi-Darbhanga flight is now in Rs8,132-9,330 range while tickets for Mumbai-Darbhanga and Bengaluru-Darbhanga routes were available between Rs8,866 and Rs10,066. As per the schedule, the commercial flight operations from Darbhanga airport would commence on November 8, following the completion of ongoing work on the airstrip and civil enclave. The maiden flight from Bengaluru, SG- 493, would reach Darbhanga at 11.15am and take off for Bengaluru at 4.25pm. An airline executive at Delhi told this newspaper on Wednesday that the response to and from Darbhanga airport has been encouraging. “The passenger rush on all sectors is high due to festive season and also because people want to travel to their workplaces or hometowns in north Bihar. Many are booking tickets to experience the maiden flight journey to and from Darbhanga,” the executives said. Talking about the ticket prices, he said, “Prices change due to the availability of seats and demand. Airlines have different bucket fare for economy coach, business and first-class. The airlines start with low prices to fill the minimum capacity. The minimum bucket price for Darbhanga route was Rs3,799. If the prices on all sectors are high, it means the demand is also high.” Commercial flight operations from Darbhanga airport would be a boon for 22 districts of north Bihar, including Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Champaran, Saharsa and Purnea. People of Mithilanchal region are elated over the scheduled commencement of flight operations. Pankaj Roy of Darbhanga said, “The cost of debut flight is already soaring high. I think it would defeat the purpose of Udan scheme.” Sanjeev Kumar, who booked ticket from Mumbai to Darbhanga, was happy that he would not have to pay extra money to reach his hometown. “Earlier, I took the flight from Mumbai to Patna and from there I used to go by road. But with the commencement of flight from my hometown, I don’t have to spend much money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ticket-prices-for-darbhanga-flights-double-in-2-days/articleshow/78283280.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 24, 2020||Business||60% of business from outside of cities, says Airbnb CEO||BENGALURU: Covid-19 has altered the travel industry “irreversibly” and it’s getting redistributed, with 60% of Airbnb’s business now coming from outside of the cities, said co-founder and CEO Brian Chesky. He said India is a very important hub for Airbnb, one of the most valued startups in the world, and he is extremely bullish on India. The India office and subsidiaries of Airbnb, which has also invested in Oyo Hotels and Homes, not only focus on the local region but also on global guest and host operations, Chesky said. He was speaking at the Economic Times’s Global Business Summit event on Wednesday. “I am extremely bullish on India. I think to invest in the India market is to be making a long-term investment in what is and will be one of the largest economies and one of the largest travelling publics in the world,” said Chesky, who has also filed with US regulators to take the company public. His comments come at a time when the travel and hospitality industry has been one of the worst-hit sectors by the virus outbreak in India and globally. The sector is expected to take longer than others to recover to pre-Covid levels of business. “There is a general shift in consumer taste, at least right now, which is...shifting away from things that are really big, mass and industrial to things that are smaller, more intimate and human scale,” he added. The company is also seeing more people travelling to nearby locations through cars and trains, than through flights owing to the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/60-of-biz-from-outside-of-cities-says-airbnb-ceo/articleshow/78284399.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Business||Platform synergies drive KKR’s bet on Reliance Retail||BENGALURU: Synergies between Mukesh Ambani’s telecom and retail businesses is driving global investors to make a bet on both the platforms. KKR’s $750-million, or Rs 5,500-crore, investment in Reliance Retail comes after it put $1.5 billion into Jio earlier. KKR is picking up a 1.3% stake in Reliance Retail at a valuation of $57 billion, or Rs 4.21 lakh crore, same as the Silver Lake deal, which also invested in both the retail and telco businesses. Reliance Retail had been on KKR’s radar, but the broader strategy became clear once the US-headquartered firm closed the Jio deal in May. Reliance has offered investors in Jio a chance to first pick up share in Reliance Retail as well. “As we evaluated Jio, their plans for new commerce and JioMart piqued our interest in Reliance Retail, which we have been looking at closely since the deal closed because there are a lot of complementarities,” KKR India MD Rupen Jhaveri, who also worked on the Jio deal, told TOI. The deal will make KKR’s total investment in Reliance units to $2.3 billion. In April, Jio had raised $5.7 billion by selling about 10% stake to Facebook in a deal which also included a commercial partnership between Reliance Retail and messaging service WhatsApp, which is owned by the Silicon Valley-based social media giant. WhatsApp, with 400 million active users in India, is expected to play a key role for JioMart to ramp up online ordering. JioMart, which so far sells grocery, has seen a peak of 4 lakh daily orders in July, it said. In addition to direct delivery, JioMart is also partnering with kirana stores to become merchants on the platform by offering them inventory and credit, besides customer orders. This part of the business also allows Reliance Retail to get a piece of the unorganised retail market, besides growth in organised retail and e-commerce. “For us, this investment is a play on two key trends — the unorganised to organised shift, and the digitisation of the Indian economy driven by the middle class,” said KKR India CEO Sanjay Nayar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/platform-synergies-drive-kkrs-bet-on-reliance-retail/articleshow/78283728.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||EBC students demand hostels in big cities||PUNE: Despite a sanction for hostel facility for students belonging to economically backward class (EBC), the facility has not come up in the city so far yet. Students belonging to this category who come to Pune for higher studies have been finding it difficult to find accommodation. The students have written to the higher education department about the lack of facilities for EBC. The Surajya Vidyarthi Sanghatna, a union of students, has been approaching the education department regarding the hostel facility. Aman Ekad of the organisation said, “Hundreds of students come to Pune for education every year. So many of them are from lower economic background. When they do not get into hostels, they have to sometimes leave the city and go back to their hometowns.” The appeal by the sanghatna has been forwarded to the regional higher and technical education department. It has demanded that a hostel of 1,000 capacity for girls and boys has to be built for the benefit of the students. Ekad had filed a Right to Information plea to the department regarding the sanctioned hostels for Maharashtra in 2018. The administrative officer Dhairyasheel Kardekar responded to the RTI with districtwise action of the hostel intake that had capacity of 1,100 students 100 each in 11 districts. Ekad said, “I have a copy of the notification that the state education department issued in 1973 for building hostels for EBC category students which has stated that hostels should be provided with free lodging and boarding to the students. The strength of these hostels will be 100 students and these should start functioning on the norms set for backward class hostels by the state government. This matter is pending since so many years now.” In the notification issued in 1973, it was also stated that a section for warden, senior clerk, junior clerk, peon, maid servant, watchman, sweeper, cook, part time visiting medical officer. A sanction of Rs 60,000 was accorded per annum to per hostel. When contacted director of higher and technical education, Dhanraj Mane, said, “The matter has been forwarded to the regional directors of the education department in Mumbai and Pune. They shall act upon it at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ebc-students-demand-hostels-in-big-cities/articleshow/78284164.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 24, 2020||Business||Kotak to be IL&FS head for 1 more year||MUMBAI: The government on Wednesday issued a notification enabling Uday Kotak to continue as chairman of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS) for one more year from October 3, 2020. The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 prohibits a banking company to be managed by anyone who is a director of any other company. The RBI can make an exemption for a maximum period of a year. This exemption was made use of until October 2, 2019, following which a government notification was issued to grant another year’s extension. tnn Given that the resolution of IL&FS’s debt is expected to take some more time because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has extended Kotak’s appointment by another year. Kotak was brought in as chairman of the government-appointed board after the earlier management was dismissed following a debt crisis. The company has debt of over Rs 90-crore, bulk of which is with the transportation business. This extension is a step towards fulfilling the national and public duty, entrusted on the new IL&FS board, to resolve one of India’s largest financial sector challenges — comprising of over 300 companies in the group”, said Sharad Goel, spokesperson, IL&FS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-to-be-ilfs-head-for-1-more-year/articleshow/78283519.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLA raises corruption issue||DEHRADUN: Lohaghat BJP MLA Puran Singh Fartyal on Wednesday accused the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government of favouring a contractor and stalling development works in his constituency. During the assembly session, Fartyal alleged that he “would not succumb under pressure” being enforced by his own government and would raise the issue before party's national chief JP Nadda. This is not the first instance when Fartyal has raised this issue. Previously, he had written letters in this regard to JP Nadda and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. He had also met BJP's state chief Bansidhar Bhagat to discuss the issue. After coming out of the assembly, Fartyal said, “Under the rule 58 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly, I brought a work adjournment motion for a debate on the key issue.” He added that the Tanakpur-Jauljibi road (a project estimated at Rs 123 crore) near the Nepal border has been in the thick of controversy for the last three years. “The state government had also ordered a probe. In the probe, several wrongdoings were found and it came to fore that the contractor got the tender using forged documents,” Fartyal said. He pointed out that action was taken against 20-odd officials, who were either suspended or named in the FIR. Thereafter, the tender was scrapped and matter went into arbitration. “Though the tender was taken on forged documents, the arbitration was in favour of the contractor and rather than making an appeal against the decision, the project was once again awarded to the same contractor,” the MLA added. “Now, instead of blacklisting the contractor, the state government and officials have joined hands with him. This is definitely tarnishing the image of the party, which claims to have zero tolerance for corruption,” said Fartyal, who is a two-time MLA from Lohaghat. He added that he suspects “there has been a fraud of at least Rs 20 crore to Rs 30 crore in the project.” “The cost the works have been increased manifold and all this has been done to benefit the contractor,” he added. The BJP legislator claimed that he was being “targeted” by his own government for raising voice against the contractor. “They are putting pressure on me but these tactics will not work. A legislator can raise questions in assembly but here too, I have been denied an opportunity. However, I will again raise this question in the next session and continue to do so till justice is delivered. I want a probe into the matter by a Special Investigation Team.” When asked about the issue, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik — who is also the state government spokesperson — said, “Fartyal’s request for a debate in the matter was turned down by the House as the case is still sub-judice.” Earlier, the state unit had served a notice to Fartyal for his statement and sought an explanation from him. Recently, Fartyal had appeared before the state leadership in Dehradun and recorded his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-embarrassment-for-bjp-partys-mla-alleges-high-level-corruption-in-key-road-near-nepal-border/articleshow/78282873.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 24, 2020||Patna||NMCH awaits Bihar govt nod to make eye bank functional||PATNA: The newly established eye bank in the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) awaits the state government’s nod to become functional. This eye bank was inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar through videoconferencing on Tuesday. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said since it was declared a dedicated Covid hospital by the state government and treatment of all other diseases were suspended, a fresh permission would be required to make the eye bank functional on the same premises. The eye bank and corneal transplant facility in this hospital would cater to the needs of a large population of western Patna and Patna city. Singh said there was a decrease in the number of Covid patients in the hospital in recent weeks some new directions, including resumption of treatment of other diseases, was expected from the government. Dr Rajesh Tiwari, head of the eye department, said the eye bank, once functional, would prepare the list of donors and the patients needing corneal transplant. Cornea is the clear and outer front surface layer of the eye. The counsellors of eye department will also visit other hospitals to get donors from among the terminally ill patients admitted there. Tiwari said the old operation theatre of the eye department would be used for corneal transplant. The department has experts of corneal transplant. He said the NMCH became the fourth government hospital in the state capital after PMCH, IGIMS and Rajendra Nagar eye hospital to have the eye bank facility. "Soon, we will request organ transplant committee of the state for seeking registration,” said Tiwari. Any damage to cornea by accident, malnutrition or some serious diseases leads to total or partial blindness. In such cases, cornea is transplanted for restoring the vision, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nmch-awaits-govt-nod-to-make-eye-bank-functional/articleshow/78282869.cms||VK Tripathi
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur for setting up coconut value addition centre||Thanjavur: Thanjavur district administration has proposed to set up a coconut value addition centre in Pattukottai in Thanjavur to boost farmers’ income. The centre will have facilities to prepare coconut powder, dry coconut, virgin coconut oil, for facility for refrigeration of coconuts and packaging facility to market tender coconut water and neera.Coconut is cultivated in around 95,000 acres in Thanjavur district, particularly in Pattukottai and surrounding areas such as Peravurani, Orathanadu, and Sethupavachathiram.Several coir factories that produce coir pith and coir blocks have been functioning in the district for many years. However, in the aftermath of the cyclone Gaja, the number of coconut trees drastically came down. But with the help of the various efforts made by the government, farmers have managed to revive the coconut cultivation again. Although, in the case of coir production, several units which were destroyed by Gaja are still struggling revive, producers said. After inspecting some coir units in Pattukottai, the collector said that to stabilize the coconut farmers’ income, the district administration was planning to encourage farmers to engage in production of value-added products."We had a discussion with the officials concerned and proposed to establish a coconut value addition centre in Pattukottai. The proposal has been forwarded to the government for consent", the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-for-setting-up-coconut-value-addition-centre/articleshow/78285297.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 24, 2020||Pune||MahaMetro finalizes sites of two pedestrian bridges||PUNE: The locale of the two cable-stayed pedestrian bridges across the Mutha for Metro passengers from the Peth areas has been finalized — the first would be from Sambhaji Garden to close to Omkareshwar temple, while the other would start from the approach of Baba Bhide bridge and land near Pulachiwadi, on the other side of the river. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) finalized their location following reviews over the past couple of days. The first bridge would connect the Sambhaji Garden Metro station to the Peth areas. The other would connect the Deccan Gymkhana station to the other side of the Mutha. The bridges would provide direct access to commuters from the Peth areas and the city’s other central localities to the Metro stations. Those who just want to cross the river and not travel in the Metro would also have access to the pedestrian bridges. An official of the MahaMetro said the pillars of the bridges would not land in the river but would come up on the either side of the Mutha. One of the bridges would resemble a tanpura, representing the musical and cultural heritage of the city. Another official from the MahaMetro said, “The Peth areas have significant presence of educational institutes and a lot of residents from there go to other areas of the city for work. They will be able to reach the Metro stations without any hassles through the pedestrian bridges.” The Metro route has been aligned along the Mutha river on the Deccan Gymkhana-Balgandharva Rangmandir stretch with two stations — Deccan Gymkhana and Sambhaji Garden — on the riverfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-finalizes-sites-of-two-pedestrian-bridges/articleshow/78285304.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 24, 2020||Allahabad||UP Board: 80% parents don’t want their kids back in school||PRAYAGRAJ: Parents of around 80% students enrolled in 1,079 UP Board secondary schools in Prayagraj district are not ready to send their kids back to school to get guidance from teachers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The fact came to light after UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla directed district inspectors of schools (DIOS) to seek a written agreement from parents about their willingness to send their children back to schools amid the pandemic. As schools remain shut due to Covid-19 and schools conducting classes online, the move was to enable students to interact with their teachers about any problems they might be facing. “We contacted parents of 3,42,657 students from classes IX-XII whose homes were not located in containment zones. Among those contacted, parents of just 71,958 (21%) students agreed to let their children go back to schools and meet their teachers. The remaining 79% parents were still unsure about their children’s safety given the threat of Covid-19,” said DIOS (Prayagraj) RN Vishwakarma. The initiative was taken after the UP Board secretary sought a report from DIOS on September 20 about parents who were ready to voluntarily send their children to schools for just a few hours so that the teachers could guide the students. Around 1.25 crore students are enrolled in class IX-XII in more than 28,000 UP Board schools in the state. “In Prayagraj, 3,53,961 students are enrolled in 1,079 schools. Of these, 1,023 schools are located outside containment zones and have enrolled 3,42,657 students in classes VI-XII. The number of UP Board schools outside containment zones in Prayagraj is 56,” Vishwavarma added. The officer said that through an awareness drives, parents of 2,65,153 students have been made aware of the various academic content being made available for their children by the government through various online mediums. Principal of KV (IIIT-A. Jhalwa ) Vijeyesh Pandey said that the schools had also asked its students’ parents if they were willing to send their kids back to school. “We had send out online forms for collect feedback. Over 95% of the parents were not ready to send their children back to school even if it was to get their doubts cleared or getting guidance,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-board-80-parents-dont-want-their-kids-back-in-school/articleshow/78282790.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Four arrested for betting on IPL matches in Ajmer||Ajmer: Police on Wednesday arrested four accused for betting on IPL matches and seized a laptop and mobiles as well as a record sheet, which has details about the money.According to sources, police raided a shop at Hindu Mochi Mohalla in Dargah Bazaar on a tip-off. They found that four accused were involved in betting on an IPL mach. Police arrested Sheikh Munna, 32, Asraar Ahmad, 27, Mohammad Asar, 25, and Mohammad Sharukha, 24, all residents of Dargah Bazaar. Police seized Rs 3,150, two mobiles and a laptop. A cop said that they are now looking for the kingpin behind this betting racket in Rajasthan as these four accused were bookies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-arrested-for-betting-on-ipl-matches-in-ajmer/articleshow/78284182.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Crude oil flows into paddy field as ONGC pipe develops leak||Tiruvarur: Oil spill from an underground pipeline of ONGC carrying natural gas damaged a fertile land where a farmer raised samba paddy in Tiruvarur district on Wednesday. A team of officials inspected the field and attended the damage to plug the leakage. According to sources, the spillage was reported on a land parcel owned by Dhanasekaran, 60, a farmer of Erukattur village in Tiruvarur who had cultivated samba paddy on an acre. ONGC had laid down pipelines underneath the field for transporting crude oil extracted from ONGC’s oil wells in various places in Tiruvarur district. The crude oil is being collected and processed at Narimanam near Karaikal.On Wednesday, crude oil leakage appeared on the surface of the land parcel. The aggrieved farmer, who had lost his 30-day paddy crop, said that the oil spill has damaged the crop raised on one acre. “Without removing the soil from the surface, I cannot carry out cultivation in my land,” he said.The ONGC Cauvery asset officials were subsequently alerted and a team of officials rushed to the spot and inspected the field and immediately plugged the leakage. Koothanallur tahsildar Mahesh visited the spot. A similar leakage on the same field destroyed crops cultivated on 5 acres in 2018, Dhanasekaran said. “Oil spillage was huge last time, which turned the entire soil infertile. Based on my appeal, ONGC offered Rs 75,000. However, I had to spend more money to replace the entire soil from the surface. So, the corporation should provide appropriate compensation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crude-oil-flows-into-paddy-field-as-ongc-pipe-develops-leak/articleshow/78285275.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Brother-in-law murder suspect||Pune: The Jejuri police are searching for a man in connection with the murder of his 45-year-old sister-in-law late on Monday night. The victim’s daughter has lodged an FIR accusing her uncle of trying to force himself on her mother and killing the latter when she resisted, police said. Assistant inspector Ankush Mane of the Jejuri police said the man had been staying with his brother in a village near Jejuri after his wife and children left him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brother-in-law-murder-suspect/articleshow/78284177.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Travel on NH-66 risky due to waterlogging||MANGALURU: National Highway-66, which connects Mangaluru and Karwar, is infamous for the number of fatal accidents reported in the recent years, a tragic consequence of the unscientific manner that the road has been constructed in. Several stretches along the 270-kilometre road between the two cities on the Karnataka coast are completely waterlogged. Praveenchandra Shetty, who chronicled the experiences and travails of journeying on Indian roads in the book ‘Road Traffic Accidents on Indian Motorways’, explained the underlying cause for waterlogging being a recurrent problem along thoroughfares in the country, particularly in those regions where the terrain was uneven. “When the surface of the road is inclined towards the median, it results in water stagnating on the road, regardless of whether the surface is asphalt or concrete. Stagnant water is the silent enemy on the road,” said Shetty. Water stagnated on the roads often splashed on to the windsheilds of cars and the helmets of two-wheeler motorists, blurring the vision of those driving, which, in turn, increases the chance of an accident, he said. The resistance that standing water offers to seamless motion of vehicles is another reason that leads to accidents, including fatal ones, Shetty added. “The vehicle, on encountering this hurdle, changes the direction of travel causing the driver to panic. As a result, the vehicle slips out of control and the result is often a fatal accident. In most cases, the driver tends to crash the vehicle into the median, which in most cases results in death,” he added. In the past year, four people were killed in two accidents reported on the stretch between Surathkal and Udupi along the highway. Of the four people who lost their life on the road, three were students of Manipal Academy of Higher Education. Shetty attributed the misconstruction of the roads to the mistakes made by the National Highways Authority of India at a fundamental level. “The angle of banking for the roads and super-elevation are grossly miscalculated. Many of the highways were upgraded to allow travelling at a speed of up to 120kmph. Such technical defects will prove fatal to commuters in the near future if the errors are not rectified post-haste. Waterlogging will remain a concern on these highways for some time in the future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/travel-on-nh-6-risky-due-to-waterlogging/articleshow/78282911.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 24, 2020||Pune||Nashik hospital, cardiologist told to pay Rs 12 lakh in medical negligence case||PUNE: The state consumer commission has directed the government-run Regional Referral Hospital (RRH) in Nashik and a cardiologist to pay Rs 12 lakh compensation, with 9% per annum interest from the date of complaint, to the widow and the son of a 69-year-old retired botany professor from the Government Science College, Aurangabad, in a negligence case. The commission has held the RRH and the cardiologist liable for negligence in providing emergency treatment and identifying and treating post-angioplasty complications that resulted in the retired academician’s death in May 2012. Of the total compensation amount, the state and the RRH have to jointly and severally pay Rs10 lakh and the cardiologist has to pay Rs2 lakh. In addition, the state and the RRH have to pay Rs2 lakh towards mental agony and pain caused to the complainants and Rs25,000, which is the cost of litigation. “With interest so far, the overall amount payable works out to over Rs22 lakh,” lawyer Abhijit Hartalkar, who represented the complainants, told TOI on Wednesday. In an order on September 15, the bench comprising of PB Joshi, the presiding judicial member, and Dr SK Kakade, expert member, came down heavily on a five-member government expert committee for “wasting” its time by filing “an inconclusive report with no evidentiary value” on behalf of the state and “misleading the commission” in the matter. “The report, though signed by highly qualified civil surgeons and specialist doctors, does not explain whether there was negligence in the treatment of the patient. There is no explanation of why there was hypo-tension post angioplasty that was not responding to the treatment. It (report) does not explain why there was no battery backup available for the IABP (Intra-Aortic Balloon Pump) machine and was responsible for not shifting the patient to CT scan earlier. Overall, the report does not discuss scientific reasoning of the bleeding found in the retro-peritoneal space and the hypo-tension caused,” the bench observed. “We feel that the DMER (Directorate of Medical Education) as well as the Health Department of State Government need to investigate it and arrange the training for all Civil Surgeons as well as experts in all medical subjects. This commission will help in the same, so that legally conclusive expert committee reports will be available for the consumer commissions helping them to decide the matter on scientific evidence,” the bench said. The bench found two other expert surgeon reports filed on behalf of the complainants as “logically acceptable” in support of their case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nashik-rrh-cardiologist-told-to-pay-rs-12-lakh-in-medical-negligence-case/articleshow/78284193.cms||Vishwas Kothari
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Stepmother ‘kills’ child, hubby files case||ALWAR: An eight-year-old girl was allegedly killed by her stepmother on September 16 in Bharatpur’s Jurhara police station area following which the child’s father registered a case against his second wife. According to officials, while the father was away on the day of the incident, the accused apparently killed the child and buried her. “We exhumed the body on Wednesday and did her post-mortem following which we buried her again. A case of murder has been registered against the child’s stepmother and we are investigating the matter,” said a police official. According to officials, the incident happened when the child’s father was out of town for work and came to know about his daughter’s death only when he returned home and found that the child had died. According to his allegations, the child had been poisoned by his second wife while he was away from home. While the accused has not been arrested yet, cops confirmed that they have detained her and said, “We have detained her, but are still awaiting the post-mortem report to determine if there was indeed some sedative in the child’s body. We will progress the investigation accordingly based on the results of the samples taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stepmother-kills-child-hubby-files-case/articleshow/78284185.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||PUC centres announce hike in rates from October 1 in Maharashtra||PUNE: Pollution under control (PUC) centres owners’ association in the state has announced a hike in charges for issuing emission certificates from October 1. Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde said strict action would be taken against PUC centres if they increase charges without approval from the state government.  The association has threatened an indefinite strike from next month, if their demand to increase charges was not met. Sandeep Bhandare, the president of the association, told TOI that the charges were last revised in 2011, and despite several reminders, they were not increased. If the charges are not hiked, many centres will be forced to shut down, he said. He said that a majority of the PUC centre owners across the state were facing severe losses as they had to incur additional expenses when the system went online last year. Moreover, the Covid-19 pandemic also dealt a cruel blow. “We don’t have a choice, but to increase the charges,” Bhandare said. At present, 250 PUC centres are operational in Pune district and 2,400 across the state. Pune’s deputy RTO Sanjiv Bhor told TOI that the charges are fixed by the state government. “The PUC centres cannot increase charges. They need to submit a proposal to the transport department and if the state government gives a go ahead only then can the charges be increased,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puc-centres-announce-hike-in-rates-from-oct-1/articleshow/78285331.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 1.75 lakh fine on traders selling adulterated items||Jaisalmer: Additional district magistrate has imposed penalties in three different cases of selling of adulterated items and sweets. In one of the cases, penalty of Rs 1 lakh was imposed, while in the other two cases penalty of Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 was imposed. In the first case lodged against M/s New Mahadev Sweet Home Baytoo, additional district magistrate Om Prakash Vishnoi has imposed Rs 1 lakh penalty. He said that a food safety officer, Barmer had produced a case on August 11, 2019 and during inspection, took a sample of Gulab Jamun from the sweet shop in Baytoo and sent it to a laboratory in Jodhpur and found the sample unsafe. On the request of the applicant, the sample was sent to a laboratory in Mysore, in which it was found substandard. The court did not find the reply of the advocate and applicant concrete, after which it imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on them under Section 51 of FSSA 2006 (Food Safety & Standards Act 2006). He ordered to deposit the amount in the form of a demand draft in name of CMHO Barmer. In another incident, a case was lodged against M/s Tarun Agency Mahaveer Nagar, Barmer for selling expired drinks, on which the court imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000. In the third case, food safety officer Barmer took samples from bakery products along with bread brand Manisha from Rohit Bakery RIICO area Barmer and found them to be spurious, on which a penalty of Rs 25,000 was imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1-75-lakh-fine-on-traders-selling-adulterated-items/articleshow/78284188.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||HC stays arrest warrant against Shourie & others||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday stayed the arrest warrants of then disinvestment minister Arun Shourie and valuer Kantilal Vikamsey in the matter related to ITDC-owned Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel’s disinvestment. Justice Dinesh Mehta also ordered Shourie to appear in the CBI court any day by October 15 to furnish a personal bail bond of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties each of Rs 1 lakh, while Kantilal has to do the same on October 8. With these two accused, all the five accused in the case have been granted relief from arrest warrants as ordered by the CBI court on September 15 holding them accused of hatching a conspiracy to sell the hotel at a meager Rs 7.52 crore, thereby causing loss of Rs 244 crore to the government’s exchequer in the period 1999-2002. On Tuesday, the same court had stayed the arrest warrants of the three accused — then disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal, MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and MD of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Guha — and had also ordered to free the property in question from attachment directing the same to be handed over from the district administration to an authorised representative of the company (Bharat Hotels Limited). While arguing in the similar petition by Shourie, his counsels, senior advocates Prashant Bhushan and Pradeep Shah, proceeded with the same contentions as those, argued in the high court on Tuesday by the three accused. “Though the petitioner’s case was identical, but required a different order in as much as petitioner was not even named in the FIR”, argued Bhushan, stating that the trial court had erred in invocation of section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act. Shourie also sought exemption from appearance in person in the CBI court for furnishing the bond and sureties citing his age, ill-health and family conditions. Granting relief to both Shourie and Kantilal, the court stayed the arrest warrants of both by converting them into bailable warrants but giving a partial relief to Shourie in his prayer of exemption from appearance, provide him liberty to appear in the court any day by October 15, the next day of hearing, to furnish the bonds. Interestingly, the CBI remained rooted on its assertion during the hearing that no irregularity had been committed in this disinvestment deal justifying the closure report by the CBI in this case. Additional solicitor general S V Raju argued himself in contradiction of the order of the CBI court stating that the order of the CBI court was not in conformity with law and that this very order of taking cognizance was not proper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-arrest-warrant-against-shourie-others/articleshow/78284191.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal plans to conduct census in Kalapani areas, Indian side says 'won't allow'||PITHORAGARH: After its recent move to include the map showing Lipulekh, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani areas of Pithoragarh in its school textbooks as well as on coins, the Nepalese government is now planning to conduct a census in these areas which it has been claiming as its own. Nepal conducts a census every 10 years and its next census exercise is due in May next year. The exercise, by the country’s National Planning Commission and its Central Bureau of Statistics, involves a nationwide door-to-door survey. Read AlsoChina encroaches upon Nepal land, builds infraThe PLA of China has constructed at least nine buildings on the Nepal side of the Nepal-China border in the remote Humla district in Karnali province of Nepal. The encroachment - which happened around 2 km from the border in the Lapcha-Limi area of Namkha gaupalika (rural municipality) of Humla -Sources familiar with the development told TOI that "hawkish elements" of the Nepalese political leadership want to get the census done in the villages comprising the Limpyidhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh areas, and had also drafted a questionnaire for the exercise. They added that “Nepal is also looking at other options for taking the census if a door-to-door survey is not possible.” Meanwhile, villagers in the area said “there is no question" of participating in any census exercise conducted by Nepal. “We are citizens of India. Why should we participate in a census conducted by the Nepalese government?” said Mahendra Budhiyal, a resident of Budhi village. Officials in the district administration of Pithoragarh said that they were not aware of any such moves by the Nepalese government. “Even if any such a plan was there, it can never materialise as no Nepalese team will be allowed to enter the area for such an exercise,” said a district administration official. Watch Nepal govt plans to conduct census in Kalapani areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-plans-to-conduct-census-in-kalapani-areas-indian-side-says-wont-allow/articleshow/78282903.cms||Prem Punetha
September 24, 2020||Goa||Govt asks 7 families living near weak Vasco hillock to vacate||Vasco: The Mormugao mamlatdar on Wednesday evening served notices to seven families living at the foot of an unstable hillock in Vaddem, Vasco, directing them to vacate their homes and move to a safer location. The action comes on the heels of Monday’s tragedy wherein senior citizen Anita Borkar was crushed to death by a boulder that detached from the hillock and tore through her house. Locals, however, alleged that disaster management agencies were yet to take any action to ensure the safety of the residences in the vicinity of Borkar’s house. “Two days have passed since tragedy struck, but no effort has been made to avert another landslide. More boulders are stuck midway and may come down anytime,” Shrijeet Kavlekar, a member of one of the seven households, said. “At least 10-15 members reside in a single house and cannot afford to shift elsewhere. The government should expedite precautionary measures rather than serving us notices,” another resident said. Mamlatdar Saiesh Naik said a meeting has been scheduled for Thursday to discuss the construction of a retaining wall near the hillock to prevent further landslides. “The PWD (roads) said it doesn’t have the machinery required to cut the boulders and is in the process of procuring it,” he said. Naik further said that the government school at Vasco and the Bhutte Bhat ground complex have been identified as temporary shelters for families that are unable to relocate elsewhere. The mamlatdar’s office is also in the process of preparing a report to obtain relief funds for the family of the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-asks-7-families-living-near-weak-vasco-hillock-to-vacate/articleshow/78285337.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 24, 2020||Varanasi||Over Rs 125 crore loss caused to Mukhtar, henchmen||VARANASI: In a relentless onslaught, the police have seized illegally earned properties of over Rs 103 crores belonging to 191 gangsters in the past four months in Varanasi zone, of which the share of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s henchmen is over Rs 27 crores. However, the actual economic loss caused to Ansari, his family and henchmen has gone above Rs 125 crores as their interests in fish, mutton, coal and transport trade and grabbing government lands for commercial purposes has been hit, police said. Mau police on Wednesday morning confiscated a plot worth Rs 39.31 lakhs of Ansari’s close aide Rajnish Singh, who was accused with don in Manna Singh murder case that took place in 2009 in Pardaha area under the limits of Kotwali police station. Rajnish was also booked under Gangster Act and three criminal cases were lodged against him. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said Rajnish had been providing shelter to the criminals of Ansari gang. He had earned wealth by indulging in illegal activities and funded the Ansari gang for over two decades, he added. SP Mau Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan said the criminal history sheet of 12 criminals including Ansari’s four accomplices — A Kaifaitullah, Prashant Rai alias Bunty, Divyanshi Rai and fish trade mafia Parasnath Sonkar— were also opened on Wednesday. The ADG said that with Wednesday’s seizure, the value of properties of Ansari’s henchmen confiscated in the past three months has gone above Rs 27 crores mark. In Mau alone, the value of seized properties of Ansari’s close aides is Rs 21.04 crores. The ADG said that raids were being conducted in Varanasi and adjoining districts to arrest Ansari’s close accomplice Meraj Ahmed alias Bhai Meraj, who is absconding after a case was lodged against him for procuring arms licence by furnishing false information. A total of seven arms licences of Meraj, his brothers, relatives and driver had been cancelled. So far, 100 people associated with Ansari have been arrested, 80 booked under Gangster Act while their 90 arms licences have been cancelled. The ADG said the not only the illegally earned properties of over Rs 27 crores of Ansari’s close aides have been seized, but by hitting the extortion trade, ending monopoly in fish, mutton and coal trades, removing possessions of his family members and henchmen from government lands, a loss of over Rs 125 crores has been caused to the gang in Varanasi zone. The action is still continuing, he added. The ADG said that under the drive illegally earned properties of cattle, liquor smugglers and other criminals of around Rs 80 crores have been seized in the zone so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-rs-125-cr-loss-caused-to-mukhtar-henchmen/articleshow/78283456.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Child line team, police intervene and prevent ‘child marriage’ in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Acting swiftly after a tip-off, a child line team along with cops managed to prevent a "child marriage" from taking place in Kundanpur village under Majhola police limits of Moradabad district on Tuesday. The Moradabad police and the child line team reached the village venue and found both the girl and boy were too young. The families alleged that they were forced as the duo were already engaged in a “love affair”. The family claimed that they even threatened to kill themselves, if not allowed to marry. The team intervened and the marriage was called off. Speaking to TOI, child line incharge, Moradabad, Shradha Sharma said, “Upon receiving information of a child marriage taking place in Majhola area, teams rushed to the spot and after inquiry found that the duo, who were about to get married, were too young — the boy, 19, and the girl, 15. And both were school dropouts.” Sharna added, “The family has received proper counselling and informed of the consequences of such illegal marriages. The local police have been directed to keep a tab on the two families. Moreover, we have taken written assurance from the families in which they have stated that they would not marry off their children till they turn adults.” Majhola SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “As of now, no case has been registered. However, strict warnings have been given to the families. Police teams will also keep a watch. The marriage has been called-off for now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/child-line-team-police-intervene-and-prevent-child-marriage-in-moradabad/articleshow/78281594.cms||Maria Khan
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Man beaten to death by grandson in Bundi||Kota: A 60-year-old man was beaten to death by his grandson over long-pending family dispute in Bundi district late on Tuesday night. The accused is yet to be nabbed.According to Karwar police station SHO Banna Lal, victim Kalulal was sleeping in his house. His grandson, 29-year-old Bhagwan Sani, who was staying in the same house, entered his room and beat him with a stick. Kalulal, who sustained fatal head injuries, died on the spot, he said. Lal said, there were differences between the deceased and his grandson over long-pending family issue and in a fit of rage, he killed his grandfather. The accused is said to be slightly mentally disturbed and is taking medical treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-beaten-to-death-by-grandson-in-bundi/articleshow/78284194.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Hawkers mark own spaces, Sitabuldi shops shut in protest||Nagpur: A day after Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) started a survey for ‘Street for People’, and proposed a ‘vehicle-free zone’ on Sitabuldi main road, hawkers and shopkeepers faced-off over the right to operate on the road. The hawkers reportedly made markings for themselves outside shops on either side of the road. This enraged shopkeepers, who kept their establishments closed on Wednesday and staged demonstrations on the road. The shopkeepers claimed the hawker menace has increased manifold. The hawkers too staged demonstrations against the shopkeepers. On Tuesday night, hawkers had marked spots for their stalls on the road without any authority or permission, but Sitabuldi police personnel did nothing to stop them, alleged shopkeepers while submitting a memorandum to deputy commissioner of police Vinita Sahu. NMC’s deputy municipal commissioner (enforcement) and chief executive officer of NSSCDCL, Mahesh Moroney, told TOI he will look into the matter. Shopkeepers and members of Sitabuldi Merchants Association (SMA) told TOI that half of the market remains closed every day due to odd-even rule, whereas hawkers are operating daily when there is a need to avoid crowding in market places. According to the shopkeepers, though hawkers are evicted after every few days, majority of the times they are allowed to do business. The hawkers never follow guidelines regarding use of mask and Covid distancing, but still no action is taken, said the traders. The SMA stated that if Nagpur is to become a Smart City, the first and foremost thing needed be to done is to shift all these hawkers to separate hawking zones designated by NMC. The association said the main road is a no-hawking zone since long and this has been accepted in the high court too. “In connivance with corrupt enforcement agencies, hawkers have outnumbered shopkeepers and instead of shifting them to hawking zones, the authorities are finding an easy way. This is because of the political and muscle power these hawkers wield,” the shopkeepers said. The Sitabuldi main road is a one-way which was temporarily opened for two-way traffic to avoid inconvenience to motorists due to Metro rail work. “Now, authorities are trying to experiment with the biggest street market of the city by making it no-vehicle road and threatening the business of shopkeepers,” they said. Though the authorities very well know the problem of congestion on the main road is only due to large numbers of street vendors, they every time come out with some novel idea of disturbing us, the shopkeepers said. “On Wednesday evening the hawkers themselves wiped out the markings they done on Tuesday, making our protest successful,” said the association members, and added that the authorities have convinced them that no illegal activity will be allowed. Meanwhile, Sitabuldi police have booked 10 shopkeepers and more from Sutabuldi Merchant Association and lodged offence against nine and other hawkers for taking out rallies without permission.  In both the cases, police have booked the violators under relevant sections of the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hawkers-mark-own-spaces-sitabuldi-shops-shut-in-protest/articleshow/78284199.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Four arrested, 3 suspended for PM Kisan scam||Kallakurichi/ Thanjavur: The CBCID sleuths arrested four people in Kallakurichi while three contract workers were suspended in Thanjavur for their involvement in PM Kisan scam in the respective districts. The four arrested were Manikandan, 26, Marimuthu, 29 and Kalaiselvan, 27, contract workers from Thirunavalur village and crop insurance agent Silambarasan, 32. Inquiries revealed that the four took bribes of 500 to 1,000 from more than 1,500 ineligible beneficiaries and enlisted them under the scheme. Twenty people have been arrested in the district so far. In Thanjavur, inquiries showed misappropriation of 1.2 crore, for which three contract workers have been suspended, district collector M Govinda Rao said. Addressing the media in Pattukottai, the collector said around 67 lakh has been recovered from ineligible beneficiaries in the district. Around 3,000 ineligible people have received two instalments of the cash assistance and efforts were on to recover the remaining amount, the collector added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-arrested-3-suspended-for-pm-kisan-scam/articleshow/78285332.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||HC sets aside suspension order of IFS officer Ashok Gupta||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) last week set aside the suspension order of controversial IFS officer Ashok Kumar Gupta. Gupta had been suspended in February this year after a probe by Manoj Chandran for his involvement in alleged illicit felling of sal and pine trees as well as illegal extraction of resin worth over Rs 5.6 crore. The suspension order was set aside by a bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe after it was informed by the counsel appearing for Gupta that the state government did not provide a chargesheet to him before his suspension as mandated by the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969. The court was further informed that the state government did not even seek extension of the suspension from the Centre even after 30 days as provided in the 1969 rules. “From the perusal of the record, it is clear that in the present matter, the respondents did not serve any chargesheet to the writ-petitioner before passing the impugned suspension order. Apart from that, the state government did not seek any permission from the Central government for the extension of this suspension order after the expiry of 30 days. This fact is admitted by the respondents’ counsel at the time of argument,” read the court order. It added that the respondents — state government and principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) — can issue a new suspension order, if permissible, according to the law within a month. “Accordingly, the writ petition is allowed and the impugned suspension order dated 07.02.2020 passed by the respondents is set aside. The respondents are at liberty to issue a new suspension order, if permissible, in accordance with law, within a period of one month from today,” the order said. As reported by TOI in February, an audio clip of Gupta had gone viral in September 2017 suggesting his involvement in the case. A three-member committee was then set up to ascertain charges. The committee also held that Gupta was in connivance with smugglers and villagers in his six-year tenure as DFO Champawat and that a gang used to operate on the behest of licence provided by Gupta during his years of service in Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-sets-aside-suspension-order-of-ifs-officer-ashok-gupta/articleshow/78282923.cms||Prashant Jha
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 1,069 fresh cases, 17deaths||DEHRADUN: With 1,069 fresh cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand’s tally reached 34,720 on Wednesday. The state also reported 17 deaths, taking its toll to 529. According to the health department, the maximum cases were reported from Dehradun (318), followed by 237 in Udham Singh Nagar, 127 in Haridwar and 119 in Nainital. Among the hill districts, Chamoli reported 58 cases, Uttarkashi 53, Pauri 48 and Tehri 31. “Rudraprayag reported 22 cases, while Bageshwar and Pithoragarh reported 21 cases each on Wednesday. Almora and Champawar reported seven cases each,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. Among the 17 deaths, eight were reported from AIIMS Rishikesh, two from Mahant Indresh hospital, three from Sushila Tiwari Medical college, one from Medicity hospital Rudrapur and three from Base hospital Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal. “Dehradun has reported the maximum deaths in the state till now at 258 and 90% of the deaths have been reported from four plain districts,” said Tripathi, adding that the state capital also has the maximum 4,082 active cases. With the rising number of cases, the infection rate reached 7.1% in the Himalyan state. The doubling rate of Covid cases is now 28.60 days. In some welcome news, as many as 1,016 people recovered from the infection on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 31,123. For the first time in a month, the recovery rate crossed the 71% mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-1069-fresh-cases-17deaths/articleshow/78282938.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 24, 2020||Goa||After 40 years, hope on horizon for beneficiaries of Selaulim dam project||Margao: Nearly 40 years after being displaced by the Selaulim dam project at Sanguem, rehabilitation issues relating to a significant section of the project-affected people are being resolved by state government authorities. Deputy collector, Sanguem, Ajay Gaude has set a self-imposed target of 30-45 days for the land survey work to be completed in all respects which would then help authorities to hammer out an end-all rehabilitation solution. The rehabilitation package devised by the government in 1984 for 635 project-affected people from villages of Vaddem, Bhati and Kurdi consisted of 10,000sqm of agricultural land and 400sqm of residential plots. Of these, 478 people opted for plots, while 72 chose monetary compensation of Rs 4 lakh. What’s significant is that over four decades later, some 71 families are still awaiting the rehabilitation package, but the numbers still don’t add up. “The task is three-fold, the way I look at it,” Gaude told TOI. “The foremost task is to identify people and demarcate land allotted to 260-odd people, but were granted sanads as Class II occupants. This means, though they have the land in their possession, they don’t have absolute ownership rights, which means they can neither transfer nor sell their land. So altering the nature of sanad from Class II occupancy to Class I which will bestow upon them legitimate ownership status is my primary goal.” The second part of the task, Gaude explained, is to identify the balance land that is left after demarcation of land already allotted to the project-affected people, so that it could then be allotted to the families who were left out of the rehabilitation scheme. Though the issue largely pertains to the water resources department, Gaude views his role as a facilitator in this exercise. Gaude has also identified a third problem – addressing legacy issues. “In several cases, people are enjoying both lands – land under submergence area that’s been acquired, as well as the alternative land given to them as compensation. Secondly, in some cases, though agricultural land was allotted to them, they are unable to cultivate the land on account of its rocky terrain or unavailability of irrigation facilities. My endeavor would be to address these knotty issues as well,” he said. Since the last two weeks, a team of surveyors from the land survey department has been engaged in the task of mapping the land. “We have decided upon the framework in which solutions will be worked out. I am confident that the affected families will get justice soon,” Gaude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-40-years-hope-on-horizon-for-beneficiaries-of-selaulim-dam-project/articleshow/78285338.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Teaching aspirants held||Trichy: More than 200 teaching aspirants staged a road blockade in front of the office of the chief educational officer (CEO) in Trichy demanding extension of the validity of the teacher eligibility test (TET) to lifetime, here on Wednesday. The police arrested 231 protesters including 70 women. The protest was headed by Pen Viduthalai Iyakkam led by its state president Sabari Mala Jayakanthan. The aspirants staged the protest following the uncertainty over the extension of the validity of their TET certificates. The aspirants had taken up the TET exam in 2013 and the validity of the exam will expire in December this year. Government’s decision asking the aspirants to appear for TET again to make them eligible irked them. The protesters, hence, demanded that the government extend the validity of the exam for lifetime. As the traffic movement on the stretch was disrupted, the police tried to disperse the crowd. Since they stay put, the police arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teaching-aspirants-held/articleshow/78285340.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Daily quota hiked for learners’ licence test||PUNE: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) has increased the daily quota for learners’ licence test from 400 to 650. The test timings have been altered to ensure social distancing and prevent crowding. “The RTO has been consistently increasing the daily appointment quota. Appointments for learners’ license tests are almost back to pre-Covid days. Earlier, the test used to start at 10am and would go on till 5pm, but now the test will be conducted from 7:30am till 6pm,” deputy RTO Sanjiv Bhor told TOI. “The new timings will give us more time. Licence seekers have to apply online via the ‘Parivahan’ portal,” the official added. The RTO also has increased the daily appointments for permanent licences. “For two-wheelers, the daily appointments have been increased from 160 to 240, for light motor vehicles the appointments have been increased from 160 to 240, for light motor public transport vehicles, the number has been increased from 40 to 100,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-quota-hiked-for-learners-licence-test/articleshow/78285335.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 24, 2020||Erode||Elephant damages police checkpost||Erode: A female elephant damaged a police checkpost at Bannari in Erode district early on Wednesday morning. The incident took place around 2am. “The lone elephant suddenly came close to the checkpost and attacked the asbestos roof with its trunk,” said a police officer from Sathyamangalam police station. Policemen on duty at the checkpost managed to escape well in time.The elephant strayed in the area for nearly two hours and later entered the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve forest. K Srinivasan, 48, a shopkeeper, said the lone elephant did not harm any road users, but specifically targeted the police checkpost.Policemen at the checkpost alerted forest officials, following which a search was launched for the elephant. “It went inside the forest,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/elephant-damages-police-checkpost/articleshow/78285343.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kanpur||Temples in Kanpur open amid Covid protocol curbs||KANPUR: Several places of worship in the city, including Panki Temple, reopened in the city after six months on Wednesday. Some temples, especially Anandeshwar temple, will reopen from Thursday. The district administration had on Tuesday allowed the reopening of religious places with certain restrictions. It had, however, directed that social distancing and all preventive measures under Covid-19 protocol must be strictly followed. The management and priests had assured the administration that all the instructions will be duly implemented. The number of devotees was less than usual even though the religious places reopened after six months. Most devotees preferred offering prayers at temples that were not crowded. Only regular devotees reached temples but had ‘darshan’ from a distance. The management of Panki Temple installed a sanitary tunnel at the gate and restricted entry. The head priest said, “Since this is a Hanuman temple, we expect crowds on Tuesday and Saturday and have chalked out strategies for crowd control.” Bankhandeshwar temple at Sisamau also reopened but devotees were seen wearing masks and following physical distancing, though the buzz of pre-Covid time was missing. Goddess Durga’s Baradevi temple also reopened but there was not much rush. The devotees preferred to pray from outside instead of going in and touching the idol. As Anandeshwar temple will reopen from Thursday, the temple management and staff spent the day making arrangements. “There is a rush in the temple on Mondays so all preventive measures have been taken. The temple would reopen with Mangala Aarti,” said the head priest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-temples-open-amid-covid-protocol-curbs/articleshow/78283735.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Varanasi||Opposition lying about farm bills: BJP UP president||GORAKHPUR: BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh said the farm bills passed in the parliament are highly beneficial for farmers, but Congress party is spreading lies and SP and BSP are spreading confusion on them. Talking to reporters in Gorakhpur on Wednesday, Singh said, “Congress is telling lies while SP and BSP are spreading confusion about the farm bills. We’ll go to villages and tell farmers the truth about the bills and how they will benefit them in getting good prices for their produce.” The state BJP president reached Gorakhpur on Wednesday and held meetings with party leaders in Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Kushinagar and Deoria districts and prepared the strategy for the byelection on Deoria Sadar assembly seat that fell vacant after the demise of MLA Janmejay Singh. Singh said programmes will be organized to mark the birth anniversary of Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya on each booth in the state and the farm bills will be discussed at length in each village. We will not only win the bypolls but also the 2022 assembly elections, Singh added. “We will also win the 2022 elections due to the popularity of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath and the hard work of our party workers. We are bringing development in villages and interior areas and the benefits of PM Awas Yojana and other welfare schemes have reached all people irrespective of caste or religion,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/opposition-lying-about-farm-bills-bjp/articleshow/78283506.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Fraud avails loan in govt staffer’s name||PUNE: A 28-year-old government employee was taken aback when officials of the bank, where he held an account, came knocking on his door about the loan he had never availed. This is when he started connecting the dots and realized that a “bank customer care executive” had made him fill an online form in July and the same person could have availed a loan of Rs 4.62 lakh in his name. The complainant, who stays in Gokhalenagar, told police that he wanted statement of his account for some personal use. “He then conducted an online search to get the number of his bank and then called on it,” senior inspector Jayram Paygude of the cyber police told TOI. The call recipient sent him a link on his cellphone, through which the complainant provided information about his bank account. “He also shared the OTP with the suspect,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraud-avails-loan-in-govt-staffers-name/articleshow/78285346.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Techie loses Rs 33,000 to fake job offer||PUNE: A 25-year-old software engineer lodged an FIR with the Kothrud police on Tuesday stating that she was duped of Rs33,000 in February on the promise of a job at a prominent IT firm in Hinjewadi. Inspector Kiran Balwadkar of the Kothrud police said, “The complainant currently works with a software firm. She had uploaded her profile on a job portal for better prospects. On February 11, she got a call from a woman who offered her a job in a prominent IT company in Hinjewadi.” The woman took the techie’s details and told her to transfer Rs 33,000 to register and appear for an interview with the firm. “Two days later, a man posing as the company’s HR manager contacted the woman and offered her a job with an annual salary of Rs8 lakh,” Balwadkar said. To complete the formalities, the woman transferred Rs33,000 between February 11 and 14 to the bank account number provided to her. She became suspicious when the suspects started demanding more money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-loses-rs-33k-to-fake-job-offer/articleshow/78285342.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 24, 2020||Goa||Cops on foot patrol Margao’s streets||Margao: A sudden increase in the presence of foot patrolling by armed policemen in the streets of Margao during the busy hours of Wednesday caused to raise many eyebrows among the public. However, senior police officials said it was just a part of a strategic yet regular policing exercise carried out as a matter of routine. “You may call it a part of confidence building measures (CBM) the South Goa police have adopted with a view to instilling a sense of confidence among the people and build trust between the public and the police,” a senior police official said. Soon after the Swapnil Walke murder case of Margao, a team of South Goa police officials led by SP Pankaj Kumar Singh and Dy SP Kiran Poduval had, nearly two weeks ago, conducted a security review of the Margao market by conducting foot patrolling. With a view to strengthening the police apparatus in the town, a police control van has since been stationed in the new market area, and armed police personnel posted at strategic places across the city. The armed personnel are tasked with conducting foot patrolling at regular intervals during business hours in the markets, and during the night there is an increased movement of the constabulary on foot patrol duty, it was informed. Sources said that the exercise was also aimed at strengthening community policing, an agenda that ranks high among district SP Singh’s priorities. “Enhanced police presence, and at times sudden, acts as deterrence to crime,” a police officer explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-on-foot-patrol-margaos-streets/articleshow/78285348.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||GU: Applications open for vacant seats in five PG courses||Panaji: Goa University has opened up applications for seats left vacant in five postgraduate programmes offered at the university campus and affiliated colleges. Round four of the Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) will be held for seats in MSc in food technology, MA in Konkani and MA in psychology. The round five of GU-ART will be conducted for vacant seats to the first year of MA in French and MCom programmes. Students have been asked to submit their applications by 6pm on September 26. Those who have already answered previous rounds of GU-ART are not required to appear for the test again, GU has said. The GU-ART paper in each subject is of 100 marks and contains 50 objective multiple choice questions of two marks each. There is negative marking of half a mark for each wrong answer. No marks will be deducted in the case of unanswered questions. The test is of 90 minutes. The question paper consists of three sections - section I containing 15 ‘least difficult’ questions, section II made up of 15 ‘difficult’ questions and section III with 20 questions of ‘most difficult’ level. “Candidates answering rounds four and five of GU-ART shall be ranked after the previous round candidates. For example, if 100 candidates apply for round I, all 100 will be assigned a rank based on the marks scored. For round II, candidates shall be ranked from 101 onwards and similarly for round III,” Goa University has said. “In case of candidates who have secured equal marks in the ranking list, Section III scores shall be the first level of tie-breaker,” the university has said. “The test results, along with the list of selected candidates will be notified on the University website,” the university has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-applications-open-for-vacant-seats-in-five-pg-courses/articleshow/78285341.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Campaign on sustainable menstruation intensifies||MANGALURU: While Covid-19 pandemic has led to a rise in plastic waste generation, a campaign to promote sustainable menstruation among women in the city has intensified. According to a joint report by WaterAid India and the Menstrual Hygiene Alliance of India, depending on the materials used in the manufacture of the sanitary pads, it could take up to 800 years to decompose a single sanitary napkin. “Reports state that 121 million women and adolescent girls in India use an average eight sanitary napkins per menstrual cycle, that translates to one million pads generated monthly and about 12 billion pads produced and disposed of in the country. Sadly, a majority of women are not aware of the scientific disposal of sanitary pads and dump them in bins, without even wrapping them. An average woman menstruates for about 30 years. Currently, while, there is a growing concern over the surging plastic waste especially due to the increasing use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), this is probably the right time for women to switch to environment-friendly menstrual products,” said Amrutha Nayak, an entrepreneur. For the past three years, through women’s groups, she has been promoting the use of menstrual cups and cloth diapers for newborns. “With the pandemic, I have only intensified the campaign through various online platforms. Since most women are stuck at home, this is probably the right time for them to experiment. “ Amrutha, also an Green the red volunteer, told TOI. She spent almost a year researching alternatives. “I was allergic to sanitary pads and shifted to tampons, but was not comfortable with it. I researched alternatives and read about sustainable menstruation in 2016 and reached out to campaigners and gynaecologists from pan India. A year later I joined as a volunteer for Green the Red and started promoting menstrual cups. I do not sell products, I only advise and do not charge for any of the awareness sessions, “ she said. People have several questions when introduced to cups and convincing them to shift is definitely not easy. “Cups are economical and costs around Rs 1,000. It can be reused up to 10 years, while, a woman spends an average of Rs 300 on pads per month. However, it is important to know to use it the right way,” Amrutha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/campaign-on-sustainable-menstruation-intensifies/articleshow/78282951.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||NHSRCL opens tech bids for Vapi-Vadodara stretch||Vadodara: The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) which is implementing the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) corridor project or bullet train project, on Wednesday opened technical bids for one of the biggest tenders covering 47% or 237 km of MAHSR alignment and four stations. “Technical bids for the design and construction that covers about 47% of total alignment of 508 km between Vapi and Vadodara in Gujarat has been opened. This includes four stations —Vapi, Billimora, Surat and Bharuch, 24 river and 30 road crossings,” said NHSRCL’s spokesperson Sushma Gaur. The entire section is in Gujarat where more than 83% of land has been acquired for the bullet train project, she said. Three bidders involving seven major infrastructure companies have participated in the competitive bidding. The bidders include consortium of Afcons Infrastructure Limited, IRCON International Limited and JMC Projects India Ltd; Larsen & Toubro Ltd and HSR consortium of NCC Limited, Tata Project Ltd and J Kumar Infra Projects Ltd. According to NHSRCL, more than 90,000 direct and indirect jobs will be created during the construction stage. Not just the employment market but production and manufacturing market are also expected to gain with the project. It is estimated that close to 75 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of cement, 21 lakh MT of steel, and 1.4 lakh MT of structural steel will be used for various constructions. “All of this will be produced in the country. In addition to this, large construction machinery is another market that will gain big time through the project,” a release issued by the NHSRCL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nhsrcl-opens-tech-bids-for-vapi-vadodara-stretch/articleshow/78282661.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar ramps up testing as coronavirus cases spiral||Rajkot: With nearly 5,200 positive cases, Jamnagar district, which is turning into the Covid-19 hotspot of Saurashtra, has adopted a new strategy to deal with the spiralling cases. The district administration has claimed that they have succeeded in treating 80% patients in home isolation. The district recorded nearly 5,200 positive cases so far. Jamnagar’s GG Hospital is treating patients of Jamangar, Devbhumi Dwarka and Porbandar districts. Nearly 100 people are being tested positive in the district per day, shows the daily data released by the district administration. Ramped up testing has also resulted in more numbers and people are mostly dependent on government facilities for treatment. Those patients who don’t fall in the ‘risk zones’ have started getting treatment at home and a team of doctors visit their houses to ensure that the patients have adequate facilities like absence of co-morbid patient in close vicinity, separate toilets and bathrooms and proper ventilation. Jamnagar collector Ravi Shankar said, “We have adopted different models and 80% patients have recovered in in home isolation so far. We are providing all possible medical service, so people are now more confident about treatment at their houses instead of rushing to hospitals.” Testing centres have been started at public places and deputy collectors have been asked to identify residential areas where requirement of tests is more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-ramps-up-testing-as-coronavirus-cases-spiral/articleshow/78282864.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Covid turbulence hits airport terminal expansion plans||Panaji: The Covid-19 pandemic has grounded Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) plans to expand the domestic and international terminal at Goa International Airport. Due to the restriction on public gatherings, Goa Pollution Control Board has kept the public hearing for the Rs 145 crore project on hold, said officials. With the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of abating, the delay is likely to raise questions about the project’s 2022 deadline. “Construction work has not started because the public hearing could not be held,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. “We have deposited the money with the pollution control board, but they have asked us to wait because of Covid.” Malik recently chaired a meeting with AAI’s engineering team, project consultants and other agencies regarding integration of the new systems proposed for the terminal extension. Malik urged all stakeholders to prepare plans and the required reports in a time-bound manner in order to ensure that the project can be executed smoothly once permission is granted. With passenger footfalls increasing, AAI decided to increase the capacity of Goa International Airport to enable it to handle 1.3 crore passengers per year by 2022. Pune-based Vascon Engineers has bagged the contract to execute the work for Rs 132.7 crore (excluding GST) within 21 months. AAI intends to expand the existing terminal building at Dabolim and the project includes civil, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, firefighting, HVAC, airport systems, IT, furniture, signages and allied works. The extension will come up in place of the old terminal building, which has already been demolished. The expansion proposed is within the airport premises and no additional land is to be acquired for this purpose. Goa’s lone airport was designed to handle 50 lakh passengers per year, but footfalls at the airport have far surpassed the figure. As per AAI officials, the airport handled 64 lakh passengers in 2016, a number that crossed 70 lakh in 2017. The figure touched 90 lakh this March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-turbulence-hits-airport-terminal-expansion-plans/articleshow/78285352.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Vasco to Nizamuddin weekly trains||Margao: Vasco - H Nizamuddin – Vasco special weekly express (07379/07380) has been introduced by the South Western Railway (SWR) beginning September 25 from Vasco and September 27 from H Nizamuddin. SWR officials informed that the train will depart from Vasco at 12.30 pm every Friday to reach H Nizamuddin at 4.20 am on Sunday. In the other direction, the train will depart from H Nizamuddin at 1 pm every Sunday to reach Vasco at 4.45 am on Tuesday. Besides, the Railways will run H. Nizamuddin - Margao - H. Nizamuddin Rajdhani superfast special (02414 / 02413) from October 2, a press note by Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-to-nizamuddin-weekly-trains/articleshow/78285351.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Paddy crops take a hit after heavy rain||Panaji/Margao: J Santano Rodrigues, a paddy farmer from Curtorim who grows both Jaya and Jyoti varieties of rice said he had sown seeds in June anticipating a bountiful harvest. However, the intensity of rain this season has proved to be unfavourable for his crop. After the heavy rain since Monday, his fields are inundated and most of his crop is either bent or has completely fallen. Farmers have reported crop loss in almost every taluka after torrential rain lashed the state. Farmers in Netravali had been tackling paddy decay since last month by using an organic mixture of herbs and cow urine. The downpour on Monday has threatened to ruin their efforts. “We have managed to manually remove much of the water from our fields but the moisture surge could decay our crops if the weather doesn’t improve,” a paddy farmer from Netravali, Pandurang Naik, said. Zonal agricultural officers are interacting with farmers and gathering data. So far, they have found that paddy crops have faced damage especially in low-lying areas. “We are in the process of assessing the extent of damage,” deputy director of agriculture Chintamani Perni said. The high water content in the soil is also showing ripple effects in arecanut crops that are experiencing immature fruit falls. “There are chances of ‘koliroga’ disease affecting crops due to the increased moisture in the soil and high humidity,” Perni said. So far, only horticulture crops appear to have been spared the brutality of the heavy rain. No wind damage has been reported so far. However, the humidity build-up following the weather has also made it congenial for fungal growth in polyhouse crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/paddy-crops-take-a-hit-after-heavy-rain/articleshow/78285380.cms||Nida Sayed
September 24, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Youth booked for raping 17-year-old relative||KANPUR: A 20-year-old youth has been booked for allegedly raping his 17-year-old relative in the city. An FIR under relevant IPC sections including 376, besides Posco Act has been registered after the girl’s parents lodged a complaint at Barra police station on Wednesday. “Although the accused is a distant relative of the girl, her family members stated that his parents had promised them to marry him with their daughter. As per gthe irl’s parents, he raped her several times in the last six months, following which she has attained pregnancy,” said Inspector Barra Harmeet Singh. According to police, the matter came to light when the girl began vomiting and complaining of uneasiness to her parents a few days ago. A visit to the doctor revealed that she was pregnant. The girl’s parents thereafter met the youth’s father and apprised him that their daughter is three months pregnant and that now they should get married soon. The father of the accused, however ,asked him to abort the child and refused to marry his son with the girl, said the police further. The parents of the girl thereafter approached Barra police on Wednesday and lodged an FIR demanding immediate arrest and strict punishment to the accused and his parents. The girl was sent for a medical examination, and the matter is being further investigated. “We have launched an investigation and the youth will be soon taken into custody for questioning,” the Inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/youth-booked-for-raping-17-yr-old-relative/articleshow/78283786.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ensure smooth conduct of September 25 exam, admin urged||LUDHIANA: On the second day of CBSE compartment exams, many Class X students appeared for science paper on Wednesday. At BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, as many as 102 students were registered and 98 appeared for the exam while at St Thomas School, Brown Road, 80 students were registered and all were present. The exam was moderate and students were able to solve the paper within the given time. Manav Gupta, one of the students from Shivalik Wala Doon School and appeared for the exams at BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, said , “ I found the paper to be very tough and was not able to complete the paper on time.” However, another student Nitika Kumari from Nankana Sahib Public School, who expects to get over 60 marks, said, “The exam went well and it was easy. Few questions were repeated and all Covid-19 precautions were taken at the exam centre by the authorities concerned.” Principal of Nankana School Harmeet Waraich, who was supervising at St Thomas School, said, “As 80 students of Class X appeared for the exam, we sent the students of the first room after ringing one bell and two bells for students sitting in second room. This led to smooth dispersal of students.” She added that the students might face issues on September 25 due to Punjab Bandh by farmers against new farm Bills and maximum students would appear that day for mathematics exam. Waraich said, “The administration should make arrangements so that students can commute freely as all entry points will be sealed. The students have to come from city outskirts like Andlu, Sahnewal, Sekhewal and Samrala. At my centre, over 95 students will be appearing that day.” Principal of DAV School, BRS Nagar JK Sidhu said, “No guidelines have been issued by the CBSE yet. In fact, students registered for painting and science exam, which would be conducted on Thursday, are less and those appearing on Friday are more in number. They should not face any issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ensure-smooth-conduct-of-sept-25-exam-admn-urged/articleshow/78282974.cms||Mehak Jain
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab and Haryana high court employee held for misplacing inquiry report||LUDHIANA: A court employee was arrested on Wednesday on the charges of giving an inquiry report in a 2014 murder case to an outsider and later misplacing the same. A probe was marked by the Punjab and Haryana high court in the matter of misplaced inquiry report, after which the accused was booked by the Ludhiana police on December 28, 2018. He was absconding since then. The arrested accused has been identified as Rajinder Singh of Jhujhar Nagar in Mohali, who was an additional ‘ahlmad’ (record keeper) in the court of then additional session judge, Ludhiana. He was arrested from near his house in Mohali. In charge at police post court complex ASI Kuldeep Singh said in September 2014 a case was registered by the Sahnewal police against a group of miscreants under the charges of murder, attempt to murder, rioting and the Arms Act after the accused opened fire at Gurjeet Singh of Sahabana village of Sahnewal. “After a case was registered, the accused had got an inquiry marked from the DIG office claiming that they had been implicated in the case. Thereafter, an inquiry was marked and the report was submitted with the court. Later, this inquiry report reportedly got misplaced from the court record. Following this, the complainant approached the Punjab and Haryana high court and another inquiry was marked into the matter and to fix accountability,” he added. The ASI said, “During inquiry, Rajinder Singh, was found to be guilty for giving the report to an unidentified person. A case was registered against him on December 28, 2018. However, since then Rajinder was absent from duty and was absconding. The police have now arrested him from Mohali. He was presented before the court that has sent him in to two-day police custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/court-employee-held-for-misplacing-inquiry-report/articleshow/78282981.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Hisar health team busts sex determination racket, two held||HISAR: A team of Hisar health department on Wednesday busted a sex determination racket and nabbed a female tout and another person from Ludhiana in Punjab on charges of facilitating tests for Rs 15,000. The Hisar and Ludhiana health department teams were said to be busy with the necessary formalities and no case had been registered when the reports last came in. Hisar civil surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti said the Hisar team had received the information about the sex determination racket being operated from Ludhiana. After this, the team was sent there under the leadership of Dr Anamika Bishnoi, along with a decoy customer, the CMO said. “With the help of a Ludhiana health department team, they nabbed the gang members at Ludhiana-Sangrur border. This gang used to arrange foetal sex checks for Rs 15,000. Some local media persons are also being linked to the racket. They have detained a man and a woman and further action is being taken in the matter. Some incriminating images have also been found in a laptop in their possession,” the CMO said. When contacted, Dr S P Singh, the Ludhiana family welfare officer, also confirmed that the Hisar team has nabbed two members of a sex determination racket and the legal formalities are being completed to file a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hisar-health-team-busts-sex-determination-racket-2-held/articleshow/78282987.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand assembly session: Amid protests by Congress, 19 bills cleared||DEHRADUN: The one-day monsoon session of the Uttarakhand assembly started on a stormy note on Wednesday as four Congress legislators led by state party chief Pritam Singh came on a tractor to the assembly as a mark of protest against the three farmer bills which were recently cleared in Lok Sabha and subsequently, the Rajya Sabha. Amid the din and the frequent demands for debate on various key issues by the Congress, 19 bills were tabled and cleared in the House. Thereafter, the session was adjourned sine die by deputy speaker Raghunath Singh Chauhan, who was the officiating speaker as Prem Chand Aggarwal was recently tested Covid-19 positive. Later, Chauhan told media persons, “The one-day session saw proceedings for three hours and six minutes and the House was adjourned for a total period of two hours and nine minutes due to the protests by Opposition MLAs.” He pointed out that a total of 42 MLAs physically attended the session, whereas 14 were virtually linked with the proceedings. A total of 19 bills were tabled – 10 out of which were new and nine were in the form of ordinances. All 19 bills were cleared in the second half of the assembly proceedings. The bills approved in the House include — Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Medical Education University (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Uttarakhand Panchayati Raj (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020; Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Uttarakhand GST (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Uttarakhand Uttar Pradesh State Legislature Officers Salaries and Allowances (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Trade Union Uttarakhand (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Jaunsar-Bawar Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1956; Uttarakhand Technical University Bill; and Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has a provision for six month jail or a fine of up to Rs 5,000, and Uttarakhand Technical University (Amendment) Bill proposes to change the name of technical university to Veer Madho Singh Bhandari Uttarakhand Technical University. Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Medical Education University (Amendment) Bill, 2020 proposed that vice-chancellor shall hold office subject to the pleasure of chancellor and hold office for a term of five years or until he attains the age of 75 years, whichever is earlier, and shall not be eligible for re-appointment. Uttarakhand GST (Amendment) Bill, 2020, proposed that in view of the spread of pandemic Covid-19 across many countries, including India, it has become imperative to relax certain provisions including extension of time limit in the Uttarakhand GST Act 2017 and in GST law amendments related to trade facilitation, simplification and enforcement measures are required. Jaunsar-Bawar Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act of 1956 proposes regularisation for all such persons of the whole Jaunsar-Bawar sub division of Dehradun district who are in unauthorised possession of category-IV land on or before date of 30.06.1983 and presently having possession of this land as per the procedure prescribed by the government. Uttarakhand Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act 1950 (Amendment) Bill mentions that in addition to tourism, health, medical and educational purpose, others schemes are also operated in the state for which there are obligation to declare land from agricultural to non agricultural for sewer treatment plant, waste disposal centre, bus stands, park, which is a time taking process. Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management (Amendment) Bill, 2020, has provisions for naming various members of the committee. It mentions that the committee may have two special invites from any Union ministry and not less than the rank of joint secretary. Provided that the person mentioned in sub clauses is not a Hindu, the CM shall nominate equivalent secretary of the state government, who is a follower of Hindu religion and possess qualifications to be appointed as member of the board. When contacted, urban development minister Madan Kaushik — who also holds charge as parliamentary affairs minister — said, “The Congress is a divided and confused lot. It is a fight among two seniors to take credit. When we had a business advisory committee meeting on September 20, two members of one group came and all the points were finalised. However, members of the second group – who came to assembly on Wednesday – had other plans. They wanted debate on other issues, whereas on September 20, it was decided that the party would bring work adjournment of four issues of Covid, law and order, unemployment, and inflation.” Three-time MLA Qazi Nizam-ud-din said, “The intention of the government was to wrap up things as soon as possible and there was no scope for any debate or discussion. Farmers bill has left villagers in a state of shock, prices of essential commodities are on the rise and so is unemployment. But the government does not want to discuss these topics in the House. Therefore, all the proceedings were concluded in a few hours and our protests failed to make any impact on the ruling party.” The Congress legislators sat on a protest as the tractor was stopped by police well before the assembly building. During the proceedings, Congress MLAs protested by tearing pages of documents as they alleged poor handling of the situation by the state government during the Covid-19 phase. Manoj Rawat, Congress MLA from Kedarnath, who sat on a protest outside the assembly premises, said, “How can anyone stop a legislator from coming to the assembly. We were on a tractor and it was to highlight the plight of farmers across the country. I do not think it is a crime but still we were deliberately stopped a kilometre before the assembly. The state government does not want anyone to raise voice in favour of people. We will continue to oppose the erroneous policies of the state and Union government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-assembly-session-amid-protests-by-cong-19-bills-cleared/articleshow/78282991.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 24, 2020||Kanpur||Punjab worker dies in power plant accident in Ghatampur||KANPUR: A labourer hailing from Punjab was killed when a pillar of at under-construction Power Plant collapsed in Ghatampur area of the district on Tuesday evening. The labourer was engaged in the construction of the pillar by a private company at Ghatampur Power Plant. Although the exact reason for the accident is yet to be ascertained, sources said that the mishap took place after nut-bolt of the pillar broke. The labourer was identified as Kewal Singh, a native of Manes village in Gurdaspur district of Punjab. He was found lying near the collapsed pillar with serious injuries on his head. “He was rushed to district hospital in Hamirpur, where doctors sensing his condition to be critical referred him to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital in Kanpur. He succumbed while on way to Kanpur,” said sources further. SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava told reporters that the family members of the deceased have been informed about the incident and labourer’s body has been shifted to mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/punjab-worker-dies-in-power-plant-accident-in-ghatampur/articleshow/78283856.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||Loudspeakers spread wealth of knowledge||Palanpur: A ‘loud’ revolution is in the making at Parpada, a poverty stricken non-descript village nearly 8 km from Palanpur. Every morning when the clock strikes 7.30 am, both young and the old, get ready to attend their classes – not at the village school but inside their home or under the wooden shed. This is no online revolution ushered in the education sector through computers or cell phones. The school relays its lessons through time-tested loudspeakers! Seven teachers, two male and five female, take turns to teach a variety of subjects including geography and history to the villagers, who even learn the basics of language together. Loudspeakers have been installed across the village so that children and the elderly can learn while practising social distancing from the spot of their choice. “Since July, classes for standard 1 to 8 are held daily. All students and their parents are happy that we have taken the classroom to their doorstep. With this model, we have reduced the risk of Covid-19 infection and are also providing an alternate to online education,” said vice principal Shailesh Raval. “Our teachers who sit in the panchayat classroom inform the students about the book and the page numbers as the classes begin. Children listen to their instructions very carefully,” said principal Chetana Khamar. Primary lessons blaring out on the loudspeakers reach all the corners of this village where not all have access to the internet on smart phones or computers. The children sing rhymes, repeat what they hear on the speakers while the old keenly listen to what they missed during their own childhood. “There are 16 loudspeakers spread across the village. The students do assemble outside their houses and come together to pursue their studies,” said Ramesh Chaudhary, 22, son of village sarpanch, who is pursuing his LLB studies. “Our village school and the gram panchayat have taken this innovative step. Others too can learn from their novel experiment. We support this initiative,” he said. District collector Anand Patel too congratulated the school and the village panchayat for their innovative initiative. “Others should take a leaf out of Parpada’s novel experiment. It has set an example to be followed by other villages,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/loudspeakers-spread-wealth-of-knowledge/articleshow/78282908.cms||Pramod Panwar
September 24, 2020||Goa||Total Covid cases near 30k mark, eight more lose battle to virus||Panaji: Goa reported 536 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, thereby increasing the state’s total tally to 29,879. Eight fatalities pushed the death toll to 377. The number of active cases stands at 5,646, while as many as 395 patients were cured during the last 24 hours. The state capital reported 42 new cases, breaching its daily average of 30 to 35 cases. Its active count shot up to 319. On the other hand, Porvorim which has been reporting 30 to 35 new cases every day, witnessed a dip. As many as 20 people tested positive in Porvorim, taking its tally to 367. Dr Roshan Nazareth, health officer holding additional charge of Porvorim primary health centre, said that a few changes have been made in the ways in handling Covid cases in Porvorim “Now, each panchayat has been assigned one medical officer,” he said. Once a patient tests positive, a medical officer telephones the person. “The patient also feels cared for,” he said. The new case is then handed over to Indian Medical officer (IMA) doctors who have volunteered to do the task of phoning home isolated patients and monitoring them. Five cases are allotted to each volunteer doctor. “They follow up with the patients every day, and discuss with their consultants, if required. They get back to us if anything needs to be done at our end,” he said. He said contact tracing has been streamlined by classifying contacts as high-risk and low-risk patients. “The high-risk patients who are elderly having comorbid conditions are taken for testing at the earliest, while others are called on day seven or earlier if he/she is symptomatic,” he said. The moment any patient tests positive, the whole family is prescribed vitamins. The system followed by Candolim primary centre, he said, has been replicated in Porvorim as it has proved helpful. The Candolim primary health centre which is under Dr Nazareth, has succeeded in controlling the spike. “The daily average has come down to 15 to 19 cases,” he said, adding further that panch members have also been very cooperative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/total-covid-cases-near-30k-mark-eight-more-lose-battle-to-virus/articleshow/78285378.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Salem||Anbumani bats for Cauvery water scheme||Dharmapuri: Rajya Sabha MP and PMK leader Dr Anbumani Ramadoss has made an appeal to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to implement Cauvery river surplus water scheme to irrigate Dharmapuri district and fulfil his assurance given to the district people during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In a statement, Anbumani cited chief minister’s announcement on Cauvery-Kundaru rivers linking project at the cost of Rs 14,000 crore during his visit to Ramanathapuram district on Tuesday. “I have welcomed this project and PMK has been continuously demanding this project for the last two decades,” he said. Nearly 8.44 lakh acres would be benefited through this project, he added. However, Anbumani asked the CM as to why he’s hesitating to announce and to implement the Cauvery river surplus water scheme for Dharmapuri district while showing interest in Cauvery-Kundaru rivers linking project. Dharmapuri district has 1,230 waterbodies including 10 dams, 83 big lakes and 769 small lakes. Filling Cauvery water in these waterbodies from Hogenakkal is the core objective of the Dharmapuri district Cauvery surplus water scheme. “A total of three tmc water would be needed for this scheme to fill all these 1230 waterbodies,” he said, adding that this project would need Rs 650 crore for implementation. “Nearly two lakh acres in the district would benefit from the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/anbumani-bats-for-cauvery-water-scheme/articleshow/78285376.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Bogda man dies in road accident||Vasco: A 39-year-old Bogda, Vasco resident, died on Wednesday after the two-wheeler he was riding came under a military truck. The accident happened at Zuarinagar, near the BITS-Pilani campus, around 4.20pm. The driver of the truck took the deceased Anil Naik to Hospicio hospital, Margao, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police are looking out for the driver who absconded from the hospital. Sources said that in the evening military drivers learn truck driving on the highway. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bogda-man-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/78285377.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Over 100 Covid infected prisoners assumed to have recovered||PILIBHIT: Over 100 asymptomatic prisoners in district jail, who had tested Covid-19 positive on September 12, are being assumed to have recovered, after having spent 10 days in isolation in the jail campus. This follows new Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. As per district jail superintendent Anoop Manav Shastri, these prisoners will be kept in quarantine for another week. As many as 38 prisoners of the jail, who had been sent to various hospitals for medical treatment of their individual ailments over the past 15 days, had probably caught the infection during their hospitalisation. It is guessed that on their return to jail campus, they transmitted the infection to other prisoners, he said. As many as 222 randomly collected samples of prisoners had been sent for testing 11 days ago, of which 146 inmates had tested Covid-19 positive. Of these, 19 symptomatic prisoners were shifted to the L1 facility in Pilibhit, while the remaining 127 asymptomatic prisoners were isolated in wards within the jail campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-100-covid-infected-prisoners-assumed-to-have-recovered/articleshow/78278527.cms||Keshav Agarwal
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 300 cr bogus billing scam: Mastermind held from Porbandar village||Rajkot: Rajkot SGST department sleuths arrested Pravin Tanna, the alleged mastermind in the Rs 300 crore bogus billing scam that was busted last month. According to GST officials, they got a tip-off that Tanna was hiding near a village in Porbandar. They arrested him on Monday and produced him for court on Tuesday and secured his one day remand. The GST officials have already arrested Sanjay Mashru last month in connection with the case. Both Mashru and Tanna are residents of Junagadh.According to officials, the accused duo had floated eight firms, only on paper, to generate bogus GST bills. The scam came to light after officials raided 35 premises in Junagadh, Manavadar, Keshod, Dhoraji and Mangrol in July and August. These accused had used documents of labourers and other needy people to obtain GST numbers for their shell firms.Using these GST numbers, the accused generated e-way bills worth Rs 304 crore for supply of peanuts to traders in other states and also used the invoices to get input tax credit. “By doing this the accused evaded tax of Rs 15.21 crore. There is provision in the law that if the tax evasion is of more than Rs 5 crore then it becomes a non-bailable offence,” said a GST official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-300-cr-bogus-billing-scam-mastermind-held-from-porbandar-village/articleshow/78282984.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi admin clears 100-year-old encroachment in Ghosiyana||VARANASI: The district administration started removing about 100-year-old encroachment from defence land in Ghosiyana area on Wednesday amid heavy police bandobast for the construction of a railway over bridge on Shivpur-Phulwaria-Lehartara four-lane road project after the high court dismissed the petition of the encroachers. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI, “Some people had encroached defence land decades back and constructed their houses. When the removal of encroachment started in 2019 they had filed a petition in high court. The HC dismissed their plea on Tuesday.” “Soon after getting a copy of the court order dismissing the plea of encroachers, a joint team of district administration, PWD, UP Bridge Corporation and District Urban Development Authority officials was sent to Ghosiyana area to remove the encroachment. Heavy police force was also sent along as the encroachers had indulged in violent protests last time and a tehsildar was seriously injured,” the DM added. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said on September 21 that all projects in Varanasi have to be completed on time, he said. When the team of officials and police reached Ghosiyana, the encroachers started protesting and raised the issue of compensation fixed for their buildings. Officials tried to clarify the method of deciding compensation but heated arguments continued for over an hour. Later, the DM reached the spot and asked PWD officials to hold a camp for distributing compensation among the listed families. He said no compensation would be given for land as it belonged to defence. The affected 59 families of Ghosiyana area have been given houses under Asra scheme at Kanshi Ram Shehri Awas Yojana, he said, adding 13 families had already shifted while remaining were being allotted houses. The district administration also arranged vehicles for transportation of household articles of the families. DM told the UPBC officials to start bringing construction material to the site. PM Narendra Modi had laid the foundation of the four-lane road in November 2018. After the alignment of Shivpur-Phulwaria-Lahartara four-lane road was finalized, UPBC and PWD could not start the construction due to encroachment on the defence land that had been transferred for the project. PWD has to construct a 5.33 km road while UPBC has to build two ROBs and a bridge on river Varuna. UPBC started work on one RoB and bridge on river Varuna, but faced problems in constructing the ROB at 5C railway crossing as the land had been encroached by 59 families for more than 100 years. The administration had then started clearing encroachment, but the families filed a petition in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dist-admin-clears-100-year-old-encroachment-in-ghosiyana/articleshow/78283532.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Varanasi||Case lodged against Deoria MLA, SP workers for staging demonstration||GORAKHPUR: Deoria police, on Wednesday, registered a case against 109 SP leaders and workers including Deoria MLA Ashutosh Upadhyaya for using unparliamentary language for the PM and the CM and violating Covid protocol by staging a demonstration here three days ago. A complaint regarding the same was lodged by district general secretary of Hindu Yuva Vahini Dilip Singh Baghel at Bhatparrani police station of the district on Wednesday. On September 21, SP leaders and workers staged a state-wide demonstration against several issues including unemployment, law and order situation, corruption and price rice. In Deoria too, SP workers led by MLA Ashutosh Upadhyaya staged a demonstration in Bhatparrani and submitted a memorandum at tehsil. On Wednesday, HYV leader Dilip Singh Baghel gave a written complaint with Deoria police that SP workers along with the MLA raised slogans against the PM and the CM and also hurled unparliamentary language, said SO Bhatparrani police station, Rampravesh Ram. The case has been lodged against 9 named and 100 unidentified people under section 188, 269, 504, and Disaster Management Act. The police launched an investigation in the case, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/case-lodged-against-deoria-mla-sp-workers-for-staging-demonstration/articleshow/78283477.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Bhor hilltop shack offering good Net connectivity to students set ablaze||PUNE: A shack built on a hillock, the only place where good connectivity was available to facilitate online studies for the children of Natambe, a village in Bhor taluka, about 65km from Pune, was set ablaze by unidentified persons sometime on Monday night. The village of 200 houses with a population of around 900 people is at the foothills of Rohida fort, and is surrounded by hills and water bodies. Prabhakar Jedhe, who heads the village’s Tanta Mukti Samiti (dispute-free committee), a panel for settling local disputes, said, “The land where the shack was set up belongs to the government and there is no question of any dispute related to it.” Jedhe said they have no idea who may have set it ablaze and what purpose it may have served. “Somebody has set it ablaze. There was no bolt of lightning in the area during the night nor was there any electricity connection inside the shack. Somebody has played mischief. We have requested the revenue officials to provide better connectivity for the children,” he said. Jedhe said the children would go to the shack in two groups of 25 children each and return to the village village after the online classes. Some students would keep their bags or books in the shack, which were gutted in the fire, he said. Village sarpanch Shobha Khopade said, “The village has poor internet connectivity and children were facing problems with studies and classes. The villagers came together and made a shack with bamboos, tree branches and plastic covers on a small hillock near the village before the monsoon.” Jedhe said it sheltered the students from the sun and rain and the villagers erected it through voluntary effort. Police inspector Raju More of Bhor police station told TOI, “No official complaint has been made, but we have decided to take cognizance of the case. We will check if there were disgruntled elements in the village or the adjoining villages who set the shack ablaze.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhor-hilltop-shack-offering-good-net-connectivity-to-students-set-ablaze/articleshow/78285388.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Unemployed youth kills self at his residence||DEHRADUN: A 20-year-old man allegedly hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his room at his residence in Kotwali police station area of Dehradun on Wednesday. The victim, identified as Ayush, was a resident of Lakhibagh. According to police, the victim was stressed due to his unemployment. However, the exact reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained. The incident came to light when his mother knocked his room’s door repeatedly but to no avail. She informed the police and entered the room with the help of cops only to see her son hanging. He was taken to a hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unemployed-youth-kills-self/articleshow/78283000.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 24, 2020||Kanpur||Six static magistrates appointed at LLR hospital in Kanpur||KANPUR: The district administration on Wednesday deployed as many as six static magistrates at the neuro science and maternity wards of the Covid facility at LLR Hospital. They would perform duties in a shift roster of eight hours. Veterinarian Dr Ramapati Mishra, social welfare officer Amarjeet Singh and district development officer G P Gautam would work as static magistrates at the neuro science section while district probation officer Abhay Kumar, district agriculture officer Manish Kumar and district horticulture officer Chandra Prakash Awasth have been deputed as static magistrates at the maternity wing. District magistrate Alok Tewari said all the static magistrates would ensure that doctors and health workers are present in the hospital according to the roster and were treating the patients. He stated that static magistrates would supervise the care of patients through CCTV cameras and would connect & communicate with the patients who could speak through mobile. They would seek the information regarding their health and treatment and report daily at the Integrated Covid command control centre to the chief development officer daily. They would also discuss with the kins of the patients at the hospital and establish coordination with the medical staff. About serious patients, the static magistrates would seek the information from the doctors and inform the family members of the patients so that they could get proper information about their patient, Tewari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/6-static-magistrates-appointed-at-llr-hosp/articleshow/78283600.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Woman from Andhra held for robbery||Ponda: Police have arrested Ratnamala Chandrashekar Oguru, 38, a native of Nellore, Andhra Pradesh, in connection with a robbery in Ponda. Gold worth Rs 6 lakh and cash amounting to Rs 19,250 were seized from her, South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh told reporters at Ponda police station on Wednesday afternoon. Both the complainant and accused are natives of Andhra Pradesh and were familiar with each other, police said, adding that the cash-strapped woman resorted to the crime to meet her expenses and repay debts she had taken from local residents. Police have recovered most of the stolen gold ornaments from people whom she had given them to in lieu of the money she had borrowed. The alleged robbery occurred on September 8, when the accused entered the flat of complainant Sujitha Darsi at Curti, on the outskirts of Ponda town, pretending that she had come to meet Darsi’s husband Sudhakar. As soon as she entered the flat, she allegedly shoved and locked Darsi’s sister-in-law in one bathroom, locked Darsi and her son in another and decamped with the gold and cash. A case of robbery under Section 392 of the IPC has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-from-andhra-held-for-robbery/articleshow/78285387.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||AC room for two murder accused||Rajkot: A police sub-inspector with Jamnagar local crime branch (LCB) was suspended on Tuesday night for allegedly providing luxurious facility to the two persons arrested for murder in Dhrol. Police said PSI KK Gohil had allegedly provided an air-conditioned room to Omdevsinh Jadeja (28) and Narendrasinh Jadeja (30), who were arrested from Chotila town on Friday. Three country-made pistols were also seized from them. “While Omdevsinh and Narendrasinh were asleep on Tuesday morning, an unidentified official from the Jamnagar LCB shot the video, clicked the photographs of duo and uploaded them on WhatsApp and social media. Instead of lodging them in the LCB lock-up, Gohil had provided the accused with an AC room,” said Sandeep Singh, Rajkot range inspector general of police (IGP), who suspended Gohil with an immediate effect. Singh also ordered an inquiry to find out whether other officials apart from Gohil were involved in providing facilities to the duo and what kind of other facilities were being provided to them apart from the AC room. The duo is accused of hiring contract killers from Uttar Pradesh to bump off Divyarajsinh Jadeja who was killed on March 6 over some personal disputes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ac-room-for-two-murder-accused/articleshow/78283024.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to get its first tiger safari in Pakhro, Centre gives nod||DEHRADUN: Following the Centre’s nod to Uttarakhand’s first tiger safari, the state government has started the process to set up the eco-tourism facility in full swing. For this, two enclosures spread in around 106 hectares near Kotdwar in Corbett landscape will be developed wherein, five tigers will be kept. According to a highly placed TOI source, an amount of Rs 21 crore is being shelled out for this project. Notably, the Central Zoo Authority and the NTCA had given clearance for tiger safari, which aims at a sure-shot display of tigers to the visitors, last year. The two enclosures would have leopards as well as tigers according to forest officials working on this project and the size of these enclosures would be around 30-35 hectares each. According to the TOI source, the idea was given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself during his visit to CTR last year. “The idea of a tiger safari was floated by Modi ji himself during his visit to Corbett. He just gave the idea during a verbal communication with our officers,” said another senior officer requesting anonymity. The forest officials are excited about the project and say that it will be completed within one year as all the necessary permits are already in place. “It is a very ambitious project for us and the Centre and therefore, all the permissions were secured within time. We are also trying to get things done in the minimum possible duration as it would boost the economy of the state and also trigger interest of people in the wildlife and thereby, its conservation,” said a senior IFS officer, requesting anonymity. The entire landscape of Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is home to over 230 tigers, holds the world’s highest tiger density of 14 tigers per hundred square kilometers and this is the only tiger reserve which has over 200 tigers. Thus, it won’t be an issue for the authorities to capture a tiger from the wild and keep it in the enclosure. When asked about the exercise regarding capture of tigers for the safari, the director of Corbett Tiger Reserve said, “Any decision pertaining to tigers would be taken after discussions with the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Central Zoo Authority (CZA).” The area will also have an interpretation centre and a 3D-library where visitors will get a glimpse of Corbett Tiger Resevere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-get-its-first-tiger-safari-in-pakhro-centre-gives-nod/articleshow/78283011.cms||Shivani Azad
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC appoints district-level monitoring committees to tackle pandemic||Nainital: During its first weekly hearing on the state’s handling of the pandemic, the Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday ordered constitution of district-level monitoring committees to suggest improvements at healthcare facilities, quarantine centres as well as other medical organisations in all 13 districts of the state. According to the court’s order, issued by a bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, these committees will comprise the district magistrate or a nominee appointed by the DM, the secretary of the district legal services authority (DLSA) and president of the district bar association. As reported by TOI earlier, the court had decided to hold weekly hearings on the coronavirus situation in “view of the seriousness of the issue” as well as “due to demand for regular interventions” and in order to “minimize the fatalities”. The court has said that the members of the committee shall hold their first meeting on Saturday and then at regular intervals to make progress on the issue. The reports of the committee will then be furnished before the court’s registry, so that it can review the progress. The division bench said that the counsels filing petitions can offer suggestions to the committees. The court will hear the case next on Wednesday. Speaking to TOI, Shiv Bhatt, the counsel appearing for one of the petitioners in the case, said, “We had filed an application before the court, suggesting measures like setting up of plasma banks, following social distancing in public transport as well as roping in more and more private labs for testing. The court said that the committee will consider these measures as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-appoints-dist-level-monitoring-committees-to-tackle-pandemic/articleshow/78283037.cms||Prashant Jha
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Farmer commits suicide in Sayla village||RAJKOT: A 25-year-old farmer committed suicide by consuming pesticide in Dheduki village of Sayla Taluka in Surendranagar district on Tuesday night. Though his family members and villagers claimed that Chandu Khamani had taken the drastic step due to crop failure, police said it was due to the fact that his wife had walked out on him. Police said Khamani had consumed pesticides in his farm. “Khamani’s family members and the villagers say that heavy rains had destroyed the crop of sesame seeds that Khamani had cultivated. Our investigation has revealed that he had ended his life as he had been suffering from depression ever since his wife had walked out on him, two years ago,” said R J Gohil, sub-inspector with Sayla Police Station. “We are investigating as to which of the two was the real reason of suicide,” added Gohil. This is the second farmer’s suicide in Dheduki village where three days ago Pratap Vegal had ended his life by consuming pesticide. Though the police investigation revealed that Vegal had taken the extreme step due to a financial crisis, the villagers attributed crop failure as the reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-commits-suicide-in-sayla-village/articleshow/78283050.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kanpur||UP governement trying to take credit of SP’s development work: Abhishek Mishra||JHANSI: Former Samajwadi Party (SP) cabinet minister Abhishek Mishra on Wednesday claimed that the state government was trying to sell Lucknow’s Jai Prakash Narayan International Centre (JPNIC), which is considered a dream project of the erstwhile Akhilesh government. He added that the state government was also taking credit of the development work done during the SP regime. During his interaction with the press here on Wednesday, Mishra said, “They (state government) are the one who claimed that they will not allow anyone to sell the country, but today they are selling all the strategic assets of the country, including oil and gas resources and even Railways. In UP, they are planning to sell JPNIC, which has been built keeping in mind betterment of the people. I protest and appeal to the government not to sell it,” Mishra said. Mishra further said that his main aim to visit Jhansi as well as other places was to “assess the problems being faced by the people due to the inefficiency of the state government and also the requirement of the people so that when the SP government comes to power, we are ready to take up remedial measures without wasting any time”. “The BJP is trying to take credit of the development work done during the SP regime. In Jhansi, the medical college had only 120 beds for 50 years. It was under SP regime that we gave it Rs 600 crore along with a 500 bed multi-speciality unit. However, the state government is promoting private practitioners who have made a hub here opposite the medical college,” he claimed. He added, “Similarly, there other projects here such as renovation of GIC or the construction of an overhead bridge, which were initiated during the SP rule. This government is only halting the developmental work started by us with no valid reason affecting the common people. Work on the Rs 1,000 crore mega dam project here has been halted on petty issues. Similarly, the Kissan Bazar started by us here as an integrated model for the benefit of the farmers has today lost its real purpose because of the reluctance of the present government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-trying-to-take-credit-of-sps-devpt-work-mishra/articleshow/78283834.cms||Arindam Ghosh
September 24, 2020||Indore||I don’t wear a mask at any event, says MP home minister||INDORE: “I don’t wear (masks).” This was the response of home minister Narottam Mishra on Wednesday when reporters in Indore asked him why he had come to the event without a face cover. “I do not wear a mask at any event,” he reiterated, though PM Narendra Modi and CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan repeatedly urge people to follow Covid precautions. The irony, of course, is that he leads the force that goes around penalizing people for not wearing masks in public and disobeying Covid guidelines. He was also health minister from April 22 to July 13. Just two days ago, MP high court had asked political and state functionaries to follow Covid precautions, observing: “Be you ever so high, the law is above you.” The HC had issued notices to the state on a PIL alleging violation of Covid-19 protocols by political leaders in the run-up to bypolls, and said: “Law... deserves respect and obedience, as much from a common man as from a leader, a political functionary and even the head of state.” Mishra attended two public events in Indore on Wednesday, and was seen shoulder to shoulder with party leaders, discussing with them, and posing for pictures with invitees without wearing a mask. Those around him were seen masked up, but there was no social distancing. Later, Mishra sought to explain that he can’t wear a mask for long because of ‘polyps’. “I wear it when needed,” he said. Narottam has openly challenged PM: CongWhen mediapersons asked him why he didn’t have a mask, Mishra shot back: “Kisi karyakram me nahi pahanta main, isme kya hota hai (I don’t wear it in any programme… so what)?“ When reporters persisted, Mishra repeated, “Nahi, pahanta nahi hu main (No, I don’t wear it).” His statement comes at a time when Covd-19 cases are surging in Madhya Pradesh and the virus has claimed over 2,000 lives. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, eight members of the Shivraj cabinet and over 30 senior leaders and MLAs have so far tested positive, and Congress MLA Govardhan Dangi died of Covid complications about a week ago. After controversy erupted, Mishra gave a clarification later in the evening. “I have (nasal) polyps and cannot wear masks for long durations. It causes suffocation. Despite that, I wear a mask at many places and programmes, wherever it is required.” He urged people to wear masks and follow Covid precautions. “I tell this to people every day,” he said. All of Wednesday, however, he wasn’t seen wearing a mask at any of the public events, though people around him, including cabinet colleague and Covid survivor Tulsiram Silawat, did. Congress tore into Mishra, asking if Covid-19 guidelines were only to be enforced on people. PCC media coordinator Narendra Saluja tweeted, “Home minister Narottam Mishra has openly challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan by saying he ‘does not wear a mask’. Is there anybody who can take action against him for violating rules, or are rules only for the people?” BJP tried to play it down. “Narottam Mishraji has a ‘vinodi swabhav’ (jolly nature). He used to take all Covid precautions, but for a few occasions. This matter is nothing more than that,” BJP media incharge Lokendra Parashar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/i-dont-wear-a-mask-at-any-event-says-mp-home-minister/articleshow/78284283.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Two more escaped prisoners nabbed, two still at large||HARIDWAR: Two more prisoners, who had escaped from temporary jail on Tuesday, were arrested by police on Wednesday. The inmates were nabbed from Landhaura area of Haridwar district. Police officials had on Tuesday itself nabbed four other prisoners who had escaped. Meanwhile, the police are trying to arrest two more escaped inmates who are still at large. The arrested prisoners have been identified as Nishu Sharma, resident of Ramgarh, Haridwar, and Bittu, a resident of Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. CO Sadar Poonima Garg told TOI, “Nishu and Bittu were caught from Landhaura region on Wednesday morning where they were trying to cross the boundary of the district. Four accused have been arrested on Thursday while Shubham Pnawar and Vipul are still absconding. A probe has been started in this case and action will be taken against those who will be found responsible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-more-escaped-prisoners-nabbed-two-still-at-large/articleshow/78283049.cms||MS Nawaz
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Breaking from a century-old tradition, Aala Hazrat Urs to go online this year||BAREILLY: In a first in over 100 years, the 102nd Aala Hazrat Urs [Urs-e-Razvi] - a large Sunni Barelvi congregation in Uttar Pradesh - will be observed entirely online this year and the followers will not be allowed to visit the venue due to Covid restrictions in the state. An earlier large gathering of Muslims at a religious event in Delhi during the pandemic became hugely controversial. “The Urs in Bareilly, this year, will be strictly observed online. All religious sermons during the three-day event will be broadcast live on social media platforms. The main prayer ceremony offered on the final day [Kul Sharif] will be observed at 2:38 pm on October 14,” Samran Khan, media coordinator at Dargah Aala Hazrat, told TOI on Wednesday. A poster announcing the schedule - from October 12 to 14 - was released online on Monday. The three-day Urs will be observed to commemorate the 102th death anniversary of Imam Ahmed Raza Khan Qadri, popularly known as 'Aala Hazrat', who propagated the Sunni Barelvi school of Islam. People from the UK, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, UAE, Mauritius and Sri Lanka, among many other countries, usually visit Bareilly for the Urs, which is normally held at the Islamia ground every year. However, abiding by the directions of the state government during the pandemic, the media coordinator further said that only the family members will be present at the Madrasa Jamiyatur Raza in Mathurapur Khankah Tajush Shariah, CB Ganj Bareilly. Moreover, the grand mufti of India, Mohammad Asjad Raza Khan, and national vice-president, Jamaat Raza-e-Mustafa Salman Hasan Khan, have also requested the global followers to offer prayers from their respective houses during the Urs-e-Razvi - live updates of which will be available on Facebook, Instagram and other social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/breaking-from-a-century-old-tradition-aala-hazrat-urs-to-go-online-this-year/articleshow/78280791.cms||Maria Khan
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||One in 4 Covid patients from outside Ahmedabad is from Rajasthan||AHMEDABAD: The medical fraternity in the city is not treating only those from Ahmedabad. Some 443 Covid patients from other parts of the state and country are being treated in private quota beds at Covid hospitals in the city. One in four patients from outside the state being treated here is from Rajasthan. According to AMC officials, of the 443 patients from outside being treated in the city, 145 are from other states, such as Rajasthan (121 patients), Madhya Pradesh (11), Maharashtra (six), Punjab (three), Haryana (two) and one each from Odisha and Tamil Nadu. Officials said of the 298 patients from other places in the state, 33 are from Rajkot, 32 from Gandhinagar city, 28 from Sabarkantha, 26 from Surendranagar and 24 from Mehsana. Officials said that these 443 patients are admitted on the 50% private quota at designated Covid hospitals. Officials said after Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid control in Ahmedabad took over, the AMC adopted the public-private partnership model which was even endorsed by the Gujarat high court, Supreme Court and the Niti Aayog. Officials said that in August, when the AMC permitted patients from other states and districts to be admitted in the city, there were 350 such patients of which 95% were from the state and the majority of whom were from Surat, Kutch, Bhavnagar and Amreli district. In September, the situation is that one third of such patients are from outside Gujarat and even from places like Punjab and Odisha. Officials said that in August the AMC had designated an additional 15 private hospitals in the city for treatment of Covid. These were permitted to admit all patients as private patients. Officials said among these patients are those who came to the city by train and tested positive. Such persons instead of being quarantined at government facilities prefer to get admitted to private hospitals. Officials say more and more people are coming to Ahmedabad from Rajasthan for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-in-4-covid-patients-from-outside-city-is-from-raj/articleshow/78284316.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||Indo-Pak govts urged to stop detaining fishermen||Rajkot: The human rights and peace activists from India and Pakistan have requested governments of both the nations to stop apprehending fishermen (Indian as well as Pakistani) from near the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). The organizations have also demanded medical check-up by doctors in jails of both the countries in the time of coronavirus pandemic.Majority of the fishermen apprehended from Arabian sea are from Gujarat.The human rights organizations like Pakistan-India Peoples’ Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD), South Asian Partnership (SAP), Legal Aid Office, Karachi; Edhi Foundation had earlier in August asked both Indian and Pakistani government to release fishermen lodged in various jails of both the countries as a goodwill gesture. However, the it did not work out amid tension at the borders. Recently the PIPFPD which has offices in Delhi and Pakistan made representation to governments of both nations on the issue.Former secretary of PIPFPD and peace activist Jatin Desai told TOI, “The family members of fishermen are worried, especially due to the Covid-19 situation. We are suggesting that both the governments allow medical teams of each other’s country to examine prisoners which will be a big relief to their family members.” Currently, there are 326 Indian fishermen in Pakistani jails, 90% of them belong to Veraval, Porbandar, Mangrol and Diu. At least 1,200 boats of Indian fishermen have been confiscated by the Pakistan authorities. “Time and again both the countries have accepted that these fishermen are innocents and they are never involved in any illegal activities. Once arrested, they have to spend around two years in other country’s prison. They suffer and so do their families. The scenario of coastal villages is depressing with women wait for their husbands, brothers or son-in-laws to return,” Desai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/indo-pak-govts-urged-to-stop-detaining-fishermen/articleshow/78283062.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||State-of-art new terminal building, four new aero-bridges, over 30 check-in counters: Dehradun airport getting Rs 353 crore makeover||Dehradun: To meet the high expected passenger footfall in future, the Jolly Grant Airport is getting upgraded by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) at an estimated cost of Rs 353 crore. In the first phase, the project entails the construction of a world-class new domestic terminal building along with utility block, car park, sewage treatment plant, rainwater harvesting structures, and other ancillary structures. With an area of 42,776 square metres, the new terminal building will be able to handle 1,800 passengers during peak hours, thereby expanding the capacity of the airport by eight-fold, officials said. According to DK Gautam, director of Jolly Grant Airport, “almost 80% of the development work of the first phase is completed.” “The whole project is likely to get ready by October 2021 although the ongoing work under the first phase will be commissioned by March next year.” He added that the design of the building is optimally done to reduce the cost of construction and operation. “The building has been designed to provide passengers and visitors a sense of place, highlighting the culture and heritage of Uttarakhand. Arched façade is inspired by the work featured at Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, and the feature columns are inspired by the form of Brahmakamal, the state flower of Uttarakhand,” said the airport director. The second phase of the development work will include shifting of operations from existing terminal building to the new one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-of-art-new-terminal-building-four-new-aero-bridges-over-30-check-in-counters-dehradun-airport-getting-rs-353-crore-makeover/articleshow/78283065.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Restaurants cry foul, say forced to shut at 7pm like shops though most business happens after that||PUNE: The civic and police authorities have told restaurants across the city, including those in areas such as Koregaon Park, Bavdhan, Bibvewadi, Dhankawadi, Gultekdi, Aundh, Baner and Karvenagar, to down shutters at 7pm. The restaurant owners claim that the deadline did not explicitly apply to their outlets in any “Mission Begin Again” notification issued by the state or city authorities so far. Restaurants in the state are currently only undertaking home delivery and takeaways, with dine-in services still banned due to the pandemic. The anti-encroachment department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recently began its drive against shops flouting operation norms, including those that function beyond 7pm. However, restaurant owners said the 7pm deadline was also being applied to eateries. Industry sources said most business takes place after 7pm. Only a few days ago, restaurants were being allowed to carry on with takeaways until 10-11pm. This is not the first time the PMC is treating restaurants on a par with shops. In the past, authorities had cracked down on restaurants for not following the now-scrapped P1-P2 rule for non-essential shops. Prashant Shetty, owner of Nimantran restaurant at Bibvewadi, told TOI, “We were operating takeaways and home deliveries until 11pm. However, the authorities have now been telling us that we come under the category of shops and thus have to close at 7pm. We argued that we come under the food delivery sector and are not even allowing customers to enter our establishments.” Shetty said takeaway services account for 10-20% of sales in restaurants. “Around 80% takeaways happen in the evening, after 7pm,” he said. Vikram Shetty, vice-president of the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association, said, “With restrictions on timings for takeaways and the authorities treating restaurants at par with shops, maintaining staff salaries have also become an issue for our members. All PMC orders issued so far on easing restrictions do not mention a closing timing for restaurants.” He said the PMC issued a Rs1,000 challan to a restaurant in Koregaon Park for operating beyond 7pm. A senior Pune police officer said, “As per PMC orders, shops have to shut by 7pm. This also includes restaurants that will have to shut their kitchen by 7pm.” The PMC recently started a special drive against those flouting the Unlock guidelines. Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC’s anti-encroachment department, said, “Except for medical shops, all establishments are being asked to close by 7pm. This includes restaurants undertaking takeaways and home deliveries.” When asked if the 7pm deadline is likely to be reconsidered for restaurants as they are struggling for a livelihood, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI, “I will take up this issue for discussion with the mayor and police commissioner.” Another restaurateur in Gultekdi said, “The PMC and police start coming to the restaurants around 7pm, asking us to shut. This has caused losses as my restaurant gets at least 30 takeaway orders between 8pm and 10pm every day.” A restaurateur in Bavdhan said, “PMC had served our restaurant a notice on Monday. It mentioned several points, including adherence to the closing deadline. The authorities said that if we continued to operate beyond the deadline, they would fine us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-cry-foul-say-forced-to-shut-at-7pm-like-shops-though-most-biz-happens-after-that/articleshow/78285430.cms||Neha Madaan
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||Mob thrashes policeman, torches LRD jawan’s bike||Vadodara: A mob on Sun Pharma Road attacked police late on Tuesday late night when the cops tried to intervene in a melee. While an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) fractured his hand in the attack, frenzied mob torched a lok rakshak dal personnel’s bike in the fight that took place around 10pm near Jhadeshwarnagar. Police said that staff of a PCR van tried to intervene after some locals informed them about the fight. ASI Vinod Vitthalbhai tried to pacify the two groups, but they instead ganged up and started abusing the cop. As the situation started to spiral out of control, Vitthalbhai contacted other PCR vans in the area. Meanwhile, one of persons Vikas Oganiya tried to hit Vitthalbhai with a wooden stick on the head and while trying to save himself, the cop took the hit on his wrist which got fractured in the impact. “More cops soon reached the spot and tried to make the accused sit in the PCR van, but he and his supporters created a ruckus,” said inspector D K Vaghela of JP Road police station. However, the cops managed to bring him and his brother Raj to the police station. Oganiya’s supporters then pelted stones at the PCR vans leaving the spot. While taking the two accused to the police station in police vehicle, an LRD personnel Devendrasinh Jaidevsinh left his bike at the spot. As there were no police present at the spot, some unidentified persons torched Jaidevsinh’s bike. “Besides the two brothers, we have rounded up four to five persons who were involved in the melee. But even at the police station the key accused did not cooperate with us,” said Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mob-thrashes-policeman-torches-lrd-jawans-bike/articleshow/78282686.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Rs 17L alcohol seized at Patradevi||Panaji: The excise department on Tuesday seized liquor worth Rs 17 lakh at Patradevi checkpost being smuggled out of the state. The boxes with liquor were camouflaged under layers of coconut shells. “The truck has been seized and the driver and conductor arrested. Investigation is under way to assess the value of liquor. We think it must be worth Rs 15 to 17 lakh,” said excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi. It was not immediately known to whom or which state the consignment was bound since the documents produced by the driver were found to be forged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-17l-alcohol-seized-at-patradevi/articleshow/78285469.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||40-year-old man booked for rape bid in Jahanabad||PILIBHIT: The police on Wednesday booked a 40-year-old man of a village under Jahanabad police station for allegedly attempting to rape a 22-year-old woman. The accused had been stalking the woman for a long time. The police acted only after an order was delivered by the court of the chief judicial magistrate. According to the woman, she had to take the court’s protection as the police did not respond. The accused, Jwala Prasad, barged into the woman’s house on the night of July 31. He grabbed her in a bid to rape her. She was rescued when her husband, who was working in the cattleshed, rushed to the house hearing her shout. The accused snatched her gold earrings and fled the house but threatened her of dire consequences, the woman claimed. SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said that the accused was booked under IPC sections 452 (house trespass), 354 (criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 392 (robbery) and 506 (criminal intimidation). He is yet to be nabbed, the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/40-year-old-man-booked-for-rape-bid/articleshow/78281760.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Surat||Post recovery, 125 docs, 88 nurses return||Surat: About 125 doctors and 88 nurses working as frontiline warriors at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) in Surat have returned to duty after recovering from their Covid infection. According to NCH officials, 135 doctors and 92 nurses were infected with Covid while working as frontline workers in the last few months. “I got infected with Covid-19 on June 8 while in Covid-19 duty but rejoined duty as soon as I recovered from the infections. There are many health workers who got infected with Covid-19 and now resumed their work again as frontline workers,” Dr Twinkle Patel said.“Total 837 health workers which include 53 senior resident doctors, 276 resident doctors, 10 microbiologists, and 137 intern doctors among others are at present working at New Civil Hospital in the city. Ten doctors and two nurses are under Covid treatment. Two on-duty nurses have succumbed to the virus at NCH,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/post-recovery-125-docs-88-nurses-return/articleshow/78283116.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Nearly 5.3 lakh anganwadi women to attempt handwash record on October 2||SURAT: Over 5 lakh women including lactating mothers, girls and pregnant women registered with 53,029 anganwadis across 33 districts of Gujarat will attempt to create a world record by washing their hands with soap for 20 seconds simultaneously on October 2. The exercise, aimed at spreading awareness on maintaining hand hygiene to save lives and combat Covid-19, will be undertaken on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi next month. The event has been organised jointly by Surat-based Shakti Foundation working for socio-economic upliftment of rural women and the women and child development department of the Gujarat government. From each anganwadi across 252 talukas in the state, 10 women will be selected to participate in the world record attempt. They will take lessons on hand hygiene as per the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines at the 53,029 anganwadis and that their videos will be collated by the volunteers of the Shakti Foundation for the record. The programme will be held between 11 am to 12pm in the presence of a team from Guinness Book of World Records who will judge the event. The world record attempt will be performed in the presence of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and minister of state for women and child development Ganpat Vasava. A second world record will also be attempted by these women when they simultaneously receive hygiene kits containing sanitary pads, soaps and masks. This will be in line with the state government’s objective of ‘Swasth Gujarat-Swachh Gujarat’ (Healthy Gujarat-Clean Gujarat). President and co-founder of Shakti Foundation, Dr Sonal Rochani told TOI, “This is going to be the biggest drive under ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ in the country during the Covid-19 times. The women from across the state will wash their hands simultaneously for 20 seconds to create a new Guinness World Record. These women will spread the message of hand hygiene to about 25 lakh other women across the state. Our mission is to promote hygiene and save lives from the deadly Covid-19.” “Since it will not be feasible for the judges to remain present at all the 53,029 aanganwadis, we will record videos of the women washing their hands at the anganwadis and upload it on the YouTube channel of Shakti Foundation. It will take about a week for the judges to evaluate the record and finally, hand over the certificate,” said Rochani. Despite repeated attempts minister Ganpat Vasava was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nearly-5-3-lakh-anganwadi-women-to-attempt-hands-wash-record-on-oct-2/articleshow/78283259.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Apple supplier eyes south for India entry||CHENNAI: A battle is on between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to woo Apple’s second largest contract manufacturer Pegatron to set up a manufacturing facility, and recent developments suggest Tamil Nadu may have an edge. Two industry sources TOI spoke to said the Taiwanese electronics giant is currently scouting for locations to set up its first manufacturing facility in India, though no decision has been taken yet. TN’s high-skilled manpower and existing ecosystem for electronics manufacturing has made it a front-runner. “The loss of Wistron (another Apple phone supplier) to Karnataka was a big blow to Tamil Nadu and the state has made all efforts to roll out a red carpet to Pegatron. The recently released electronics policy, which offers attractive sops to large industries, is also likely to interest Pegatron,” one of the sources said. Wistron is currently in the process of setting up a facility at Narasapura in Kolar district of Karnataka. As the first step into its India entry, Pegatron incorporated its subsidiary Pegatron Technology India Private Limited in July 2020, as per Registrar of Companies (ROC) filings seen by TOI. The filings mention the company’s registered office to be on Harrington Road in Chennai, and Chui Tan Lin and Akhilesh Bansal have been appointed as first directors. A spokesperson for Pegatron said they have registered their India subsidiary in Chennai, and are currently looking for potential manufacturing locations and are in discussions with multiple state governments. “We haven’t made final decisions yet,” the spokesperson said. Tan Lin, the deputy COO of Pegatron Corp, is also designated as MD of India operations as per the Articles of Association filed by the company. Pegatron is also among global manufacturers who have applied to the government’s Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, as part of the country’s national Electronics Policy. Foxconn and Wistron have also applied for the scheme. TN’s industries secretary N Muruganandam told TOI that the state is in talks with various companies including Pegatron and it was “too early” to comment on the status of the talks. The presence of other large electronic manufacturing giants in Sriperumbudur, skilled manpower including a large women workforce and good connectivity for exports makes the state a hub for electronics makers, he said. Apple already makes iPhones in TN through its manufacturing partner Foxconn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/apple-supplier-eyes-south-for-india-entry/articleshow/78284345.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Cover open nalas, end misery: Secunderabad Cantt locals||SECUNDERABAD: The open nalas across Secunderabad Cantonment, have become a cause for concern for locals. Especially after two recent incidents — one in which a girl fell into an open nala in Malkajgiri and another where a person was washed away at LB Nagar. The Patny nala is one of the major nalas in the Cantonment, which leads to massive inundation during monsoons. “The SCB must identify danger spots along nalas and put up signboards and barricade to prevent any untoward incident,” said Padmanabha Reddy, a resident of Bowenpally. Another resident, Mohd Ajeem urged officials to build retaining walls along open nalas. “We are paying property taxes, then why can’t the Cantonment Board spend on our safety,” he asked. Sources claim that the nalas overflow because open drains have been built in an unscientific manner and commercial units along nalas dump their waste into them, despite repeated warnings. While maintaining that a permanent retaining wall has been built for the Patny nala, SCB officials said they are taking other safety measures as well. “We have joined hands with the civic body to ensure the Patny nala flows freely and made efforts to stop dumping of waste,” said SCB (solid waste management) senior superintendent, M Devender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cover-open-nalas-end-misery-cantt-locals/articleshow/78284331.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||4.69L educated unemployed people have registered with the state since 2017||Dehradun: In a written reply to a question asked by Jhabreda MLA Deshraj Karnwal, state employment minister Harak Singh Rawat stated that a total of 4.69 educated unemployed youth have registered themselves with the department since 2017. Among these, the maximum of 67,809 are from Dehradun, followed by 53,408 in Haridwar and 51,431 in Udham Singh Nagar district. In reply to a question by MLA Suresh Rathod, urban development minister Madan Kaushik said that the state has a total of 8,116 employees at present who are working as sanitary staff members. Among these, 3,253 employees are permanent staff, 941 are daily-wager staff, 1,938 are outsourced, and 1,984 are hired through Mohalla Swacchta Samiti. Also, the service department has helped provide job opportunities to 15,876 youth in private sector firms in the last three years. In reply to a question by Independent MLA Pritam Singh Panwar, labour minister Harak Singh Rawat mentioned that there are 3.45 lakh registered labourers in the state. Among these, the maximum of 83,268 are in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-69l-educated-unemployed-people-have-registered-with-the-state-since-2017/articleshow/78283075.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 24, 2020||Surat||Seven park-bred spotted deer released in Vansda||Surat: In an attempt to increase the prey base and reduce the human-leopard conflict in South Gujarat, about seven spotted deer, bred at Shri Divrendrasinh Deer Breeding Park at Vansda were released in the enclosure of the Vansda National Park in Navsari district on Wednesday. This is third time that the park-bred spotted deers have been released in the national park by the South Dang forest department and the Nature Club Surat (NCS) since 2017. So far, about 22 spotted deer have been released in the wild from deer breeding centre. According to the NCS office-bearers, the deer have been soft released — they would be under surveillance for a while—in the four acre enclosure at the national park. Before the release, the animals were weaned from the feed they used to receive at the park. At the Vansad National Park they were fed grasses and leaves available naturally. After few days of acclimatization, they would be finally released into the wild.In the last few years, the depletion of ungulates and other animals in the forest of Dang, which were the prey base of large carnivores, has forced the leopards, the highest order predator in the region, to attack livestock and at times even human beings, in the villages on the periphery of the forest. The NCS had began the deer breeding project in 2010 in around two acres of private land at the Vansda National Park to increase the prey base in the region. Snehal Patel of NCS told TOI, “This is the third batch of deer to be released in the wild from the breeding centre. So far, 22 spotted deer have been released into the wild.”As per the forest department census of 2016, the population of spotted deer is around 122 in Navsari division and that there is not a single deer in Dang. Range Forest Officer (RFO), Vansda National Park, Jigar Patel told TOI, “We will monitor the behaviour of spotted deer in the enclosure and track their movements for few days. If they are found fit and healthy, we will recommend it for release into the wild. At present, the park has over 100 spotted deer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-park-bred-spotted-deer-released-in-vansda/articleshow/78283378.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in car-tanker collision||Rajkot: Two persons were killed when the car they were travelling in rammed into the rear of a tanker near Halwad in Morbi district on early Wednesday morning. Police said two people were also injured in the accident that occurred on Halwad-Maliya Road. “All the victims were from the same family. They were on their way to Mota Asamadia village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district from Mumbai. It appears that the driver of the car had dozed off while driving and failed to see the parked tanker, resulting in the tragedy,” said an official from Halwad police station.The deceased were identified as father Bipin Gala (62), son Brij Gala (26), while the injured included elder son Vicky (32) and their mother Kalpana (57).The impact of the collision was such that both deceased seated in the front seat of the car were killed on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-car-tanker-collision/articleshow/78283082.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Youth at SG Road, Sindhu Bhavan not wearing masks’||Ahmedabad: The administration has urged youth in the city to maintain social distancing and wear masks. The areas of Sindhu Bhavan, Prahladnagar, SG Highway and Ring Road are frequented by groups of youths who violate social distancing norms and do not wear masks. ACS Rajiv Gupta, who is in charge of Covid management in the city, in a video message said, “It has come to the notice of AMC teams that youths in large groups are seen hanging out in the areas areas of Sindhu Bhavan, Prahladnagar, SG Highway and Ring Road and are violating social distancing rules and are not wearing masks.” Gupta called on the youth to avoid eating out in large groups and to maintain social distancing. “We request the youth to maintain social distancing and to wear masks. They should show concern for their parents and elders in their houses and society. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi requested people to maintain social distancing and wear masks,” he said. Gupta further called on the people of the city to go in for voluntary Covid testing. “To provide facilities for voluntary testing, the AMC has set up 100 testing kiosks in the city where one can walk in and get oneself tested. There are also 80 urban health centres in the city where testing is done for free.” He called on people to go in for testing as CM Vijay Rupani appealed. He said even the chief minister had gone in for testing voluntarily. Meanwhile, AMC teams have decided to carry out raids in these areas to enforce social distancing. Officials said more and more people are seen violating social distancing and mask rules. An officer said that on Monday when 750-odd people were fined across the city, 366 of them were from the South West Zone, mainly in the Jodhpur ward. Officials said more violations were found in areas inhabited by people with better education levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-at-sg-road-sindhu-bhavan-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/78284336.cms||---
September 24, 2020||India||States to get 50% SDRF aid for Covid; can use it to buy testing kits, set up Covid hospitals||NEW DELHI: Soon after the Prime Minister's announcement raising the ceiling for states' utilisation of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for fighting Covid-19 to 50% from 35%, the home ministry wrote to all chief secretaries adding testing kits, oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals, strengthening of ambulance services and cost of setting up of containment zones, Covid-19 hospitals and care centres in the list of items eligible for assistance from SDRF. Stating that the list of items and norms of assistance for containment measures for Covid-19 was being partially modified, the home ministry told the states that the new set of items would be eligible for SDRF assistance "by way of special one-time dispensation with the overall capping of 50%, for the financial year 2020-21". The last time the norms for SDRF allocation were revised was on July 14, 2020, when the limit for utilisation was raised to 35% from 25%. The revised list of items eligible for SDRF assistance now includes testing kits, oxygen generation and storage plant in hospitals, strengthening of ambulance services for transport of patients; and setting up of containment zones, Covid-19 hospitals and Covid-19 care centres, in addition of existing items such as cost of setting up additional testing laboratories; and cost of thermal scanners, ventilators and air purifiers. Other eligible items that continue to be in the list are provision of temporary accommodation, food, clothing, medical care etc to people affected and sheltered in quarantine camps or for cluster containment operations, cost of consumables for sample collection and support for checking, screening and contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-to-get-50-sdrf-aid-for-covid-can-use-it-to-buy-testing-kits-set-up-covid-hospitals/articleshow/78286526.cms||Bharti Jain
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,372 new cases, 15 deaths in state||Ahmedabad: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday, Gujarat recorded 1,372 new Covid cases, taking the state’s total to 1.27 lakh. It is after five days that the daily number of new cases went below 1,400 in the state. The new cases include 294 from Surat, 185 from Ahmedabad, 141 from Rajkot, 134 from Vadodara, and 94 from Jamnagar. This was the third straight day that Surat recorded 290-plus while Jamnagar fewer than 100 cases after 25 days. These five districts account for 62% of the state’s cases. The total number of cases in Surat is now 27,029. The numbers for Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot are 35,574, 11,147 and 8,170. The state also reported the deaths of 15 Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,370. The deaths on Wednesday included four in Surat, three each in Ahmedabad and Vadodara, two each in Rajkot and Bhavnagar, and one in Morbi. About 60% of the deaths in these 24 hours were reported from these five corporation areas. The total number of Covid deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 1,791, 740, 172 and 129, respectively. A total of 1,289 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total in the state to 1.07 lakh. The discharges include 274 from Surat, 154 from Rajkot, 129 from Ahmedabad, 114 from Jamnagar, and 111 from Vadodara. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 16,470, and make up 13% of total cases. The share of persons discharged and deceased patients is 84.4% and 2.6%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1372-new-cases-15-deaths-in-state/articleshow/78284352.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Education department to assess quality of online education in Uttarakhand government schools||DEHRADUN: The education department has introduced a method through which the quality of online education in state government schools will be assessed. The District Institute for Education and Training has come up with a procedure, under which, online forms will be filled by school students for the evaluation purposes. It is meant only for the students of Class III to XII. The forms will help the department to assess how much the students are able to learn in their online academic sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-assess-quality-of-online-education-in-state-govt-schools/articleshow/78283086.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Forum starts e-petition on roads closure||Secunderabad: In an effort to get the 21 civilian roads, which were blocked by the Local Military Authority (LMA), reopened, the Federation of North-Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS), a civic forum, created an online petition on Twitter on Wednesday, urging the residents to sign the petition. “As part of our efforts, a Twitter campaign has been launched through the Green Sainikpuri account to convey the message to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Malkajgiri Lok Sabha MP A Revanth Reddy and municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao, urging them to reopen all 21 roads immediately,” said CS Chandrasekhar, FNECS secretary. We hope that a solution will be found for the road closure issue during the Parliament sessions, he added. According to an FNECS member, the campaign will continue for a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forum-starts-e-petition-on-roads-closure/articleshow/78284348.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||LMA, GHMC chief to meet over alternate road||Secunderabad: The Local Military Authority (LMA) will hold a meeting with the GHMC commissioner to expedite the process of constructing an alternate road to Gough Road and discuss the issue on September 26. “A joint survey with revenue authorities for finalising the land requirements has been completed at the behest of defence authorities who have been urging the state government to finalise the requirements of defence land and forward the proposal to the Ministry of Defence (MoD). A meeting of defence authorities with the GHMC commissioner to expedite the process for the benefit of citizens is scheduled on September 26,” the defence PRO wing said in a press release on Wednesday. The LMA said that the defence authorities have been pursuing the matter of construction of alternate road to Gough Road with the state government in order to mitigate the difficulties of the residents of north and north-eastern parts of Hyderabad. “The defence authorities have convened a meeting with the civic body chief and requested the state government to freeze the requirements of defence land, so that the case can be suitably considered by the MoD for the benefit of citizens,” said a defence official. Referring to orders of the Telangana high court issued in 2014, the LMA said that the requirements conveyed by GHMC officials have been varying over a period of time leading to defence authorities’ inability to consider the case. “We are hopeful that the state government will be able to construct the alternate road to Gough Road which has been delayed by over six years despite the high court having issued directions to the state government in 2014,” read the press release. The renewed joint efforts of the defence authorities and the state government will benefit the people of Secunderabad and Hyderabad too, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lma-ghmc-chief-to-meet-over-alternate-road/articleshow/78284358.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||T workers in Gulf give Rs 2.7L to Covid victim kin||Hyderabad: Going through tough times themselves, Telangana workers in the Gulf pooled in Rs 2.72 lakh and handed it over to the kin of Bhanuchander, a worker from Nirmal, who had died of Covid-19 in Saudi Arabia. Cash and provisions were given to the family in Narsampur village of Kadem mandal on Wednesday by Gulf Workers’ Awareness Centre (GWAC) founder-president Krishna Donikeni and state president Shabbir Khan. Bhanuchander had gone to work in Saudi Arabia and succumbed to Covid-19 on August 9 in Hail city. With the help of the embassy, the last rites were performed on September 21. The money contributed was given to Bhanuchander’s wife, daughter and two sons in Narsampur in the form of fixed deposits, cash and provisions. GWAC said that the government should also come to the rescue of the family and give them financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh and a 2BHK house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-in-gulf-give-rs-2-7l-to-covid-victim-kin/articleshow/78284393.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Child line team, police intervene and prevent ‘child marriage’ in Moradabad||Bareilly: Acting swiftly after a tip-off, a child line team along with cops managed to prevent a "child marriage" from taking place in Kundanpur village under Majhola police limits of Moradabad district on Tuesday. The Moradabad police and the child line team reached the village venue and found both the girl and boy were too young. The families alleged that they were forced as the duo were already engaged in a “love affair”. The family claimed that they even threatened to kill themselves, if not allowed to marry. The team intervened and the marriage was called off. Speaking to TOI, child line incharge, Moradabad, Shradha Sharma said, “Upon receiving information of a child marriage taking place in Majhola area, teams rushed to the spot and after inquiry found that the duo, who were about to get married, were too young — the boy, 19, and the girl, 15. And both were school dropouts.” Sharma added, “The family has received proper counselling and informed of the consequences of such illegal marriages. The local police have been directed to keep a tab on the two families. Moreover, we have taken written assurance from the families in which they have stated that they would not marry off their children till they turn adults.” Majhola SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “As of now, no case has been registered. However, strict warnings have been given to the families. Police teams will also keep a watch. The marriage has been called-off for now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/child-line-team-police-intervene-and-prevent-child-marriage-in-moradabad/articleshow/78281785.cms||Maria Khan
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Goonda Bill passed amid protests from Congress||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat assembly on Wednesday, passed the controversial ‘The Gujarat Goonda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Bill, 2020 with a majority vote amid opposition from the Congress party. While the ruling BJP termed passing of the bill as a key step for further strengthening law and order in state, the Congress alleged it will usher in ‘Police raj.’ Minister of state for home, law and legislative affairs, Pradipsinh Jadeja, while introducing the bill in the assembly, said that a similar act has been adopted by eight states and will empower the government in taking strong action against harassment to common people. “For the first time we have included action of causing loss to the public property under the act. Government officials who will, in connivance with private persons, attempt to damage public interest will also face action,” Jadeja said. Leader of opposition, Paresh Dhanani said the act is ultra vires to the CrPC and will not withstand the test of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/goonda-bill-passed-amid-protests-from-congress/articleshow/78284409.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU limited to 33% staff after 4 test +ve||Ahmedabad: Four employees working in various departments of Gujarat University (GU) tested positive for Covid-19 recently. The varsity office was shut down on Wednesday afternoon after other employees raised safety concerns and more than 100 left work and headed home. The office was sanitized and after a lot of discussion, GU authorities decided to resume work on Thursday with only 33% of their workforce. Apart from the ongoing college examinations and admissions process, GU workers are also engaged in student-related online work. GU registrar Piyush Patel said all department offices were sanitized. According to government guidelines, any employee who has come in contact with a Covid-19 patient will not be allowed to come to work till they are confirmed as not having the virus, he said. Office work will be resume in four departments with 33% staff from Thursday, Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-limited-to-33-staff-after-4-test-ve/articleshow/78284382.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Goan trailblazers Simon D’Souza, Datta Naik pass away||Panaji: The state lost two trailblazers on Wednesday, former deputy speaker of the state legislative assembly Simon D’Souza and Konkani movement leader Datta Naik. D’Souza passed away on Wednesday morning while undergoing treatment at GMC after a brief illness. Sources close to him said he had acute chest congestion but was not Covid-19 positive. Starting with social organisations like the Goa Toddy Tappers’ Association, D’Souza went on to represent Dabolim and Vasco as a Congress MLA. D’Souza (82) was Congress MLA twice, in 1984 and 1989, and was the first deputy speaker after Goa gained statehood. “Saddened to learn about the demise of Simon D’Souza. His contribution to public life will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family,” said chief minister Pramod Sawant. Former chief minister and opposition leader Digambar Kamat also expressed his condolences. “Deeply pained by the passing away of former Congress MLASimon D’Souza. My condolences to his family. May his soul rest in peace,” said Kamat. Former revenue minister Jose Philip D’souza also paid tributes to D’Souza, who leaves behind a son and four daughters. The loss of Naik will be deeply mourned by proponents of Konkani and Goa’s language movement. A brilliant orator, Naik also etched his name in popular memory after he swam across the Mandovi and walked into an ongoing assembly session at the old Secretariat to make his point. He was also active in Jana Sangh. While he was close to some BJP leaders, he would never mince words to criticise them for wrong policies. Engineer by profession, Naik was known for being blunt about his views about Goan politicians and attempts to undermine Konkani. Naik also edited a periodical which was a strong voice during the language controversy. Later he published – ‘Ghatak Rajyachyo Bhoyo Bhoyo’, — a compilation of articles. Naik is the father of Valmiki Naik, one of the founding members of Aam Aadmi Party in Goa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-trailblazers-simon-dsouza-datta-naik-pass-away/articleshow/78285510.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Raw material price hike hits engineering, construction sectors||Coimbatore: Representatives of engineering and construction sectors on Tuesday said the price of raw materials had gone up this month. The price of copper has shot up to more than Rs 500 a kg from Rs 380, while the price of other steel raw materials and scrap has increased by Rs 3 to Rs 6 a kg on an average, they said. Pointing out that earlier steel price was hiked by Rs 1.5 and Rs 2 a kg, S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association, said now the same was increased by Rs 3 a kg at a go. “At a time when the demand is low, the price hike has come as a blow to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).” According to him, steel raw materials come from Visakhapatnam, Mumbai and Kolkata, and copper mainly from Mumbai. C Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs’ Association, said the price hike was an additional burden on MSMEs, which were already hit by late payment from both public-sector undertakings and multi-national companies. “Because of this, we wouldn’t be able to finish our orders for the price that was quoted earlier.” The hike in copper price has hit the pump industry, which uses the raw material for making motors and pump parts. The price of cable has also increased because of this, said pump industry representatives. Similarly, the price of TMT steel bars has gone up by Rs 5-Rs 6, said construction industry players. “The price has increased to Rs 54 a kg from Rs 48. There was no prior information on the price hike. It was sudden,” said G S Ravikumar, secretary of Coimbatore Civil Engineers’ Association. He said while the price of cement had already been hiked, that of sand had not seen any aggregate increase. Industrialists termed the price hike artificial and attributed it to the play of syndicates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/raw-material-price-hike-hits-engineering-construction-sectors/articleshow/78285505.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Textile parks to be set up outside hub Tirupur||Chennai: Shortage of labour in Tirupur, which rakes in Rs 60,000 crore annually through textile business, has prompted manufacturers and exporters to decentralize operations by setting up textile parks in other districts. Manufacturers expect this would cut production costs by about 10%. Tirupur Exporters’ and Manufacturers’ Association (TEMA) has identified Ayakkaranpulam village in Vedaranyam taluk of Nagapattinam to set up the first such park. Similar parks would come up in Ramanathapuram, Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Tuticorin districts in future, said TEMA president M P Muthurathinam. Veda Textile Park would be set up on about 50 acres at a cost of Rs 120 crore, of which 67%, would be central and state government subsidies. In the first park, 36 exporters and manufacturers would set up units, which would employ 7,000 people, TEMA estimates. The park will have cutting, sewing, packing and dispatching units. A skill development centre for workers and creche for their children will also be set up. “The state government has given its nod to the project and construction will commence in December,” Muthurathinam said. “Labour shortage is a permanent problem for the industry. We face high labour turnover. Guest workers, who are 40% of the workforce of 6 lakh people, keep changing companies. This puts manufacturers’ delivery deadlines under pressure. Decentralisation will help us find a permanent solution to the problem,” he said. “It will be a win-win situation for industry and workers,” said managing partner of DSP Knitting company, Banupriya Senthilkumar. She said industry would be able to save on accommodation and transport of workers. The cost cutting could be about 10%, she said. “The textile park will also give employment to rural women,” said Banupriya, who plans to start three units in the first park and employ 500 women. P Shanmugasundaram of Essdee Knitting Mills Private Limited, who plans to engage 150 workers, said, “By reducing cost of manufacturing, we will have a competitive edge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/textile-parks-to-be-set-up-outside-hub-tirupur/articleshow/78284411.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||By May, govt got 1,133 ventilators||Gandhinagar: The state government informed in the assembly on Wednesday that it got 1,133 ventilators between December 2019 and May this year in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Of these, 67 have been purchased, while the remaining have been gifted. Vankaner MLA Mahamadjavid Pirzada had sought to know if the state government had procured ventilators to save serious Covid-19 patients, and how many of these ventilators were purchased, acquired on hire and gifted during the period between December 2019 and May 2020. In his written reply, state health minister Nitin Patel said that 67 ventilators have been purchased (all in the month of March 2020) while it was gifted 866 ventilators in April and another 200 in May this year. The minister added that the government has not acquired any ventilator on hire. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/by-may-govt-got-1133-ventilators/articleshow/78284422.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents up in arms against median ads||Hyderabad: Residents of Manikonda municipality are furious over medians in the area commercially being exploited for placing advertising boards. They say these boards will endanger safety of road users. Trouble started when bituminous (BT) roads were being laid in the area. With increase in the height of the carriageway, earlier medians became short because of which many two-wheeler riders began crossing over the median to the other side. In light of people’s safety, work on new medians began. However, municipal officials went ahead and decided to hand over the work to a private contractor, who would get advertising space in lieu of the work taken up. “We were shocked to find that the median work was handed over to some ad agency. There was no work order or agreement. A council resolution was finally called which allowed that the medians be used for installing boards,” alleged Manoj Kumar, a resident of Alkapur township. Padma Rao, a councillor from Manikonda ward 7, said he was among a few to oppose the resolution because his ward was one that was going to be affected. “Most of the work of the dividers is done. For 10% of the fixing of new dividers, why should the project be handed over to an unknown entity,” he asked. There are at least five roads across the municipality, including ones leading into Alkapur township, Tanishnagar and Secretariat Colony, where residents have been facing the same issue. Their concern is that the boards would distract road users and cause more accidents than are already taking place. Manikonda commissioner S Jayanth did not respond to calls for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-up-in-arms-against-median-ads/articleshow/78284403.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB gets Rs 11.06 cr state fund||SCB gets Rs 11cr fund: The state finance department issued a cheque for Rs 11.06 crore to the SCB as part of final instalment of the 14th Finance Commission. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-gets-rs-11-06-cr-state-fund/articleshow/78284418.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||Home deliveries for the quarantined||DEHRADUN: The district administration has introduced the facility of delivering supplies to the homes of those who are undergoing their quarantine period at their homes. The local administration has tied up with more than 22 supermarkets which will deliver goods on order through call, online or Whatsapp. The office of the district magistrate said that the move comes after many people under home isolation had complained that they were facing difficulties in getting daily essentials. The district administration has tied up with supermarkets in different locations of the city like Rajpur Road, Haridwar Road, GMS Road, Jakhan, and others. Meanwhile, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) is set to open for the public from Thursday. The DMC was closed for two days for visitors after one of its sanitation supervisors had tested Covid-19 -positive. Notably, nine staffers of the DMC have so far tested Covid-19-positive and the office has been shut for the general public six times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-ties-up-with-supermarkets-to-deliver-ration-to-those-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/78283126.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 24, 2020||Meerut||Amar Jawan Jyoti to light up the 1857 memorial?||MEERUT: Pending since 1998, the hope for the installation of Amar Jawan Jyoti [eternal flame] has rekindled after Lok Sabha MP from Meerut-Hapur constituency raised the demand for the same to be installed at Shaheed Smarak in Meerut during the Parliament's Zero Hour on Tuesday evening. "The Shaheed Smarak in Meerut symbolizes the freedom struggle against the British rule, triggered from Meerut on May 10, 1857, and is a huge draw for any tourist who visits or passes by the ancient Ramayan-era city. There has been a long standing demand for the installation of an Amar Jawan Jyoti in commemoration of all those who died in the first War of Independence, and thereafter," Rajinder Agarwal, the Lok Sabha MP said. Interestingly, the demand for this structure was made for the first time in 1998. However, nothing concrete could be achieved in this regard since then, although, the spot was spruced up and a museum came up at the site. "I had spoken to Cantonment authorities and officials of Gail Authority of India Ltd [GAIL] which has a gas pipeline project running here, but to no success. Hence, I raised the matter before the Government of India to fulfill this long standing demand," the MP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amar-jawan-jyoti-to-light-up-the-1857-memorial/articleshow/78281814.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||SEBCs getting poor healthcare: Panel||Gandhinagar: A committee of the Gujarat assembly has found several deficiencies in the state’s healthcare infrastructure. The panel said the shortcomings were affecting the quality of medical treatment provided to backward classes. The 10-member committee on welfare of socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) tabled its scrutiny report in the assembly. The panel, with members from both the Congress and the BJP, is headed by BJP MLA R C Makwana. In its report, the committee pointed out that the state government’s ambitious Mukhyamantri Amrutam (MA) scheme for free treatment for poor citizens “failed to serve its purpose due to the lack of hospitals to treat patients with serious ailments”.  The committee asked the government to establish specialty hospitals for the welfare of SEBCs, who are compelled to spend their savings on private hospitals due to the non-availability of government-run or government-empanelled cancer hospitals. The panel said that people are facing issues in getting MA cards and asked the government to deploy required systems to print more cards. The committee also expressed displeasure over vacant posts of anaesthetists in Gandhinagar.  “The health department’s representative admitted that doctors are prescribing branded medicines instead of generic ones,” the report stated. “As a result, generic stores are shutting down due to the lack of demand and people are compelled to buy expensive medicines from private stores.” The committee recommended that orders should be issued to make sure that doctors prescribe generic medicines. During its probe, the committee noted that ambulances are being used as mortuary vans at places where such vehicles were not available. If the government had already floated a scheme for poor citizens to take dead bodies to crematoriums, the department must implement the scheme and arrange for mortuary vans, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sebcs-getting-poor-healthcare-panel/articleshow/78284436.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Mansa court junks lockdown cases||AHMEDABAD: After a Vadodara court, a magistrate in Mansa town of Gandhinagar district has not only junked numerous chargesheets filed under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for lockdown violations, but also pulled up cops for unnecessarily accusing people of spreading the disease. More than one lakh FIRs were filed by Gujarat police across the state for lockdown violations. Most of those booked under Section 188 of the IPC were also booked under Section 269 of the IPC, for a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. For this, the punishment is up to six months in jail. Not only did the court refuse to accept more than 100 chargesheets under Section 188 of IPC this month, it was also not ready to accept the police action of slapping of Section 269 of IPC on people found roaming the streets during the lockdown. Judicial Magistrate First Class A P Patel observed, “...it transpires that the addition of Section 269 of the IPC along with Section 188 of the IPC, in the present case by the concerned police official is nothing but an attempt to evade the provision of Section 195 of CrPC by resorting to devices of camouflage.” The court further said, “Therefore, to take a roundabout route, Section 269 of the IPC prima facie seems to have been added in the case so that the police official does not have to file a private complaint.” With these observations, the court concluded that even if Section 269 of IPC was applicable in the case, it is not open to the court to proceed with the trial on charges of spreading infection by dropping the charge of violation of public notification. The court cited seven different authorities in support of its view that it cannot take cognizance of the chargesheets and discharged all people booked for violation of notification promulgated by Gandhinagar district magistrate under Section 144 of CrPC as soon as the nationwide lockdown was announced. It has stopped all proceedings on complaints filed under Section 188. While discharging those accused of lockdown violations, the court had a word of advice for the police that they should have filed private complaints against violators. “In the end, I am of the view that the IO (Investigating Officer) should have filed a private complaint instead of police report u/s 173 of CrPC in light of the mandatory bar u/s 195 of CrPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mansa-court-junks-lockdown-cases/articleshow/78284445.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hubballi||Bidar DC helps 645 poor students get seats in private PU colleges||BIDAR: The district administration in Bidar has rolled out an initiative to ensure continuity in the education of students from economically weaker sections (EWS) of society. Under the initiative, the district administration has come up with a public private partnership (PPP) model to help students from underprivileged sections who have cleared SSLC examination obtain free seats at private pre-university (PU) colleges. The initiative was the brainchild of former Bidar deputy commissioner PC Jaffar, who launched it in 2014-15. However, the initiative was forgotten following his transfer from the district. However, Bidar DC Ramachandran R decided to revive the initiative, and owing to his efforts, 645 students were enrolled among 63 private colleges. In a procedure that was similar to the counselling held at the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) cell for engineering students, a day-long session was held at the Bidar district headquarters to place the aspiring students in the colleges that have been included in the initiative. “I had to confer with representatives of almost all private colleges in the district to convince them to allocate free seats for these poor students. While colleges belonging to the Shaheen Group of Institutions readily agreed, it took more effort to convince others, Ramachandran told TOI. The administration has received applications from 1,267 students seeking admission to private colleges. The students will be admitted based on merit, said the DC. Ramchandran said that he had merely resuscitated the programme, the credit for which rightly belonged to Jaffar. Ramachandran expressed hope of the initiative, in addition to helping students from vulnerable sections scaling greater heights in life, would inspire them to work for the welfare of society. “That is one of the aims of this programme,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bidar-dc-helps-645-poor-students-get-seats-in-pvt-pu-colleges/articleshow/78282600.cms||Shreyas HS
September 24, 2020||Salem||Dairy farmers spill 200 litres of milk on road against Aavin decisions||Dharmapuri: More than 50 milk producers spilled about 200 litres of milk on the road on the Four-Road area in Dharmapuri town on Wednesday to protest certain management decisions of state-run milk co-operative Aavin. The dairy farmers claimed that Aavin management had suddenly reduced the quantity of milk it was procuring from them. “We are not able to sell our milk to anyone as we have a large quantity of unsold stock,” said S Kumarasamy, a milk producer. The milk cooperative in Dharmapuri usually procures 1.3 lakh litres of milk from producers across the district. Dairy farmers are mostly concentrated in Morappur, Chinnagoundampatty and Bombatty villages in the district. When contacted by TOI, Dr K Venkatachalam, general manager of Aavin, Dharmapuri, said that the management hasn’t reduced its procurement level. “We are still procuring 1.3 lakh litres every day,” he said. He said that private milk companies had reduced the procurement price to Rs 22 per litre, while Aavin was paying farmers Rs 32 per litre. “So the milk producers who were supplying to private companies left them and suddenly turned to Aavin,” he explained.He said the Dharmapuri district Aavin could preserve 1.23 lakh litres of milk a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dairy-farmers-spill-200-litres-of-milk-on-road-against-aavin-decisions/articleshow/78285509.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||Couple held with marijuana||Vadodara: A couple living in Panigate was detained on Tuesday night for possessing marijuana worth Rs 1,250. Police said that they nabbed Mohammed Hussain Khalifa near his house at Chambusha Bawa na Tekra in Panigate as he was walking suspiciously with a bag in his hand. When the cops checked his bag, they found 125 grams of marijuana and Rs 4,800 cash in it. On being asked about the source of marijuana, Khalifa said that his wife Fareeda had given him. Cops then went to his house where Fareeda was found and she too was detained. The couple’s house was checked to find if they hid more quantity of drugs, but nothing was found. A case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against them at Panigate police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/couple-held-with-marijuana/articleshow/78282708.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu plans to roll out One Nation One Card on October 1||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has decided to implement One Nation One Ration Card scheme from October 1 to enable ration card holders to get their entitled quota of subsidized foodgrain from PDS outlets of their choice anywhere in the state. The state will ensure biometric authentication for all cardholders in the shops for getting their monthly entitlement, sources said. The decision to roll out the scheme was taken at a high-level review meeting of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami with senior ministers and the officials of finance, cooperation, food and consumer protection departments at the Secretariat on Wednesday. “The scheme will be implemented from October 1. The decision was taken today,” said an official. The BJP government’s ambitious scheme has seen 25 states, including Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, joining the ‘Integrated Management of Public Distribution System’ (IM-PDS) so far. The system will enable the cardholders anywhere in the national cluster to access their quota of foodgrain through national portability. The state has 2.09 crore cardholders and has allocated Rs 6,500 crore towards food subsidy and Rs 400 crore towards cooperatives for implementing the PDS this fiscal year. Even as the state implements the National Food Security Act, it will continue to retain its universal PDS, as has been done in the past four decades extending subsidized commodities to all sections, with no income criteria or social status for monthly entitlement. Sources said 5kg of rice per person/month is entirely free of cos. This may not be the case for inter-state migrants. “The state government has got a clarification from the ministry. The inter-state migrants will have to buy their quota as mandated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Only the cardholders of Tamil Nadu will be covered under universal PDS,” another official said. Under the NFSA, the cardholders are entitled to get rice at Rs 3/kg and wheat at Rs 2/kg. There were a lot of concerns raised by several sections, including political parties about the sustenance of universal PDS and extending the benefits to migrants. A total of 2.44 lakh households with 6.86 lakh beneficiaries joined PDS in TN since April 1. The surge began after an announcement made by the chief minister on the floor of assembly in March about the cash support of Rs 1,000 each to rice cardholders and free supply of 1kg of tur dal, 1kg of Palmolein oil and 1kg of sugar to each cardholder in April. Since then, one more round of cash support was extended and three rounds of free supply of foodgrain. Chennai and suburbs received a third round of cash support in June during intense lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-plans-to-roll-out-one-nation-one-card-on-oct-1/articleshow/78284434.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No one should go hungry, says man behind rice ATM||HYDERABAD: An MBA graduate working for a private firm has launched a ‘rice ATM’. Anyone who does not have rice to cook for their next meal can go there and take rice which will suffice for five days. While more than 12,000 families have benefited by Ramu Dosapati’s initiative since lockdown was imposed in March this year, more number of people are availing the benefit now. Located near LB Nagar, the rice ATM has come as a boon for workers and those who lost jobs or faced pay cuts due to Covid-19 pandemic. “No one should go hungry. That is why I have made available rice for anyone to come and pick it up,” Ramu told TOI. On Wednesday, more than 100 people came to collect rice and Ramu himself home-delivered rice to families of Covid-19 patients. What prompted Ramu to come up with this kind of social service? In 2006, he met with a road accident and suffered an injury on his head. “I prayed to god and promised that I would be of service to people if I were given a new lease of life,” Ramu said. While that social service was limited to weekends, an incident he saw during the Covid-19 situation was an eye-opener. “A watchman’s family spent Rs 2,000 and bought chicken for migrant workers’ families from Odisha who had hardly anything to eat during the pandemic. If that family could do it, I wondered why I should not offer service to the needy,” Ramu explained. He spent Rs 1 lakh he had and withdrew his Rs 3 lakh PF to buy rice. More people who saw his work also chipped in with provisions and rice. “I do not know what would have become of us if he had not come to our rescue,” said Shiva. Many know him as ‘Shavala Shiva’ as he jumps into Hussainsagar and rescues people who try to commit suicide in the lake. He has saved more than 100 people so far. “After enquiring about me, Ramu sent rice for our families,”he said. At the rice ATM, an English lecturer also waited for his turn to collect rice. “For the last six months, I had no salary and even now I am in a ation. I heard of the rice ATM and have come to collect rice for my family,” G Srinivas said. Ramu said he also encourages and helps people to find jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-one-should-go-hungry-says-man-behind-rice-atm/articleshow/78284429.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 24, 2020||Hubballi||Audio ads on tippers yet to become reality||HUBBALLI: The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC), which increased property tax despite opposition from the public, is spending Rs 40,000 per day on fuel for its 200 autorickshaw tippers that collect garbage from houses and commercial establishments in the twin cities. The expenses in maintaining the tippers, deployed in all the wards in the twin cities, is expected to rise in the coming months. However, HDMC seems to be least bothered to generate income for the maintenance of tippers’. The HDMC general body had taken a decision to install audio advertisements with the expectation of minimum income of Rs 3 lakh per month, two years ago. However this resolution has still remained on paper. Former mayor Sudhir Saraf, under whose tenure the resolution was taken, told TOI that the many commercial establishments spend Rs 5,000 per day on an autorickshaw, to publicise their service or product in the city. “Despite spending Rs 5,000 per day, they can’t reach all wards of the twin cities. We can offer to advertise at a cost of Rs 10,000 per day with us, to play audio advertisements on all 200 tippers. By this simple calculation, HDMC can earn a minimum revenue of Rs 3 lakh per month. If four advertisers come forward, it will yield Rs 12 lakh, which is equal to monthly diesel expenses of all tippers,” he analysed. However, he alleged that due to the absence of an elected body, officials have kept the resolution in cold storage. “Residents can expect the implementation of such initiatives only after an elected council is formed,” he said. Sources in the HDMC revealed that the HDMC is spending Rs 200 on fuel per day for each tipper. “This is the amount we are giving to the contractors. If there is need of further maintenance, we are instructed to utilise it from HDMC funds,” they added. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that a tender is ready to invite advertising agencies to install audio advertisements in tippers. “We will float it shortly. The technical committee felt that our estimate is on the higher side. Fuel charges per month for all autorickshaw tippers is Rs 14 lakh. Anyway, let us hope that we will earn to manage maintenance cost of tippers through these advertisements,” he said. caption: Public addressing systems in HDMC auto-tippers are yet to be used for commercial advertisements||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/audio-ads-on-tippers-yet-to-become-reality/articleshow/78282700.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Fresh crop-damage survey not needed’||Gandhinagar: The issue of compensation to farmers for losses suffered because of excessive rainfall in several districts of the state, was raised for the third consecutive day of the ongoing monsoon session of the assembly. Congress MLAs on Wednesday, demanded a more comprehensive crop damage survey during a discussion limited to crop damage in Surendranagar district. State agriculture minister R C Faldu said in the assembly that the government has already completed its survey, where all farmers who have suffered over 33% damage to crops in 123 talukas of 20 districts, will be paid compensation of Rs 3,700 crore. Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, for the second consecutive day, demanded that 108 more talukas be added to the list eligible for compensation under the Mukhyamantri Kisan Sahay Yojna. Other Congress MLAs also joined in the debate, contending that there was no proper survey of the damage to crops in their respective constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fresh-crop-damage-survey-not-needed/articleshow/78284458.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC set to have most women judges in country||CHENNAI: Soon, one in every five judges of the Madras high court will be a woman. Besides, a serving district judge-couple — Murali Shankar Kuppuraju and Thamilselvi T Valayapalayam — will be sworn in judges of the high court on the same day and the court will regain the honour of having the most number of women judges in the country. All these are set to become reality, thanks to a Supreme Court notification on Wednesday clearing the elevation of 10 serving district judges as judges of the Madras high court. Three other district judges, who too figured in the two lists containing 13 names, did not find a place in the notification delayed by nearly one and half years perhaps due a pending case. The new judges are: Kannammal Shanmuga Sundaram, Sathikumar Sukumara Kurup, Murali Shankar Kuppuraju, Manjula Ramaraju Nalliah, Thamilselvi T Valayapalayam, G Chandrasekharan, A A Nakkiran, Sivagnanam Veerasamy, Ilangovan Ganesan and Ananthi Subramanian. “The SC collegium on September 23 approved the proposal for elevation of the following judicial officers,” a brief statement said on Wednesday. Once their elevation is notified-ed by the Union law ministry, the total strength of the high court would increase from 54 to 64, against the sanctioned strength of 75. The court, which already has 9 woman judges, will have four more. Murali Shankar is at present principal district judge of Trichy and Thamilselvi is serving as registrar (judicial) in Madurai bench of the Madras high court. A Supreme Court judgment, delivered earlier this month cleared the way for elevation of these 10 judges as the apex court had junked a petition filed by a group of directly recruited district judges seeking seniority over these two lists containing names of promotees. Earlier, the apex court collegiums had also returned names of four advocates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-set-to-have-most-women-judges-in-country/articleshow/78284589.cms||Suresh Kumar
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Permanent lights for three bridges||AHMEDABAD: On the occasion of 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on October 31 the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is aiming to arrange permanent lighting for three bridges. The Sardar Bridge along with Ambedkar and Ellis Bridge. Another ‘festive’ occasion for which the lighting may also come in handy is a possible inauguration of the seaplane service between Sabarmati riverfront and Statue of Unity (SoU) in Kevadia. The lights are being set up on a five-year contract. “These will be LED lights that will display the national tricolour and will also reflect other colours that reflect the flavour of our city,” claims Nilesh Patel who has been engaged for the bridge lighting. The AMC had earlier experimented with these lights ahead of China president Xi Jinping’s visit, and then during US president Donald Trump’s visit early this year to the city. “Diwali and world heritage day were other occasions when we had experimented with these lighting arrangements,” claims a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/permanent-lights-for-three-bridges/articleshow/78284583.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||All 10 accused appear in court in Kodanad burglary case||Udhagamandalam: The 10th accused in the Kodanad murder and burglary case surrendered before the district magistrate court here on Wednesday, when police produced the other nine accused in the court for hearing.Deepu, a native of Kerala, has been on the run like seven other accused in the case after the court issued arrest warrant against them on August 21 after they failed to appear for the hearing. With his surrendering, police now have all the 10 accused in the case to proceed with the trial, which was stuck so far. He is the third accused to surrender before the court in the case in less than 10 days. Earlier, Santhosh Samy and Sathesan, also natives of Kerala, had surrendered before the court on September 15 and 18, respectively.Meanwhile, three of the five witnesses from the Nilgiris were questioned in a direct examination during the hearing on the day.The court said the remaining two witnesses would be questioned on Thursday.After the court proceedings, seven accused, including Deepu, were taken to the sub-jail in Ooty, and one, Jamseer Ali, who is in the custody of the Kerala police, was sent back. Two accused, Sathesan and Sathosh Samy, are out on bail.The case had come up for hearing before the court at least six times in the past one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/all-10-accused-appear-in-court-in-kodanad-burglary-case/articleshow/78285529.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||With fewer infections, Ludhiana records its lowest hit rate||LUDHIANA: There is some good news from Ludhiana on Covid-19 front as the hit rate — the percentage of positive cases to the total samples tested on a given day — has improved for the district and is lowest since the spurt in cases over the past few months. As per the state’s Covid bulletin released on Tuesday evening, Ludhiana’s hit rate is second-lowest compared to the other districts of the state from the high levels seen in August. The hit rate for Ludhiana stood at 6.4% during the September 14-20 period. The data for this rate since June 22 till September 20 shows that it was lowest at 2.6% during June 22-28, which increased to 4.3% during the seven days from June 29 to July 5. The data further suggests that the hit rate for Ludhiana district increased to 6.6% during July 6-12, but fell by 0.3% during July 13-19 period. However, after that, the rate shot up to 19.3% between Aug 3 and 8 before falling to 14.5% in the seven days from August 10 to 16. Thereon, the hit rate kept on falling gradually and was recorded at 6.7% during September 7-13 to reach the current value. The latest hit rate for the district at 6.4% was second-lowest among the districts of the state, with Sangrur posting the lowest such rate at 4.6%. SBS Nagar and Barnala shared the 6.4% hit rate with Ludhiana district, while Mohali posted the highest 21.5% in the state. Faridkot recorded the second-highest rate at 19.4% during the September 14-20 period. Explaining the lowering of Covid-19 hit rate in Ludhiana, Khanna senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Rajinder Gulati said the decrease from the maximum to the present value suggests that there is a decrease in infection. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the hit rate and many other parameters used to measure Covid scenario indicate that there is a decline in the intensity of the pandemic in the district after touching the peak. However, he cautioned that they could not afford to lower the guard and requested people to follow the safety norms like wearing face masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, which are a must to win the war against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-fewer-infections-ludhiana-records-its-lowest-hit-rate/articleshow/78283174.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Police dog named Google searches & finds burglars||Nashik: Google, the Nashik police sniffer dog, has become an integral part of the force by helping crack five house break-in cases and nab hardcore criminals so far. One burglar was recently arrested with Google’s help. The Doberman's handler, constable Ganesh Konde of the crime branch dog squad, said, a burglary had taken place in a house in Khode Mala, Cidco area. A burglar had stolen jewellery worth Rs 2.25 lakh sometime between September 3 and September 12, when the residents of the house were out of town. When the family returned, they found that their house had been burgled. The matter was reported to the Ambad police and soon the dog squad was summoned. The police found a glove lying near the window. As it did not belong to any family member, Google was given the glove to smell. He soon took off on the burglar’s trail. Konde said, “Google tracked the burglar for nearly 1.5 km and entered a shanty in the Indiranagar slum and started barking at a man. This told us that the glove belonged to the man identified as Anil Kondiram Kale (32).” When Kale objected, he was asked to stand in a group with four other men. Google again sniffed the five men and barked only on Kale. The exercise was repeated one more time and Google again singled out the Kale. The police said Kale has 10-15 house break-in cases registered against him. He may have handed over the jewellery to his associates and it is a matter of time before the stolen goods are recovered, said PSI Mithun Mhatre of Ambad police station. Konde said Google would turn three on September 29. He was named by former police commissioner of Nashik Ravinder Singal. Google has been deployed to about 70 cases. Apart from identifying five hardcore criminals, he has successfully shown tracks of criminals in 15 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-dog-named-google-searches-finds-burglars/articleshow/78281911.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 24, 2020||Salem||Close shave for truck driver||Salem: It was a close shave for a 34-year-old man after the truck he was driving fell into a 50-ft well at Kannankurichi town panchayat on Tuesday night. He escaped with minor injuries. According to the Kannankurichi police, K Loganathan, 34, of Kannankurichi, was driving his truck laden with sand. “When he neared Pudhu Yeri area, the parapet of the road collapsed, and the truck fell into a well on the roadside,” a police officer said. Loganathan got stuck in the truck and the cabin portion completely immersed in the water. However, he managed to come out of the water, the official added. Based on an alert, the Kannankurichi police, fire and rescue services personnel from Shevapet fire service station went to the spot. They retrieved the truck using earthmovers after seven hours of struggle. A case has been registered and further inquiry is on.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/close-shave-for-truck-driver/articleshow/78285531.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC to hold fresh survey of PG facilities, hostels||LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation will soon conduct a fresh survey of paying guest accommodations, migrant quarters and hostels to verify if there is an increase in the number of such properties and their on-rent rooms. The record of 2012-13 house tax payment shows 3,9541 such properties. But the number does not indicate how many rooms each property has and how many are on rent. Therefore, the zonal commissioners have been directed to hold surveys, zeroing in on the details, so that property tax at 7.5% could be recovered to help MC tide over financial crisis. The city is divided into 37 blocks. Tax collectors in these blocks will check all the details and superintendents will be responsible for the information the former collected. In August, the local bodies department had issued a notification that the owners of PGs, migrant quarters and hostels will have to pay property tax for this financial year at the rate of 7.5% of their annual rent. Even as the MC officials have started the process of serving notices on the owners of such units, verification of old data is under way. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The survey is important as we have to ensure all pay property tax. Though we have the number of such properties, there is a need to update the data.” The last date for availing 10% rebate on property tax, water supply and sewerage dues for this financial year is September 30. As a result, long queues dot Suvidha Centres for clearing the dues. The civic body has decided to keep its offices open on Saturday and Sunday this week, so that maximum people could pay the tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-hold-fresh-survey-of-pg-facilities-hostels/articleshow/78283191.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Building contractor robbed of Rs 1.5 lakh in Shimlapuri||LUDHIANA: Unidentified masked miscreants robbed a building contractor of Rs 1.5 lakh near his house in Shimlapuri on Tuesday night. Abhimanyu Kumar Mehta, 35, of Chimney Road was returning home when the accused intercepted his way, threatened him with pistols and escaped with the cash. He said he had gone to a construction site of a cycle factory in Jaspal Bangar village on Tuesday and when he was returning home around 11.30pm on his bike, seven armed miscreants on bikes intercepted him. He added that two of the miscreants had pistols, while others had sharp-edged weapons. They flashed weapons and robbed him of Rs 1.5 lakh. Mehta called the police, who took “an hour to reach the spot”. He alleged one of the cops started abusing him for “roaming around” till late night and then left. He alleged that on Wednesday, he was called to Shimlapuri police station for investigation and made to stand outside the gate till afternoon, saying a meeting of officers was on. Shots fired at man in loot bid on Daba Road In another incident, some miscreants attempted to loot a man on Daba Road on Tuesday night. The accused also shot at him, but the man escaped unhurt. The victim, Mukesh Kumar Mehta, 40, of Gurpal Nagar, works at a dry port at Dhandhari. Mehta said he used to reach home by 6pm after work, but on Tuesday he went to a friend’s house at Daba Road to watch the IPL match between Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings. The match got over by 11.30pm, and around 11.45pm he left from there. At Daba Road, he felt four men on two motorcycles were following him. He speeded, but the miscreants asked him to stop, and when he did not, one of them opened fire and the bullet hit the backlight of his scooter. On reaching home, he called up the police. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said in both cases FIRs have been lodged against unidentified accused at Shimlapuri and Division 6 police stations. The police found that one gang was behind both incidents. The police are trying to trace them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/building-contractor-robbed-of-rs-1-5l-in-shimlapuri/articleshow/78283194.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana industry out of breath, government yet to offer oxygen aid||LUDHIANA: The Punjab government is contemplating sourcing oxygen for medical use from other states due to increase in demand in the wake of Covid-19 crisis, but the shortage for industrial grade oxygen is still to catch its attention. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), especially the furnaces, are suffering due to the shortage. According to businessmen, several small units have been forced to suspend production and shut down temporarily due to the gas shortage, as cutting, welding, oxygen level control, cannot be performed without it. Due to the crisis in the furnace industry, the supply of raw material to the other sectors, like bicycle, fastener, sewing machine, has also been disrupted. A week ago, the industrialists had raised this issue and complained to several leaders about the stoppage of supply of industrial grade oxygen and black marketing of gas at five times its rate. Dev Garg, vice-president of All India Induction Furnace Association, said, “The shortage has gone to such a level that some industrial units have suspended production as without cutting and welding, the factories cannot function. It has been more than two weeks now since the industrial grade oxygen supply has been stopped and suppliers are saying the government has directed them not to supply it to the industries. As a result, black marketing has started at large scale. We are being fleeced by persons who are charging Rs 900 or more for a gas cylinder that was earlier refilled for Rs 230.” KK Garg, president of Induction Furnace Association of North India (IFANI), said, “MSMEs are facing a huge crisis. Furnace and rolling mills are the worst hit as they are totally dependent on gas. Gas manufacturers and suppliers are expressing inability and if no corrective measures are taken by the government at the earliest, all furnace and rolling mills will have to shut production. This will stop production in other factories as well, as these are dependent on us for their raw material.” Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers’ Association of India, said, “Furnace industry feeds us with raw material of different types, but for the past two weeks, some of the units are either working at 20% capacity or have suspended production because they do not have enough supply of oxygen. As a result, our production too has been badly hit. If the furnace industry does not function, 90% of the engineering products manufacturing industry of Ludhiana will shut down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-industry-out-of-breath-govt-yet-to-offer-oxygen-aid/articleshow/78283184.cms||Mohit Behl
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Two guards die as door jams & lift gets flooded in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Two security guards of an Agripada building drowned after the elevator they took from the basement to the ground floor did not start but its doors got locked and it got flooded around 8am on Wednesday. The fire brigade extricated their bodies. Many areas in the city were water-logged following heavy rain in the last 24 hours. Nathani Residency building, near Kala-Paani junction, was constructed few years back. Zameer Sohanan (32) and Shehzad Memon (37) had gone from the mezzanine floor to the basement to switch on the water pump for the building’s water tank. Agripada police said that when they reached the basement, they found it flooded. They entered the lift but it did not start when the doors shut. Water began entering the lift too. They pressed the alarm repeatedly for help. Residents gathered outside the building and some went to the basement and tried to open the lift door. They then alerted the fire brigade. “When a fire brigade team cut a portion of the lift’s roof they found the entire lift was filled with water. They pulled out the two guards and sent them to Nair hospital where they were declared dead,” said senior inspector Selvaam Agawane. Police have registered an accidental death case and may call the lift inspector to check what was the problem. Those responsible for its maintenance may also be summoned to find out about its repairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-security-guards-drown-in-elevator/articleshow/78284618.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Infrastructure company director held for invoice fraud||HYDERABAD: Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) on Wednesday arrested a director of an infrastructure company in an alleged invoice fraud. The company, Smartgen Infra, had allegedly issued fake invoices worth Rs 140 crore without supplying goods and services, but availed input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 20 crore, officials said. Smartgen Infra director Murali Bharatwaj has been remanded in judicial custody. The company also availed and utilised ITC to an extent of Rs 15 crore on invoices worth Rs 98 crore without receiving any goods or services in violation of the provisions of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act. Smartgen Infra is into commercial real estate, IT/ITeS services, supply of coal, PCCP and BWC pipes, execution of drinking water pipeline projects and supply and installation of electro-mechanical works. Searches were carried out by GST Intel based on inputs and as a part of an operation across four states at locations in Pune, Mumbai, Chennai, Kurnool and Hyderabad on September 21. DGGI officials of Hyderabad unit recovered several incriminating documents, including fake transportation documents related to invoices, which have been fabricated to depict movement, supply and receipt of goods, that too without the provision of a godown or a warehouse, with an intent to defraud government exchequer and evade GST. The officials alleged that the company also indulged in circuitous trading of invoices involving entities across India to boost turnover so as to enhance their LC (letter of credit) and OD (over draft) limits, and boost turnover to qualify as bidder for major infrastructure projects. The company also utilised such proceeds to purchase luxury cars. The company’s transactions in other states and its related parties were also under the radar of DGGI. Key personnel of the company were also questioned and their voluntary depositions have been recorded. Two bank accounts related to the company have been identified and provisionally attached to safeguard government revenue, pending investigation. Efforts were underway to identify and recover tax evaded by the ultimate beneficiaries. The transactions of the company with other major infrastructure companies were also being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infra-co-director-held-for-invoice-fraud/articleshow/78284592.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana toll at 688 as Covid-19 claims 11 lives; 184 test positive||LUDHIANA: Eleven residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 184 tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, 14 deaths were reported on the day, including three of outsiders. The district casualties included a 36-year-old man of central jail; an 80-year-old woman of Saleem Tabri, who had hypertension; an 80-year-old woman of BRS Nagar with diabetes; an 81-year-old diabetic man of Rishi Nagar; a 71-year-old woman of Punjab Mata Nagar, who had hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease; a 64-year-old woman of Dugri; a 40-year-old diabetic man of Dhandran Road; and a 67-year-old woman of Guru Nanakpura. Others who succumbed included a 64-year-old man of Durgapuri, who had diabetes; a 43-year-old woman of Bahadur Ke village with diabetes; and a 50-year-old man of Guru Hargovind Nagar with diabetes and hypertension. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Ludhiana toll tally stood at 688 and that of outsiders at 209. To date, 2,42,619 suspects have been tested here. Of the positive patients from Ludhiana, 61 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness cases), 23 were positive cases’ contacts, 43 from OPD, 10 police personnel, seven health-care workers, two pregnant women and 38 through tracing process. Besides, 28 outsiders tested positive here on the day. The Ludhiana case count has now risen to 16,783, including 1,509 active cases, and that of outsiders to 1,980. The recovery rate of the district is 86.89%. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said at present 4,149 persons were home quarantine. As many as 5,199 samples were sent for testing on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-toll-at-688-as-covid-19-claims-11-lives-184-test-positive/articleshow/78283200.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolhapur||714 fresh cases take Kolhapur district’s Covid count to 41,449||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered a surge in coronavirus cases on Wedesday with the addition of 714 patients. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 41,449. The district also reported 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of casualties to 1,322. As of now, 9,855 people are undergoing treatment in various Covid care facilities in the district. Authorities of the district administration said that the number of active cases are declining mainly due to the rise in recoveries. A total of 1,038 patients were discharged on Wednesday. So far, 30,272 patients have recovered from the contagion in the district. Sangli registers 821 cases, 22 deaths Sangli district reported 821 fresh Covid-19 cases along with 22 casualties. With this, the total number of patients in the district jumped to 31,540 while 1,183 patients have succumbed to the infection. At present, 8,856 patients are undergoing treatment at various facilities in the district. Meanwhile Sangli district administration has started a helpline for people dealing with mental health issues such as depression and anxiety. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said that Sushrusha, an NGO working in this field, is roped in as an expert agency to guide those facing mental issues caused due to Covid-19 pandemic. Solapur rural reports 454 cases 16 casualties Rural parts of Solapur district reported 454 cases as well as 16 deaths on Wednesday. So far, Solapur rural has reported 22,167 Covid-19 cases, of which, 618 people have succumbed to the infection. Satara district reports 30 deaths 708 cases Satara district reported 30 Covid-related deaths along with 708 fresh cases on Wednesday, district administration authorities have said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/714-fresh-cases-take-kolhapur-districts-covid-count-to-41449/articleshow/78285536.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Footfalls still very low at airports in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Widespread apprehensions towards travelling in the Covid-19 pandemic has kept passenger footfall low across key airports in Gujarat. Four major airports in the state, namely Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot saw an average decline of 78% in passenger footfall in August this year against the same period last year. According to data by the Union ministry of civil aviation tabled in the Parliament, passenger footfall at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad dropped from 9.8 lakh passengers in August 2019 to 1.8 lakh passengers during the same month this year – down 81%. Similarly, passenger movement at Surat airport declined by 73% from 1.24 lakh to merely 34,056 during the same period; that at Vadodara dropped by 86% from 84,433 to 12,005 and at Rajkot, it fell by 73% from 13,041 to 3,591 passengers. Tour operators claim that the decline in passenger footfall is mainly due to widespread apprehensions over travelling. “A majority of traffic is getting affected as leisure travel bookings that have taken a hit. While inquiries have begun for destinations such as Goa, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh, the reluctance due to the pandemic as well as the rapidly changing norms in different states is a huge deterrent,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) – Gujarat. “At the same time corporate travel is also impacted as several players have imposed restrictions on travel for their employees. This contributed close to 40% of the total travellers. Only those people who have to address an emergency tend to travel,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour operators’ and travel agents’ Association of Gujarat (TAG). The fall can also be attributed to the non-issuance of refunds by airlines, said industry players. “Airlines tend to provide a credit note as a refund instead of an actual amount due to which passengers are apprehensive in making advance bookings,” said a travel agent based in Ahmedabad. Till August, only 30% of the actual frequency of flights were permitted to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/footfalls-still-very-low-at-airports-in-state/articleshow/78284728.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Examination cell set up at Ahmedabad collectorate||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad collectorate has created an exam cell In a bid to smoothly conduct competitive, recruitment and board examinations of both central and state government agencies, The exam cell will coordinate with various agencies to ensure that all examinations are held in a smooth manner amid the Covid-19 pandemic. District collector Sandip Sagale said on Wednesday that as many as 16 examinations are held in Ahmedabad and the exam cell will coordinate with various departments to ensure these are held smoothly. “During the pandemic, the cell will ensure that examination centres are sanitized before and after the exam, social distancing is ensured and students do not face any difficulties. Ahmedabad is the biggest centre in the state for competitive and other exams,” Sagale said. Some of the examinations that are held in Ahmedabad include those by the Gujarat Gaun Seva Pasandgi Mandal, Gujarat State Public Service, Staff Selection Commission, Class X and XII board exams, JEE, NEET GATE and various other aptitude and competitive tests. The resident additional collector will head the cell and the collectorate will coordinate with the police, health and other departments to ensure smooth conduction of these examinations, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/examination-cell-set-up-at-ahmedabad-collectorate/articleshow/78284730.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bhopal||MP: BJP’s 3-day Jansampark rally from tomorrow||BHOPAL: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan will launch BJP’s three-day ‘Maha Jansampark Abhiyan'’(mega publicity campaign) on September 25, the birth anniversary of party ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, to intensify the poll drive across 28 assembly constituencies in the state where bypolls are scheduled to be held . BJP’s bypoll management committee meeting convened here on Tuesday decided that under the mega drive, party workers will make door to door contact and distribute literature to publicise welfare schemes launched by the state government for farmers and marginalised communities. “The drive will start on Friday. BJP workers will hoist party flags at their houses ,” said BJP state media in-charge Lokendra Parashar. BJP will also publicise government's farmer welfare schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjps-3-day-jansampark-rally-from-tomorrow/articleshow/78284635.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Quota stir again as Maratha outfits call for Maharashtra bandh on October 10||KOLHAPUR/NASHIK: A day after the state government announced the decision to allow the Maratha community to avail of the benefits under the 10% EWS (economically weaker sections) quota, except in jobs and admissions, Maratha outfits reacted sharply. In Kolhapur, the Maratha outfits have called for a Maharashtra bandh on October 10. In Nashik, the members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) branded the state government’s decision an eyewash. On Wednesday, the outfits assembled in Kolhapur. While some welcomed the sops announced by the state, they sought immediate restoration of the reservation. Suresh Patil, the meeting’s convener, said: “We have passed 15 resolutions — starting from fee waiver for Maratha students to strengthening of institutions set up for the community’s welfare. Now there is the SC’s interim stay on the reservation. It is the responsibility of the state government to make efforts to revoke the stay. We have called for a Maharashtra bandh on October 10.” In Nashik, the MKM members warned of statewide agitations if the recruitment process is carried out by the government. Karan Gaykar, an office-bearer of the Nashik unit, said: “The measures announced by the government are an eyewash. It appears that the government is cheating us. There should be no recruitment without reservation for the Maratha community. Or else, the government will have to face our wrath.” In Kolhapur, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil, said: “It was our demand that the sops existing for OBC students be extended to Maratha students. The government has extended the benefits of EWS category, for which the Centre has granted 10% reservation. The Maratha students can benefit from this quota until the stay is revoked. However, the state should ensure that the notification regarding the sops is flawless.” The MKM members further pointed out that the government had created economically backward class (EBC) for the community members through which the students would get concession in education, scholarship under Shahu Maharaj Shishyavrutti, get hostel facilities etc. “But after the SC stay, the EBC has become obsolete and, therefore, the state government included this category in EWS, where already other communities are getting benefits. This has created a flashpoint between members of the Maratha community and others. It may be noted that scholarships of the students in EWS are already pending and with the inclusion of Maratha students, the communities would be at loggerheads,” said Ganesh Kadam another office-bearer. Pointing to the announcement of Rs 400crore aid for Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI), Pune, the members said the aid was insignificant when compared to the one for Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (BARTI). “SARTHI has a wider scope and an announcement’ of more aid is not enough. It is the same with Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal, for which the government is not providing funds,” Tushar Jagtap, one of the directors of the Mahamandal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maratha-outfits-call-for-bandh-on-oct-10/articleshow/78286988.cms||Abhijeet Patil
September 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Quota stir again as Maratha outfits call for Maharashtra bandh on October 10||KOLHAPUR/NASHIK: A day after the state government announced the decision to allow the Maratha community to avail of the benefits under the 10% EWS (economically weaker sections) quota, except in jobs and admissions, Maratha outfits reacted sharply. In Kolhapur, the Maratha outfits have called for a Maharashtra bandh on October 10. In Nashik, the members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) branded the state government’s decision an eyewash. On Wednesday, the outfits assembled in Kolhapur. While some welcomed the sops announced by the state, they sought immediate restoration of the reservation. Suresh Patil, the meeting’s convener, said: “We have passed 15 resolutions — starting from fee waiver for Maratha students to strengthening of institutions set up for the community’s welfare. Now there is the SC’s interim stay on the reservation. It is the responsibility of the state government to make efforts to revoke the stay. We have called for a Maharashtra bandh on October 10.” In Nashik, the MKM members warned of statewide agitations if the recruitment process is carried out by the government. Karan Gaykar, an office-bearer of the Nashik unit, said: “The measures announced by the government are an eyewash. It appears that the government is cheating us. There should be no recruitment without reservation for the Maratha community. Or else, the government will have to face our wrath.” In Kolhapur, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil, said: “It was our demand that the sops existing for OBC students be extended to Maratha students. The government has extended the benefits of EWS category, for which the Centre has granted 10% reservation. The Maratha students can benefit from this quota until the stay is revoked. However, the state should ensure that the notification regarding the sops is flawless.” The MKM members further pointed out that the government had created economically backward class (EBC) for the community members through which the students would get concession in education, scholarship under Shahu Maharaj Shishyavrutti, get hostel facilities etc. “But after the SC stay, the EBC has become obsolete and, therefore, the state government included this category in EWS, where already other communities are getting benefits. This has created a flashpoint between members of the Maratha community and others. It may be noted that scholarships of the students in EWS are already pending and with the inclusion of Maratha students, the communities would be at loggerheads,” said Ganesh Kadam another office-bearer. Pointing to the announcement of Rs 400crore aid for Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI), Pune, the members said the aid was insignificant when compared to the one for Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Training Institute (BARTI). “SARTHI has a wider scope and an announcement’ of more aid is not enough. It is the same with Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal, for which the government is not providing funds,” Tushar Jagtap, one of the directors of the Mahamandal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maratha-outfits-call-for-bandh-on-oct-10/articleshow/78285543.cms||Abhijeet Patil
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||Minor boy among two held for killing ruffian last week||Vadodara: The rural police nabbed two more persons including a 16-year-old boy in the murder of a ruffian Dharmesh Kahar. Three persons were nabbed last week by the prevention of crime branch of city police. Police said that a man named Channo, the teenager and one more person were also involved in killing Kahar near Dumad on September 13. The unidentified person is still absconding while Channo and the minor boy was held. City police had earlier claimed that only three persons – Ajay alias Bhurio Tadvi, Jignesh Marwadi and Karan alias Chhote Sardar – had killed Kahar to take revenge. “Our investigation revealed that three more persons were involved and they too had stabbed the victim,” said senior sub-inspector Jaideepsinh Sarvaiya. The three earlier nabbed accused and Channo were produced before a local court on Wednesday. Sarvaiya said that the court granted their custody for nine days. The minor boy was sent to the juvenile home. Tadvi was itching for revenge, as Kahar and his friend Raj alias Kara had an altercation with Tadvi in August and the duo had stabbed him in chest. After Kahar and Kara were released on bail, Tadvi was keeping an eye on Kahar and he took the help of five others include the teenager to execute his plan. Kahar too was a history-sheeter as he was arrested several times for assaults and prohibition cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/minor-boy-among-two-held-for-killing-ruffian-last-week/articleshow/78282744.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Bus with 50 migrant workers travelling to Delhi falls into pit as driver dozes off, 30 injured, one critical||BAREILLY: At least 30 passengers sustained injuries, while the condition of a woman is stated to be critical after the bus they were travelling in from Jharkhand and Bihar to Delhi fell into a pit as the driver dozed off at the wheel in Roza area of Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday. The woman from Bihar was admitted to the medical college in Shahjahanpur. The labourers said they had hired a private bus for Rs 1.08 lakh to Delhi to resume work. Roza police station SHO Rajendra Bahadur said, “Most of them sustained minor injuries and were discharged from the hospital after first aid. We have registered an FIR against the bus driver for rash driving and damaging public property. We have also arranged a vehicle to ensure the passengers reach Delhi and resume their work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bus-with-50-migrant-workers-on-board-falls-into-pit-as-driver-dozes-off-at-wheel-30-injured-one-critical/articleshow/78280944.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 24, 2020||Meerut||Liquor mafia with Rs 15,000 bounty arrested in Bijnor||BIJNOR: Bijnor police arrested a liquor mafia with Rs 15,000 bounty on Wednesday during a routine checking of vehicles at Mustafabad crossing here. The accused was sent to jail after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The accused, Mohammad Danish, a resident of Akhtiyarpur under Dhanora Mandi police station area in Amroha district, is a liquor mafia and was booked under the Gunda Act. He was active in Bijnor and bordering areas for the past a few years. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “There are several cases registered against Danish and police had announced a reward of Rs 15,000 on information leading to his arrest. Danish was arrested from Mustafabad under Shivala Kala police station area on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/liquor-mafia-with-rs-15000-bounty-arrested-in-bijnor/articleshow/78281929.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB unearths Rs 70 crore illegal assets of Malkajgiri ACP||HYDERABAD: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) filed a case against Malkajgiri assistant commissioner of police Y Narasimha Reddy on the charges of amassing illegal wealth. During simultaneous searches in Telangana and neighbouring AP on Wednesday, ACB sleuths unearthed Rs 70 crore worth disproportionate assets. Searches were conducted at 25 locations in Hyderabad, including his Mahendra Hills residence, Warangal, Jangaon, Nalgonda, Karimnagar and Anantapur in AP from where he hails. In an official statement, the ACB director general office said: “The government value of the properties found so far is Rs 7.5 crore. The local market value of the same is about Rs 70 crore. The case is under investigation.” Sources said Narasimha Reddy was present at his Mahendra Hills house when the ACB sleuths were conducting searches. “We have not arrested him yet. Search and scrutiny are likely to continue even on Thursday,” officials said. ACB teams unearthed 55 acres of agricultural land in Anantapur, four plots of 1,960 square yards near Cyber Towers in Madhapur, one plot in Pocharam and another on Hyderabad outskirts, a commercial G+3 building at Hafeezpet, two houses in Mahendra Hills and Madhapur and Rs 15 lakh cash. ACB officials said they are yet to open two bank lockers operated by Reddy. A case of disproportionate assets was registered by the ACB recently. Watch Hyderabad: ACB unearths Rs 70 crore illegal assets of Malkajgiri ACP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-unearths-rs-70-cr-illegal-assets-of-malkajgiri-acp/articleshow/78284610.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad man confronts neighbour after two groups of children fight; one pelted with stones, dies||BAREILLY: A 24-year-old man, who confronted with neighbours after a fight between two groups of children in which a child sustained injuries, was allegedly pelted with stones by them in Moradabad on Tuesday. He later succumbed to his injuries. Police said the victim — Naeem, a labourer — died on his way to a hospital. Naeem — the lone breadwinner for the family — is survived by his wife and three daughters, said police, adding that an FIR was registered. According to the victim’s family, two groups of children were fighting when one of them got injured, following which Naeem and other family members went to their neighbours complaining about their incident. However, they thrashed Naeem in the ensuing argument, said the family. “Naeem and his family members were pelted with stones by neighbours, injuring Naeem seriously. His mother and wife, who came to his rescue, were attacked too. Naeem was rushed to a hospital in Moradabad, but he died on the way to hospital,” said Prem Pal Singh, Kundarki police station SHO, Moradabad. Moradabad superintendent of police (rural) Vidya Sagar told TOI, “The victim’s family members also sustained injuries. Police have registered an FIR against four people under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused are absconding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-confronts-neighbour-after-two-groups-of-children-fight-pelted-with-stones-dies/articleshow/78280964.cms||Maria Khan
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech in pact with WashU for intranasal Covid-19 vaccine development||Hyderabad: Vaccine major Bharat Biotech has entered into a licensing agreement with the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis (WashU) for developing, conducting clinical trials, manufacturing and distributing a novel chimp-adenovirus, single dose intranasal vaccine candidate for Covid-19. As per the pact, Bharat Biotech will have the rights to distribute the vaccine in all the global markets, excluding US, Europe and Japan. While the Phase I trials for the vaccine will take place in Saint Louis University’s vaccine & treatment evaluation unit, the Hyderabad-based vaccine major will take up further stages of clinical trials for the vaccine in India after obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals. Bharat Biotech will also be taking up large scale manufacture of the vaccine at its GMP facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad, and plans to manufacture about a billion doses. “We envision scaling this vaccine to 1 billion doses, translating to 1 billion individuals vaccinated receiving a single-dose regimen. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but will reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles and syringes, significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive,” said Dr Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech. “The ability to accomplish effective immunization with a single nasal dose is a major advantage, offering broader reach and easier administration. An effective nasal also prevents the spread of the disease by offering another kind of immunity that occurs primarily in the cells that line the nose and throat,” said Dr David T Curiel, director, Biologic Therapeutics Center and Professor of radiation oncology at Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis and interim CEO of Precision Virologics, which has the rights to distribute the vaccine in US, Europe and Japan. The intranasal vaccine candidate has reportedly shown “unprecedented levels of protection in mice studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-in-pact-with-washu-for-intranasal-covid-19-vaccine-development/articleshow/78285578.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolhapur||GB to discuss proposal on Jayaprabha studio||Kolhapur: The proposal to ban private construction activities in and around Jayprabha Studio while reserving the premises only for filming activities will be tabled in the Kolhapur municipal corporation’s general body meeting on Friday. The state government had placed the iconic studio in the list of heritage sites in the country. In addition, renowned singer Lata Mangeshkar had earlier claimed ownership over the studio, however, she withdrew the claim a few years ago. Since then, the demand from the local film activists to reserve the iconic studios for filming activities has gained momentum. Corporators had repeatedly raised the issue in the GB meetings, however, this is for the first time that a proposal from administration’s side will be tabled. Once it gets the required approval, it will be referred to the state government for notification. A senior official of KMC’s town planning department said, “There was no ban on private construction in the premises of the studio till now and they were allowed with the permission of city heritage committee. Only the studio was put in heritage site which helped keep the heritage structure intact and unaltered. Now, there will be complete ban on the construction activities. Only filming-related activities such as shooting or film education can take place if the proposal is approved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gb-to-discuss-proposal-on-jayaprabha-studio/articleshow/78285558.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Criteria set higher, but hiring legal: Govt||Ahmedabad: The state government on Wednesday defended its recruitment process for 686 posts of medical teachers in government colleges by terming it an expedient measure to meet the pressing need caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. In response to a challenge to the recruitment process by the Association of Diplomat National Board (DNB) Doctors questioning why qualification of DNB has been excluded for the 11-month contractual recruitment, the state government admitted that the experience criteria it has laid down for eligibility are higher than those prescribed by the Medical Council of India (MCI). This is the objection the association has raised before the HC while demanding inclusion of DNB qualification for the jobs. The government’s affidavit reads, “Regulation of recruitment in state services is the function of a state for which it is authorized to legislate as it has in the instant case albeit a higher criteria of experience.” The government further stated, “In the past, the state government brought its subordinate legislations regulating services of medical professionals to consistency with that prescribed by MCI, and therefore there is no reason to believe that the limited extent of variance in the prescription as is highlighted in the present petition inter se the recruitment rules of the state and regulations of the MCI would persist.” The state government asserted that there is nothing illegal in the contractual appointments and the petition challenging the recruitment process was filed at a belated stage. The Association has challenged the advertisement issued on May 29 for various posts of faculty members in government medical colleges. In its petition filed through advocate Narendra Jain, the association has objected to the exclusion of doctors having DNB qualifications from eligibility criteria. It has submitted that the Medical Council of India (MCI) and the subsequent legislation consider the postgraduate qualification of DNB as equivalent to MD, MS and MCh degrees, if not superior to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/criteria-set-higher-but-hiring-legal-govt/articleshow/78284721.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Bhang worth Rs 7.2 L seized, 1 arrested||Nashik: The Dhule police seized a truck loaded with 4,800 kg of bhang worth Rs 7.2 lakh from Shirpur city on Tuesday morning. The truck was parked in an open plot by the river side. Police have also arrested Satish Manohar More, resident of Shirpur, from the spot and are looking for three others involved in stocking the drugs.  Shivaji Bhudhwant, the police inspector of Dhule’s local crime branch (LCB), said he had received the information about bhanj hidden in a truck at a particular place. Acting on the report, the LCB raided the truck that was parked in an open plot behind a temple along Arunavati river. After questioning More, he revealed the names of his three accomplices who owned the truck and the stock of bhang.  More said the bhang was stocked inside the truck for illegal sale. There were 160 bags inside the truck containing 4,800 kg of bhang while the truck in which the stock was kept was worth Rs 4 lakh. The police said the worth of the Bhang and truck was around Rs 11.20 lakh. The raid was conducted under the guidance of Dhule superintendent of police Chinmay Pandit and additional SP Raju Bhujbal, said police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhang-worth-rs-7-2-l-seized-1-arrested/articleshow/78281952.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||No shortage of medical oxygen yet, says Nashik district collector||Nashik: Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare on Wednesday said there is no shortage of medical oxygen in the district and action will be taken against anyone found hoarding medical oxygen.Mandhare convened a meeting of emergency operation centre (EOC) and reviewed the situation of oxygen and Remdesivir injection supply required for Covid patients.“The requirement for oxygen is 38 tonne per day across the district and 55 tonne per day is available which means the district is at a safe position. However, considering the situation we have decided to keep a check on the production and usage of the medical oxygen and oxygen for a non-medical purpose, so things can be altered as and when required,” Mandhare saidHe said teams have been formed to keep a check on both oxygen and medicine supplies, and also ensure there is no hoarding.“Teams have been formed under the leadership of food and drug administration joint commissioner Madhuri Pawar. The teams will take the stock of medicines and at the same time the teams from district industries centre will also visit companies to ensure oxygen supply has been maintained,” said the collector adding relevant cases would be registered against people violating the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-shortage-of-medical-oxygen-yet-says-nashik-district-collector/articleshow/78282005.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 24, 2020||Aurangabad||358 more test positive for Covid-19||Aurangabad: As many as 358 people tested positive for Covid-19till Tuesday night, taking the total number of active cases to 6,051. A health official said that the recovery rate of the patients has increased considerably as a total of 24,506 people have recovered from this contagion. “The district has so far recorded 31,443 cases of Covid-19 and the death toll stands at 886. Most of these deaths have took place at Government Medical College and Hospital. Seven deaths were also reported on Tuesday,” he said. “Of the new patients, as many as 63 were found at the city’s entry points when they had to undergo antigen testing, while 72 were found during the mobile swab collection drive. The urban areas recorded 135 patients followed by 88 in Aurangabad municipal corporation limit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/358-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78285575.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers ditch flowers for veggies||JAIPUR: Since lockdown, floriculture industry in Rajasthan is in a shambles. Many flower farmers have switched to other crops after facing severe losses. Florist shops in Jaipur city have been closed due to low sales. Public gatherings, marriages and social events with more than 50 people are currently prohibited. Though temples, mosques and churches have been granted permission to open, people are avoiding visiting shrines which has affected flower business. Ashutosh Pareek, a flower farmer from Bhilwara who lost around Rs 30 lakh in the month of March, has now switched to cucumber and lemon farming. “I do not have the courage to invest in flowers again. I was engaged in cut flower farming that is expensive. I had to destroy them due to lockdown. It is better to go for safe farming of vegetables as flower business will not revive for another year,” said Pareek. Another cut flower farmer from Bassi, Manish Saini said that he had faced such a huge loss that removing the flower beds was the only option. “March was the peak season of sale when lockdown occurred. I wasn’t able to pay back my EMI or labourers’ cost and had to destroy all my produce because there wasn’t any market. I have sown tomatoes and soybean this year,” said Saini. With easing of the lockdown although the market has started opening up but the rates are down to minimum. A cut flower bundle that was sold for Rs 150 is now being sold at Rs 30 maximum. At Phoolon Ki Mandi in Chandi ki Taksaal, Jaipur, the shopkeepers are barely able to sell their purchase. President of Phoolon ki Mandi, Chuttan Lal Saini said, “We have started to get marigold and roses but are not able to sell the purchase. Most of the time we have to throw them away. Earlier, many helpers were employed in various shops in the market but now no one is able to afford any.” Many florists in the city have shut their shops. “Flower business is very risky. The purchase has to be sold in a day or two. There was no point of opening the shop as I wasn’t able to pay the rent. At present, I am doing contractual work,” said Pawan KumarMehra, who had a flower shop at Paanch Batti. Many farmers are still keeping flower areas but have reduced it to minimum. “Last year on Diwali, I had grown marigold on five hectares of farm but this year, like many other farmers I have reduced it to one hectare. I wasn’t able to take out seed, fertilizers or labour cost. This year is not for flowers,” said a marigold farmer from Barkada village in Alwar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-ditch-flowers-for-veggies/articleshow/78284678.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Meerut||Anti-corruption team arrests Lekhpal for taking Rs 3,000 bribe||BIJNOR: The Moradabad branch of the state anti-corruption team led by inspector Kushalveer Singh, on Wednesday, arrested aLekhpal in Amroha for accepting Rs 3,000 as bribe to get a certain work done, following a tip-off. The Lekhpal, Yogesh Kumar of Hasanpur tahsil, was arrested and taken to Hasanpur police station. A case is yet to be lodged against him, though. Confirming the incident, Hasanpur SHO Neeraj Kumar said, “An anti-corruption team arrested Lekhpal Yogesh Kumar for taking abribe of Rs 3,000, after the victim, a farmer, filed a complaint against the revenue dept staff with the anti-corruption branch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/anti-corruption-team-arrests-lekhpal-for-taking-rs-3000-bribe/articleshow/78281981.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Delivery services take off, taking the risk out of errands||Nagpur: The pandemic has forced many businesses to innovate and delivery services are no different. From delivering food and groceries, many have now offered to run ‘errands’ for a fee. You can literally get things picked up from a friend’s house, drop files at your office and collect your laundry without ever having to leave house. For a fee starting from as low as Rs 35, established delivery apps like Swiggy, Uber etc will run most ‘pick up and drop’ errands for you. The system works just like the normal food delivery app. Different sections for grocery and the pick-up and drop-off services are available within the app. For groceries, users can choose which shop they would like to buy from and place the order. Amit Chhabra, a resident of KT Nagar, said the new offering puts a consumer in control. “When ordering groceries online you do not have much choice over the source. But most people prefer their kirana items to come from a particular shop, vegetables and fruits from specific vendors hence the older format of grocery delivery service is a problem,” said Chhabra. Some of these apps offer a unique visual confirmation option. So when you buy an item, the delivery person at the shop will click a photo of it and send via the app. Only if the buyer confirms the product is exactly, or similar to, what had been originally ordered does it get added on to the bill. Anish Goodae, a resident of Kadbi Chowk, said using these services is best for pharmaceuticals. “Online pharmacies take too long. Here we can get it in a matter of hours. Usually most of us have our pharmacists fixed, so it is just matter of a phone call to them to keep the medicines ready and packed. Through these apps, we can then simply arrange for a pick-up time,” said Goodae. With ‘Tuk Tuk Karo’, even Nagpur entrepreneur Roshni Babaria and her friend Priyanka Shah are offering the ‘we-deliver-almost-everything’ style service. Operating using WhatsApp, Babaria launched her venture on the first day of lockdown. “Priyanka and I thought this was the best time to offer such services, when a majority of people are either not able to, or don’t want to, step out of their home,” said Babaria. Right from medicines to flowers to glass jewellery to personal items, people are using such services to transport items within the city. And Babaria has an interesting tale about the most bizzare item they transported. “Once a gentleman called saying he wanted cow dung to be picked up from a place in Itwari. We did it. Around 14kg of cow dung picked and delivered,” said Babaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/delivery-services-take-off-taking-the-risk-out-of-errands/articleshow/78284687.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Commerce 4th round intake draws few||Ahmedabad: The admission committee has allotted colleges offering undergraduate commerce courses on the basis of choice filling by students in the fourth round of admissions. Of the 11,000 vacant seats for which the fourth admission round was held recently, only 2,900 students had participated. “The admission committee has allotted colleges to 2,797 of the 2,900 applicants,” said a source in GU. The fee payment process will be open for the next two days after which the varsity will decide the course of action for the vacant seats, according to sources. The admission committee had initiated the process for a total of about 40,744 seats of commerce colleges this year. Of these, 29,406 seats have been filled. The fourth round was aimed only at the 11,000-odd candidates who could not secure admissions in the earlier rounds as they could not get the colleges of their choice. The choice-filling exercise was carried out from September 18 to September 20. “A small number of candidates took part in the fourth round. This suggests most have secured admissions in other colleges,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/commerce-4th-round-intake-draws-few/articleshow/78284720.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Aurangabad||MLC poll: Transparency sought in voter registration process||Aurangabad: While the voter registration process for upcoming Marathwada Graduates’ Constituency election is on amid extended polls due to Covid-19, a section of aspirants have alleged that there is no transparency in the related procedure. Advocate Vivekanand Ujlambkar, one of the aspirants, said it has come to fore that some graduates who have enrolled online for registering as voters faced inordinate delays in getting their documents verified, which is done offline. “After registering online, voters are called over their phone and invited for document verification at the designated offices. We have come across cases where some prospective voters did not get calls for such verification. On the other hand, those who had registered their names relatively later got the desired official communication,” he said. Shirish Boralkar, another aspirant who had last time unsuccessfully contested Marathwada Graduates’ Constituency election on BJP ticket, said that the loopholes in the existing online voter registration process must be removed. “There is a huge scope for the ruling parties in Maharashtra exerting pressure on the government machinery for carrying voter-registration process as per their suitability. The document verification must be done on a first-cum-first-served basis as per online enrolment and an official record of the same must be maintained,” he said. Notably, the voter registration drive was extended by default as the entire election process has been deferred due to outbreak of Covid-19. As per earlier official data, over 3.4 lakh voters had registered their names for the poll concerned by the end of last year. During the first phase of enrolment of voters in electoral roll, the interested graduates were required to fill Form 18 duly supported by the stipulated documentary evidences. However, the extended drive now sees filling the registration details online instead of Form 18, followed by verification of documents. When contacted, divisional government authorities concerned said that the process of voter registration is being carried out as per guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI). “We have not defined the process at our level and are simply following the guidelines issued by the poll panel,” a senior government official said preferring anonymity. The authorities also refuted allegations of loopholes in the voter registration drive. Every person who is a citizen of India and for at least three year before November 1 has been a graduate of university is eligible to be included in the electoral roll. The period of three years is to be computed from the date on which the results of qualifying degree exam were declared and published by the university or any other authority concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mlc-poll-transparency-sought-in-voter-registration-process/articleshow/78285579.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Reconstitute culture panel: Tamil Nadu CM to PM||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday urged PM Narendra Modi to intervene and direct the ministry of culture to reconstitute an expert committee to conduct a holistic study of the origin and evolution of Indian culture, by including eminent scholars from TN. Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy had last week flagged off the issue of no woman or expert from South India finding a place in the committee. CPM MP (Madurai) Su Venkatesan raised the issue in the Lok Sabha. DMK chief M K Stalin on Tuesday urged The PM to reconstitute the committee with representation from TN, South India, northeastern states, the SC/ST and the minorities. In his reply in the LS last week, Union minister of state for culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel said a 16-member committee had been constituted for a study of 12,000 years before the present and its interface with other cultures of the world. The committee includes representatives of ASI, GSI, JNU, Sri Lal Bahadur Shastri Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, ‘Sangsmarg’ World Brahmin Federation and ministry of culture. “While it is a welcome move to deepen our understanding of our country’s rich and varied cultural roots, the composition of the committee is a matter of deep concern,” Palaniswami said in a letter to Modi. He expressed surprise over the culture ministry choosing to ignore experts from TN. The committee had no representative from any of the southern states, especially from TN, which had a glorious past and was home to one of the oldest civilisations, the Dravidian civilisation, a living and thriving culture in South India, the CM said. The recent archaeological excavations in Keeladi and other parts of TN revealed that the world-reputed Sangam era could date back to as early as 6th century BCE. “This places Tamil culture and language as one of the oldest surviving heritages in the world,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reconstitute-culture-panel-cm-to-pm/articleshow/78284725.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Major shuffle in Gujarat I-T dept||Ahmedabad: In a major shuffle of middle-level officers of the income tax department, Amit Jain, the principal chief commissioner of income tax (PrCCIT), Gujarat, has transferred 100 officers. In all, 91 were of deputy/assistant commissioners of income tax (DC/ACIT) rank. The order mentioned ‘annual general transfers’ based on the CBDT’s orders and other decisions at the state level. Of the total, 20 officers were also given additional charge in major circles. Nine were deputed as officers on special duty (OSD). Late on Wednesday night, 376 I-T officers were also shuffled in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/major-shuffle-in-gujarat-i-t-dept/articleshow/78284729.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jaganmohan Reddy meets Amit Shah again to discuss Andhra Pradesh capital issues||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday met Union home Minister Amit Shah for the second time in 24 hours in the national capital. The CM, who arrived in Delhi on Tuesday evening met one-on-one with the Union home minister and had prolonged discussions for an hour. They are believed to have discussed the Amaravati issues and state’s move to issue house sites for the poor. Besides, the CM is also learned to have renewed his request for a CBI probe into alleged land scam in Amaravati and chariot fire in Antharvedi temple and the Centre’s approval to the Disha Act passed by the state. Later, Jagan met Union jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh Shekhawat and requested him to release funds for the Polavaram project. He gave a detailed account of the progress of the project work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-meets-shah-again-to-discuss-ap-capital-issues/articleshow/78284718.cms||Gopi Dara
September 24, 2020||Aurangabad||No application required for extension of parole period: HC||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently made it clear to the state government and jail authorities that the prisoners out on parole do not need to make any new application for extending the period of their temporary release. Five convicts, undergoing sentences in open prisons of Paithan in Aurangabad district and Visapur in Ahmednagar, had filed the proceedings through lawyer Rupesh A Jaiswal seeking direction to continue the parole already granted by the high court under the government notification dated May 8. The bench expressed its dejection over the authorities allowing the prisoners to approach the court for such directions, when they know that the prisoners stand to get their furlough and parole extended in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. Referring to the state government notification, the bench comprising justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar observed: “In the notification, it is mentioned that the initial period of parole will be 45 days and it shall stand extended periodically in blocks of 30 days each, till such time that the said notification is in force.’’ While pointing out its earlier direction on similar petitions, the bench remarked: “This court has laid down that the meaning of this provision is that there will be automatic extension of the parole period till the notification is in force. Even when such meaning is there and the interpretation has been done by this court, it appears that the respondents are asking the prisoners to give application for extension every time for getting extension of parole.’’ It added: “When there is automatic extension of parole period, there is no need of giving application every time when parole period expires. In view of lockdown which was declared and the object behind the notification, no other interpretation is possible. It appears that there is also some wrong notion that when the court has granted parole under order, the period mentioned in the order will come to an end and after that period application will be required.” The court added that when order is made under the notification issued on May 8, 2020, one needs to go with the presumption that such order is similar to the order made by the prisoner authority, Superintendent. “Thus, in that case also, no application is required to be made by the prisoners for extension of parole period. So many applications are received of such nature by this court and that has increased the work of this court unnecessarily,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-application-required-for-extension-of-parole-period-hc/articleshow/78285586.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Frauds offer ‘home isolation’ package to Covid patients||Kolkata: At least four Covid patients in Jadavpur, especially in Central Road, Kali Bari and Bijoygarh, were in for a nasty surprise in the past three days. Hours before the Kolkata Municipal Corporation sent in its sanitization team to these areas after receiving confirmation of them being Covid positive, the patients received calls from fraudsters who said they were calling on behalf of the state health department. The frauds offered them “attractive” home isolation packages, ranging between Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh, and asked them to deposit the money in select accounts, after which ration and medicines will be delivered to them.Kolkata Police officers probing the role of multiple cyber gangs said this was a new modus operandi and through this they were trying to stay “relevant and new”. “We will request everyone not to fall for this trap. We want to assure everyone that the government has no package for any of the three — hospitalization, safe home and home isolation. You will receive calls and there is a procedure preceded home isolation. If you get any such fraud calls, do not entertain them. Just call us,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.Take the example of the 67-year-old Covid patient who resides close to Jadavpur Central Road. “Before the KMC called up, I tried calling up Swasthya Bhawan. I could not connect. Later, someone called me introducing himself as a state official and demanded Rs 1 lakh,” said the elderly man. Later, when the patient spoke to a KMC personnel, he was informed that he was being cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/frauds-offer-home-isolation-package-to-covid-patients/articleshow/78285593.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||2 guards die as door jams & lift gets flooded||Two security guards of an Agripada building near Kala-Paani junction drowned after the door of an elevator they were taking from the basement to the ground floor got locked and it flooded due to the rain on Wednesday morning. The fire brigade has extricated their bodies. The duo, Zameer Sohanan (32) and Shehzad Memon (37), had gone to the basement to switch on the building’s water tank pump. After the doors shut, the lift wouldn’t move and water started filling up. They then called for help and residents rushed to the basement to rescue them, but to no avail. An accidental death case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-guards-die-as-door-jams-lift-gets-flooded/articleshow/78285942.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||State procures 18,334 shots of remdesivir||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Food & Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) on Wednesday procured 18,334 injections of remdesivir, an antiviral medicine used in the treatment of Covid-19. The officials said that of the total stock, 5,467 or about 30% is given to Ahmedabad, whereas Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot have got 3,040, 2,244, and 1,368 injections respectively. Dr HG Koshia, the FDCA commissioner, said that private and government-run hospitals have adequate stock of the medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-procures-18334-shots-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78284723.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad: Man beaten to death for complaint against harassment of daughter||BAREILLY: A 45-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death after he visited a family to complain that their son, 25-year-old Ranvir, had been harassing his 14-year-old daughter for sometime. An FIR has been registered against seven accused, of which four — Rajvir and his friends Vikas (23), Sharma Yadav (24) and Amar Singh (26) -- have been arrested. The incident took place at Maheshpura village in Moradabad district on Tuesday evening. The deceased, Hariom (45), a farmer, had confronted the family on Monday after his minor daughter complained to him that Rajvir and his friends often passed lewd comments to her. This led to a heated argument between him and the family. On Tuesday afternoon, Ranvir and his friends thrashed Hariom with bricks and sticks, and he succumbed to his injuries immediately after he was admitted to a hospital. Hariom is survived by his wife and two children. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Moradabad, Prabhakar Chaudhri, said, “It has come to light that there was some dispute between the two families, who are relatives. The two families also had an argument over some matter a couple of days back.” SP city Amit Kumar Anand told TOI, “After the death of Hariom, his family members and some villagers staged a dharna outside the local police station. Negligence on the part of the local police has come to the fore as there was a delay in police action. An inquiry has been ordered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-beaten-to-death-for-complaining-against-harassment-of-minor-daughter/articleshow/78280994.cms||Maria Khan
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||2,200 Covid-19 new +ve cases, 10 deaths recorded in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 2,296 new Covid-19 positive cases and 10 deaths across the state. While the total number of cases stands at 1,77,070, a total of 1,062 persons have succumbed to the virus in the state since the onset of the pandemic. Till date, 1,46,135 people have recovered from coronavirus and authorities said Telangana has 29,873 active cases of Covid-19. Telangana conducted 55,892 tests across the district on Tuesday, raising the tally to 26.3 lakh tests in the state. Samples tested per million population now stands at 70,809. Of the tests conducted on Tuesday, 44% were of primary contacts and 12% were of secondary contacts of people who have tested positive. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 321 new cases, while Rangareddy recorded 217 cases, the second-highest number of cases in the state. It was followed by Medchal Malkajgiri with 173 cases, Nalgonda with 155 cases, and Karimnagar with 136 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2200-covid-19-new-ve-cases-10-deaths-recorded-in-state/articleshow/78285594.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Police launch search for missing teen||Aurangabad: The Mukundwadi police have launched a search for a 15-year-old boy who has been missing from his home since the evening of September 21. The boy’s mother lodged a complaint following which the police have registered an offence against an unidentified person under section 363 (abduction) of the Indian Penal Code The complainant said on September 21, her husband left for work while she was busy doing household chores and her son was in the hall. However, at around 6.30 pm she could not find him anywhere in the house and she also checked with her neighbours. She called her husband following which they looked for their son in the railway station and other places. They also contacted their relatives but to no avail. After waiting for some time, the mother approached the police on Tuesday evening. Police said they are looking for the boy and they usually register an offence of abduction when a minor goes missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-launch-search-for-missing-teen/articleshow/78285583.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Surat||School dropout designs 360° revolving ceiling fan in Surat||SURAT: A small-time engineering workshop owner Rohit Kareliya in the non-descript Kholvad village in Kamrej taluka has designed a 360-degree revolving ceiling fan based on the principle of the gyroscope. The 45-year-old resident of Kamrej taluka has applied for an international patent under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) to protect his invention. A Class VII school dropout from Jamnagar, Rohit has been working on the revolving ceiling fan for six months. During lockdown he used his closed factory at Kholdvad road to finalise his invention. This ceiling fan works on the principle of gyroscopic movement and precession, wherein a spinning wheel is mounted on a base in such manner that its axis can turn freely in one or more directions in order to maintain its orientation regardless of any movement of the base. “I used to employ 20 workers in my small factory that had about 10 ceiling and five pedestal fans. Since our work is laborious, the ceiling and pedestal fans were not providing the required cooling effect or air circulation. This is when I made up my mind to invent a ceiling fan that can revolve 360 degrees,” says Rohit, who is unmarried and lives with his parents, some 30 km kilometres from the city. Anil Saraogi, registered patent attorney, who has applied for the international patent on behalf of Rohit told TOI, “It took me three months to study Rohit’s invention. During the research, I stumbled upon the lecture on the gyroscopic principle by a professor at Standford University. This is how things got clear in my mind and I took up his patent case.” Saraogi added, “This could be world’s first 360-degree revolving ceiling fan, which operates without motor or external power for revolution. It distributes air around all across the room.” According to Rohit, the cost of manufacturing the revolving ceiling fan comes to around Rs 4,000. Once the international patent is approved, he has plans to start the commercial production t his factory in Kholvad. Watch Amazing talent! School dropout designs 360 degree revolving ceiling fan in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/school-drop-out-designs-360-revolving-ceiling-fan/articleshow/78283330.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city gets 44mm rain in 2 hrs, many areas face power disruptions||Nashik: Heavy rain lashed the city for almost two hours on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, with the rain gauge recording 44 mm precipitation. The downpour caused the water level in the section of the Godavari river passing through the city to rise slightly. However, it did not rain near Trimbakeshwar, the Gangapur dam, which is located upstream of Nashik city, did not discharge any water into the Godavari.The heavy showers also disrupted power supply in Nashik city and many areas including Cidco, Gangapur Road, Kamatwade, Nashik Road and Panchavati experienced blackouts — some lasting several hours.In the Panchavati area, transformer damage led to power failure of more than four hours. The MSEDCL had to get the equipment replaced. “This was the most significant case of power failure in the city. In other places, the power was shut down as a precautionary measure. Most of these issues were resolved in 1-2 hours,” an officer said.In the Nashik district, the Deola taluka received very heavy rainfall measuring 83.6mm, while the neighbouring Chandwad taluka received 45mm causing rivulets and tributaries that originate here to overflow.The rivulets in Chandwad and Deola were in spate and water entered the farms. “The waterlogging sparked concerns among the farmers for standing crops,” said Deola resident Avinash Bagul.Bus, train services to and from Mumbai affectedThe heavy rain also hampered the moment of buses and trains from Nashik district to Mumbai. A couple of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses headed to Mumbai had to be terminated at Sion and Thane. “The services to Mumbai are limited and a couple of buses were terminated. The service to Borivali, however, continued,” an MSRTC officer said.Railways officials also announced the cancellation of the Manmad-Mumbai special Panchavati Express that leaves for Mumbai in the morning at 7 am from Nashik Road railway station. The trains coming from Mumbai and going towards northern India were delayed by more than five hours, the Railway officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-gets-44mm-rain-in-2-hrs-many-areas-face-power-disruptions/articleshow/78282064.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Pandal wait-and-watch before organizers meet West Bengal CM today||KOLKATA: A day before the Durga Puja meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday at the Netaji Indoor Stadium, cops from across the city found that several pandals have not attempted to keep much open space yet. Most of the major puja organizers, cops claimed, have put up bamboo structures covering at least three sides and made provisions to cover up the front side in case of bad weather. However, the organizers have not covered the basic bamboo structures to make last-minute changes, if needed, even though less than a month is left for the festival. The organizers said a final call would be taken only after specific instructions reached them from Nabanna. “The meeting on Thursday is going to give us direction. We have informed the Jorabagan traffic guard that we have planned our pandal in such a manner that we can make last minute changes to our design,” said a Durga puja committee member from Chorbagan Sarbojonin. Take the examples of 66 Pally in the south or Tala Barowari in the north. “We have made a plan where the three local pujas, including Badamtala Asar Sangha, are coming up with a common theme and we want to introduce the drive-in concept. We will discuss details of our traffic and pandal hoppers’ flow once the meeting with the chief minister is over,” said Pintu Sengupta of 66 Pally. Tollygunge traffic guard, on the other hand, does not want to tinker with the set traffic flow of the area. “Cars cannot be entering the narrow road leading to these pujas from the Chetla Central Road or Dharmadas Row. Otherwise, we will have a chaotic Rashbehari Avenue crossing with people pushing towards Chetla Agrani and Suruchi on one side and Tridhara-Ekdalia Evergreen on the other,” said a traffic cop. Abhishek Bhattacharya, general secretary of Tala Barowari said the police are asking about the height, theme, the flow of pandal hoppers from Tala bridge and even the budget. “Cops are asking us to put up barricades and reduce the size of the pandal. I was part of the deliberation among organizers, where it was decided that open spaces would be kept in pandals. But one cannot keep more than 60% of the pandal open. In the same way we believe that reducing the size of the pandal will increase crowding at the pandal entrance. Instead, we have proposed that we do not let anyone stand in front of the idol. People can move around and leave. They will not be allowed to take out photographs or selfies. If we use ropes to stop people, we believe that social distancing will be hampered,” said Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandal-wait-and-watch-before-organizers-meet-cm-today/articleshow/78284739.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 683 cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 683 fresh Covid-19 cases and 23 patients succumbed to the infection since Tuesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 37,300. The death toll has now risen to 1,140. Meanwhile, 27,073 have recovered from the contagion while 9,087 cases are active. Satara and Karad tehsil constitute almost half of the fresh patients. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil reported 190 cases, Karad added 151 cases, 70 cases in Phaltan among others. Of the 23 deceased, which includes four women and 19 men, 18 are elderly. Officials said Satara and Phaltan tehsil recorded five and three deaths respectively and two deaths each were reported in Karad, Khatav and Koregaon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-683-cases/articleshow/78412331.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Grey Line to reach Haryana border by May||NEW DELHI: The 4.2km-long Dwarka-Najafgarh section of Delhi Metro’s Grey Line, which connects the rural parts of Najafgarh to the rest of Delhi, opened to the public in October 2019. However, a small section of the corridor that would have extended it to the Delhi-Haryana border remains to be completed. Grey Line, which is 5.4km long, was not a part of the original Phase-III project of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and was added much later. The Dwarka-Najafgarh section, which has 2.7km elevated and 1.5km underground sections, has three stations — Dwarka, Nangli and Najafgarh. The extension to Dhansa Bus Stand on the Delhi-Haryana border was scheduled to open by December 2020, but the pandemic brought work to a halt. It has now been restarted as part of the unlock guidelines. In May, continuation of construction projects was allowed, but workers could not be brought from outside and had to be on site. At that time, DMRC had about 3,500 workers available at 5-6 sites in the capital, including Dhansa and the casting yards for the Phase-IV projects. “The tunnelling work on the Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand section has been completed and the station work is also progressing well. Finishing work has commenced and other important components of construction, such as track laying, have also been started,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. He added that the 1.2km stretch with one station was expected to be completed by May 2021. Najafgarh is connected to the rest of the city by Grey Line, the smallest corridor of Delhi Metro, all thanks to the interchange facility with Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) at Dwarka. Three trains have been deployed on the corridor with the total travel time on this section being six minutes and 20 seconds. Just like most corridors constructed in recent years, Grey Line also has standard gauge tracks. Work on this corridor had started in October 2017. For construction of the underground corridor from Najafgarh to Dhansa, two methods are being used. While 700 metres of the tunnel is being constructed with the help of tunnel boring machines, cut-and-cover method is being used for another 290 metres. The heavy traffic on the stretch is a major challenge faced by DMRC while carrying out construction work. Watch Delhiites can reach Haryana border through DMRC’s Grey Line by May||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metros-grey-line-to-reach-haryana-border-by-may/articleshow/78285602.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 24, 2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation goes to Centre to clear salary dues of staff||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has urged the Union finance and home ministries to intervene to help it clear salary and pension dues of Rs 1,019 crore till August. Mayor Jai Prakash has also called a joint meeting with agitating employees’ associations on Friday. Out of the 55,000 staff members, doctors and teachers have received salaries till June and sanitation workers till July, but the rest of the employees have not been paid since May. The corporation hasn’t released pension since April. “The employees will also be informed about efforts being made by the corporation for a permanent solution. They are our backbone and it is our first priority to resolve their problem,” Prakash said on Wednesday. Corporation employees have been daily holding a symbolic protest at the headquarters for timely payment of salaries. Alleging that Delhi government hasn’t helped the corporation to resolve the issue, the mayor said, “Out of the Rs 1,600 crore due to us, the state government has decided to cut 60% of the funds. I have again approached the Union ministries and requested for help in some form before the situation gets worse.” The Aam Aadmi Party government earlier claimed it had cleared all dues. The deliberative wing of the north corporation has said the pending salaries for the month of May will be released by September-end. Of the 55,000 employees, there are 26,000 sanitation workers while the corporation caters to 24,000 pensioners. The civic agency needs Rs 350 crore per month to pay both. If no step is taken immediately, the salary and pension for September will also be added to the pending list. A delegation of doctors from Kasturba Gandhi Hospital met the medical superintendent on Wednesday. “We failed to get a satisfying reply. Despite the high court’s intervention, things are not moving. It is difficult to understand why the Centre is not helping municipalities,” said Dr Sunil Kumar, president of resident doctors’ association at the hospital. “We have decided to submit mass resignation in the first week of October without giving any notice if salary is not disbursed soon.” Agitating workers of Confederation of MCD Employee Unions have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The corporations have been providing 50 basic services such as primary healthcare, education and sanitation work to the majority of Delhiites and have never faced such a financial crisis before the trifurcation. Hence, either merge the municipalities or hand over their operations to the Centre or the state government,” said A P Khan, its convener.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-goes-to-centre-to-clear-salary-dues-of-staff/articleshow/78285589.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 24, 2020||Aurangabad||AICTE awards city institute for teaching efforts during lockdown||AURANGABAD: The Jawaharlal Nehru Engineering College (JNEC), Aurangabad, has received certificate of excellence from the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for innovatively conducting classes for students during lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The AICTE had organised a national-level competition on the related theme as part of Utkrisht Sanstha Vishwakarma Award (USVA) under the theme ‘India Fights Corona.’ “Our institute had undertaken the innovative student education program during lockdown using different online tools and technologies to prevent the academic loss of students. Besides, we held various social and educational during the lockdown in virtual manner for the benefit of students. These efforts were recognised by the AICTE by bestowing the certificate of excellence,” a release issued by JNEC said. The institute also distributed self-made face shields, sanitizers and face masks to doctors, police and civilians during the current outbreak of Covid-19 as a mark of social responsibility. AICTE chairman Anil Sahastrabuddhe presented the award to JNEC authorities during a virtual prize distribution ceremony held recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aicte-awards-city-institute-for-teaching-efforts-during-lockdown/articleshow/78285597.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Personal guarantor: HC notice to Centre, SBI||Hyderabad: Telangana high court issued notices to the Centre and SBI and stayed the bank’s notice for four weeks in a petition filed by a Hyderabad-based company chairman. Central government along with the ministry of corporate affairs and RBI tightened the norms against swindling by promoters by bringing personal guarantors under the purview of penal provisions. Following this, scores of companies are now approaching courts challenging the central notifications. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy issued notices to the Centre and SBI. The Centre’s latest move to fix responsibility on personal guarantors, mostly promoters themselves, to the loans availed in the name of their companies, was challenged by Surendra, who had availed more than Rs 2,000 crore loans from the SBI. His company is under liquidation now. SBI has issued a notice to him using its latest power to bring in a personal guarantor. P Vikram, his counsel, said the term guarantor has not been defined in the insolvency and bankruptcy code. “Central notification bringing the personal guarantors under the IBC code is unconstitutional,” he said, urging court to strike it down. “As a consequence, notice issued by the SBI too should go,” he argued. Sabbineni Surendra, chairman of Coastal Projects company, was challenging both constitutional validity of Centre’s notification on personal guarantors and also notice issued by SBI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/personal-guarantor-hc-notice-to-centre-sbi/articleshow/78284735.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Many docs +ve, Covid services hit at Chanda GMCH||Chandrapur: At a time when Covid-19 pandemic is raging in Chandrapur, health administration is under tremendous stress for lack of qualified doctors to treat serious patients. After several doctors themselves testing Covid positive and those above 50 excluded from Covid duty, the GMCH show is being managed by only a handful of doctors. There are only three physicians (MD medicine) and three anaesthetists (MD anaesthesia) available to take care of entire load of Covid patients in Chandrapur Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Acknowledging the paucity of doctors, collector Ajay Gulhane said efforts to rope in services of doctors have failed so far. The collector claimed that multiple efforts through advertisements to hire doctors have drawn blank. The collector also claimed there is no need for a jumbo hospital as it will increase only the number of beds, but we don’t have doctors to treat patients. The administration in Chandrapur GMCH has collapsed and citizens seeking beds for positive patients in government facilities are forced to run from pillar to post as the real-time monitoring of the health administration is not showing updates regarding availability of beds. Officials claimed there is immediate need of 10 physicians and five anaesthetists to handle the present Covid-19 load and GMCH is somehow managing the situation with the help of MBBS and intern doctors. GMCH dean Dr SS Morey said there are total 121 doctors serving at GMCH, but 15 of them being above 50 years of age have been excluded from Covid services. Out of five physicians, two have turned Covid positive, while three of the available six anaesthetists are also Covid positive and hence unable to serve. To add to the woes, 24 doctors and 32 interns at the GMCH have tested positive with Covid-19 and out of service. “Entire load of treating regular and Covid patients is on the remaining doctors. There are only three physicians and three anaesthetists to deal with the six Covid wards in GMCH. We are using them in three wards where serious patients are treated, while other three wards are looked after by MBBS and intern doctors,” he said. Dr Morey said as of now there are 35 MBBS doctors available in GMCH, but they also need to look after non-Covid patients, the number of which is also quite large. “They are delicately balancing their services among the regular and Covid patients,” he said. Senior Congressman and former MP Naresh Puglia slammed the administration and health department, and demanded immediate hiring of qualified doctors by offering triple payment and incentives to serve Covid patients. Regarding resentment among patients and their relatives towards the treatment of Covid patients in GMCH, the collector claimed he has appointed SDM as administrator at GMCH to tackle the situation. Gulhane also agreed that the administration has not served any notice or taken any action against doctors who have refused or are unable to render their services to Covid patients. He, however, maintained that the administration has roped in services of over 17 private hospitals in the city. Moreover, 100 beds will be added at GMCH and 450-bed facility at women’s hospital will be ready in coming days, said Gulhane, adding a 400-bed facility is in the pipeline at Army school and hoped that ample beds and proper services will be available for patients by the month-end or first week of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-docs-ve-covid-services-hit-at-chanda-gmch/articleshow/78284731.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||7-day curfew starts in G’chiroli, Akola to follow||Nagpur: As the number of Covid cases are increasing with each passing day, Gadchiroli town went into a seven-day janata curfew on Wednesday, while Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce & Industry (VCCI) at Akola decided to observe a five-day janata curfew in the district from September 25. The curfew started in Gadchiroli on a day when the district crossed 2,000-mark of Covid patients, lowest among the districts in the state. The curfew evoked spontaneous response from all sections of the society, including traders. All commercial establishments, barring that of essential commodities, remained closed. Guardian minister Eknath Shinde had made an appeal to the public to observe seven-day janata curfew till September 30. The janata curfew, however, is restricted to Gadchiroli town only, at present. In Akola, VCCI secretary Vivek Dalmia said during a meeting held on Wednesday and attended by nearly 100 office-bearers of over 50 traders’ bodies, it was unanimously decided to observe five-day janata curfew in the district. Dalmia added daily around 100 Covid-19 cases are being reported in the district and medical service sector is under tremendous pressure. Till now, Akola has recorded 6,750 cases and 219 deaths. “To break the chain of virus spread, closure of markets was necessary. We were in touch with public representatives, district and police administrations in the last few days. Barring pharmacies, dairy shops and medical services, all other establishments will remain closed,” said Dalmia. In another development, Ashokkumar Dalmia, national president, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), has written to Union minister for health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan to start short-term training courses for paramedical and support staff. “The pandemic has proved that in addition to doctors, the country is facing extreme shortage of trained paramedical staff. Thus is affecting the quality of treatment to Covid-19 patients. Most of the private hospitals also do not have qualified staff. The GMCHs and AIIMS have all infrastructure and such courses can be started without any additional funds,” said Dalmia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-day-curfew-starts-in-gchiroli-akola-to-follow/articleshow/78284713.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices plunge for third consecutive day||Ahmedabad: Continuing its decline in line with the international market, gold prices further plunged by Rs 450 in Ahmedabad market, to settle at Rs 51,750 per 10 gram against Tuesday’s Rs 52,200 per 10 gram. It is for the third day in a row that gold price has declined. Analysts and bullion traders said that this is the right time to invest in gold as the prices have come down and therefore, the demand for bullion has gone up significantly. Similarly, even jewellers are bullish about the demand for gold jewellery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-plunge-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/78284734.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 2.3 lakh farmers avail crop loan in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: With disbursal of Rs 1199.96 crore towards the crop loan during current Kharif season, Aurangabad district has slightly over-achieved (100.33%) the set target. Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan on Wednesday said as many as 2,30,433 farmers from Aurangabad district have opted for the crop loan during the current season, taking the district on top in the region in disbursement of loan. Eight banks, including Maharashtra Gramin Bank (166%) — the lead-bank in crop-loan disbursement, have exceeded their target set for crop-loan in Aurangabad district. “The disbursement of crop loan this year is significantly high this year as compared to previous year, when only 85,364 farmers opted for total crop loan worth Rs 588.5 crore during kharif season. The favourable monsoon together with increase in awareness about crop loan are some of the reasons behind the surge in takers for crop loan,” he said. As per official data, Beed district is next to Aurangbad in terms of crop loan disbursement having achieved 93% target followed by Jalna (76%), Osmanabad (53%), Latur (52%), Parbhani (46%), Hingoli (40%) and Nanded (39%). Soybean, Cotton, Maize and Tur Dal are some of the prominent kharif crops in the region along with Moong (Green gram) and Udid (Black gram). As per official record, Aurangabad division of agricultural which is made of Aurangabad, Jalna and Beed and Latur division (Latur, Nanded, Osmanabad, Parbhani and Hingoli) have over 48 lakh hectare area under kharif sowing. The district administration has set a target of crop loan disbursement worth Rs 299.20 crore for rabi season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-2-3l-farmers-avail-crop-loan-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/78285604.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Goa||Even amid pandemic, over 98% BITS Goa students get placed||PANAJI: Even as the second phase of placement at BITS Pilani KK Birla campus this academic year was overshadowed by the Covid-109 pandemic, as many as 574 students were hired, chief of placement G Balasubramanian told TOI. He said only 11 students (1.9% of the total) were affected in terms of placement. This comes even as reports abound that companies are revoking offers made to students in many institutes. Microsoft India development centre offered the highest domestic package of around Rs 43 lakh per annum to a student. This was only Rs 2 lakh lower than the highest package offered across the three BITS Pilani campuses in India. “While the first cycle saw a surge in demand for top talent, the second phase witnessed the shock of Covid blues,” he said. “But BITS-Goa overcame this. The 574 students placed in 2019-20 was a significant rise of 8.3% in placements as compared to academic year 2018-19, in which 530 students secured job offers.” Of the 11 affected students, some have already been employed with the support of the BITS placement cell and the institute’s alumni network, said Balasubramanian. “During campus placement, top brands like Wells Fargo, Ola Electric, IBM-Data Science and OnePlus were among the prominent names that hired talent from BITS-Goa for the first time,” he said. “BITS-Goa has been a hotspot for electronics, with top semiconductor and electronics companies like Texas Instruments, Nvidia Corp, Western Digital, AMD, Analog Devices, Cypress Semiconductors, and many more hiring in substantial numbers from the campus.” Of the students placed, around 170 received packages of over Rs 20 lakh per annum, which was an increase of 15.3% in the median salary offered over the previous years, he said. The average salary also increased by 12.2%, to Rs 16.2 lakh per annum during academic year 2019-20, up from Rs 14.4 lakh in 2018-19. “Due to the Covid-generated lockdown, the second cycle of placement, which began in January 2020, was comparatively muted,” he said. “Post-March 2020, hiring managers remained non-committal, considering changing market dynamics as business verticals were unsure of their hiring numbers and mode of hiring. BITS-Goa quickly restructured the hiring process relying on virtual and off-campus drives, and continued the hiring process even during the lockdown.” A total of 162 companies were hosted during the 2019-20 placement season, as compared to 170 last year, a minor drop of 4.7% considering the widespread effect of the pandemic on various industries, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-amid-pandemic-over-98-bits-goa-students-get-placed/articleshow/78285603.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: New central Bill may push potato prices up||HYDERABAD: The new Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, removed potatoes and other items such as cereals, onion from the list of regulated items for stocking and will have impact on the prices on potatoes in the state. With potato being the second most consumed vegetable (as per a survey) and having local production capacity for only two months in a year, consumers may have to pay more for the vegetable, say experts. The city’s Bowenpally market gets the supply from Agra in Uttar Pradesh in all months of the year except for last week of December to February. Some produce also goes to the Gudimalkapur market. The produce from Agra and on few occasions, from Madya Pradesh, goes to the districts and is supplied in the city as well. Hyderabad gets about 30 tonnes of supply every day from UP. The neighbouring districts of Vikarabad, Medak and Zaheerabad produce local variety of potato but the arrivals from these districts occur only from last week of December to February. If there is excess production in the neighbouring districts, it is sent to Andhra Pradesh  “The difference between produce from Agra variety and local variety is that Agra varieties can be stored for one week to 10 days, whereas local varieties cannot be stored for more than two days,” L Srinivas Goud, a potato marketing agent said. Experts say this is where price fluctuations can happen more. “If there is shortage of production, there will be stocking and the state having more extent of land will have control on prices. With this new amendment, it will increase,” Dr Ch Krishna Reddy, assistant professor, University of Hyderabad said. Agri and food processing consultant Srilekha R said, “If the potato is removed from regulated items for stocking, it will definitely lead to more fluctuations in prices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-central-bill-may-push-potato-prices-up/articleshow/78285612.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pollution tests go for a toss, thanks to non-compliance||KOLKATA: Auto emission testing of vehicles has reached its lowest point with the enforcement agencies being lenient on checking pollution-under-control (PUC) certificates. On an average, only two vehicles appear for emission tests at each of the 77 testing centres in the city. ”Each of the Auto Emission Testing Centres (AETCs) is getting one or two vehicles a day. There are days when not a single vehicle comes,” said Surojit Koley, president of the Auto Emission Testers’ Association. TimesViewSome norms cannot be bypassed, even in these new-normal times. Any laxity here will have a long-term, negative impact.“If most of the vehicles go unchecked, we may not understand its implication now because of intermittent rain and weather conditions. But in winter, the city’s air will be poisonous, when the collective pollution of these vehicles will refuse to escape into the upper strata of atmosphere,” said environmentalist Subhas Datta. According to an affidavit by the state government to National Green Tribunal (NGT), the AETCs remain under-utilized by 85% in normal conditions. During lockdown, it went up to 99%, said Snehasish Bhaumik, joint secretary of the association. It is not that the government is sitting idle on this front. The AETCs have been web-linked with Vahan-4 cloud server after having machines upgraded and calibrated. PUC certificates are thus system generated, leaving hardly any scope to manipulate the test results. But system-linked PUC certificate generation and physical appearance at AETC for emission testing are two different issues. “While compliance of private vehicles is much higher, transport or commercial vehicles hardly get tested. Among commercial vehicles, goods vehicles top the list of non-compliance,” said Arindam Saha, secretary general of Automobile Association of Eastern India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pollution-tests-go-for-a-toss-thanks-to-non-compliance/articleshow/78285618.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Bar council seeks financial help for lawyers||Jaipur: The Bar Council of Rajasthan has sought financial assistance of Rs 100 crore from the government towards lawyers’ welfare fund.The aim of the fund is to help lawyers in need and a financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of lawyers who lost their lives to Covid.Syed Shahid Hasan, chairman of the Bar Council of Rajasthan in a letter to the chief minister on Wednesday also demanded a virtual meeting with the bar council members to address their grievances.He pointed out that the bar council had about 90,000 members form about 250 bar associations. But due to prolonged Covid-19 situation, the lawyers’ community is at the receiving end as court functioning has been minimal for the last seven months.He said over 15 lawyers died of Covid-19 and over 300 of its members have contracted the virus. Further, three lawyers committed suicide due to poor financial conditions. He said the council had extended limited financial assistance to about 8,000 lawyers worth Rs 4 crore during this period.Since the lawyers had no other source of income, they were a section most adversely affected by the pandemic. He pointed out that the condition of the subordinate courts is very poor as there is no proper arrangement for cleanliness, sanitisation and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bar-council-seeks-financial-help-for-lawyers/articleshow/78284737.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Delay in test results raises risk of spread in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Jaisalmer. The spike is being attributed to the delay in issuing reports after testing, which takes around 2 to 3 days, until which the potentially infected persons may mingle with other people around, infecting them as well. Cases have been spiralling in the district for the last 3 to 4 days. If the health department does not take strict steps, the situation would further deteriorate. On the other hand, there is a variation in data released by Jaisalmer administration and the report released from Jaipur. On Friday, there were 54 cases while the report released by Jaipur mentioned only 16 cases. The correct number of corona infected is not being shown by the state government. As per the report issued by the Jaisalmer administration, there were 821 cases till Tuesday evening, while the report issued by Jaipur showed 593 positive cases. The testing centre at Jaisalmer has not started and samples are being sent to Barmer. With more number of cases, there is pressure on the laboratory, due to which it takes 2 to 3 days for the reports to arrive. There is also possibility of infected persons freely roaming around in markets and public places, coming into contact and infecting others. This may have led to the spike in cases. According to the collected information, of the samples tested on Friday, the report came on Sunday in which a large number of samples was kept pending. The report of the pending samples came on Monday and the reports of samples taken on Saturday and Sunday came on Tuesday. The lag then adds to the risk of further infection spread. Moreover, another loophole on part of the health department has come to light that after a person tests positive, it takes 15-18 hours to take the person to Covid hospital. It is also another reason for the increase in cases. There is also a fear among residents of colonies as infected people reside in the colony till they are taken to the hospital. District collector Ashish Modi said that construction of the building is on for testing of corona and other facilities are being gathered. He said, “I have visited RT-PCR laboratory and ordered for electricity connection to SC of electricity department and given the direction to PMO to give the technical staff required. Soon, the testing facility will start here. As far as getting the report late from Barmer is concerned, the samples collected are sent the next day to Barmer and it takes 1-2 days for the report to come.” He said that the CMHO has been directed to bound the person to remain in quarantine till the report comes and directed to take action against such people roaming openly. on the other hand, police have launched a campaign to make people strictly follow Section 144 and wear masks. SP Ajay Singh said that police have taken various steps to stop corona infection and police are continuously patrolling and strict action is being taken against people violating the guidelines. On Tuesday, around 1,040 people were challaned over the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/delay-in-test-results-raises-risk-of-spread-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78284743.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||VROs instructed to monitor state govt’s priority works||Hyderabad: Telangana government has instructed revenue divisional officers and tahsildars to utilise the services of village revenue officers (VROs) in government priority works like monitoring construction of Rythu Vedikas, Palle Prakriti Vanalu (PPV) programme, street vendors and 2-BHK housing allotment enquiries. The government had brought Telangana Abolition of VROs Posts Bill in the recent assembly session, which was approved by the governor on Tuesday. A day after getting the consent, the government directed VROs to claim salaries as per last month bill until they are allotted to new departments. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said all habitations should be identified, suitable government land for PPVs for greenery and keep infra and space ready for delivering registration services as per the new Act The CS also asked the tahsildars to plan meticulously for procurement of vanakalam paddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vros-instructed-to-monitor-state-govts-priority-works/articleshow/78285620.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Tense over damage to bike, man ends life||Nagpur: A 40-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by jumping into Gandhisagar. The incident came to light around 8am on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Ganesh Dinanath Umredkar, a resident of Timki. Police said the deceased was working in some private firm. Three days ago his two-wheeler got damaged in an accident and since then he was tensed. Subsequently, he ended his life by jumping to the lake, the Ganeshpeth police said. In another incident, one Vijay Arjun Pawankar (52) committed suicide by hanging himself with a rope at his residence in Chandramani Nagar. The incident came to light on Tuesday night. The cause of his suicide could not be ascertained, said Ajni police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tense-over-damage-to-bike-man-ends-life/articleshow/78284784.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Explore stamping all Covid +ves for identification: HC||Nagpur: With a view to curb Covid patients in home isolation roaming around, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday suggested the government to stamp such patients’ wrist for identification purposes.Quoting respondents in a suo motu PIL on bed shortage for Covid patients, the HC stated that while conducting tests, a stamp is must for a positive person to avoid his/her moving around.“The method of inking index finger can be followed for persons who have undergone Covid test and found positive. If tests are conducted on multiple occasions, next finger should be marked with indelible ink. Such marking will enable others to know that the person is infected and help in maintaining Covid distancing,” said a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala.Citing Covid-19 infection that is at peak, the bench had earlier came up with a suggestion that all those testing positive for the deadly virus should be stamped ‘Quarantine’ on the wrist as was done in case of international travellers.The idea was, however, opposed by divisional commissioner contending that patients would face social stigma. However, lawyers appearing for all respondents, along with amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar assisted by Nidhi Dayani, asserted that it’s no more a social stigma now, as infection is widespread.“It’s unanimous opinion that persons tested positive be identified, if they are moving around be it for purchase of essentials or attending duties or in connection with business and profession,” said the judges.Earlier, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Radhakrishnan B assured to file an affidavit on Thursday providing details of availability of BVG ambulances (from Pune) along with doctors and infrastructure. He said there is a central control room for allotment of beds to Covid-19 patients in private as well as government hospitals. “If private hospitals have any grievances, they’re at liberty to approach the HC,” said the judges.The judges were earlier apprised about private hospitals over-stocking oxygen due to which there’s likelihood of shortage. “We expect joint commissioner of food and drugs department to visit such hospitals for inspection. He should monitor oxygen supply and ensure that hospitals don’t suffer from shortage and there’s no overstocking,” they said.The joint commissioner assured that life-saving drugs for Covid-19 would be made available in pharmacies attached to every Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs).While adjourning hearing till Friday and exempting government officials from appearance, the bench directed all respondents to submit compliance reports of its earlier orders. “We’re making efforts to get all issues resolved amicably and in an informal way to rule out even a small grievance of stakeholders. We’re in a PIL and exercising jurisdiction, which is unlimited, vertically and horizontally, to save lives,” said the HC.The HC made it clear that all issues can be resolved in accordance with law, if parties don’t agree to amicable settlements. “The parties needn’t be under the impression that there is hardly anything court can do. We expect them to come with a clean agenda and make all efforts to genuinely resolve issues. They should come forward with definite programmes to make beds available and provide reasonable package to Covid-19 patients,” said the HC, adding the question of pricing/charges by private hospitals is left open to be decided.What the HC saidWhile conducting tests, stamp is a must for positive persons to prevent them from moving around unnoticedMove would enable others to know that he/she is infected & also help in ensuring Covid distancingInform number of BVG ambulances available along with facilities & infrastructureIf private hospitals have grievances, they’re at liberty to approach courtFood & drugs department commissioner should visit hospitals for inspection of oxygen supplyParties needn’t be under impression that there is hardly anything which HC can do||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explore-stamping-all-covid-ves-for-identification-hc/articleshow/78283300.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice to state govt over pay cut||Jodhpur: The high court on Wednesday issued notice to the state government while hearing a petition challenging the order to deduct two days’ salary of the employees.Challenging this order of the government dated September 8, petitioner Gopal Sandu argued that it was illegal and the government was not authorised to issue such order either under Disaster Management Act or any other act or ordinance.Terming the order an arbitrary one, Sandu argued that the state government could not deduct the salary of its employees in such a manner.It may be noted that state government, through a circular dated September 8, 2020, had ordered all the departmental heads and district magistrates to deduct two days’ salary of all the employees from the gross salary of September payable in October citing economic condition of the state arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.This deducted amount was to be deposited in the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for relief to the coronavirus infected persons of the state.This order was applicable on all the corporations, boards, commissions, autonomous bodies, cooperative committees and government undertakings etc., except the employees from judicial and medical & health departments along with the constables of police department and class 4 employees.Earlier, the government had included ayurveda doctors in this order, but following an order by the high court after it was challenged by an ayurveda doctor, the government spared them from this order of two days’ salary deduction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-state-govt-over-pay-cut/articleshow/78284749.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Koyna dam 100% filled, discharge started||KOLHAPUR: Koyna dam has been filled to 100% capacity while discharge of 9,274 cusec has already been started, Sangli district administration has said. Authorities concerned have advised people to be alert as the water level of Krishna river is rising rapidly. By Wednesday evening, the water level of Krishna river was 9.6 feet at Irwin Bridge in Sangli which is expected to rise to 14 feet by Thursday morning if rain continues to lash the catchment area of Koyna dam and Krishna river. The discharge from Warna dam has also been started after it reached 100% capacity. The downstream of Warna river meets Krishna river, thus adding to its flow. Meanwhile, Radhanagari dam is also filled to its 100% capacity with two gates of the dam being opened for discharge. The water level of Panchganga river is steadily increasing due to the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/koyna-dam-100-filled-discharge-started/articleshow/78285613.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Number plate: Day after transport dept missive, several unanswered questions||NEW DELHI: The decision of Delhi government’s transport department to crack down on cars without high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers from next month has left Delhiites in a quandary. There were numerous unanswered questions about this as people scurried to book a slot for affixing the HSRP and fuel stickers on their cars, frustrated frequently by technical glitches. While the transport department had the website www.hsrpdelhi.com for the process earlier, the online booking of slots for HSRP and fuel stickers is being carried out through a website managed by vendors and vehicle dealers, www.bookmyhsrp.com. Many car owners, however, complained of constantly facing glitches while booking a slot, which requires one to first select vehicle type and nearest dealer and then the details of the vehicle and scanned documents uploaded. Once all details are successfully uploaded, the owner receives an OTP on a mobile number and can select date and time for appointment and pay for it online. “More than 300 slots were booked today and there were reports of technical glitches too,” said a representative of the vendor. “We expect the rush to increase in the coming days and by next week, there is likely to be offline arrangements for those facing difficulties booking a slot online. Some vehicle dealers have decided that car owners will be allowed to deposit money at the dealership physically and then get a time for getting HSRP and fuel stickers fixed.” The representative added, “Those who already have HSRP but need only the fuel sticker will be able to book a slot on the website in the next couple of days. Compared with HSRP, the cost of the fuel sticker is nominal. However, the fuel stickers are also state-of-the-art and only vendors affixing HSRPs can fix them.” From just 13 authorised centres earlier, the transport department had authorised 236 vehicle dealers in November 2019 who were allowed to tie-up with approved HSRP vendors. There was, however, no awareness drive and by March the Covid outbreak left the exercise largely ignored. “The dealerships were closed for a long time and after reopening, few customers came to get HSRP or fuel stickers,” said the official of a car dealership in central Delhi. “However, since Wednesday morning, we have been inundated with calls from car owners asking HSRP. We have told everyone to book a slot through the website even it is a hassle for many.” Many car owners who live in NCR areas like Noida, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad or have cars registered in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana also wondered if they could get an HSRP affixed in Delhi or whether they would be liable to pay the fine of Rs 10,000, compoundable by Rs 5,000, if they visited Delhi. “HSRP is mandatory for all vehicles in the country and for any car in NCR, and colour-coded fuel stickers are a must,” clarified KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport), adding that anyone in NCR would need both and would face penalties once the transport department began the enforcement drive. Dahiya said that only cars registered in Delhi could get HSRP and fuel stickers fixed at Delhi-based dealerships and those from NCR should get them from their respective states. There are also many car owners, such as those who own ambassadors manufactured by Hindustan Motors, who are unable to find dealerships in Delhi for the HSRP and fuel stickers. “We will come up with a solution for cars whose production has ceased or don’t have dealerships in Delhi,” said Dahiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/numb-er-plate-day-after-transport-dept-missive-several-unanswered-questions/articleshow/78285616.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri lab fastest in divn to produce RT-PCR test results||Nagpur: Early detection of Covid-19 can save many lives. Bearing this in mind, scientists at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute’s (Neeri) testing laboratory have adopted effective methodology and are providing RT-PCR test results in record timing of about four hours, making the institute the fastest lab in Nagpur division.As per the directives of local administration, the testing laboratories are expected to produce results in 12 hours. Neeri, which started testing on April 19 this year, took the onus of improving on the technique and reducing the time by half.“We knew time makes a difference between life and death. Speedy results are a must to control the spread of the virus. Imagine if a Covid-19 positive person gets to know his result 6-7 hours in advance, he can immediately isolate himself and start preventive measures rather than infect a large number of other people in these hours,” said Krishna Khairnar, senior scientist and head at Neeri’s Environmental Virology Cell and Covid-19 molecular testing centre.Local administrative officials confirmed that the institute was the fastest in Nagpur division. “While other labs are providing results in 24 hours, Neeri is doing it in four hours or so. This is very beneficial as early detection can lead to timely and effective treatment,” said C Parulkar, in-charge of public health laboratory.Early reporting also works for those testing negative. “If a senior citizen, pregnant woman or patients suffering from heart, kidney or other ailments need immediate hospitalization and treatment, they first need to be declared free of Covid,” added Khairnar.Neeri’s formula for record-timing is quite simple and replicable – there are no time lags between different steps involved in testing. “The process and structure of sample processing have been optimized to a greater extent and that helps in achieving fast results. We have also streamlined receipt and delivery protocol so that we don’t have to spend time rechecking or recalibrating data,” says Neeri director Rakesh Kumar.The capacity of Neeri was initially 50, which was later increased to 200 and now is 300-500 samples per day. No additional staff was needed to speed up the process. “Our teams are well-coordinated and we don’t waste time in the middle of steps, everything happens simultaneously. The reason other laboratories are not able to deliver results within six hours is that there is a time difference between steps involved,” said Khairnar.The Centre has appointed Neeri as the hub for all Covid-19 testing centres in the city. Neeri, along with all the labs under its expertise have together performed around 2.2 lakh RT-PCR tests so far. “We are willing to provide training to other centres who wish to come and witness how the testing process has been optimized with almost zero error,” said Kumar.Khairnar added, “Even as we are immediately handing over the results to the sample collection centres, they are distributing them only the next day. It would be really beneficial if these centres too start communicating results to patients immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-lab-fastest-in-divn-to-produce-rt-pcr-test-results/articleshow/78283294.cms||Manka Behl
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM offers silk robes at Tirumala||TIRUPATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy presented ‘pattu vastrams’ (silk robes) to Lord Venkateswara on the auspicious occasion of Brahmotsavams at the Tirumala temple on Wednesday. Dressed in a traditional attire, Jagan arrived at the Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple where he was tied the traditional ‘parivattam’ by TTD priests. From there, the CM carried a set of silk robes on his head to the Tirumala temple, where he presented the silk robes to the presiding deity on behalf of the state government and offered prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-cm-offers-silk-robes-at-tirumala/articleshow/78284780.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 24, 2020||Goa||‘No clue where 90% of foreigners on bail are’||PANAJI: After the state government admitted to the high court of Bombay at Goa that the whereabouts of 90% of foreigners involved in crimes in Goa on bail are not known, the bench took up the matter suo motu, and slammed the police for their “casual” approach in tracing foreigners who jump bail during trial. The matter came to light during the hearing of an appeal filed by the state against the acquittal of Pavel Neuhausl, who fled the country. Neuhausl was involved in an alleged murder case. After the court sought information of other foreigners facing trial in Goa, the shocking figure of 90% was furnished by undersecretary (home) Pritidas Gaonkar. “To say the least, we are quite shocked at this revelation,” said a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar. “This is a serious issue affecting the administration of criminal justice... We have also come across cases where foreigners convicted for serious offences (including NDPS offences) and released on parole, didn’t return to serve their remaining time.” The bench also said that “at lease a prima facie impression is created” that police agenices have treated this matter absolutely casually. The high court said that at least in North Goa, cases of foreigners fleeing justice are on the rise. The bench said that normally, conditions are imposed requiring the foreigners to report to the police stations at periodic intervals. “Therefore, if the police officials concerned were to realise that the foreigners are not doing so and marking their attendance, the least that was expected was to move court for cancellation of bail,” the court said. “Besides, police officials were required to immediately swing into action and trace such foreigners before they succeed in fleeing from justice.” Advocate general Devidas Pangam told the court that the cooperation of central authorities would be necessary to secure the presence of foreigners who have jumped bail. The court thus issued notices and sought replies from the state government and the Union home secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-clue-where-90-of-foreigners-on-bail-are/articleshow/78285624.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Cattle smuggling: BSF officer, son in CBI net||KOLKATA: The CBI has booked a BSF officer, his son and three others, including an alleged kingpin of illegal cattle trade, over cattle smuggling on the India-Bangladesh border. Satish Kumar, the BSF officer, is currently posted at Raipur. He had served as the Commandant of the 36 BSF Battalion in North Bengal between December 2015 and April 2017. On Wednesday, the investigating agency conducted raids in 13 locations, including Kolkata, Murshidabad, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Amritsar in Punjab and Raipur in Chhattisgarh. In its FIR, the CBI has alleged that more than 20,000 cows, which were being smuggled to Bangladesh, had been seized during Kumar’s posting as the Commandant of the 36 BSF Battalion during December 2015 and April 2017. The smugglers were not arrested. It was reportedly found that seizure lists were modified to reduce the price of the cattle during auctions. Each time, the cattle were auctioned in 24 hours with the help of Jangipur Customs office. Since the seizure lists changed the sizes of the cattle or their breed, it drew a much lower price at the auction. The CBI, in the FIR, mentioned that Enamul Haque (a history sheeter), Anarul Sheikh and Gulam Mustafa had got in touch with a few officers and arranged payouts to them against the low-priced auction of the seized cattle. During the auction, a select batch of bidders had been allowed to buy the cattle. The agency alleged that Kumar got his son Bhuvan Bhaskar employed in Haque’s company. On Wednesday morning, CBI officers conducted raids onthe Kolkata residence of Haque apart from his residence in Raghunathganj, Lalgola. They conducted searches at his hotel and a TMT bar factory in Raghunathganj as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cattle-smuggling-bsf-officer-son-in-cbi-net/articleshow/78284765.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Caretaker steals Rs 5.5 lakh from patient, 2 arrested||NEW DELHI: Eighty-year-old Sarita Khanna (name changed), a cancer patient, lived in Panchsheel Park area of south Delhi and had engaged the services of a woman caretaker to look after her. At the beginning of each month, she would give her ATM card to the woman to withdraw money for household needs. The caretaker, Soni, left the job all of a sudden last month. Two weeks ago, Khanna could not find her ATM card. Later, she was shocked to find Rs 5.5 lakh missing from the account. Not knowing what to do, she approached police for help. “The cops at the Hauz Khas police station started investigation after receiving a complaint on September 12. An FIR was registered and a team led by inspector Akshay Rastogi formed to investigate,” said Atul Thakur, DCP (south). During inquiry, bank statements of the complainant were scrutinised. The analysis of details of transactions showed that the money had been withdrawn in over two dozen transactions at an ATM and Rs 25,000 had been taken out each time. The victim denied having made these transactions. The cops then obtained the CCTV footage of the ATM kiosk from where the money was withdrawn. This yielded results as the cops found a suspect whose visit and withdrawal time matched with the timing of the transaction made using the victim’s card. “The CCTV grab of suspect was developed and showed to the victim who identified him as one Raja, the boyfriend of the caretaker who had left the job,” DCP Thakur said. The victim did not have her complete address and just the phone number. The cops then used technical surveillance and conducted on-ground inquiry to track them down to a rented accommodation at Munirka. Initially, they feigned ignorance but later broke down during cross-examination and confessed to the crime. The ATM card of the complainant and the clothes, which were worn by the accused Raja during withdrawal of cash from ATM, were recovered from the house. During interrogation, it was revealed that both of them worked in the field of ‘patient care’ but weren’t associated with any agencies. Soni stole the card and gave it to Raja along with the PIN. Raja then withdrew the money and bought items like TV, refrigerator, inverter, juicer and mobile phone for his house at Jind, Haryana. He also gave out Rs 1.5 lakh on interest to earn regular income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/caretaker-steals-5-5-lakh-from-patient-2-arrested/articleshow/78285608.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Is it time to look beyond Covid doubling time?||Nagpur: Finding major mismatch in government-calculated and actual values of doubling time, expert analysis suggests it may not be the most reliable metric to track the Covid-19 curve. Defined as the number of days taken to double the cumulative coronavirus cases, doubling time does not always paint a true picture of the rate of infection spread, mathematicians say. An improvement (increase) in doubling time may not imply flattening of the curve, as per them. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)’s calculations peg the city’s doubling time (as of Tuesday) at 34 days, whereas it actually took 23 days to double the total caseload. Similarly, while official calculations show Chandrapur’s doubling time to be 18 days, the ‘doubling’ happened in 15 days.In their research paper titled ‘The Doubling Period can Seriously Mislead: A New Method to Track the Spread of Corona Infections’, Mumbai University professor Neeraj Hatekar and MMK College, Mumbai lecturer Pallavi Belhekar describe doubling time as an imprecise measure riddled with “high variability”.For instance, even though the observed doubling time of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra on May 5 was 9 days, the paper states it could have been anywhere between 6-13 days, with 80% probability.Hatekar told TOI that the state administration's calculation of doubling time does not account for the unpredictable nature of coronavirus. “The formula is the same as that used in financial literature — which calculates the compound growth rate in the last week. There is no guarantee that this growth rate will hold, given how the virus, testing strategies, and the socio-economic scenario keep changing. Those aspects cannot be factored in, in this formula,” the professor said. A senior official from the National Centre for Disease Control said that as cumulative case numbers rise, it is obvious that doubling time will also increase, all factors remaining constant. “That is why a city’s past doubling time should not be compared to its present one. This measure should be used for short-term future forecasts only,” the official explained. The model is also known to lose its statistical significance after the first wave of the pandemic, according to mathematician Richa Rawat, who is pursuing her PhD at the University of Texas, Dallas. “Research suggests that doubling time as a metric is not effective after the first wave. There are better metrics to gauge the growth of Covid-19 at this stage,” she added.One of the alternatives is the effective reproduction number (denoted by R), defined as the average number of secondary infections caused by one infected individual. Though epidemiologists in Western countries have warned against over-reliance on R, it overcomes some of doubling time’s “inherent limitations” in characterizing the evolution of the virus, as per Himadri Mukherjee, a statistician working with a global healthcare solutions company. Hatekar calculated Maharashtra’s R-value to be 1.13 on September 22, which means the state’s 2.7 lakh corona patients (active cases) can be expected to infect around 3.1 lakh others. The utility of this information nugget far outstrips that of the state’s current doubling time of 37 days when it comes to policy decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/is-it-time-to-look-beyond-covid-doubling-time/articleshow/78283323.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘RJD member part of riot planning, but stayed low key’||NEW DELHI: The riots conspiracy chargesheet has claimed that through arrested RJD youth wing member Meeran Haidar was actively involved in planning and execution, he was elusive and always remained low key. Haider’s stature in Jamia Coordination Committee group could be assessed from several WhatsApp conversations where he called for “compliance reports from a senior member like Safoora Zargar”, the chargesheet mentioned. Terming him as a “prolific orator”, the chargesheet said, “Meeran Haider deserves a separate mention being one of the only two chargesheeted people arrested exclusively in this case. His name did not figure in any other case of riots beginning December 2019. Had it not been this case, the role played by this accused might have gone totally unnoticed.” The police investigation claimed that Haider had received around Rs 5 lakh in small contributions, of which Rs 2.33 lakh was seized upon his arrest. A PhD scholar at Jamia Millia Islamia, Haider has a background of engineering and management. “He has political aspirations. As a member of Aam Aadmi Party, he and Khalid Saifi had visited Punjab for canvassing and delivery of speeches. After being denied a ticket by AAP in the municipal elections, he switched over to RJD and became its Delhi state youth president. He was one of the founding members of JCC, which was constituted after the violence on December 15, 2019,” read the chargesheet. Police claimed that Haider was the administrator of eight protest sites, apart from being a regular visitor and speaker at others. “He was entrusted with the management and organisation of the eight protest sites at Shaheen Bagh, Khureji, Seelampur-Jafrabad, Turkman Gate, Kardampuri, Mustafabad, Rehman Chowk, Sriram Colony and Inderlok metro station gate,” police added. On February 24, the “key conspirators” allegedly panicked after the threat of exposure by their associates in the DPSG WhatsApp group. The communications that followed showed that Umar Khalid first called his mentor R and then Haider about a shift in the strategy that needed to be adopted immediately, claimed police. The chargesheet said, “Haider was a part of the delegation that had travelled to the police headquarters and other places claiming victimhood and trying to impress Delhi government into holding a press conference where the blame for the violence would be laid squarely at the doors of Delhi Police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rjd-member-part-of-riot-planning-but-stayed-low-key/articleshow/78285621.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nigambodh capacity to double with 3 more CNG furnaces before winter||NEW DELHI: Before the onset of winter, the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium will be ready to handle double the number of bodies through its six CNG furnaces, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has said. The capital’s biggest cremation facility currently has three operational CNG furnaces, which are being used only for Covid-19 bodies, and another three will be functional before the winter, mayor Jai Prakash said. “More than 80% of the construction work has been completed,” he added. “The expansion is being carried out under a Rs 1.3-crore project funded by IGL and some NGOs.” “When the number of the bodies of corona patients increased exponentially in June, the facility was overwhelmed and families had to wait for the entire day for their turn. At the end, we had to allow open pyre funerals. If such a situation arises in the winter, we won’t face similar problems,” an official said. On average, three furnaces can handle up to 18 bodies daily. The CNG cremation infrastructure in Delhi is being revamped to keep it ready for any emergency. With the repair of the CNG furnace in the Punjabi Bagh crematorium complete, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has initiated the process of setting up similar facilities at Green Park and Subhash Nagar, the official said. “The capacity of traditional crematoria at Bindapur and Hastsal is also being increased.” Nigambodh Ghat originally had six CNG furnaces but three went out of use and became dysfunctional around a decade ago, said a senior funeral manager. “We secured funding for revamping these with the help of IGL even before the pandemic struck,” he said. “But the process got delayed due to the lockdown. In another month, we will again have six fully operational furnaces.” The crematorium also has 70 traditional funeral pyres but CNG units offer faster cremations and help in segregating covid and non-covid bodies, reducing the risk of infection, the official added. Closed environment of a CNG furnace offers safer, doubly faster and less costly funerals. While permitting wood-based cremation of corona bodies, the civic bodies have specified that the CNG medium will be the preferred option. Out of the 16 Covid-designated funeral sites in the city, the CNG option is available at the Nigambodh and Punjabi Bagh facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nigambodh-capacity-to-double-with-3-more-cng-furnaces-before-winter/articleshow/78285631.cms||Paras Singh
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Govt mulling to merge RFC with RIICO||Jaipur: The state government is mulling to merge NPA-laden Rajasthan Finance Corporation (RFC) with RIICO, according to sources who attended the last board meeting of the state PSU.The corporation’s gross non-performing assets stood at an unsustainable high of 23.20% by the end of financial year 2018-19 even as it came down from 33% in the previous year and marginal profits in the last two years.Sources said merging it with RIICO will not bring any strategic gain as both companies have different dedicated mandates. TOI tried to get a confirmation on the transaction from RIICO MD Ashutosh Pednekar and chairman of RFC Niranjan Kumar Arya, but they did not reply.Another source said a plan to infuse Rs 100 crore by RIICO into RFC also came up for discussion which was kept out of the minutes of the Board meeting.In its reports for 2018-19, the CAG had pointed out that 70% of RFC’s Rs 201.48 crore gross NPAs have a remote chance of recovery. In the same report, it had said the employee cost of RFC to total loans was much higher and ranged between 9.58% and 13.71% during 2015-19 as compared to Kerala Financial Corporation’s 2.19% and 7.43% and Karnataka State Financial Corporation’s 7.61% and 9.10%.RIICO extends term loans to entrepreneurs who buy its land, but the portfolio is not even 10% of its total business. The PSU’s main focus is on building industrial infrastructure and not lending or financing ventures.“If the transaction takes place, it will be a burden on RIICO. They are not a good business match given their mandates. So, such a match-making should be avoided,” said an official in RIICO.In fact, recently RIICO has been saddled with the responsibilities of Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project which has remained a non-starter in the state.Even after it came into its fold, RIICO has not made much headway in terms of facilitating compensation to the land owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-mulling-to-merge-rfc-with-riico/articleshow/78284771.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Syllabus panel mulls HS, Madhyamik changes||Kolkata: The state government may allow to postpone the West Bengal Higher Secondary Examinations next year, said members of the Syllabus Reforms Committee who met on Wednesday to discuss such a possibility. The members pointed out that the UGC’s proposed 2020-21 academic calendar showed that the next year’s admissions were likely to be delayed by two months and classes would start only from September 2021. The West Bengal Council for the Higher Secondary Examinations holds the Class XII boards exams in mid-March and the results are published by May-end. Going by that, first-year UG classes usually begin by July-end. “Though the syllabus committee is suggesting to hold the exams in June, it will be difficult to do so. If the assembly elections in Bengal are held on time, schools will have to be shut as many of them will be requisitioned for polling. So, April and May will be out of bounds. Also, before the elections, the state will witness widespread disturbance owing to rallies and the use of microphones. The final decision will be taken by the state,” said a Bikash Bhavan official. The committee decided to propose to the state to reduce 30%-40% of Madhyamik syllabi for next year as it will be held in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/syllabus-panel-mulls-hs-madhyamik-changes/articleshow/78285629.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||With 15L unassessed bldgs, officials have task cut out||Hyderabad: With nearly 15 lakh unassessed and unauthorised buildings and only a fortnight to update the property details on the Dharani web portal, the municipal administration authorities have their task cut out. Their problems are accentuated on two counts. One is, identification of unassessed properties itself will take several months and updation more time. Secondly, several lakhs of properties, especially in Old City and various slums in Hyderabad, do not have proper sale deeds and link documents for uploading on the portal. If a property is assessed, GHMC or other civic bodies, including panchayats, update the details of the owner and property details on their records and collect property tax. Sources said there are 10 lakh properties, which are not incorporated and unassessed in GHMC limits alone. There are another six lakh such properties in municipalities, municipal corporations and gram panchayats. According to the municipal administration department estimations, four to five lakh illegal properties in slums were sold on notarised documents. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday directed the municipal administration and panchayat raj department to update details of unregistered property on the Dharani website. The government is planning to issue maroon colour passbooks and make details on Dharani website mandatory for registering a property with the registration and stamps department. Several times, GHMC had taken up survey of unassessed properties. A couple of years ago, satellite images were used to identify unauthorised and unassessed properties on a pilot basis in Moosapet. But, it did not yield desired results. “The city’s civic body is losing Rs 400 crore to Rs 500 crore property tax annually to unassessed properties. Earlier, we used to have meetings to bring new structures into the tax net. There were no such meetings in past one year,” a senior official said. AIMIM MLC Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri said lakhs or properties in the Old City do not have sale deeds and link documents, but people have been living in the same residence for over 50 years and in some cases, for 100 years. “In such cases, where will the occupier get the documents,” the MLC said. He said there are five lakh properties on private lands in the notified and unnotified slums, which need to be registered as one-time facility by collecting nominal charges. AIMIM floor leader Akabaruddin Owaisi, in the assembly recently, raised the issue of properties in the slums and purchased by the poor on notarised documents as they cannot afford to the registration charges and they should be given an opportunity for registration. “Generally, property tax wing and town planning wing are involved in identifying unassessed properties. But, GHMC’s revenue wing is now involved in updation and preparation of electoral rolls for GHMC and Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates’ constituency,” a top GHMC official told TOI. Officials said no guidelines have been issued on updation of properties in urban areas. “Then there are doubts on disputed properties,” an additional commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-15l-unassessed-bldgs-officials-have-task-cut-out/articleshow/78285636.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 24, 2020||Goa||Goa must fill up Lokayukta post in three months: HC||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the state government to take effective steps to fill up the post of state Lokayukta within three months. The post has been vacant since last week, following the retirement of justice P K Misra (retd). Advocate general Devidas Pangam told the court that the state government has sent a communication to the registrar of the Supreme Court seeking names of candidates eligible and willing to be appointed Lokayukta. He said it isn’t possible to indicate a clear date by which the appointment will be made. ‘Vacancy has to be filled expeditiously’ Taking into consideration the mandate as well as purpose of enactment of the Lokayukta Act, we feel that this vacancy has to be filled in as expeditiously as possible, so that the institution of the Lokayukta functions in the state of Goa,” a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar said. Panaji lawyer Aires Rodrigues has filed a PIL in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-must-fill-up-lokayukta-post-in-three-months-hc/articleshow/78285637.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||More special trains to Delhi from Sunday||Kolkata: There will be more special trains plying in the Howrah-New Delhi route from Sunday. The special train to New Delhi that runs along the same route as the Poorva Express (with similar timings) will run four days a week from Sunday. It now runs twice a week from Howrah. According to Eastern Railway (ER), this train is fully booked on the days of its run and demand for berths exist. “Before the restrictions were imposed, the Poorva Express was a daily train. It was the most popular train after the Rajdhani Express. Now, the special train runs once a week via Gaya and through Patna on the other day. From Sunday, the train will run twice a week via Gaya and on two days through Patna. The special train that runs on Rajdhani Express timings is a daily one. It is also fully booked,” a senior ER official said. According to Soumitra Majumdar, principal chief commercial manager, ER, the earnings for every special Rajdhani trip is Rs 27-28 lakh. The earnings for every special Poorva trip is nearly Rs 15 lakh. “With eight more trips per month, there will be additional earnings of nearly Rs 1.2 crore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-special-trains-to-delhi-from-sunday/articleshow/78285642.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Tempo hits bike in Jahanabad, mediaperson killed||PILIBHIT: Pushpendra Sharma (36) of village Badhapur Gautia under Amaria police station, who was associated with an electronic news channel, was hit by a speeding tempo on Jahanabad-Shahi road under Jahanabad police station at 11am on Wednesday, while he was riding his motorcycle to Nawabganj in Bareilly district. Sharma, who sustained critical injuries, was shifted to the Pilibhit district hospital, where he died during treatment at around 1pm. According to Jahanabad SHO Harish Vardhan Singh, police impounded the tempo after its driver fled, and sent the body for autopsy. An FIR in the matter would be lodged as soon as a written complaint was filed by someone from the side of the deceased, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tempo-hits-bike-in-jahanabad-mediaperson-killed/articleshow/78280024.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||249 global buyers participate in Vastra expo||Jaipur: State industries minister Parsadi Lal Meena inaugurated the five-day virtual International Textile and Apparel Fair, ‘Vastra 2020’, organised by RIICO and FIICI-Rajasthan.Over 249 buyers from 62 countries from Africa, Europe, America and other regions have registered for the expo while over 276 Indian buying houses and agents have registered. Over 80 exhibitors are participating from garments, home furnishings, home textiles and fabric sectors.“In the present situation when travel and social interaction is limited, the virtual edition of Vastra will provide an apt platform to the textile and apparel industry to connect with the buyers across the globe to grow their business progressively,” Meena said.Principal secretary to the chief minister and chairman, RIICO, Kuldeep Ranka, who was also part of the inauguration, said, “Today, when we are facing a global pandemic, the economy has been gravely impacted, particularly the exports. In tandem with efforts made by the central and state governments for growth, RIICO has also announced relief packages for entrepreneurs as well as many financial and non-financial incentives.”Delivering the opening address, chairman, FICCI Rajasthan State Council, Ashok Kajaria said that presently when business sentiments are down all across the globe and physical events have been put on hold, virtual expos have opened up new avenues for generating new business. ‘Vastra 2020: Virtual Edition’ will help in re-energizing and rebooting the textiles and apparel business all across the globe. The main aim of the mega-event is to bring back the synergies and synchronise all the stakeholders on one platform for business generation.After the Covid-pandemic, orders of many exporters have been cancelled or postponed. Even as the lockdown opened, the buyers have been asking steep discounts of up to 40%.“People wanted to sell the stock at whatever price they were offered. They wanted liquidity to start a fresh cycle of demand and production. Coming to the expo, this is a very productive exercise because we are getting reconnected to our buyers again. This will surely help a lot of businesses in the state,” said a member of Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan (GEAR), which is supporting the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/249-global-buyers-participate-in-vastra-expo/articleshow/78284789.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Bilkis Bano, ‘Dadi of Shaheen Bagh’, on Time’s list of 100 influential people||NEW DELHI: A wrinkled face, a sprightly and lean frame but defiant eyes. It was easy to tell Bilkis Bano apart from the crowd. The 82-year-old, who came to be known as the “Dadi of Shaheen Bagh”, was a defining presence at the prolonged protest against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at the small neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh in southeast Delhi. On Wednesday, Time Magazine named Bilkis among the 100 most influential people in the world. Acknowledging the octogenarian’s fight, it said that “Bilkis...became the symbol of resistance in a nation where the voices of women and minorities were being systematically drowned out.” On December 15, 2019, a group of 10-15 women occupied a half-kilometre stretch of the Kalindi Kunj Road that connects Delhi and Noida. The women began a sit-in, disturbed by the visuals of police action against students at Jamia Millia Islamia, who were demanding a rollback of the new law. In the coming weeks, Shaheen Bagh became the centre of the protests against CAA-NRC. Over the next few days, Bilkis became the face of the protest, her magnetic presence drawing in many other first-time protesters. Her impassioned stories reflected ideas of inclusion and secularism on which India was founded. “India is the country of our birth. We may have all the papers but our fight is for the disadvantaged who may not have the documents to prove their citizenship,” she had told TOI in January. “I only recollect meeting her along with the other dadis at Shaheen Bagh. They blessed both Sadhana and me. I was told that she was sprightly enough to climb four floors,” said Sanjay Hegde, who was appointed as an interlocutor by Supreme Court to convince the women to open the road as it was causing distress to commuters. Blessing the country and its citizens was a recurring theme in Bilkis’s life and subsequent protest. “I still pray that the government should recall the law. Our fight is not against any person. It’s for the future of the country and its children,” she told TOI over phone from Bulandshahr, where she was attending a wedding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bilkis-dadi-of-shaheen-bagh-on-times-list-of-100-influential-people/articleshow/78285628.cms||Anam Ajmal
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Lineman threatens to kill power department SDO, booked||PILIBHIT: A suspended lineman of the electricity department, identified as Ashok Kumar Yadav of Civil Lines (South) locality in Pilibhit city, who was earlier posted at Barkhera block headquarters, was booked on Wednesday for repeatedly threatening to kill the departmental sub-divisional officer (SDO) Deepak Negi over the phone on Negi’s official cellphone number. Negi said the accused had been booked and suspended after he had assaulted another SDO, Sabir Khan, at Barkhera a year ago. In fact, Negi had been entrusted with carrying out a departmental inquiry in the matter, which was still in progress. Negi added the accused had tried to put pressure on him to file a favourable inquiry report, which he had declined outright. The SHO of Sungarhi police station, Atar Singh, said following Negi’s written complaint, the accused was booked under sections 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lineman-threatens-to-kill-power-dept-sdo-booked/articleshow/78280051.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Soyabean crop damaged, growers seek Rs 50k aid||Yavatmal: Rain-hit farmers from Pusad, Mahagaon and Umarkhed tehsils in the district on Wednesday walked down to the collectorate carrying damaged soyabean plants and submitted a memorandum demanding immediate survey and Rs50,000 compensation to each affected farmer. Apart from survey by a central team, comprising disaster management committee members, the farmers also demanded inclusion of soyabean under the PM crop insurance scheme. Pointing out the excess rainfall this year, the farmers also want the government to declare wet drought in the district. Such a move will enable farmers to avail benefits of various government sops, they said. Farm activist Manish Jadhav, after submitting the memorandum to resident district collector Lalitkumar Warhade, said soyabean crop has totally damaged in various parts of the district. Due to excessive rains and moisture, soyabean seeds have started germinating on the plant itself, he said. “We brought the damaged plants and presented it to the RDC,” said Jadhav. “Farmers are already facing acute financial crisis and further crop losses may lead to escalation of farm suicides,” he said. “In the district, 80% soyabean crop has been damaged. If the government fails to act, farmers will be forced to resort to agitation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soyabean-crop-damaged-growers-seek-rs-50k-aid/articleshow/78284816.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Crowd cheers as cops parade ‘semi-naked’ minors on road||Nagpur: Some personnel of city police on Wednesday paraded semi-naked some minors, including a 16-year-old, they had arrested with ropes tied around their arms as a crowd cheered and filmed the move on their phones in Jaripatka. Though all the teenagers have criminal records, action of the cops even before producing them before the magistrate violates norms. The minors were also being caned by the constables while they were paraded. They were also not allowed to wear Covid masks as they were taken through busy Jaripatka cement road risking their life. A senior officer too was also part of the parade without mask. City police chief Amitesh Kumar has asked assistant commissioner of police to probe the incident and submit a report terming it ‘serious’. It is learnt the minors, along with 18-year-old Ashish Maseeha, had gone to consume liquor at a bar near Old Jaripatka bus stop on Tuesday. Here they had a tiff with the bar owner Sanjay Patil and waiters. Following heated arguments, Maseeha and the accomplices are learnt to have created a ruckus inside the bar with swords and other weapons. They also allegedly wrenched cash Rs 7,000 from the owner. The Jaripatka police, under Senior inspector Khushal Tijare, acted promptly to round up the five from an eatery at Patansawangi. Apart from dacoity, similar heinous offences are learnt to be registered against the minors and Maseeha. Zonal DCP Vikram Sali and PI Tijare said the minors were being taken to a place for investigation after being arrested when the police vehicle developed a flat tyre. “As our vehicle got stuck, we had to take the accused on foot,” said Tijare. First the CCTV footage of the armed teenagers going berserk inside the bar went viral. Later the footage of police parading them in their underwear, also went viral on social media attracting wide gamut of reactions with cops getting criticism and appreciation in equal measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crowd-cheers-as-cops-parade-semi-naked-minors-on-road/articleshow/78284814.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid recoveries breach 1 lakh mark||JAIPUR: Amid the grim pandemic situation, the state has achieved something to cheer about. The count of people who defeated the virus breached the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, 1,553 persons have recovered taking the overall tally of such cases to 1,00,365. Expansion of healthcare facilities in government and private hospitals by the government has helped save lives of people who had contracted the virus. In 34 days, more than 50,000 people have recovered taking the recovery rate to 83%. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora has given instructions to officials and doctors to prevent Covid mortality by following treatment protocols, which include expansion of tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections along with treating patients with plasma therapy. Tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections have been made available at most of the district level hospitals along with increasing the number of beds with oxygen support. Hospitals treating Covid patients have also increased. In Jaipur, 26 government and private hospitals are now providing Covid treatment. The state government has also allowed private hospitals to tie up with hotels to set up their Covid care centres. “We are doing aggressive testing for early detection. Initial three days are important, so our effort is to start treatment early. Apart from aggressive testing, we are providing aggressive treatment to patients. For the purpose, we are continuously strengthening our infrastructure like increasing ICU beds and beds with oxygen support,” said a senior health department official. He added the other part of aggressive treatment is that patients who have influenza-like illness and bilateral pneumonia and are continuously getting negative result in tests are being put through chest CT without waiting for the patients to test positive for Covid. Moreover, the health department has launched 181 helpline for immediate help of Covid patients. In comparion to August, the recovery rate in the state has slightly gone down. In August, the recovery rate rose to 93.3% while in September (till Wednesday), it is 85.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-recoveries-breach-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/78284806.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Covid recoveries breach 1 lakh mark||JAIPUR: Amid the grim pandemic situation, the state has achieved something to cheer about. The count of people who defeated the virus breached the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, 1,553 persons have recovered taking the overall tally of such cases to 1,00,365. Expansion of healthcare facilities in government and private hospitals by the government has helped save lives of people who had contracted the virus. In 34 days, more than 50,000 people have recovered taking the recovery rate to 83%. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora has given instructions to officials and doctors to prevent Covid mortality by following treatment protocols, which include expansion of tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections along with treating patients with plasma therapy. Tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections have been made available at most of the district level hospitals along with increasing the number of beds with oxygen support. Hospitals treating Covid patients have also increased. In Jaipur, 26 government and private hospitals are now providing Covid treatment. The state government has also allowed private hospitals to tie up with hotels to set up their Covid care centres. “We are doing aggressive testing for early detection. Initial three days are important, so our effort is to start treatment early. Apart from aggressive testing, we are providing aggressive treatment to patients. For the purpose, we are continuously strengthening our infrastructure like increasing ICU beds and beds with oxygen support,” said a senior health department official. He added the other part of aggressive treatment is that patients who have influenza-like illness and bilateral pneumonia and are continuously getting negative result in tests are being put through chest CT without waiting for the patients to test positive for Covid. Moreover, the health department has launched 181 helpline for immediate help of Covid patients. In comparion to August, the recovery rate in the state has slightly gone down. In August, the recovery rate rose to 93.3% while in September (till Wednesday), it is 85.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-recoveries-breach-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/78287514.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Covid recoveries breach 1 lakh mark||JAIPUR: Amid the grim pandemic situation, the state has achieved something to cheer about. The count of people who defeated the virus breached the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, 1,553 persons have recovered taking the overall tally of such cases to 1,00,365. Expansion of healthcare facilities in government and private hospitals by the government has helped save lives of people who had contracted the virus. In 34 days, more than 50,000 people have recovered taking the recovery rate to 83%. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora has given instructions to officials and doctors to prevent Covid mortality by following treatment protocols, which include expansion of tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections along with treating patients with plasma therapy. Tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections have been made available at most of the district level hospitals along with increasing the number of beds with oxygen support. Hospitals treating Covid patients have also increased. In Jaipur, 26 government and private hospitals are now providing Covid treatment. The state government has also allowed private hospitals to tie up with hotels to set up their Covid care centres. “We are doing aggressive testing for early detection. Initial three days are important, so our effort is to start treatment early. Apart from aggressive testing, we are providing aggressive treatment to patients. For the purpose, we are continuously strengthening our infrastructure like increasing ICU beds and beds with oxygen support,” said a senior health department official. He added the other part of aggressive treatment is that patients who have influenza-like illness and bilateral pneumonia and are continuously getting negative result in tests are being put through chest CT without waiting for the patients to test positive for Covid. Moreover, the health department has launched 181 helpline for immediate help of Covid patients. In comparion to August, the recovery rate in the state has slightly gone down. In August, the recovery rate rose to 93.3% while in September (till Wednesday), it is 85.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-recoveries-breach-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/78287516.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Poor implementation of MPJAY: Admin seeks data from hospitals||Nashik: The district administration — alarmed by only 687 financially weak Covid-19 patients in Nashik district availing benefit under the state government’s health insurance scheme of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY) — has called for details from all hospitals and patients about all applications, rejections and denials. “All that we can say at this point in time that 687 people have benefited from the scheme and going by the expectations we believe they are just 30% of the people expected to get treatment from the private hospitals. We have therefore asked the hospitals to furnish details about claims and rejections of the applications after which we can come up to a conclusion,” a senior official from the district administration said. The Nashik district has so far registered 66,200 positive cases of which 80% are asymptomatic. According to data available, around 13,000 people require admission in hospitals. Since the treatment in government hospitals is free there could be some people who might have gone to private hospitals for treatment. The MPJAY scheme that offers insurance of Rs 1.5 lakh per family per year has designed various packages ranging from Rs 20,000 to Rs 80,000 for treatment of Covid-19 in which most of the treatment part is taken care of. Hence, the beneficiaries hardly have to pay anything for the treatment. Member of Legislative Assembly from Niphad Dileep Bankar said that there were many people who came to him seeking help in getting treatment at private hospitals through MPJAY. “We are committed for treatment of the people. Hence, we have asked the district administration and the state government to address the issues of such beneficiaries who are being forced to pay for their treatment,” Bankar said. “The district administration currently does not have any data of the total number of applications, rejections, denials. We believe the number of beneficiaries from MPJAY taking Covid-19 treatment should be around 2,400 as many could have taken treatment in government hospitals, where the treatment is free,” the district administration official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/poor-implementation-of-mpjay-admin-seeks-data-from-hospitals/articleshow/78282074.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kol residents help family take Bangla woman’s body home||Kolkata: A group of people in the city helped a Bangladeshi family to take home the mortal remains of a 57-year-old cancer patient on Wednesday after she died on her way to a New Town guest house on Tuesday evening. Karuna Chowdhury, a resident of Shakpura in Chittagong, who had been suffering from stage IV lung cancer, had come to the city by road, crossing the Bongaon border on Tuesday for treatment at Tata Medical Centre in New Town. The woman was a senior official of finance department of Bangladesh navy. The guest house owner Shahinur Rahman and his neighbour Muzaffar Biswas helpd the family take the body to a mortuary in Bhowanipore and later take the body back home for last rites. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-residents-help-family-take-bangla-womans-body-home/articleshow/78284802.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||RTC resumes mofussil bus services||Hyderabad: Telangana State Road Transport Corporation on Wednesday resumed its mofussil bus services to various villages located beyond the sub-urban geographical limits of Greater Hyderabad. The resumption of mofussil bus services after a gap of six months kicked off speculations that even the RTC city bus service operations would resume in a day or two. However, TSRTC officials said that they have submitted a proposal to the government that they were ready to operate 30% of the total city buses. City bus services are likely to resume by the month-end or in the first of October, sources said. On Wednesday, TSRTC started operating 230 mofussil bus services on 135 routes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-resumes-mofussil-bus-services/articleshow/78285643.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Non-agriculture properties will be registered online in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In another step towards simplifying registration of properties in the state, the government has decided to register online all non-agriculture properties such as houses constructed near agriculture fields and wells, farm houses and beyond the village settlement areas and incorporate them in the Dharani web portal without collecting any charge. Henceforth, no non-agriculture land assessment (NALA) conversion charges will be collected for mutations. Making his government’s intentions clear, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said mutations (transfer of properties) and property registrations would be done only through Dharani portal in future. He also announced that all the non-agriculture properties would be given maroon colour passbooks on the lines of green colour passbooks given to the farmers. The CM said the government would give one last chance to farmers to go for mutation of their agriculture properties under ‘Sada Bainama’ (property transactions made on ordinary papers) soon. He said guidelines in this regard would be issued soon. The government had issued the Sada Bainama mutations in 2017. The CM said notarised properties’ regularisation and GO 58 and 59 regularisation of properties that have come up on government land illegally would also be issued soon. At a review meeting with ministers and officials on implementation of new Revenue Act, Dharani portal and registration of non-agriculture properties, the CM said: “If anybody fails to mutate their properties and update details on the Dharani portal, their children will face problems in future.” The CM said mutation and updation of details would be done on the web portal once people provide details of their properties, Aadhar card and family member details. KCR asked local public representatives such as sarpanches, MPTC members, ward members, mayors, council chairmen, councillors and panchayat secretaries to see that all non-agriculture properties were updated in their respective villages and also bring awareness among the people on this. While clearing that the property details’ updation process has got nothing do with the ongoing LRS, he said the government would begin registration of properties — both agriculture and non-agriculture properties — only after the Dharani portal is updated. He said on Tuesday that the web portal should be updated with non-agriculture properties’ details within 15 days as agriculture properties’ details were already available with the land records updation programme (LRUP), which was taken up two years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-agriculture-properties-will-be-registered-online/articleshow/78285648.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 24, 2020||Patna||Patna: Doctor ends life in PMCH girl’s hostel||PATNA: A 34-year-old doctor named Shivangi allegedly committed suicide by injecting herself some drug in her room at Kasturba girl’s hostel of PMCH on Wednesday. Pirbahore police station SHO Rizwan Ahmed Khan said Shivangi had recently completed her postgraduation in anaesthesia from PMCH. “She was found dead on her bed. A syringe was also found beside the body. Her room was locked from inside,” he said and added that her viscera was preserved for further forensic investigation. Shivangi’s brother did not suspect any foul play. “No suicide note was recovered from her room. Her cellphone has been seized. She had stopped attending calls since Tuesday night,” the SHO said.  “Police came to know from family members that she had not been well and probably depressed over it,” the SHO said. Shivangi’s brother and sister-in-law are also doctors. “The sister-in-law is posted at the gynaecology department of PMCH,” he said. PMCH temporary outpost incharge Praveen Kumar said Shivangi had recently started working at NMCH. “However, she used to live in the PMCH hostel,” he said. Kumar said the girl’s father runs a printing press and the family lives in Jagannath Apartment at Jakariapur in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doc-ends-life-in-pmch-girls-hostel/articleshow/78284817.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 24, 2020||Goa||ACB probe into labour scam only if needed: Goa CM||PANAJI: CM minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the state government will ask the anti-corruption branch (ACB) of the directorate of vigilance to investigate into the Covid-relief labour scam only if the need is felt. “I have asked the labour department to process the Lokayukta order and if necessary it will be sent to the ACB,” Sawant said. Goa Lokayukta, Justice (retd) P K Misra had directed the ACB to investigate the Covid relief scheme for Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW). He also said to file an FIR against those who siphoned off funds meant for labourers. In the order, Misra also stated that if the role of politicians and high-ranking officials was found, the investigation should be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “An FIR shall be filed by the ACB against unknown persons for conspiracy to siphon out money from the Goa BOCW welfare fund..., with a view to distributing largesse by stuffing the beneficiary register of the fund with beneficiaries who are not BOCWs,” Misra stated in the order. Misra has also stated that the CAG should look into the functioning of the labour welfare fund, specifically the payments made to beneficiaries under Covid-19 schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/acb-probe-into-labour-scam-only-if-needed-cm/articleshow/78285644.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Covid recoveries breach 1 lakh mark||JAIPUR: Amid the grim pandemic situation, the state has achieved something to cheer about. The count of people who defeated the virus breached the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, 1,553 persons have recovered taking the overall tally of such cases to 1,00,365. Expansion of healthcare facilities in government and private hospitals by the government has helped save lives of people who had contracted the virus. In 34 days, more than 50,000 people have recovered taking the recovery rate to 83%. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora has given instructions to officials and doctors to prevent Covid mortality by following treatment protocols, which include expansion of tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections along with treating patients with plasma therapy. Tocilizumab and ramdesivir injections have been made available at most of the district level hospitals along with increasing the number of beds with oxygen support. Hospitals treating Covid patients have also increased. In Jaipur, 26 government and private hospitals are now providing Covid treatment. The state government has also allowed private hospitals to tie up with hotels to set up their Covid care centres. “We are doing aggressive testing for early detection. Initial three days are important, so our effort is to start treatment early. Apart from aggressive testing, we are providing aggressive treatment to patients. For the purpose, we are continuously strengthening our infrastructure like increasing ICU beds and beds with oxygen support,” said a senior health department official. He added the other part of aggressive treatment is that patients who have influenza-like illness and bilateral pneumonia and are continuously getting negative result in tests are being put through chest CT without waiting for the patients to test positive for Covid. Moreover, the health department has launched 181 helpline for immediate help of Covid patients. In comparion to August, the recovery rate in the state has slightly gone down. In August, the recovery rate rose to 93.3% while in September (till Wednesday), it is 85.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-recoveries-breach-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/78287513.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid patients need 6,500 oxygen cylinders daily||JAIPUR: With more oxygen-supported beds being added for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals across the state, the demand for oxygen is also going up. The Centre has given in-principle approval to the state government to supply oxygen cylinders from Gujarat for use in Jodhpur and Udaipur hospitals. “The Centre has in-principle agreed to supply oxygen from Ahmedabad to Jodhpur and Udaipur. It is not clear yet how much oxygen will be supplied but it will be done soon. Currently, we are supplying oxygen daily from Bhiwadi to Jodhpur and Udaipur. We are getting 50KL of oxygen from a firm in Bhiwadi, out of which 20KL is supplied to Jaipur daily and 15KL-15KL is supplied to Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur on rotation basis as per daily requirement,” said a health department official. The supply from Ahmedabad will reduce the burden of supplying oxygen from Bhiwadi to Jodhpur and Udaipur, covering a long distance. Jaipur is getting 20KL oxygen from Bhiwadi, which is equal to 18,000 cylinders. The requirement of SMS Medical College for non-Covid patients is more than 800 cylinders daily. Over the past 10 days, the demand for oxygen rose to 11,000 to 12,000 cylinders daily, which was 8,000 to 9,000 every day previously. The demand is continuously increasing and it is all set to increase further as the state government has decided to add 1,000 more beds with oxygen support. “We are continuously increasing our facilities for Covid treatment. If we need more facilities, we are ready for it. We will increase our oxygen supply for medical use,” said a senior health department official. Currently, the state’s hospitals require 6,500 cylinders of oxygen for Covid treatment, while 5,000 cylinders for non-Covid hospitals. Before the pandemic, the 24 oxygen generation plants in different parts of the state supplied 12,000 oxygen cylinders to government for medical and industrial use. Out of those, 12,000 cylinders, 4,000 was used for medical purposes and 8,000 for industrial use. Now, the government has increased the share for medical use to 6,000 to 7,000 while rest is left for the industrial purposes. The health department officials said a patient on oxygen-supported bed requires 3 to 5 cylinders daily for Covid treatment. If the government increases 1,000 more beds, it will require another 3,000 to 5,000 cylinders daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-covid-patients-need-6500-oxygen-cylinders-daily/articleshow/78284801.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala may move SC against farm bills||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government will seek legal opinion on approaching the Supreme Court against the farm bills passed by the Parliament, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday. Opposition parties are on a nation-wide agitation alleging that the provisions in the bills are against the interest of farmers. According to Vijayan, such a suggestion was mooted by ministers during the cabinet meeting. The government will take a decision after getting the legal opinion from the law secretary, said the chief minister. In January this year, Kerala filed a suit against the Union government in the Supreme Court, challenging the validity of the citizenship (amendment) act (CAA). The suit was filed under article 131 that gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction in disputes between one or more states and the Central government The state cabinet has also decided to amend the Kerala Micro Small Medium Enterprises Facilitation Act in order to provide more relaxations in getting licences to start a new unit. An ordinance will be brought in to amend the act. The amendment will ensure that the licences required to begin a unit will be granted within seven working days. The cabinet has approved the draft recommendations to amend the Kerala Municipality Building Rules and Kerala Panchayat Building Rules of 2019. Various trade and business organizations from construction, industry and allied sectors in the state have been raising complaints that certain provisions in the act will have adverse impacts on the constructions of hospital complexes, educational institutions, offices, auditoriums, etc. The government had decided to conduct a detailed study and as per the new recommendations, an amendment will be brought in the rule which made a 10m road width mandatory in above 18,000sq feet constructions. Accordingly, the width of the road will be reduced to 8meters. The formula formulated for calculating the floor area ratio will also be cancelled and the government has decided to go with the old one. The state cabinet has appointed Dr Akhil C Banerjee, emeritus scientist at the National Institute of Immunology as the director of the Institute of Advanced Virology at Thonnakkal in Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-may-move-sc-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78283345.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre to release postal stamp on PV||Hyderabad: The Centre has agreed to release a postal stamp of former Prime Minsiter PV Narasimha Rao during his birth centenary celebrations, TRS floor leader Nama Nageshwara Rao said. The floor leader met Union information and broadcasting minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and handed over a letter written by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao requesting the Centre to release the stamp. In a press release, Nama Nageshwara Rao said the president of India may release the stamp during his southern sojourn in December. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-to-release-postal-stamp-on-pv/articleshow/78284830.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Covid, rain play Asura for Kumartuli artisans||KOLKATA: Covid-19 and economic distress have already reduced the size and budget of idols and what adds to the woes now is the incessant rain — Asura is dealing blows to the artisans of Kumartuli in different forms this year. Scattered showers and overcast skies for the past four days have put artisans in Kumartuli, potters’ enclave in north Kolkata, behind schedule in a year when coronavirus has cast its dark shadow on the biggest festival of the state with orders for idols coming in very late. Artisans have covered the idols with plastic sheets to protect them from leaky roofs while others are using pedestal fans and bright bulbs to dry up various facets of the idol. “For the past four days it has rained everyday and during different parts of the day. The sun has not been out properly, which is not good for our work. We are already reeling under the adverse effects of Covid-19 and economic distress that have killed our business this year. Puja committees have reduced the size of the idols due to safety aspects and budget constraints. Now, when we have got a few orders, rain is playing Asura,” said Joydeep Paul, an artisan in Kumartuli. The weather also threatens to increase the cost of making the idols with an increase in man-days and hiring charges of pedestal fans and purchasing kerosene. “Rain pushes up the costs because we sometimes have to redo the idols that may have got damaged in the rain or not dried up properly. We also have to purchase kerosene oil or pedestal fans to dry up the idols indoors. Now, that it is raining almost everyday, we will have to purchase big plastic sheets to cover the idols,” said Bikash Kumar Paul, who has not been able to work during the first half due to the rain for the past three days. Several puja committees have reduced the size of the idols this year to maintain Covid safety guidelines and budget restraints, which has impacted the livelihoods of the potters. Narrow lanes, leaky roofs and poor drainage in Kumartuli, where thousands of clay idols take shape every year for Durga Puja and many even sail abroad, have landed artisans in troubled waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-rain-play-asura-for-kumartuli-artisans/articleshow/78284819.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Lack of oxygen: Seven steel industries stop manufacturing in Nashik||NASHIK: The district administration’s decision to stop supply of oxygen to the industries from September 12 has now started showing impact on industries in Nashik as seven steel manufacturing units have stopped production for the past four days. On September 12, the District Industries Centre (DIC) had directed the oxygen manufactures and suppliers in Nashik to stop the supply of oxygen to industries for meeting the requirement of medical oxygen to the hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Apart from steel industries, the production process of several industrial units have also been affected due to lack of oxygen. According to a senior member of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA), all the seven steel manufacturing units have shut their operations due to lack of oxygen. “These seven units require 225 cylinders per day to continue steel manufacturing process. But all these units have shut operations for the past four days. The daily production of these seven steel manufacturing units is 1,200. A total of 2,500 permanent workers are involved directly and same number of indirect manpower are on the verge of getting unemployed,” the member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lack-of-oxygen-7-steel-industries-stop-manufacturing/articleshow/78282092.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop hits vegetable vendor near Jamalpur APMC||Ahmedabad: The city police and traffic cops went beyond the law while conducting an anti-encroachment drive in Jamalpur area of the city on Wednesday morning. One of the cops was seen hitting a vegetable vendor, leaving him injured . The video footages show a police constable hitting the vegetable vendor near Jamalpur APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) who was opposing the removal of their hand-carts and vegetables from the area. The incident took place in the presence of sub-inspector S B Acharya under whose charge the drive was being conducted. Videos also show vegetables being thrown on roads while the alleged encroachments were being removed. When the police were asked about this incident, they pleaded ignorance. Narendra Parmar, inspector with Gaekwad Haveli police station, denied having any knowledge of the incident even though the area fell in the jurisdiction of his police station. On the other hand, traffic police officers apportioned the blame to Gaekwad Haveli police station personnel saying that they were just managing traffic and did not hurt anyone.“The injured victim along with other vegetable vendors had gone to the Gaekwad Haveli police station, but no FIR was lodged in the case,” said a source in the police. The officials in the APMC said that when the APMC was shifted to Jamalpur it was decided that the trading would take in the APMC only and no person would be allowed to trade outside the APMC as it was creating a chaotic situation and people were gathering without following the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-hits-vegetable-vendor-near-jamalpur-apmc/articleshow/78284833.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Govt projects 1.7L cases in Vid by Oct 13, 98,000 in Nagpur district||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Vidarbha is expected to increase from 1,27,690 to 1,71,335 by October 13, if central government projections are to be believed. Considering these projections, the government has pointed out lack of sufficient beds with oxygen, in ICU, and ventilators in four of the 11 districts of this region. Considering the growth rate up to September 13, the Centre’s ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) wrote to the state government on September 15 projecting increase in cases from 10,11,404 on September 13 to 16,96,991 by October 13 in the state. As on Wednesday, there were 12,63,799 cases, which means another 4,33,192 are expected in the next 20 days. The projection for Vidarbha is 1,71,335 by October 13, from 94,309 cases on September 13. As on Wednesday, there were 1,27,690 cases in Vidarbha which means another 43,645 cases are expected in next 20 days. Highest projection is for Nagpur district, which has already registered more cases than the total of the remaining 10 districts of Vidarbha. As per the projection, Nagpur district is likely to register 98,663 cases by October 13. There were 67,671 cases as on Wednesday, which means another 30,992 cases are expected in next 20 days for an average of 1,550 per day. Past experience shows everything is dependent on number of tests. The government had on August 14 projected 70,408 cases in Vidarbha by August 31. But actual cases were 58,913 by August 31. In Nagpur district, there were 29,555 cases as against projection of 44,451. The major reason was the administration’s failure to increase number of tests. As per projection, there was a need to increase number of tests to 13,500 per day considering the then existing positivity rate of 14%. But actual testing remained 5,656 per day. The testing in the district increased in first and second week of September. Average testing was 7,025 per day and positive cases were 1,640 per day in first week, and increased slightly to 7,741 per day (testing) and 1,777 per day (positive cases) in second week. But testing reduced to 6,212 per day and accordingly positive cases to 1,662 per day in the third week this month. The situation in last four days is worse compared to third week. Testing dropped to 4,626 per day in last four days and accordingly positive cases came down to 1,285 per day. MLC Parinay Fuke has time and again said that number of infected persons is at par with the government projection but was not reflecting paper due to fewer tests. He, and experts, had claimed early testing followed by proper treatment is must to reduce number of fatalities. Just like Nagpur district, cases in Gondia (projected 2,428, actual 1,486), Yavatmal (projected 3,819, actual 3,401) and Washim (projected 1,874, actual 1,753) were not at par with projections. Cases were over the projections in seven districts — Chandrapur (projected 2,514, actual 2,547), Bhandara (projected 1,102, actual 1,286), Wardha (projected 892, actual 1,006), Gadchiroli (projected 1,002, actual 1,161), Amravati (projected 5,560, actual 5,750), Akola (projected 3,731, actual 4,024) and Buldhana (projected 3,035, actual 3,134). The government had started giving projection of cases since April. The main motive is to alert the administration to equip facilities. In the latest projection, the government has pointed out small shortage of beds at ICUs in Nagpur district. Similarly, shortage of beds with oxygen supply was pointed out in Amravati. Washim district does not have enough number of ventilators and beds in ICU for handling projected cases. In case of Yavatmal district, the number of beds with oxygen supply, in ICU and also ventilators are short. Nagpur Municipal Corporation and district administration claim to have sufficient beds with oxygen supply, in ICU and ventilators as per the projections for Nagpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-projects-1-7l-cases-in-vid-by-oct-13-98000-in-nagpur-district/articleshow/78284907.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MPs protest against farm bills||Hyderabad: TRS MPs on Wednesday participated in a protest against farm bills brought by the Centre and suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs in Delhi. The MPs rallied from Gandhi Statue in the parliament to Ambedkar statue, along with other opposition party members. Speaking to media in Delhi, TRS floor leader Nama Nageshwara Rao termed the farm bills as “anti-farmer” and said they will help the corporates. He demanded the Centre to withdraw the bills. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mps-protest-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78284845.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hubballi||Airport to come up where Nehru survived a mishap||RAICHUR: If everything goes as planned, an airport will come up soon on a historic site in Raichur, where country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru survived a flight mishap. The district administration has already set aside Rs 40 crore, a portion of the project fund, to establish the airport at Yermarus village on a sprawling 404 acres of government land. Already there is an airstrip on the land that in 1960’s saved the life of Nehru, whose flight caught fire in a cockpit en route Chennai from Hyderabad. Venkatesh Patil Vatgal, son of freedom fighter Kashi Rao Patil, said while the PM was flying from Hyderabad to Chennai, the pilot spotted fire in the cockpit. The pilot had to make a landing immediately and luckily he spotted an airstrip at Yermarus. “The pilot, taking a calculated risk, landed the flight and averted the tragedy. Arrangements were made for the PM’s brief stay and later he flew in another plane. My father was a witness to this incident,” Patil said. About six months ago, Karnataka Small Scale Industry Development Corporation (KSSIDC) conducted the obstacle limitation surfaces (OLS) study to check feasibility for establishing the airport, said DC R Venkatesh. The OLS are conceptual surfaces associated with a runway, which identify the lower limits of the aerodrome airspace above which objects become obstacles to aircraft operations, as per DGCA norms. After completion of the study, KSSIDC has submitted a report observing that the land is feasible. However, the government agency has also suggested removal of some obstacles, the DC informed. The DC further said that a part of 404 acres has already been registered in the name of the aerodrum, while some pockets are with the revenue department. He said currently revenue and forest department officials are conducting surveys to demarcate boundaries. The district administration will submit a proposal to the state government seeking grant of permission for implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/airport-to-come-up-where-nehru-survived-a-mishap/articleshow/78282093.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode cop gets another memo||KOZHIKODE: City police chief A V George has issued another memo to civil police officer Umesh U, who is already under suspension for alleged ‘live-in relationship.’ The fresh notice was issued asking him to explain why disciplinary proceedings should not be initiated against him for a social media post on the court order that granted bail to Allan Shuaib and Thwaha Fasal, accused in Pantheerankavu Maoist case. The memo stated that the assistant commissioner (special branch) has conducted an inquiry and has submitted a report. It further added that Umesh has expressed opinion in support of the Left extremists. Umesh’s post, which was quoted in the memo, read, “All police officers should read the explanations in the NIA court order that granted bail to Allan and Thwaha. It should be read by all journalists and all politicians.” It added that “all those who claimed that the youth will never see the world outside again should realise themselves this is India and there is a Constitution here. The Constitution provides rights for the citizens. Let that prevail forever.” The post said those who don’t understand English may see the YouTube channel of Sunitha Devadas where the order is explained in Malayalam. The memo further said the post also ridiculed an earlier disciplinary action against Umesh for sharing a post on the film ‘Kadupookkunna Neram’, for which two of his increments were cut. The memo also said Umesh’s comments violated instructions of state police chief on the intervention of police personnel in social media. Reacting to the memo, Umesh questioned how can asking people to read a court order make a person Left extremist. In a Facebook post, he wrote, “Whatever be the consequences of the action against me, no authority will show the courage to issue such an order against another policeman in future.” Hinting that he may lose his job forever, Umesh said he may look for other options. Recalling his childhood days, Umesh said he had worked as a cleaning boy at a hotel and ‘cleaner’ of a jeep. Meanwhile, inspector general (north zone) Ashok Yadav will enquire the complaint by a woman against George that he had mentioned her name in the suspension order served on Umesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kozhikode-cop-gets-another-memo/articleshow/78283362.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Form trustees’ board for Palani temple: HC||Madurai: Observing that the functioning of the executive officer (EO) as ex-officio fit person for several years can only be termed as subversion of the statutory scheme, Madras high court on Tuesday asked the state government to take steps to constitute the board of trustees for Dhandayuthapani Swamy temple at Palani at the earliest. Petitioner T R Ramesh had sought to quash the notification dated August 20 issued by the EO/fit person inviting tenders for providing housekeeping service in the hill temple and the institutions attached to it. He contended that devotees are entitled to offer voluntary service known as ‘Uzhavara Pani’ and entrusting the cleaning and maintenance works to outsiders infringed on the rights of the devotees. Justice G R Swaminathan observed that since there was a change in the political dispensation in 2011, trustees of various temples resigned from the boards. To tide over the situation, executive officers were appointed as ex-officio fit persons vide GO in 2011. Though more than nine years have gone by, the EO/fit person continues to be at the helm of affairs. The authorities have either not found time or felt it unnecessary to constitute the board. Referring to earlier orders, the judge observed that the appointment of a fit person is for a temporary period to tide over certain difficulties. “When the same official combines in himself both the offices of EO and fit person, the mechanism of checks and balances goes. EOs are appointed so that the trustees do not run amok. But if the EO himself is also made the fit person so that he can discharge the functions of a trustee, and such a situation continues for years together, it is certainly a fraud on the statute,” observed the judge. Rejecting that contention raised by the authorities that the functioning of EO as fit person was not challenged in the petition, the judge observed that it is the duty of the court to ensure that the administration of the temple is carried on in accordance with the provisions of Tamil Nadu HR& CE Act. Since the tender notification involves considerable financial implications, decisions in such matters will have to be taken only by a duly constituted trust board, the court said while quashing the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/form-trustees-board-for-palani-temple-hc/articleshow/78285651.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No graft will be tolerated in MGNREGA’||Ahmedabad: After a series of reports exposing the scam model in MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) in Banaskantha district, the issue was raised in the state assembly by Vadgam MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani. In a response to this, Pradipsinh Jadeja, the minister of state for home, asserted that no corruption would be tolerated under the job guarantee scheme. Jadeja said: “We will not tolerate any corruption in the MGNREGA. We have made our stance clear on the issue.” Raising the issue, Mevani stated in the state assembly that children in the age group of 10 and 17 were given wages under the MGNREGA which has been mentioned in the official records of Balundra village panchayat in Amirgadh taluka of Banaskantha. Demanding an inquiry by a special investigation team (SIT), Mevani offered to present documentary evidences and demanded the intervention of Jadeja to take the investigation of the case to a logical end. “The issue is a blot on Gujarat’s pride and dignity and the government should take its cognizance. I request the home minister to take steps against all the culprits and if an SIT is formed, then not only the small fishes but all the involved persons should be probed,” said Mevani. Responding to this, Jadeja said, “As and when the government came to know about the incident, I immediately talked to the Banaskantha district collector, district development officer and SP about the issue. An FIR has been lodged with Amirgadh police station and the investigation is on.” Earlier last month the TOI had reported that not only the children, but also the wages were issued to the persons who were dead, a prisoner who was in Palanpur sub-jail for killing a child, government servants, a cop and the kin of a rich sarpanch in Banaskantha. After the TOI exposed the scam, police arrested Sarpanch of Balundra, Chaman Raydara, and gram rojgar sevak Hitendrasinh Chauhan on September 4. The scam came to light after a villager of Balundra Kiran Parmar got documents under RTI which exposed the widespread corruption under MGNREGA. Mevani has been continuously demanding a fair investigation in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-graft-will-be-tolerated-in-mgnrega/articleshow/78284840.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||500 trucks with onions meant for export return||Nashik: Around 500 trucks laden with 12,500 tonnes of onions worth around Rs 41 crore have returned from the India-Bangladesh border to Nashik following the ban on its export by the Centre. “Of the 650 trucks that had left for Bangladesh, only 150 vehicles carrying 3,750 tonnes of onions were allowed. The remaining 500 trucks, all from Nashik, had to return,” Danish Shah, the vice-president of Horticulture Produce Exporters Association (HPEA), said on Wednesday.. The central government imposed a ban on onion export on September 14 as the prices started shooting up. Initially, the government had allowed trucks which had reached the border and had obtained a ‘Let export order’ (LeO). The government, however, did not allow trucks carrying onions that were on the way to Bangladesh and reached later. According to the HPEA, only 208 containers with around 6,000 tonnes were allowed at the JNPT in Mumbai while 100 containers with around 3,000 tonnes of are still stranded at the Mumbai port. Manoj Jain, an onion trader and exporter from Nashik, said, “It is unfortunate that exporters have to bring back their trucks carrying onions meant for export. Actually, the government should have given permission to all the trucks and containers that were in transition for export.” Sources from the Union ministry of agriculture said they are in touch with the ministry of commerce and owners of onion containers that are stranded at the border and ports to be allowed to export. “Presently, it is being verified how many containers of onions meant for export are stranded at the borders as well as port,” said the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/500-trucks-with-onions-meant-for-export-return/articleshow/78282100.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah: Manglahaat on Sundays, from 4am till noon||HOWRAH: The first weekly night-long Manglahaat — from 10pm on Saturday till 6 am on Sunday — turned out to be a flop show on September 19-20 with a few traders and fewer buyers turning up at Howrah Maidan. Following the pressure exerted on Howrah city police for a change in the timing, cops have decided to allow Monglahaat traders to sell garments from 4am till noon every Sunday at the same venue. Monglahaat, Asia’s largest wholesale market for garments, reopened on September after five months since it went out of business due to Covid -19. The reopening on September 19 marked a new chapter in the history of the 130-year-old market that started as a weekly market for garments on Tuesdays — the day, from which its name has been derived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/manglahaat-on-sundays-from-4am-till-noon/articleshow/78284835.cms||Rupak Banerjee
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||ACP & constable suspended for tipping off drug scandal suspects||BENGALURU: An ACP and a head constable attached to Central Crime Branch, which is probing the drug scandal with Sandalwood links, were suspended on Wednesday for allegedly leaking information to people associated with the arrested. ACP MR Mudhavi and head constable Mallikarjun are part of the ‘women protection wing’. TOI on September 10 had reported about the drug accused having been alerted about impending police action against them. Citing a remand petition filed by CCB before the court, the report had said how one of the accused named in the FIR had been tipped off by his police sources about ‘big time tracking’ by cops at the behest of joint commissioner of police (CCB) Sandeep Patil. According to sources, Mudhavi was leaking information about the future course of action to some of the persons, including those under police radar. “Mudhavi’s tipoffs helped a couple of men evade police. One such beneficiary approached the advocate for anticipatory bail, while others left the city and remained incommunicado,” said a senior police officer, adding: “Mudhavi would alert them on the action plan decided during team meetings.” Only six of the 12 suspects named in the FIR have been arrested till date. The remand petition presented while seeking the police custody of an accused quoted messages exchanged between businessman Prashant Ranka and RTO official Ravi Shankar. “Dont call to peddlers (sic),” a message said. “Big time tracking going on,” read the reply it elicited. Another message just said: “Sandeep Patil sir”. One more read: “Came to know yesterday from sources (sic).” However, CCB police had not mentioned names of the officers who had leaked the information in the remand petition. The suspension order issued on Wednesday afternoon read, “In a departmental inquiry, it was proved that ACP Mudhavi and HC Mallikarjun had leaked information pertaining to investigation into the drug scam, to the accused’s associates. The leaking of information affected the probe and damaged the department’s reputation.” The inquiry was conducted by JCP Patil and based on his report, police commissioner Kamal Pant wrote to the government, seeking the cops’ suspension. Box: Officer was suspended in 2009 too Being suspended is not new for ACP Muhdhavi. During his tenure as inspector in Upparpet in 2009, then city police commissioner Shankar M Bidari had suspended him following a report from the Lokayukta. In March 2009, Lokayukta had trapped a police constable who was accepting a bribe from a skill game merchant and Mudhavi’s suspension was linked to that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/acp-constable-suspended-for-tipping-off-drug-scandal-suspects/articleshow/78284398.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mysuru||Guest lecturers protest seeking pending pay, job security||MYSURU: Guest lecturers, under the banner of Karnataka State Guest Lecturers Horata Samithi staged a protest in front of deputy commissioners’ office on Wednesday urging the state government to refrain from terminating their services while ensuring them job security. The protesters raised slogans against the government for not releasing their pending honorarium from April till July end despite the University Grants Commission’s directive. “As many as 14,564 guest lecturers had been working for a meagre monthly honorarium of Rs 11,000 to 13,000 in more than 413 government degree colleges. They account for 69% of the total number of teachers in colleges and nearly 50% in universities,” said the protesters. Although the UGC had ordered to pay monthly honorarium up to Rs 50,000 for PhD holders, NET/SLET passed candidates, but the government had been paying less. Majority of lecturers have served for over 25 years, but the government hasn’t regularised their jobs, they added. The poor financial condition amid the pandemic has pushed us to take up odds jobs as vegetable vendors among others. Several lecturers are facing serious mental problems and over 15 guest lecturers have ended and succumbed to Covid-19 during the pandemic, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/guest-lecturers-protest-seeking-pending-pay-job-security/articleshow/78282557.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||One more held in Gujarat for Rs 304 crore fake billing racket||AHMEDABAD: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department arrested Pravin Tanna on Wednesday evening from Junagadh for his involvement in a fake billing racket. Tanna was involved in registering some eight bogus firms and had prepared fake bills worth Rs 304 crore to evade taxes worth Rs 15.21 crore, according to SGST department. In August, the department had also arrested one Sanjay Mashroo, owing to his alleged involvement in the same scam. The issue came to light during a slew of raids recently conducted by SGST department officials at various groundnut trading firms across 35 locations in Gujarat including Junagadh, Mangrol, Manavadar, Keshod and Dhoraji, among others. “During the investigation, it was revealed that Tanna had fraudulently obtained identity documents of financially distressed persons and used them to get GST registrations. Based on these registrations, bogus firms said to be involved in groundnut trading were registered,” said a senior official of the department. The eight bogus firms which Tanna was found to be operating include Jalaram Trading Company which was involved in a tax evasion of Rs 0.8 crore, Shreenathji Enterprise (Rs 1.04 crore), Maruti Trading Company (Rs 0.86 crore), Raghuveer Trading Company (Rs 5.72 crore), Royal Enterprise (Rs 3.55 crore), Tirth Trading Company (Rs 0.64 crore), Krishna Trading Company (Rs 1 crore) and Durga Trading Company (Rs 1.6 crore). Interestingly, these are the same firms in which Mashroo, who was arrested in August, was also involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-more-held-for-rs-304cr-billing-racket/articleshow/78284846.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||Narmada swells, alert in many villages||Vadodara/Bharuch: Dozens of villages in Bharuch along the Narmada River were put on alert as the water levels have been rising over the last two days. Over 1.91 lakh cusecs of water is being released from Narmada Dam as the water level reached 136.78 metres on Wednesday. Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL) authorities said the water levels in Narmada River near Golden Bridge in Bharuch may rise due to the release. On Wednesday, Ankleshwar town in Bharuch got flooded after receiving five inches of rain in just three hours. From the Diva road to Hansot road and the old city, many areas were waterlogged. A section of the boundary wall of Ramkund crematorium collapsed amid the rains but no one was injured in the incident. The city areas in Bharuch too received two inches of rain in three hours causing traffic snarls in areas like Sevashram Road, Link Road and Nandelav Road. Bharuch district has received 143% rains of the season till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/narmada-swells-alert-in-many-villages/articleshow/78282794.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Commissioner’s task force intercept truck, seize 800 kg ganja||VIJAYAWADA: Acting on a tip-off, the commissioner’s task force (CTF) on Wednesday intercepted a truck transporting a shipment of ganja produce at Ramavarappadu junction in the city. According to CTF sleuths, the truck was used to procure 800 kilos of ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency area. A team of officers led by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Srinivasa Rao stopped the truck bearing a Tamil Nadu registration and found the ganja behind bags of maize powder. Officials estimate the worth of produce to be around Rs 80 lakh in the grey market. They also arrested two persons — Bhagavath Sekhar (27) and Prabhukaram Lakshman (29) — both from a village near Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. Police said the accused were transporting the produce from a supplier in Visakhapatnam rural are to Coimbatore. Interrogation of the duo revealed that the entire shipment was to be handed over to a major kingpin, Kumar. A case under NDPS Act was booked against the accused who were later produced before a sessions court for judicial remand. Investigation in underway and a serach is on to capture Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ctf-intercept-truck-seize-800-kg-ganja/articleshow/78282745.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh quickens process of land acquisition for CBIC project||AMARAVATI: The state government has set the process of land acquisition for the prestigious Chennai-Bangalore Industrial Corridor (CBIC) on fast track. The government has asked the Nellore district administration to constitute special teams to complete the acquisition of nearly 9,000 acres for the proposed CBIC. The Centre had promised to release funds for development of Krishnapatnam node part of CBIC as soon as the state government handed over the land required for the project. Sources said that the land acquisition process was hit a roadblock due to the demand of local farmers for payment of huge compensation. While the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) is offering a compensation of about Rs.16 to Rs.18 lakh per acre, the farmers are demanding Rs.30 lakh per acre. Special chief secretary (industries) Karikal Valaven directed Nellore district collector KVN Chakradhar to depute special teams to complete the process. Valaven said that the Centre is insisting for early completion of the land acquisition to begin the works on the project. Sources said that the Centre is keen on taking up the work on the Krishnapatnam node which is part of CBIC after Adani group taking over the Krishnapatnam port. As per initial plans, APIIC wanted to acquire around 14,000 acres land for the development of CBIC in Krishnapatnam port region. The lands were identified in Kota, Vakadu and Chillakur mandals for development of the entire industrial node. Subsequently, APIIC revised the plans and decided to acquire around 9000 acres for the first phase of the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-quickens-process-of-land-acquisition-for-cbic-project/articleshow/78282667.cms||Samdani MN
September 24, 2020||Hubballi||Denied pension, schoolteacher in Haveri seeks permission for euthanasia||HAVERI: A retired schoolteacher in Haveri has written to the President of India seeking permission for euthanasia. Sumangala Patil, who worked as a teacher at the Kirthee High School in Bankapur in Shiggaon taluk in Haveri for nearly 30 years, has sought permission for mercy killing citing non-payment of pension. When Sumangala started working at the Bankapur school, it was a government institution, but it was converted into an aided school in 2006. Although she retired in 2018, she is yet to receive her pension thereby making it incredibly difficult for her to run the household. I her letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Sumangala has asked him either to issue directions to the competent authorities to release her pension or permit euthanasia. Deputy director of public instruction, Haveri district, Andaneppa Vadageri said that it was a tweaking in the pension policy in 2006 that had resulted in Sumangala not getting a pension. “According to new pension plan introduced in 2006, both teaching and non-teaching staff of aided schools are not eligible to pension from the government. This is not a problem of just one teacher but has affected all those working in aided schools. We have already made this clear to Sumangala,” Vadageri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/denied-pension-schoolteacher-seeks-permission-for-euthanasia/articleshow/78282647.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: CI and SI suspended for taking bribe||ELURU: DIG K V Mohan Rao on Wednesday issued suspension orders to circle inspector B Nageswar Nayak and sub-inspector S R Gangadhar of Jangareddigudem police station in West Godavari district. The two are accused of taking money from a sand contractor for not filing a case after intercepting two lorries which were illegally transporting sand under Koyyalagudem police station limits recently. Mohan Rao, who is the Eluru range DIG, has also initiated an inquiry into the matter. The CI and SI allegedly obstructed the inquiry of special enforcement bureau authorities and even deleted data from the computer in the police station. Meanwhile, in another incident, unidentified miscreants damaged two idols inside a place of worship at Mandapeta, in East Godavari district, in the wee hours of Wednesday. The culprits damaged the heads of both the idols with a hammer. The damage was spotted by devotees when they came to clean the place in the morning. A police complaint has been filed. DIG Mohan Rao, Rajahmundry SP Shemushi Bajpai and other police officers visited the place on Wednesday. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ci-and-si-suspended-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/78282948.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP caseload nears 6.5 lakh mark with 7,228 fresh cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,228 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 6,46,530. The toll increased to 5,506 with 45 more deaths, which is the lowest single-day casualty count in more than two months after 42 fatalities on July 17. As many as 8,291 patients recovered from the pandemic in the last 24 hours. There are currently 70,357 active cases with 5,70,667 recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 88 per cent. The recovery rate has improved to about 95% in Anantapur, Kurnool and Nellore districts. East Godavari crossed the 90,000-case mark with 1,112 fresh cases. West Godavari, which was in second place in terms of number of cumulative infections, breached the 60,000-case mark with 962 new infections. Six districts reported fewer than 500 new cases. The two Godavari districts account for nearly 25 per cent caseload of the state. Of the 45 deaths, seven each are from Chittoor and Prakasam, five from Krishna, four each from East Godavari, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, three each from Anantapur, Kadapa and Nellore, two each from Guntur and Kurnool, and one from Srikakulam. AP has so far conducted 53.02 lakh Covid-19 tests, testing 99,295 people per every one million population. In simple terms, about 10 persons out of every 100 people in the state have been tested for the novel coronavirus. The overall case positivity rate stands at 12.2%, while the morality is well under control at 0.85%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-caseload-nears-6-5-lakh-mark-with-7228-fresh-cases/articleshow/78282780.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to increase beds in PMCH||Nashik: Mayor Satish Kulkarni and civic commissioner Kailash Jadhav held a meeting with health officials on Wednesday and decided to increase the number of beds in Private Medical College Hospital (PMCH) having a total of 160 beds, including 60 oxygen beds. “There is a need to increase the number of beds to treat Covid-19 patients, considering the rise in the number of cases in the past couple of months. During a meeting with municipal commissioner and health officials, it was decided to increase the number of beds in the PMCH,” Kulkarni said. “We will increase the oxygen beds in this hospital as per the availability of oxygen,” he added. “The number of oxygen beds can be increased from 60 to 150 if the NMC makes arrangements for supply of oxygen,” Mrunal Patil, PMCH dean, said. Currently, the city has a total of 3,753 beds for Covid-19 patients in both civic and private hospitals. This includes around 1,432 beds for critical patients — 942 oxygen beds, 358 ICU beds and 132 ventilators. “Apart from PMCH, we are also adding a total 400 oxygen beds in new Bytco hospital,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-increase-beds-in-pmch/articleshow/78282115.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||JS files affidavit backing 1 state, 1 capital||Vijayawada: The Jana Sena filed an affidavit before the Andhra Pradesh High Court, among a batch of petitions on the capital issue, stating its strong support for Amaravati as the only capital of the state. The Jana Sena stated that one state, one capital and inclusive development of all 13 districts should be the policy of the government and parties should not change policies as and when there is a change in government after each election. The Jana Sena pointed out that when Amaravati was proposed as the capital by the previous government, the party presently in power and which was the principal opposition then, agreed unanimously to the location and name of the capital. The public in neither Rayalaseema nor North Andhra expressed dissent over the decision. Farmers in the Amaravati region gave their lands to the state government under the land pooling scheme for the development of the capital city but the decision to trifurcate the capital is jeopardising their interests, the Jana Sena said in the affidavit. The party also found fault with the two legislations introduced by the state government for trifurcation of the capital. The Bills, it said, were not approved by the legislative council and the manner in which they were sent for the governor’s approval was in violation of legislative rules and practices. The Jana Sena relied on various judgements of the Supreme Court to support its argument and stated the two legislations had no constitutional and legal sanctity. The Bills were not passed following due process of law and were in violation of central legislations and provisions of the Constitution. The party described the action of the state government as a colourable exercise of power and complete fraud on the Indian Constitution as it was beyond its power of legislation and violation of articles 14 and 21 under the Constitution. The Jana Sena further said a capital city should be built in the best interests of the people and the welfare and development of the state. However, the capital issue has taken a political turn and become a personal battle between the present and former chief ministers andthe parties they represent. “Modern democracies cannot let politics and political vendetta driven policies. The state government cannot take any decision as per its whims and fancies, just because it is in power. Politics must never drive policies,” stated the Jana Sena, seeking directions from the high court to set aside both legislations. The high court had earlier said political parties could file affidavits on the capital issue. The Congress and the Jana Sena have filed affidavits so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/js-files-affidavit-backing-1-state-1-capital/articleshow/78282807.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Murphy Town ground may be history soon||Bengaluru: A bylane off Swami Vivekananda road, near Trinity circle, leads to Murphy Town — one of the oldest suburbs of the Cantonment area. As you make your way through the narrow lanes, a concrete road leads to the Murphy Town ground, also known as the Dr Ambedkar playground. The ground is home to the Murphy Town Football Club and the Primrose Hockey Club, which was established here in 1959. In pre-Covid times, the ground used to be the centre of sports activities. The Primrose Hockey Club players occupied one part of the ground while footballers and cricketers shared space with track and field athletes. Not to forget the senior citizens on their morning or evening stroll. Now, what remains of the ground, once a nursery to many international hockey and football stalwarts like Ashish Ballal and Arumainayagam, is piles of debris and stagnant water. Demolition and groundwork has already begun and if the BBMP has its way, the ground may make way for a 9-a-side football stadium complete with a gallery and commercial establishments on the periphery. The move by the authorities has left the residents of Murphy Town and its neighbourhood heartbroken. While they are not against development, they don’t want to be robbed of their playground and lung space. Among those impacted will also be hundreds of government schoolchildren, for whom it is the only playground. The compound wall itself is lined by three government schools which use the facility during their physical education periods and annual sports day. The ground is spread over 7,875 sq metres and the proposed project will see the playing area reduced to 3375 sq meters. The bhoomi puja for the proposed stadium was conducted on September 7. On Wednesday, some of the sporting veterans representing the residents (BBMP ward No. 80), met at the ground to sign a petition to be submitted to the BBMP. “We are not against development but it should be for the betterment of sports in this area. If the BBMP goes ahead with the project, the children of this area, who mostly belong to the lower socio-economic groups, will be deprived of their playing space. They can’t afford to play in private facilities. This is their home and we don’t want that to be snatched away from them,” said a crestfallen Kadirvelu, a former athlete and a senior citizen from the locality. The locals fear that if the space is taken away from budding athletes, the absence of sports may lead them down the path of anti-social activities. “They don’t just learn or play sports on the ground. For example, youngsters who come to our club are also trained in life skills. For them sport is a way of life which keeps them away from unwanted distractions,” explained Vijay from Primrose Hockey Club. Seasoned hockey coach Edward Brient, who has mentored many state and national players, pointed out that there are no public grounds in the vicinity barring the Gowthamapura football ground which is overcrowded. “All we want the BBMP is to upgrade facilities like drainage and sanitation. We will be grateful if they can do that much,” added Brient. In 1982, when there was a proposal to establish the Ulsoor bus depot at the playground, the locals managed to convince the authorities to overturn the decision and are hoping they can do the same this time as well. QUOTE-UNQUOTE “A lot of us internationals took our first step into sports like cricket, football and hockey at the ground. If the authorities go ahead with their plan it will prove detrimental in the long run. If an exclusive football arena comes up, what happens to other sports and its athletes? Should they play on the congested streets? Hope the government respects the legacy and utility of the ground and upgrades it in such a way that it continues to be a multi-sport arena.” Ashish Ballal, hockey Olympian||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/murphy-town-ground-may-be-history-soon/articleshow/78283442.cms||Manuja Veerappa
September 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Residents of JR Nagar colony show the green way forward||VISAKHAPATNAM: Barely three decades ago the Jagannadha Raju Nagar colony, located next to the national highway near Venkojipalem, had barely any proper civic amenities such as roads, electricity and drainage system. However over the years, due to the collective efforts of its residents it has now transformed into a model colony with greenery, proper amenities along with clean roads and premises. Therefore, it was no surprise when the Jagannadha Raju Nagar residents’ welfare association (RWA) bagged third prize for RWAs in the country from Union ministry of water resources for its achievements in rainwater harvesting practices in 2019. TOI, upon its visit to the colony on Wednesday, observed that there were over 15 rain water harvesting pits — measuring 4x4x5 feet — along the roads of the colony. In addition to rain water harvesting pits in all households, some residents had even converted abandoned borewells and sewage dumps into rain water harvesting pits. The RWA has even come up with two publications in 2019 and 2020 — Reduce, Reuse and Recycle – A Practical Guide on Water Management for RWAs and Rainwater Conservation and Harvesting-Role of RWAs. The residents have also ensure serious implementation of Swachh Bharat parmeters such as waste segregation, home composting, plastic ban in their colony. JR Nagar RWA president Dr KSR Murthy said they had been strictly practising the three-bin system while handing over garbage to the GVMC. “Manure formed in the colony’s composting pit is used for plants along the roads. As a result, you can see abundant greenery across the colony. We are also stressing on a trinity system — self-help group member, ward volunteer, and GVMC ward secretary — in order to create awareness on all Swachh Bharat-related activites so as to yield best results over time,” Dr Murthy said. The Jagannadha Raju Nagar Residents Welfare Association (JRN RWA) started its journey in 1993 with a few individual households. Apartments came up in the colony in 1995. Currently, the colony has 22 apartment buildings with 350 households and a population of around 1,800. Since the outbreak of Covid-19, the RWA has organised several welfare programmes to distribute rice, groceries, and sanitizers to frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/residents-of-jr-nagar-colony-show-the-green-way-forward/articleshow/78282913.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL seeks compensation for Gandikota project displaced||VIJAYAWADA: A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was moved before the Andhra Pradesh High Court by Jana Sena functionary and environmental activist Bolisetty Satyanarayana seeking urgent directions to the state government to not evict people affected by the Gandikota project in seven villages under Kondapuram mandal in Kadapa district. Satyanarayana, in his petition, argued that Kadapa district authorities are trying to forcefully evict people from the seven villages without paying them compensation under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Land Acquisition Act, 2013). Though the state government issued a notification in 2007 for land acquisition for the Gandikota reservoir, compensation was never paid. After the new legislation came into force, the earlier notification became null and void as per section 24(2) of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. Satyanarayana argued that the state government has to recalculate the compensation amount according to the present legislation and pay the project-affected persons. Satyanarayana further said that while the law says project-affected persons must be compensated and rehabilitated before commencement of the project, the state government has not paid compensation and district authorities with the help of the police are trying to vacate people from the seven villages. Officials have also released water into the reservoir inundating some of the villages, causing a loss of property due to submergence of crop yield, he said. As the lands and properties are still in the possession of the people, they are entitled to compensation under the present legislation and the state government cannot evict them forcefully without proper rehabilitation facilities, Satyanarayana said. In view of the prevailing situation in which project-affected people are being sent to cyclone relief shelters instead of being provided with rehabilitation, thus exposing them to risk during the ongoing pandemic, Satyanarayana sought urgent directions to the government. The high court gave one day’s time to the government pleader to get instructions from the concerned authorities and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-seeks-compensation-for-gandikota-project-displaced/articleshow/78282878.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 24, 2020||---||Ex-DGP praises Bihar CM, hints at political plunge||PATNA: A day after taking voluntary retirement from service (VRS), former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey showered praises on chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday, describing him as a fine CM, who neither interfered in policing nor did he allow anyone to interfere. The 1987 batch IPS officer decided to quit the service just five months before his superannuation amid speculation of his possible plunge into electoral politics, which he has not ruled out. He, however, clarified that he has not joined any political party yet. Talking about CM’s unbiased approach, Pandey said, “It’s not possible for any of his (CM’s) relatives or friends to approach seeking unjustified help in any case. He doesn’t allow any such things. This is clear to everyone.” He added, “Such an act strengthens the backbone of the police department. He has relatives but he never gave them with any privilege.” Pandey further said, “Even his ministers or MLAs don’t have the power or courage to pressurise any SP asking to set free any accused. This is a huge quality. Such freedom to the police is crucial. Entire policing is dependent on this,” Pandey said. Hinting at a possible political career, Pandey said, “A huge number of well-wishers from Buxar, Bhojpur, Begusarai and even Valmiki Nagar who are affectionate towards me, want that I contest the election but I have not decided anything yet. If I decide, then I will let you all know surely,” DGP told media persons on Wednesday. He later told TOI, “If I enter politics, it will be with the ultimate motive of serving the common people of Bihar.” On whether his speaking out boldly on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case had anything to do with his taking premature retirement, Pandey told TOI, “There were several allegations against me that I am acting like a political agent after I spoke on Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. In such a situation, it was not proper for me to continue with the assembly election ahead.” He added, “I thought it better to take voluntary retirement so that none could point a finger at me that I am biased. My career has been free from any controversy and none has ever blamed me for being biased.” Talking about his decisions as DGP, Pandey said the government pressed him into action to bring things under control and he never failed in his duties in 34 years of service. “Be it Chhapra where arson was taking place even after the presence of para-military forces, I was sent by chopper all alone to control things because common people are connected with me,” he added. Pandey said this is perhaps the reason why a large number of people, including those in his department, are also “jealous” of him. “I changed the crime scene of Begusarai district in 1993-1994 while as SP. Incidents of bank loot, road dacoity, petrol pump dacoity, kidnapping for ransom, gang war and other heinous crimes became zero. All these happened when police hardly had any infrastructure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/day-after-taking-vrs-ex-dgp-pandey-showers-praise-on-nitish/articleshow/78284877.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 24, 2020||Patna||Ex-DGP praises Bihar CM, hints at political plunge||PATNA: A day after taking voluntary retirement from service (VRS), former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey showered praises on chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday, describing him as a fine CM, who neither interfered in policing nor did he allow anyone to interfere. The 1987 batch IPS officer decided to quit the service just five months before his superannuation amid speculation of his possible plunge into electoral politics, which he has not ruled out. He, however, clarified that he has not joined any political party yet. Talking about CM’s unbiased approach, Pandey said, “It’s not possible for any of his (CM’s) relatives or friends to approach seeking unjustified help in any case. He doesn’t allow any such things. This is clear to everyone.” He added, “Such an act strengthens the backbone of the police department. He has relatives but he never gave them with any privilege.” Pandey further said, “Even his ministers or MLAs don’t have the power or courage to pressurise any SP asking to set free any accused. This is a huge quality. Such freedom to the police is crucial. Entire policing is dependent on this,” Pandey said. Hinting at a possible political career, Pandey said, “A huge number of well-wishers from Buxar, Bhojpur, Begusarai and even Valmiki Nagar who are affectionate towards me, want that I contest the election but I have not decided anything yet. If I decide, then I will let you all know surely,” DGP told media persons on Wednesday. He later told TOI, “If I enter politics, it will be with the ultimate motive of serving the common people of Bihar.” On whether his speaking out boldly on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case had anything to do with his taking premature retirement, Pandey told TOI, “There were several allegations against me that I am acting like a political agent after I spoke on Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. In such a situation, it was not proper for me to continue with the assembly election ahead.” He added, “I thought it better to take voluntary retirement so that none could point a finger at me that I am biased. My career has been free from any controversy and none has ever blamed me for being biased.” Talking about his decisions as DGP, Pandey said the government pressed him into action to bring things under control and he never failed in his duties in 34 years of service. “Be it Chhapra where arson was taking place even after the presence of para-military forces, I was sent by chopper all alone to control things because common people are connected with me,” he added. Pandey said this is perhaps the reason why a large number of people, including those in his department, are also “jealous” of him. “I changed the crime scene of Begusarai district in 1993-1994 while as SP. Incidents of bank loot, road dacoity, petrol pump dacoity, kidnapping for ransom, gang war and other heinous crimes became zero. All these happened when police hardly had any infrastructure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/day-after-taking-vrs-ex-dgp-pandey-showers-praise-on-nitish/articleshow/78291371.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||591 people faked caste to land jobs & bag benefits, shows data||BENGALURU: According to the Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement (DCRE), nearly 600 people have availed government benefits, including state/central government jobs, providing fake caste certificates. Most of the 591 persons who have used fake certificates to gain benefits have landed jobs in education and police departments, says data with DCRE, the agency inquiring into false certificates obtained by non-SC/STs to garner benefits earmarked for these two caste categories. While 230 people have got state government jobs providing false caste certificates, 77 have managed to land central government positions. Forty-three are working in the education department and 40 in police. Besides 175 persons have either availed student scholarship or land reserved for backward class, feigning to belong to castes which they aren’t from. Despite Karnataka SC/ST and Other OBC (Reservation of Appointment, etc) Rules, 1992 mandating that cases of fake caste certificates be reported, district administrations failed to bring about 276 instances to the notice of the authorities. Ironically, 12 government employees who had landed jobs showing fake papers have retired from service even as probe against them remained pending for five years or more. Official sources said this only shows that tahsildars who are supposed to report to the district administration have delayed the same to protect tainted employees. DCRE officials said 27 criminal case have been booked against as many government employees in this regard, but none has been dismissed from service. Among the 591 cases, investigation in 307 has been completed. It was also found that 276 government employees are working without any problem. What has been a major concern for DCRE is that the accused have continued to avail government facilities. Their children and family members too have continued to get benefits, including government jobs, producing fake certificates. The highest number of fake caste certificates (115) were found to have been used in Bidar, followed by Uttara Kannada (79), Kalaburagi (74) and Kolar (55). ADGP of DCRE Ramachandra Rao said there has been a delay in district administrations filing reports on false caste certificates due to the Covid-19 situation. If the caste certificate is rejected by the district administration, a criminal case will be filed for further action, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/591-people-faked-caste-to-land-jobs-bag-benefits-shows-data/articleshow/78284158.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Man held for hitting wife with hammer||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old man allegedly hit his wife with a hammer following an argument in front of their 19-year-old daughter on Wednesday morning. The incident was reported from the second floor of a building on Swinhoe Lane in Kasba around 7.30am. The accused, Tapan Purkait, was arrested and a case under voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means has been registered against him. The victim, Mangala (40), was admitted to Chittaranjan National Medical College and Hospital, where her condition was stated to be serious. The couple’s daughter is the main witness of the incident and complainant of the case. “The accused is a licensed electrical contractor. For the past several months, he had tiffs with his wife over several issues. On Wednesday, he hit her with a hammer in the head while arguing with her,” said DCP (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-held-for-hitting-wife-with-hammer/articleshow/78284856.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||HC seeks details of criminal cases against lawmakers||BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday directed the registrar-general to submit details on the number of cases (district-wise) pending before the special court for elected representatives. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction after registering a suo motu PIL based on the Supreme Court’s September 16 order to monitor progress in criminal prosecution proceedings launched against MPs, MLAs and MLCs. The registrar-general was told to submit details of cases where proceedings have been stayed by the high court. The state government has been directed to submit information on the availability of public prosecutors and infrastructure. The government also needs to look into the aspect of setting up a separate room for witnesses as the special court is presently functioning in the City Civil Court complex, a crowded area. The next hearing on the suo motu PIL is on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-seeks-details-of-criminal-cases-against-lawmakers/articleshow/78284176.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Vaccination programmes for stray animals hit hard due to pandemic||VISAKHAPATNAM: The animal birth control (ABC) and anti-rabies vaccination (ARV) programmes for stray dogs have been hit hard since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Only about 10% of dog population in Visakhapatnam have been sterilized and vaccinated in the first six months of the current financial year. While the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) had to stop the programmes due to the lockdown, animal activists and NGOs also had to curtail their programmes to save their volunteers from contracting the infection. As per GVMC officials, there are approximately 1.5 lakh stray dogs in the city. The civic body, however, does not have any official data to support the fact. One of the main reasons for not maintaining proper data is because many residents just chose to abandon their pets on the roads when they shift places or for other reasons. The GVMC has been conducting birth control operations for stray dogs since 2005 and sterilize and vaccinate around 150 dogs per week. The ABC and ARV programmes, however, started sometime in the mid-90s by some NGOs. “We have a staff strength of 60, out of which around 12 tested positive. One of our activists even succumbed to the virus. Under such circumstances, we are compelled to reduce our activities,” Pradeep Nath, founder member of Visakha Society for Protection and Care of Animals, said. The NGO, which initiated the programmes in 1998, have so far sterilized and vaccinated nearly 6,400 stray dogs. This year, however, they have only managed to vaccinate less than 300 dogs. “In the last 10 years, chances of rabies in stray dogs have reduced considerably. Only about 10% of dogs in Visakhapatnam may need to vaccinated. In fact, there have been no human deaths due to rabies in the district in the last 10 years,” added Nath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vaccination-programmes-for-stray-animals-hit-hard-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/78282830.cms||Arpit Basu
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru boy wins World Handwriting Contest||BENGALURU: Twelve-year-old Raymon Smith Richard from St Vincent Pallotti School in Babusapalya has done the city proud by clinching first place in the World Handwriting Contest. Raymon won in the ‘pre-teens’ category (8-12 age group) of the Functional Handwriting (cursive) group. The annual competition is conducted by a New York-based organisation, Handwriting for Humanity, and the winners get a certificate and recognition. The contest is held across five categories, drawing lakhs of entries from across the globe. When Raymon and his parents — Rosalin Richard and Richard Vincent — got to know of his feat on September 11, their joy knew no bounds as this was his fourth attempt. “Raymon has been participating in this contest since class 3. It has been very challenging with a large number of competitors from around the world,” said Rosalin, a graphologist and calligraphy teacher. She said the pandemic-induced break helped Raymon dedicate more hours to practice. “He’s always had a passion for good handwriting because of me and this year, he practised in Pinyon Script,” she added. Rosalin said only a single entry is allowed, which needs to be sent to Healthy Handwriting, an organisation based in Chandigarh. “Raymon has received a copy of the certificate by email. The hard copy and a memento will reach us by December,” added Rosalin, a Banaswadi resident. Raymon said he would practise at least for an hour every day. His goal is to win the contest for the next two years. “If you do so for three years in a row, you get the title of lifetime winner,” he said. With a keen interest in maths and science, Raymon wants to explore space. “I wish to become an astronaut,” said the boy who is ambidextrous. He also loves to draw and solve the Rubik’s Cube. “I would let my children write with both their hands and scribble freely anywhere. It helps them express themselves and get rid of any anxieties or frustrations,” said Rosalin. Apart from Rosalin’s professional help, Raymon said he was greatly motivated by his father, who is an engineer. Raymon’s younger brother, Ryan Richard, who is in class 4, is already honing his calligraphy skills. “We are looking forward to him winning the contest next,” added Rosalin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/city-boy-wins-world-handwriting-contest/articleshow/78284146.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Anti-drugs helpline set up by cops||AHMEDABAD: To fight the trafficking and sale of narcotic drugs in the state, Gujarat police has launched a toll-free helpline, 180023335080. This has been launched to get more information about traffickers and peddlers. Moreover, a new scheme to reward informers, police officers/personnel providing information leading to seizures of drugs and arrests of traffickers has also been introduced.  During an anti-drug drive by Gujarat police from September 5, several kinds of drugs have been seized across the state. According to police sources, 53 offences have been lodged and 58 persons have been held. About 1,103kg of drugs worth a total of Rs 1.83 crore have been seized across the state. DGP Ashish Bhatia said two more seizures, of mephedrone worth more than Rs 1 crore, were made on Tuesday in Surat and a peddler was arrested. Ahmedabad rural police on Monday seized codeine cough syrup and sedative tablets worth Rs 33 lakh and arrested three persons. “The drive will continue till September 25,” he added. Seven arrested under PIT-NDPS Act: During the drive, seven persons were held under the PIT-NDPS (Prevention of Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act). These persons were earlier held in NDPS cases and were suspected to still be in the same illegal business. “The persons held under the PIT-NDPS Act are Dilip Joshi, 59, of Morbi; Harisham Bishnoi of Sanchor; Kalu Tank of Amreli; Pratipalsinh Jadeja of Rajkot; Abudulla Shaikh of Junagadh; Somi Thakor of Gandhinagar; Abdullah Memon of Bhuj; Ishaq Saiyed and Imtiaz Shaikh of Surat; and Juvil Diyora of Bhavnagar,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anti-drugs-helpline-set-up-by-cops/articleshow/78284878.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR rolls out freight initiatives||Hyderabad: South Central Railways(SCR) held a virtual press conference on Wednesday and rolled out the freight initiatives schemes, including concessions available for freight customers. “SCR is following the procedure of testing, tracing and treating to tackle Covid-19 situation,” said Gajanan Mallya, general manager of SCR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-rolls-out-freight-initiatives/articleshow/78284881.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kochi||ED inspector tests positive for Covid||KOCHI: Enforcement directorate, probing the money trail in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, is learnt to have hit a roadblock as a junior inspector of the unit in Kochi tested positive for Covid-19. According to an official source, a few officers had to be placed in quarantine following the report. “A few persons are in quarantine and it can obviously cause a delay in some procedures. However, we are hopeful that the minor hiccup will not cause major complications in the investigation,” said an official source. Official sources said that senior officers –who came from Delhi and Chennai to take stock of the investigation – had gone back and they would return to further assess progress later. Meanwhile on Wednesday, Ernakulam principal sessions court –which is also the special court for considering cases registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act – extended the custody period of Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith PS till October 7. In the request to extend the remand period, ED said that the investigation is still at a preliminary stage and the agency was in the process of examining a large number of suspects. If the accused are released on bail, they will abscond and tamper with the evidence in the case. If they go underground, it will affect effective investigation in this case and also the subsequent trial, ED had said in its report.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-inspector-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78283399.cms||---
September 24, 2020||India||Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai had ‘cleanest air’ in lockdown||NEW DELHI: Chennai followed by Bengaluru and Mumbai turned out to be among the best three cities in terms of having clean air during first 40 days of the lockdown, imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic, shows an analysis of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), released on Wednesday. Though other nine cities, whose ambient air quality figures were closely examined during the March 25-May 3 period, also experienced positive effect on their air quality due to severely restricted human activities, the central pollution watchdog doesn’t endorse that kind of restrictions for the sake of cleaner air saying “such air quality management strategies come with considerable economic costs”. It, therefore, suggests irreversible emission reductions through sustainable process changes with emphasis on reduction of emissions at source including dust control, vehicular emissions and industrial operations. Underlining “stringent enforcement” of rules to deal with the menace of air pollution, the CPCB also suggests “shutting down of inefficient power plants” in the country and says the lessons learnt from the Covid-19 pandemic can be utilized "to target source specific actions" leading to maximum improvement in ambient air quality. Analysis of data in the report, released on the occasion of the CPCB’s 46th foundation day, shows that Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai reported all 40 days of the first two phases of the lockdown period as either ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ in terms of having clean air quality level. However, Chennai shows the maximum number of 'good' air quality days (26) followed by Bengaluru (7) and Mumbai (7). Delhi during the period reported only one 'good' air quality day and 21 'satisfactory' days with remaining 18 days as 'moderately' polluted. Among the five NCR cities, Noida reported the maximum number of ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ days (25), taken together, followed by Delhi (22), Gurugram (19), Ghaziabad (16) and Faridabad (13). The CPCB underlines that though air quality in all 12 cities during severely curtailed human activities situation improved substantially with reduction in levels of different pollutants in the range of 30-60% over pre-lockdown phase, the improvement might also have been influenced by the location and number of monitoring stations as well as prevailing meteorological conditions, and topography. “While cities like Delhi and Indore are landlocked, influence of the sea affects the atmospheric chemistry of cities like Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata,” says the report, prepared under guidance of the CPCB member secretary, Prashant Gargava. Among its various suggestions to improve the air quality in cities, the report – ‘Impact of Lockdown on Ambient Air Quality’ – pitches for “airshed approach”, defining regional airsheds to control polluting sources beyond city boundaries, to counter long range transport of pollutants. “It is important to note that meteorological conditions, local sources near monitoring stations and distribution of monitoring networks across a city also impact ambient air quality. Cities in Delhi-NCR observed similar levels of reduction, which may be due to the fact that they lie within the same airshed,” it says. Referring to source apportionment study of PM2.5 in Delhi, the report says sources associated with vehicular emissions, domestic/local coal combustion, waste incineration and urban organic aerosols reduced sharply from the pre-lockdown phase into lockdown phase-I and were found to steadily rise back with increasing relaxations in the lockdown. Reduction in PM2.5 levels was observed in all cities during pre-lockdown and first lockdown period except for Mumbai. However, reductions were achieved in Mumbai too during the second phase of lockdown. Similar reductions in PM10 were observed in all cities except Mumbai during the pre-lockdown period in 2020 as against 2019 along with year on year reductions in PM10 levels in all cities during both lockdown phases. “Comparison of pollutant levels before and during lockdown phase I & II in 2020 shows significant reductions in NO2, PM2.5 and PM10 in all cities,” says the report. In terms of Particulate Matter levels, while PM2.5 reduced by 24% during the pre-lockdown phase, it further reduced by almost 50% during both lockdown phases as compared to levels observed during 2019. The PM10 reduced by a massive 60%, with NO2 levels falling by 64%, Benzene by 62% and SO2 by 35%, during the second phase of lockdown as compared to levels in the same time period in 2019. "Reduction in pollutant concentrations have also been witnessed in comparison to pre-lockdown levels. 38% and 33% reduction in PM2.5 and 37% and 30% reduction in PM10 was observed during the lockdown phase-I and lockdown phase-II periods respectively, as compared to pre-lockdown levels," says the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chennai-bengaluru-had-cleanest-air-in-lockdown/articleshow/78286550.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Farmers stage sit-in outside MP’s house over export ban||Nashik: Farmers on Wednesday staged a sit-in agitation outside the residence of BJP MP Bharti Pawar, seeking roll back of the central government’s decision of banning export of onions.Although the MP was in Delhi for parliamentary session, the farmer handed over a memorandum to her assistant. The sit-in agitation was organized by the Sharad Joshi-affiliated Shetkari Sanghatna. The association had already announced about its sit-in agitation around a week ago. “We are disappointed over the sudden decision of the Centre to impose ban on onion export at a time when farmers had started fetching good rates. If the government had already removed onion from the Essential Commodity Act, then there was no need to ban onion export,” Arjun Borade, Nashik district president of Shetkari Sanghatna, said.“The cost of production of onions is around Rs 1,000 per quintal and farmers incur heavy losses if they get a price below that. Onion farmers have sold over 70% of their stock at a price between Rs 400 and Rs 600 per quintal and they have incurred heavy losses. But the government did not take any measures then. Now as the prices starting going up, they immediately imposed a ban on onion export,” he added.Borade went on to say that they did not have any issues if the government resorted to importing onions, but banning export was not a solution. “We will continue our agitation further until government rolls back the ban,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-stage-sit-in-outside-mps-house-over-export-ban/articleshow/78282157.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh nears 6.5 lakh mark with 7,000 new Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,228 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 6,46,530. The toll increased to 5,506 with 45 more deaths, which is the lowest single-day casualty count in more than two months after 42 fatalities on July 17. As many as 8,291 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. There are currently 70,357 active cases with 5,70,667 recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 88%. The recovery rate has improved to about 95% in Anantapur, Kurnool and Nellore districts. East Godavari crossed the 90,000 mark with 1,112 fresh cases. West Godavari, which was in second place in terms of number of cumulative infections, breached the 60,000-case mark with 962 new infections. Six districts reported fewer than 500 new cases. The two Godavari districts account for nearly 25% of caseload of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-nears-6-5l-mark-with-7k-new-cases/articleshow/78287071.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh nears 6.5 lakh mark with 7,000 new Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,228 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 6,46,530. The toll increased to 5,506 with 45 more deaths, which is the lowest single-day casualty count in more than two months after 42 fatalities on July 17. As many as 8,291 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. There are currently 70,357 active cases with 5,70,667 recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 88%. The recovery rate has improved to about 95% in Anantapur, Kurnool and Nellore districts. East Godavari crossed the 90,000 mark with 1,112 fresh cases. West Godavari, which was in second place in terms of number of cumulative infections, breached the 60,000-case mark with 962 new infections. Six districts reported fewer than 500 new cases. The two Godavari districts account for nearly 25% of caseload of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-nears-6-5l-mark-with-7k-new-cases/articleshow/78287072.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||CAG report card finds Delhi Police lacking||NEW DELHI: The performance audit report carried out by Comptroller and Auditor General of India on the functioning of Delhi Police between 2013 and 2019 has highlighted several shortcomings. CAG said that the Union home ministry “had approved 12,518 posts with advice to operationalise 3,139 posts first and then the remaining 9,379 after deployment of 3,139 personnel on ground. However, due to failure of Delhi Police to recruit against these 3,139 posts, the remaining 9,379 approved posts could not be operationalised (August 2020).” It also said the representation of women in Delhi Police was 11.7%, much lower than target of 33%, and added that housing satisfaction was quite low, with only 15,360 quarters available for around 80,000 personnel. Questions were also raised about Himmat Plus, the women’s safety app launched in 2018. “In spite of a sizeable expenditure (Rs18.5 lakh on development of Himmat Plus and Rs 6.8 crore on publicity of Himmat and Himmat Plus), the response to the app was lukewarm,” the CAG report noted. “Of the 1.7 lakh installs of Himmat/Himmat Plus App, there were 1.3 lakh uninstalls, leaving about 34,000 users as of May 2019, which was much less compared with users of the women’s safety apps of Bengaluru Police (50,482) and Maharashtra Police (84,000).” The report also found problems with the procurement of Motor Vehicle Theft app and the subsequent functioning and veracity of data generated via the web application. Only one of the 72 police stations test-checked by the auditors had staff as per norm. The report said the 35% staff shortage left cops under strain and forced to work long hours. As for devices used by police, the CAG reported that Delhi Police was using a 20-year trunking system that had outlived its life by a decade. “Proposals for upgradation were initiated 10 years ago, but not even tenders have been finalised yet,” observed CAG, adding that the number of wireless sets declined from 9,638 in June 2009 to 6,172 in June 2019. The force, the report said, had installed 3,870 CCTV cameras in Delhi, but the percentage of functioning cameras was very low. Deficiencies were also noted in the anti-terror unit, ranging from availability of vehicles, protective equipment like bulletproof jackets and arms and ammunition. Similar concerns were raised for SWAT, security and the cybercrime unit. The report noted vulnerabilities in the security architecture of Delhi Police’s Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and System, largely due to an obsolete technology stack on which CCTNS was based. Also reported to be functioning “sub-optimally” was C-MAPS, the joint project of Delhi Police and ISRO-ADRIN that maps crime data and generation of actionable information. “The planned project objectives have been abandoned and its utility is questionable,” CAG said. The audit expressed concern at the 275% jump in crime incidents in 2019 against 2013 and the rise of heinous crime from 4,159 in 2013 to 5,185 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cag-report-card-finds-delhi-police-lacking/articleshow/78284905.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man gives mother clip of wife talking to lover, kills self||Ahmedabad: A 56-year-old woman from Geeta Mandir, Gauri Maru, lodged a complaint at Kagdapith police station stating that her son, Bharat Maru, had committed suicide because his wife had an affair with a man named Kalu Makwana. On the night of September 7, Bharat gave her a pen drive and two mobile phones and told her to give them to his elder brother, Deepak. On September 8, he was found hanging from the ceiling fan of the front room of the house. On the pen drive, her son Deepak found a conversation between Bharat’s wife and Kalu. “Based on the conversation, we have lodged a complaint under Section 306 of the IPC for abetment of suicide against Bharat’s wife Daksha and Kalu Makwana, a resident of Geeta Mandir. Inspector M A Singh of Kagdapith police station said they have detained Kalu and are sending a team to Bhavnagar to detain Daksha. He added that they had taken the pen drive and two mobile phones. According to the FIR, Bharat went to sleep after giving her the phones and pen drive. At 6am on September 8, she looked in Bharat’s room and saw him hanging from the ceiling fan by a dupatta. “He was taken to LG Hospital but was declared brought dead,” said a police official. After carrying out Bharat’s last rites, Deepak went through the pen drive and found the conversation between Daksha and Kalu. It was apparent from the conversation that they were having an affair, said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-gives-mother-clip-of-wife-talking-to-lover-kills-self/articleshow/78284903.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh nears 6.5 lakh mark with 7,000 new Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,228 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 6,46,530. The toll increased to 5,506 with 45 more deaths, which is the lowest single-day casualty count in more than two months after 42 fatalities on July 17. As many as 8,291 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. There are currently 70,357 active cases with 5,70,667 recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 88%. The recovery rate has improved to about 95% in Anantapur, Kurnool and Nellore districts. East Godavari crossed the 90,000 mark with 1,112 fresh cases. West Godavari, which was in second place in terms of number of cumulative infections, breached the 60,000-case mark with 962 new infections. Six districts reported fewer than 500 new cases. The two Godavari districts account for nearly 25% of caseload of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-nears-6-5l-mark-with-7k-new-cases/articleshow/78284909.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Housing complexes organize Covid test camps for residents||KOLKATA: Resident welfare associations (RWA) and block committees across Kolkata, Salt Lake and New Town are arranging for various tests related to Covid-19 — to either detect the virus or assess if individuals have antibodies — all within the convenience of gated complexes and blocks. The random testing, being conducted either in collaboration with the local civic body or a private laboratory, aims to identify asymptomatic people and isolate them, trace contacts and determine if people have recovered without even knowing. At EE Block in Salt Lake, more than 100 residents got themselves tested. “A lot of people want to know if they have been infected and are asymptomatic. Many of them are either not aware of how and where to get tested while others are not comfortable visiting a laboratory fearing infection. So we decided to arrange for the tests for residents in a place within the Block after implementing social distancing measures and other guidelines,” said Samir Mondal, general secretary of the residents’ association. Several gated complexes have also arranged for rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests, and participation in complexes, like Shukhobrishti in New Town, Arvind Apartment in north Kolkata and Rosewood High in south Kolkata, has been high. “There are lot of senior citizens who are at a higher risk. But they have to interact with a lot of people, including family members and service staff. Random testing like this helps them be on their guard,” said Mainak Kanrar, a member of one of the residents’ associations. A KMC team conducted rapid antigen tests on 70-odd residents of Surjakiran Housing Complex in Paikpara earlier this month. The association had approached the civic body with the list of residents willing to undergo the test. Officials of the KMC health department said they would conduct a camp if more than 20 residents of a complex were willing to undergo the test. “It was a huge relief because I would otherwise have required a doctor’s prescription or advice from a fever clinic in a government hospital to get tested. But when the team came to our complex, we did not need any prescription,” said a resident of Surjakiran Housing Complex. New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum also organized a camp for antibody testing in collaboration with a private laboratory. “Housing committees can play a key role in curbing the spread of the virus by conducting such tests for residents. We can save a lot of elderly people if we conduct such camps pro-actively,” said Samir Gupta, joint convenor of the New Town Residents’ Forum.  RWAs have already been playing a crucial role in the Covid fight by setting up teams of volunteers to assist senior citizens and co-ordinate with government agencies to identify, isolate and shift Covid patients to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-complexes-organize-cov-test-camps-for-residents/articleshow/78284904.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist reports 1,436 Covid cases||NASHIK: The district reported 1,436 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 786 from Nashik city, taking the tally of positive cases to 67,653. A total of 20 patients succumbed to the infection, including seven from the city. The death toll stands at 1,225 in the district, including 669 in the city. As many as 1,399 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday, of which 1,026 patients are from Nashik city alone. The district has 8,440 active cases,. Nashik city recorded a recovery rate of 88.93% on Wednesday, which is the highest ever so far. The recovery rate of the district has also increased to 85.71%. Earlier, the city had recorded a recovery rate of 88%, a month ago, but the recovery rate educed to around 82% due to spike in Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-reports-1436-covid-cases/articleshow/78282176.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||2 bikers die in collision at Abids||Hyderabad: An IT professional and a private firm employee riding two-wheelers died after they were involved in a head-on collision in Abids. Police said both of them were not wearing helmets while driving. Mohammed Kazilwala, techie from Hussaini Alam, was on his way back home on his Activa scooter, while Narsing Rao of Abids was taking a turn on his Pulsar bike. “Both the IT professional and a private firm employee had a head-on collision near a sweet shop in Abids. Both the victims fell down and suffered severe head injuries,” said C Anjaiah, Abids inspector. They were both immediately rushed to a private hospital and later shifted to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) where they died while undergoing treatment on Tuesday. Cyberabad traffic police shared the footage of the accident on social media on Wednesday. A case has been registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police said the impact of the accident could have been reduced had the two victims worn helmets while commuting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-bikers-die-in-collision-at-abids/articleshow/78284912.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Health panel asks hosps for deposits till case judgment||Kolkata: Two private hospitals in the city have been asked to deposit Rs 4 lakh and Rs 1 lakh respectively with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) till it comes up with the final judgment in a case lodged against the two hospitals by the wife of a Covid-19 patient who died during treatment. According to the complaint by Subhra Ghosh, whose 79-year-old husband Ashok was admitted to Woodlands Multispecialty Hospital for gastroenterological problems on June 4. According to protocol, he was tested for Covid and the result was negative. But the Hindusthan Park resident tested positive during a second test. His family was informed of this on June 11 and they were asked to shift him to another facility as the hospital did not have a Covid treatment options. Ghosh alleged that the New Alipore hospital told the family to shift the patient within two hours after clearing a Rs 2.9 lakh bill. It also reportedly suggested names of three hospitals where the patient could be taken — one of them being Desun Hospital, which the family settled for. The patient was shifted in an ambulance sent by the hospital off EM Bypass around 10pm and the family paid Rs 9,500 for the 11km stretch. It has been alleged that Desun asked the family to deposit Rs 2 lakh and kept the patient unattended inside the ambulance for about an hour before a family member from overseas deposited the money. The patient died after 15 days on June 26 and the family was handed a bill of Rs 8,13,080. The family alleged that the hospital refused to release the body till the dues were cleared. The complainant also questioned why the bill was so high despite the hospital offering free treatment to the patient under the government quota for about three days. “We feel like there have been lapses on part of both hospitals in this case. On being questioned why Woodlands had to shift the patient after he tested positive, the hospital said they will reply via an affidavit. Desun has also asked that it be allowed some time to prepare for the case,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman, WBCERC. “In the meantime, we have asked Desun and Woodlands to deposit Rs 4 lakh and Rs 1 lakh respectively with the commission till we come up with the final judgment. The two hospitals and the complainant have also been asked to file their respective affidavits in the meantime,” said Banerjee. Sources at the Alipore hospital denied forcing the patient’s family to clear the bill within two hours and shift the patient within that time period. The hospital will wait for a written order from the commission on the interim judgment. “Let us get a copy of the order before we respond,” said an official of Desun Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-panel-asks-hosps-for-deposits-till-case-judgment/articleshow/78284913.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Violating norms, jr colleges run hostels for likely toppers||Hyderabad: Violating government orders, a few junior colleges in the city have been running hostels for toppers to train them for competitive exams. The corporate colleges are understood to have been operating since at least three or four weeks before the JEE Main September examination was scheduled — September 2, and have been providing round the clock coaching to a selected few. “We had hardly five or six students per campus. These are the students who have the potential to secure a rank in top 10, top 50, or top 100 in the JEE advanced or NEET examination,” said a faculty memberof one of the corporate colleges. He said that before the hostels were opened for these students, the faculty members were visiting toppers’ house to clear their doubts. “For these students to excel at competitive examinations, it is important that they are under the guidance of faculty. The parents of a few toppers confirmed that their children have been staying at the hostels and preparing for the competitive exams. “I don’t know from when the hostels started running after the lockdown, but my child went there only about 10 days or 2 weeks before the JEE Main (September) exam,” said a parent, whose child is among those staying at a hostel of corporate college in the city. Interestingly, corporate colleges are not the only ones who are running hostels violating the Government of India rules, even the government residential colleges that are running under various societies have been violating norms by opening hostels as early as the last week of May. “Most of our students hail from economically backward families and have no facilities at home to prepare for the examinations. How are they going to study back in their villagers? To help them crack competitive exams, hostels were functioning at nine different places in the state,” said a staffer working at one of the societies. While the managements of corporate colleges failed to respond, secretary of tribal and social welfare societies refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/violating-norms-jr-colleges-run-hostels-for-likely-toppers/articleshow/78284917.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Effluent release by MGMGH into Uyyakondan canal: NIT in HC||Madurai: Experts from National Institute of Technology Trichy on Wednesday submitted a status report before Madras high court stating that primary treated effluent waste from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) is discharged into the Uyyakondan canal in Trichy district.During the previous hearing, the court pointed out that untreated effluent waste from MGMGH is directly released into the Uyyakondan canal. Pursuant to the previous direction, experts from NIT Trichy, the Trichy Corporation commissioner and the dean of MGMCH submitted status reports before the court. A division bench observed that a perusal of the status report submitted by the NIT-T experts revealed that primary treated sewage water from MGMCH is being discharged to the canal through storm water drains. The judges observed that the status report of the corporation would also reveal the same.The judges observed that from the status reports it prima facie appears that the dean of MGMCH and the Trichy Corporation commissioner were in violation of the statutory provisions of Water Act and various pronouncements of the Supreme Court. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by R Rajagobal, a lawyer, who sought to impose lockdown for Trichy district to contain the spread of Covid-19.The judges also observed due to the non-following of social distancing and mask rule, there is a chance of increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. The judges observed that the authorities shall bestow their best endeavour to control the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/effluent-release-by-mgmgh-into-uyyakondan-canal-nit-in-hc/articleshow/78285675.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kochi||Two flyovers to be opened in December: CM||KOCHI: The much-awaited and much-delayed Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers will be opened for traffic in December. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that the construction works of both projects are in the final stage. The opening of the two big ticket projects is expected to bring down the traffic congestion at the busy Vyttila and Kundannoor junctions on NH 66. “The 780m-long Kundannoor flyover is being constructed at an expense of Rs 88.77 crore and the 700m-long Vyttila flyover is being constructed at an expense of Rs 113 crore,” he said. In September 2016, former chief minister Oommen Chandy laid the foundation stone for six-lane flyovers. However, in April 2018 PWD minister G Sudhakaran inaugurated the construction works of the flyovers. Speaking on the Palarivattom flyover, the chief minister said that the LDF government has ensured quality in the construction of all projects undertaken during their period and has also brought in advanced technology for implementing the projects. The outbreak of Covid-19, resultant lockdown and heavy rains slowed down works at the two sites. “The construction of Palarivattom flyover will begin soon,” he said, adding that discussions have been held with Metro Man E Sreedharan, who has agreed to monitor the works. “The works can be completed within eight months,” he said. The opening of flyovers over at Kundannoor and Vyttila alone cannot address the traffic congestion in the city. The Palarivattom flyover is also a major link on NH 66 between Kundannoor Junction and Edapally Junction. The chief minister said that about a year was lost as the government fought legal battles for going ahead with the construction of Palarivattom flyover. Vijayan described the corruption in the case as a rare incident in the history of the state. “The vigilance probe is in the final stage and all those involved in corruption will be brought before law,” he said. The chief minister said the case of Palarivattom flyover was one of the many scams during UDF rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-flyovers-to-be-opened-in-dec-cm/articleshow/78283416.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid may force students to drop out of pvt schools: Study||Hyderabad: Closure of schools due to Covid-19 in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh may result in drop out of students from private schools as the pandemic has aggravated existing inequalities among students, revealed a study released by Young Lives last week. Young Lives, a collaboration between Young Lives India, Centre for Economic and Social Studies (Hyderabad) and University of Oxford (UK), surveyed 183 teachers from 205 government and private schools in the two states to understand teaching and learning during school closures, with a focus on accessible and meaningful learning for all children. Findings revealed that of the two-thirds of 18-year-olds in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana who were in education when Covid-19 hit, only around a quarter have been able to switch to virtual classes or to access other online learning tools. “Students’ access to technology was the primary challenge that schools faced in trying to support students’ learning during the school closures, and this barrier was most pronounced for government schools,” reads the report, further adding that almost all (97 per cent) head teachers of government schools reported that students did not have the technology they needed, compared to three-quarters of those in private schools. The second most prevalent set of barriers centred around children and their families’ willingness and ability to prioritize education during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-may-force-students-to-drop-out-of-pvt-schools-study/articleshow/78284924.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Kin of Covid victims unable to get hospital papers, death certificates||Nagpur: Relatives of several Covid victims are running pillar to post to get discharge papers, and death summaries from medical colleges, and even death certificates issued by the civic body confirming death due to Covid-19, among other requirements. From the first Covid death of the city to the latest, relatives haven’t got papers showing what treatment was followed, what led to the death, and whether the actual cause was the novel coronavirus. “Many allegations were levelled at not just us but also the entire locality. We were labelled mass spreaders. Though uncle was old, he was doing well and was quite fit even at the age of 68. We wanted to know on record what led to his sudden death, which they attributed to Covid-19 but we haven’t received any paper from the hospital or NMC,” said a member of a Satranjipura family. A girl from North Nagpur said her father passed away in August at IGGMCH and she needed all papers to submit at his Hyderabad office to claim his dues. “There is no man in our family left now. We need to claim provident fund and insurance. I visited the hospital but they referred me to NMC office,” she said. A man from West Nagpur said his brother never had any health problems and had suddenly expired in July. “We accepted that it was due to Covid. It’s been over two months and we are still chasing his case papers and death certificate,” he said, adding the deceased’s son had even hired a lawyer to get the papers. It’s only in some recent cases, some relatives have started getting death certificate from NMC’s birth and death registration department which notes the reason of death as Covid-19. GMCH officials said for death summary relatives need to apply separately. “Traditionally, we have never handed over case papers and death summaries. Considering today’s scenario, we may provide them but they will have to apply for them. All treatment papers are maintained in our records. This has been going on for decades,” they said. IGGMCH officials too said the applications are put up before a committee to review the needs of the relatives. “They can still go for RTI to get the papers,” they said. A couple of the private hospitals treating Covid patients too said investigation files, death summary, patient belongings, and filled up forms 4 and 2 to obtain death certificate are given to relatives. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said it is the right of relatives to get death report. “NMC will issue only death certificate mentioning the cause and place of death. I feel all death reports must be given to relatives by the hospitals, whether government or private,” he said. Asked about backlog of death certificates, he said it is being expedited at zone office level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kin-of-covid-victims-unable-to-get-hospital-papers-death-certificates/articleshow/78284914.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTU-Hyderabad changes promote-all plan; exams in October||HYDERABAD: Students of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) have been taken aback by its decision to hold examination for other semesters in October. This, despite the university commencing classes for the next semester.  In a letter to all the constituent and affiliated colleges, Kamakshi Prasad, director of evaluation stated that the second spell of university exams are likely to commence from the second week of October and a notification would be issued soon. “This second spell of semester examinations comprises of regular and supplementary examinations of all postgraduate courses and all supplementary exams of BTech and BPharm courses shall be conducted in the third spell of semester exams, which will commence from the last week of October, 2020,” read the letter. Considering this, the university had also commenced online classes for the next semester last month. Now, with students already learning syllabus of the next semester, notification of examinations for previous semesters has created confusion among all. “The university’s decision is totally unjustified as the chief minister himself had announced that all others except final year students will be promoted based on our internal marks or past performance,” said a student. An online petition seeking cancellation of first to third year exams garnered over 25,000 signatures in a span of 48 hours. “We request you to address students concerns and reconsider the decision of compulsorily conducting first, second and third year examinations,” reads the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntu-h-changes-promote-all-plan-exams-in-october/articleshow/78284918.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 24, 2020||Delhi||EPCA slams neighbouring states on industrial pollution||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Wednesday wrote to chief secretaries of Haryana and Rajasthan for “not adopting pollution control measures in industrial areas of NCR.” EPCA found industrial waste lying everywhere during recent inspections and asked officials to improve the situation ahead of winter. EPCA chairperson Bhure Lal inspected industrial areas of Alwar on September 13 and industrial areas of Panipat, Sonipat, Faridabad and Dharuhera on September 19. In his letter to the chief secretaries of Haryana and Rajasthan, EPCA chairperson said he found that the condition of industrial waste was “horrible”. Lal, in his letter to chief secretaries, pointed out that despite his earlier visits to the adjoining areas, no impact was visible on the ground and he claimed that officers on the ground were taking things easy. Claiming that this winter will be difficult as administration is occupied with many work, Lal said, “Environment and pollution must not be ignored in the time of Covid-19 because air pollution also affects lungs.” During inspection of Rajasthan and Haryana, Lal found industrial, municipal solid waste and plastic waste lying at a few places. He has directed officials to dispose industrial and plastic waste through concessionaires and segregate municipal solid waste and send it to an appropriate site. He also asked officials to identify and penalise the defaulters. Following the inspection, EPCA will hold a virtual meeting on the matter and has asked officials to take necessary steps. EPCA on Tuesday wrote to both Punjab and Haryana governments stating that early signs of stubble burning had started appearing on satellite imaginary and action was required to ensure the situation did not get worse. As winter is approaching, EPCA also directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to conduct night patrolling of 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi. The hotspots include Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epca-slams-neighbouring-states-on-industrial-pollution/articleshow/78284928.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||WBTC to launch tram library today to promote reading habit among citizens||KOLKATA: Combining the academic ethos and the importance of an eco-friendly mode of transport, the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) will introduce a tram library on Thursday. While passing through the academic district of the city, the tram aims to promote the habit of reading books and newspapers — which is under threat from visual media — among students, teachers and general public. “It is a tribute to the city’s most vibrant academic and iconic book district from another icon of the city — the tram,” said a senior official of WBTC. The tram library will run from Esplanade to Shyambazar, a route which has over 30 schools, colleges and universities apart from the city’s biggest book hub at College Street. A single-bogey tram car has been transformed to serve as a library on wheels. The tram car will also be used for the literary festivals in November, apart from book launches and book reading sessions. It will have books and newspapers for on-board reading, free WiFi, free pens for all passengers during the inaugural week. “Trams have been serving the city for more than 100 years. While thinking of the tram’s role in the city’s cultural ethos, we realized how the iconic College Street would seem a little dull without these moving along it. Many intellectual movements, which might have originated in the Coffee House, continued in the trams,” said an officer. “We want to promote the tram among Kolkata’s students, teachers, booklovers and intellectuals again,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director, WBTC, that operates the Kolkata Tramways — the oldest surviving tramway in the Asia-Pacific region . Initially, readers will find books related to various competitive examinations. The list will be updated regularly according to the requirements. Significantly, the launch of the library will coincide with the resumption of Esplanade-Shyambazar tram route. After the catastrophic impact of Cyclone Amphan, four tram routes, out of six that operated before the pandemic, started functioning. Regular disinfection and sanitization of the tram cars and depots before and after each shift of operation is being undertaken. Recently, WBTC installed some artworks in some of the trams, which depict the beginning of the tram services in 1873 and then the electrification of the cars in 1900. Since 1902, the electric tram cars have been running in the city of joy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wbtc-to-launch-tram-library-today-to-promote-reading-habit-among-citizens/articleshow/78284923.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||‘Will ensure cop gets punished’||Kolkata: Transgender activist Ranjita Sinha, and her two women friends, who were allegedly harassed, molested and abused with obscene language and gestures by an additional OC of a traffic guard has hinted that she wanted to meet senior officers of Kolkata police at Lalbazar to discuss on the progress on the case. The development came a day after the accused — Abhishek Bhattacharya — was arrested and later granted bail.She also discussed her case with a leading advocate of the city. Among the things discussed was whether stricter IPC sections can be slapped by moving the court. “I will ensure that the cop gets exemplary punishment. Citizens look up to the people in uniform for their service to the society. If I do not ensure justice, it will be a defeat of the very cause that the police claims to defend and of the many good uniformed men who follow the law,” Sinha said.Sinha, a member of the state transgender board, works regularly and closely with the police, among others, on sensitization and LGBTQ rights.The police said that they were doing everything that was required to gather evidence. “We shall pray to court for registering a few statements before the magistrate. The progress in the case is being monitored at the highest level,” said an investigating officer.Bhattacharya’s lawyer Sujoy Ghosh said he was a law-abiding citizen, having served in the force for several years. “My client is a law-abiding citizen of this country. We have respect in the justice system and we are confident that we shall prove that these charges will not stand legal scrutiny,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-ensure-cop-gets-punished/articleshow/78284915.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Queens Park building takes Kol containment-zone count to 4||Kolkata: Barely four days after the containment list in Kolkata was updated by KMC and Kolkata Police, a new address in south Kolkata has been added to it. The house in Ballygunge’s Queens Park has seven cases — all members of staff employed there. Including this, all four containment zones are in south Kolkata. Police and KMC sources said there are a couple of reasons for bringing this Queens Park address under containment despite it being located on a comparatively deserted stretch of road. “Under the new rules, we are considering all addresses next to each other with reports of more than five cases. We have asked police to set up just one guard rail near the entrance. We will see to any help required from those residing there,” said borough VIII coordinator Sandip Ranjan Bakshi. Ballygunge police said they have full cooperation of the residents so far. “There is construction under way close to the complex. The containment zone tag is to warn those working there to avoid mingling with any staffers of the house,” an officer said. Another KMC ward coordinator, and former MMiC, Baiswanor Chatterjee, who had brought an area off Southern Avenue under containment, said the primary objective of setting up such zones was to stop the virus from affecting the slums. “Covid had been affecting south Kolkata throughout July and August and we had to put in a huge effort to control the infection in the slums of Dhakuria, Ballygunge and around the Lake. At present, we have very few cases from the slums. However, there are still a considerable number of cases being reported from flats and complexes,” he said. The new containment list features three complexes and a slum. The next revision is expected in the next four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/queens-park-building-takes-kol-containment-zone-count-to-4/articleshow/78284934.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 24, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK man flies in to Andal temple to hold yaga for party’s win||Madurai: An AIADMK functionary from Coimbatore, flew down to Srivilliputtur Andal temple on Wednesday, and performed a yaga, praying for the AIADMK to retain power in the state after the next general election. AIADMK Ilaignar Pasarai deputy general secretary Vishnu Prabu came with his family in a chartered helicopter and conducted the yaga.Speaking to reporters later, Vishnu Prabu said that it was a prayer for the AIADMK to retain power in the state in 2021, as it is also the golden jubilee year of the AIADMK. He said that the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa had acknowledged the role of Ilaignar Pasarai in the party’s victory in 2011.Many AIADMK functionaries have been queuing up at the Sri Andal temple, since the temples opened to public darshan. Theni MP P Ravindranath Kumar visited the temple ten days ago. His father, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam visited the temple and made offerings on September 12, before the party’s executive committee. However, some people in the temple were irked by the fact that a photograph of late chief minister J Jayalaliathaa was placed inside the temple, when the ritual was performed by the priests. ``We do not pray to the photographs of dead persons inside the temple, it is against the rules of Hinduism,’’ said a devotee who had come to the temple. Priests too did not inform such things to the devotees, he added.The offerings were made in the name of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, in the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-man-flies-in-to-andal-temple-to-hold-yaga-for-partys-win/articleshow/78285679.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two killed as car plunges into gorge||Hyderabad: Two of the nine persons who were injured in a road accident at Eegalapenta of Nagarkurnool district on Tuesday night died while being shifted to the city for treatment. The victims were identified as Neetu Singh (45) and Tara Rajkumari (51), both housewives from Dhoolpet. According to police, the family of nine were travelling towards Srisailam to visit the temple when the accident occurred at around 9 pm. The vehicle fell into a gorge after losing control. A case was registered under relevant sections. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-killed-as-car-plunges-into-gorge/articleshow/78284930.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: CBI books jeweller for Rs 70 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday filed a FIR against Nellore-based Shantilal & Sons Jewellers for an alleged Rs 70 crore bank loan fraud. The jeweller had allegedly duped Canara Bank by diverting funds. CBI booked the FIR based on a complaint lodged by V Satyanarayana Murthy, AGM of Stressed Assets Management Division of Canara Bank, Hyderabad. The banker alleged Shantilal & Sons Jewellers, a proprietary concern, had availed a term loan of Rs 5.4 crore and secured an overdraft for Rs 11.4 crore from Syndicate Bank (now Canara Bank) in 2014. Subsequently, the secured overdraft was enhanced to Rs 24 crore. Due to non-payment, the loan turned into a non-performing asset (NPA) in August, 2018. Shanti Kalash Jewellers, another proprietary concern, had availed term loan of Rs 4.8 crore and secured overdraft of Rs 11.4 crore in 2014 from Syndicate Bank, Dargamitta branch. The term loan was enhanced to Rs 5.2 crore and the secured overdraft was enhanced to Rs 24 crore. This account too became an NPA in 2018. The borrowers in both accounts transferred the stock, hypothecated to banks, without their knowledge. CBI alleged that in the guise of renovation of the shop, the borrowers sold the stock, misappropriated funds and duped the bank of Rs 70 crore. In February 2019, during an inspection by bank officials, no stock was found at the showroom. CBI has named Shantilal, Santri Bai, Kamalesh Kumar, Shankarlal, unknown public servants and the two firms in the FIR. A forensic audit has found diversion of funds, establishing a fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-jeweller-for-rs-70-cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/78284920.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 24, 2020||Kochi||30 education centres to cater to migrant kids from today||KOCHI: To bridge the cultural divide and support academic activities of migrant students in state, Sarva Siksha Kerala (SSK) will open 30 special education centres (SEC) for the students in Ernakulam on Thursday. The centres, which have been set up in community halls, libraries and anganwadis across the district, will be manned by multilingual volunteers. The purpose of SECs is to help students, who now attend online classes, to clear their doubts in academics and complete assignments. Besides this, the centres will introduce the students to the culture of their respective states, including West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and other Hindi speaking states. The centres will function as a bridge connecting migrant students in the district with culture in their respective states. Students will get children’s literature from these centres which will be in their mother tongue to understand the culture. “Reverse migration has also been taking place among guest workers in the state. When they go back to their states, they would face issues if children are not familiar with their culture. Children’s literature will address that issue. Books will be brought from West Bengal and distributed at the centres. We have also approached National Book Trust for books on children’s literature in Bengali, Hindi and other languages. Volunteers will also give worksheets and study material to students to address the language barrier which migrant children face in the state preventing them from entering the mainstream society. Besides art and cultural programmes, IT enabled ones will also be screened before the students. Most of the programmes will be in Hindi,” said Sajoy George, district programme officer. The centres will function from 10am to 4pm strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocols. Volunteers for these centres will be appointed following an interview with block resource officials. They will be paid Rs.6,500/month as salary. The service of the centre will be available for students studying up to Class XII. As many as 8,000 children of guest workers have enrolled for schooling in the state. Of this, nearly 4,000 students studying in Ernakulam district. Around 10% to 15% of these children returned to their hometowns with their parents due to lockdown. Roshni, a project launched in 2018, has been conducting online classes for around 900 primary students to integrate them with mainstream by teaching them SCERT curriculum in their mother tongue and Malayalam. Around 70 students, who went back to their native due to the lockdown, have been attending classes from their respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/30-edu-centres-to-cater-to-migrant-kids-from-today/articleshow/78283437.cms||T C Sreemol
September 24, 2020||Kozhikode||CB begins probe into cheating case against MLA Kamaruddin||KOZHIKODE: Crime Branch Crime Investigation Department (CBCID) has started a probe against Manjeswaram MLA M C Kamaruddin in the multi-crore cheating case in the wake of allegations that the government has adopted a soft policy towards the IUML leader. CBCID SP K K Moideenkutty said a team comprising one DSP and three inspectors has been formed to conduct the probe. “The local police have handed over 13 cases to us. The remaining cases will be given to us soon,” he said. The SP held a meeting with the members of the team at Kasaragod on Tuesday. Talking to the reporters after the meeting, he denied that there is any pressure on the police to go slow on the case. Delay in arrest would not hamper the case as the evidence in the cheating case will remain intact, he said. Meanwhile, seven more cases were registered against Kamaruddin on the complaints from the investors in Fashion Gold. A Zeenath from Vellur lodged a complaint with Kasaragod police saying that she had invested Rs 1.5 crore. Six others also filed complaints with the Chandera police. With these, the number of cases against Kamaruddin has risen to 61. The process of ascertaining the assets and liabilities of Fashion Gold is progressing under the leadership of IUML district treasurer Kallatra Mahin Haji. The state leadership of the IUML had entrusted Haji to mediate the process of repayment of the investment. He will submit a report to the party before September 30. At the same time, the BJP has come up with the allegation that the CPM and the IUML had struck a deal to save Kamaruddin. BJP district president K Sreekanth said that the slow pace of the investigation indicates that some sort of agreement has been made between the two parties. “We demand immediate arrest of the MLA in the case. The NDA organized a protest in front of the collectorate on Tuesday which was inaugurated by state president K Surendran,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cb-begins-probe-into-cheating-case-against-mla-kamaruddin/articleshow/78283474.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Cases come down to 598 in central TN, 589 in south dists||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts on Wednesday reported 589 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 1,077,22, which include 5,729 active cases. Kanyakumari reported 117 cases, the only district to report more than 100 cases.  With eight deaths, the region’s toll has climbed to 1,812. Meanwhile, cases declined for the third consecutive day in the central region as it reported 598 cases on Wednesday. With this, the tally has climbed to 47,403. The eight districts also recorded seven more deaths taking the toll to 662. Kanyakumari’s total number of cases has climbed to 12,077. This was followed by Tirunelveli’s (92 new cases) 12,081, followed by Madurai’s (79) 16,103 cases. Theni reported 71 new cases, and Tuticorin 55. All the other districts reported less than 50 cases -- Tenkasi-46, Sivaganga-44, Dindigul-40, Virudhunagar-35 and Ramanathapuram-10. Tirunelveli (925) has the highest number of active cases, followed by Madurai-764, Kanyakumari-763, Tuticorin-750, Dindigul-613, Tenkasi-558, Theni-513, Virudhunagar-341, Sivaganga-297 and Ramanathapuram-205. Ramanathapuram reported three deaths, Theni two deaths, Tenkasi, Dindigul and Tirunelveli one each. In the central districts, the decline in the number of cases can be attributed to the reduction of cases in districts such as Nagappattinam and Pudukottai. Thanjavur once again came on top with 186 fresh cases pushing its tally to 9,836, the second in the list after Trichy. Trichy tops with 112 cases taking its tally to 9,858 on Wednesday. Among the casualties in the central region, five were from Thanjavur. A 62-year-old woman from Nagappattinam died despite having no comorbidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-come-down-to-598-in-central-tn-589-in-south-dists/articleshow/78285680.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Commuter count dips, Kolkata Metro misses 50,000 mark||KOLKATA: Although Metro Railway was expected to achieve 50,000 ridership on Wednesday, the ridership was nearly 1,000 fewer than the figure of 46,711 registered on Tuesday. Both were working days. As many as, 127 riders had travelled on the elevated 5km Salt Lake stretch of East-West Metro on Tuesday, but only 72 took the train on Wednesday. Interestingly, the highest number of e-passes — 72,000 — were issued on Wednesday for the north-south section. On Tuesday, it was 70,000. When Metro resumed services on September 14, 53,000 passes had been booked, but the ridership was only 20,000. On Wednesday, the ridership’s upward graph dipped for the first time on a working day, with 45,808 people taking the Metro. Booking e-passes in advance is compulsory for accessing the north-south stations, most of which are underground. The country’s oldest Metro line is also saddled with the highest per-kilometre passenger density. The e-passes have turned out to be the most effective crowd-control tool. They ensure that only 400 board an eight-coach train at a time. The 8am-8pm timetable has been split into 12 slots for booking the e-passes. Over the past few days, the gap between the figures of booking and ridership had been steadily going down. But Wednesday turned out to be an exception. Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state government has appointed to develop the Pathadisha Metro e-pass, said he would study Wednesday’s algorithm to find out the cause. “The variation can be taken as a sign of normalcy. In West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), ridership varies between 5%-7% on an average.” But then, this is the city’s lifeline one was talking about and ridership, till Tuesday, more than doubled since Metro re-started last Monday. This Monday, the e-pass boarding system was tweaked to accommodate more commuters and the cap for booking e-passes was increased by 30% for busy stations. False bookings have been jamming slots for stations like Dum Dum and Kalighat. Many generated the passes, filling up the 12 slots, but didn’t take the train. Since last Friday, more genuine travellers seemed to be generating passes than before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/commuter-count-dips-metro-misses-50k-mark/articleshow/78284927.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 24, 2020||Mangaluru||It’s official: Light House Hill named after former banker||MANGALURU: Following the state government issuing an order approving the naming of the road between Ambedkar Circle to Catholic Club via Light House Hill after Mulky Sunder Ram Shetty, the road was officially named after the banker by mayor Diwakar Pandeshwar on Wednesday, in a simple ceremony. Mulky Sunder Ram Shetty was associated with the Vijaya Bank since 1946, and later served as its chairman from 1962. Addressing the gathering after the event, the mayor said it was a memorable day. Mulky Sunder Ram Shetty’s contribution to employment generation has been tremendous in coastal Karnataka. Former minister Krishna J Palemar said though they couldn’t save Vijaya Bank from merging with Bank of Baroda, yet they have been able to give credit to his achievement by naming the road after him. Sadananda Shetty, chairman, Shree Devi Education Trust, Ajith Kumar Malady, president, Bunts Alias Nadavara Mathr Sangha, Sudharshan Moodbidri, president, Dakshina Kannada district BJP and others were present. Not taken into confidence: Rector Hours after the event, St Aloysius Institutions alleged that the “unilateral” decision was undemocratic. Addressing the media, Fr Melwin Pinto, rector of the institutions, said the judgment delivered on April 11, 2019, by the high court had directed the civic authorities to call both parties concerned and reach for an amicable settlement. “The college management, in its memorandum submitted on February, 19, 2020, also had made a plea to involve the college in all the future deliberations on the issue. We have not been taken into confidence which amounts to non-compliance of the directives contained in the order of the high court and our request,” he said. Regarding the legal battle in this regard, Fr Melwin maintained they will take a decision on it after discussions with old students and the alumni association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/its-official-light-house-hill-named-after-former-banker/articleshow/78282220.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||124 more test positive for Covid-19||Vadodara: The declining trend in detection of new Covid-19 cases in the city and district continued for the fourth consecutive day despite testing reaching an all time high. Out of 4,421 samples tested in the city and district since Tuesday evening, 124 persons were found positive. The new cases included 26 from the south zone of the city, 24 from the west zone, 17 from the east zone and 16 from the north zone of the city. The areas of the district outside city limits saw 41 new cases scattered in different parts of the district. The medical bulletin issued by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) claimed that with the new cases, the total number of cases detected so far in the city and district had reached 10,940. The VMC also confirmed the deaths of two more persons due to Covid-19 taking the total number of deaths to 183. As many as 111 patients were discharged from various hospitals or home isolation in the city and district. This took the total number of cured patients to 9,235 leaving 1,522 from the city and district under treatment. Those under treatment included 71 persons breathing with the help of ventilators or BIPAP machines. The others included 179 on oxygen support and 1,272 whose condition was stable.  Four Cong members test positive Four women members of the Congress party including three corporators tested positive since Wednesday. “Those who have tested positive include corporators Hemangini Kolekar, Pushpa Waghela and Jagruti Rana as well as our women’s wing in-charge Trupti Jhaveri,” said Congress city unit president Prashant Patel. Many corporators and workers of both the Congress and BJP have tested positive earlier. Meanwhile, Dr Sheetal Mistry, administrative nodal officer at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri also tested positive for Covid-19. Mistry had developed mild symptoms including sore throat and fever. “I am doing fine and physically isolated myself,” said Mistry, who is also a syndicate member at M S University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/124-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78282815.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Can bizman represent co under liquidation, asks HC||Hyderabad: The HC on Wednesday sought to know from a private trader, whose company is under liquidation, whether he can still represent his firm before the court. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posed this question to advocates representing Rajesh Agarwal, managing director of BS Company, who challenged the action of SBI in declaring his bank account as a fraud account. Agarwal’s advocates Sumesh Dhawan and Arunabh Chowdhury said the whole-time directors like MD would still be on the rolls of the company even when the company is under liquidation. BS Company had availed thousands of crores as loans from SBI and a few other banks and evaded repayment. Deriving its strength from a master circular issued by RBI, which asked banks to declare suspicious accounts as fraud accounts and communicate it among all member banks, SBI declared Agarwal’s company account as a fraud account.  Rajesh Agarwal filed a petition before the high court challenging both the RBI circular and SBI’s declaration. In the meantime, the company was declared as insolvent and following disinclination from new investors to revive it, the company was put up for liquidation by the official liquidator. Advocate general BS Prasad said that RBI circular was brought in with an express purpose to discourage fraudsters, who dupe bank after bank in the name of their companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-bizman-represent-co-under-liquidation-asks-hc/articleshow/78284933.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 70% polytechnic seats filled||Hyderabad: Over 70% polytechnic seats were filled in the first phase of seat allotment, details of which were released by Telangana State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET) on Wednesday. According to a press release issued by SBTET, of the 31,012 seats, 22,064 (71%) were filled and 8,948 vacant in the first phase. In all, 45,207 had qualified in Telangana Polytechnic Common Entrance Test of which 27,759 had exercised web options. Of the 54 government institutions, intake was filled completely in 40 institutions. Similarly, of the 73 private unaided institutions, 100% intake was filled in seven institutions. Those allocated seats have to pay tuition fees by September 26. “After payment of tuition Fee, if the candidate cancels the provisionally allotted seat through online on or before September 27, the forfeiture of tuition fee is in accordance with instructions given in TS-Polycet 2020 detailed notification,” the release said. Academic session is likely to commence tentatively by October 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-70-polytechnic-seats-filled/articleshow/78284935.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Six deaths take Amravati Covid toll past 250||Amravati: Six deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday took the toll past 250 to 253, while 166 new cases took the caseload to 11,744. A civil surgeon office report said that six persons, including a 70-year-old woman from Sanjay Gandhinagar here, died during treatment. Other deceased included three men from the city and one each from Tembhurkheda village in Warud tehsil and Anjangaon Surji. The report further said 208 patients were discharged, taking the count of recovered patients to 8,897, leaving 2,594 under treatment including 12 admitted in Nagpur and 1,363 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-deaths-take-amravati-covid-toll-past-250/articleshow/78284959.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kochi||Two arrested for murder of youth||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police recorded the arrest of two more persons in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old man at Kuzhuppilly. The arrested persons have been identified as Jithus (19) of Edavanakad and Sharath (19) of Kuzhuppilly. The victim, Pranav Prasad was found dead along the pocket road leading to Pallathaamkulangara beach on Tuesday morning. One among the accused Ambadi (19) was arrested soon after the crime on Tuesday. The victim was found dead with his face covered in blood. It is suspected that the accused had nursed a previous grudge with the victim. One among the accused was a history-sheeter. The victim also was accused in a few criminal cases, police said. The argument on Tuesday early morning was in connection with a woman, with whom one among the accused had an affair. Police said the accused suspected that the victim was disturbing the woman and seems to have summoned the victim to the location for discussing the issue. The accused, along with three others, attacked the youth with sticks and blunt objects. They fled the scene after the victim became unconscious. The body was later found by fishermen in the morning. Police said that the arrested duo would be produced before a magistrate late on Wednesday. One more accused who was part of the gang is still on the run. Meanwhile, rural police invoked the Kerala Anti-Social Activities Prevention Act (Kaapa) to arrest a 22-year-old at Munambom. On March 20, the accused, Ashik Babu (22) of Cherayi, who had several cases against him for alleged goonda activities, was barred from entering the district under Kaapa for one year. However, the accused violated this ban and entered Munambom police station limits on September 20. The accused was hence arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-arrested-for-murder-of-youth/articleshow/78283469.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Three Maoists killed in encounter in Bhadradri, explosives recovered||HYDERABAD: Three Maoists, including two women, were gunned down by police during an alleged exchange of fire at Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Wednesday night. Earlier during the day, another group of Maoists managed to escape after an encounter with a police team conducting combing operation in the Palwancha forest area. In the past one month, eight Maoists have been killed in exchange of fire with police in the state. Around 7 pm, two teams of Bhadradri Kothagudem district special police conducting search operations in Chennapuram forest area spotted movement of Maoists. “An exchange of fire took place in the hillocks. After the exchange, when our teams inspected the area, we found bodies of the three Maoists in their twenties. Two of them were women and one was a man,” Bhadradri Kothagudem superintendent of police (SP) Sunil Dutt said. Police seized an 8mm rifle, explosive materials, a kit bag and other incriminating material from the encounter spot. As the information received by police indicated that there was a Maoist dalam, consisting of about 10 to 12 members, the search operation is still continuing to trace those who have managed to escape. In a related development, around 1.45 pm, a police team conducting a search operation in Palwancha reserve forest area of the district spotted a team of five Maoists. After the exchange of fire, the Maoists managed to escape from the place and police recovered an SBBL gun, a kit bag and a solar plate used for recharging electronic equipment. Watch Telangana: 3 Maoists including 2 women gunned down during exchange of fire||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-bhadradri-explosives-recovered/articleshow/78284990.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Kuruvikkaran Salai bridge work will be over by March, says corpn||Madurai: The construction works of Kuruvikkaran Salai Bridge, which started in May 2020 will be completed by March 2021, said Madurai Corporation officials. A team of officials from the corporation conducted an inspection at the work site led by corporation commissioner S Visakan on Wednesday to review the progress of the work. Officials said that they are happy with the way the bridge is taking shape and is expected to be completed by March next year. The old bridge was pulled down and now a high-level bridge is being constructed at the cost of Rs 23.17 crore, which will be 17.5 metres wide including two-metre-wide pedestrian pathway on either side. The total length of the bridge will be 223.20 metres, officials said. The commissioner also inspected various other projects such as laying of paver block roads at NSK Street 8th lane, Thomas Street, Thamarai Street and Malligai Street in Bethaniyapuram being carried out at a cost of Rs 40.1 lakh, laying of bitumen road at Angaleeswari Nagar and Muniandi Kovil Street in Kochadai at the cost of Rs 26.5 lakh and pipe laying works being carried out at Vilangudi Pumping Station at the cost of Rs 17.05 lakh. Assistant commissioner Sekar, executive engineer Rajendran and assistant executive engineer Kulandaivelu were also present during the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kuruvikkaran-salai-bridge-work-will-be-over-by-march-says-corpn/articleshow/78285682.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Master plan: Residents give suggestions to improve Delhi||NEW DELHI: As part of the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi-2041, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday held online public consultation with residents and RWAs of Group Housing Colonies of the city. “The meeting was held on WebEx online platform and around 70 residents and RWAs registered through emails,” a DDA spokesperson said. The meeting was chaired by Leenu Sahgal, Commissioner (Planning), DDA. “The main concerns shared by participants were issues related to shared facilities and spaces. The issues of access, maintenance and security of shared and common spaces, such as terraces, ground floor frontage, parks, common toilets, security facilities, etc, were also discussed,” the spokesperson added. “There was an insistence on promoting solar panel installation, underground cabling of electricity and optical fibre cable infrastructure,” he said. “The DDA public portal is open for all residents of Delhi to share their views for the future of the city that will become part of a larger vision and strategy for MPD-2041,” he said. Information about the upcoming weekly public consultations will be available on DDA’s twitter handle and also web portal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/master-plan-residents-give-suggestions-to-improve-city/articleshow/78284968.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Madurai temple deities got names after 17th century||MADURAI: The Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple structure, as it stands now, was constructed between 11th and 13th century AD and the deities were referred to as Meenakshi and Sundareswarar only after the 17th century AD, according to stone inscriptions in the temple which have been deciphered by archaeologists in detail. A team led by retired assistant director of the state archaeology department, C Santhalingam, had been on this work commissioned by the temple administration since July 2019. In most of the stone inscriptions, the deity Lord Shiva is referred to as Thiruvalavudaiyar Nayanar and the goddess as Angayarkanni and Thirukammak Kottathu Aludaiya Nachiar, which literally means possessor of the temple. The goddess’s first reference to the name Meenakshi appears in a stone inscription pertaining to AD 1752. The name Sundareswarar for Lord Shiva appears in an inscription of 1898 AD. Santhalingam told TOI that though the temple has been sung about in the Sangam era literature, there are no stone inscriptions available on its premises now pertaining to that period. Most of the 410 stone inscriptions they studied in the last one year pertained to the period between 12 and 13th century AD. The team which included curator of Madurai Government Museum Dr M Marudhu Pandian and archaeological officer B Asaithambi has taken copies of 410 inscriptions within the temple and brought it out in the form of a book to be released shortly. The inscriptions were never completely read and there are only some references to them in the annual report on Indian epigraphy in Mysuru. They were partially read between 1935 and 1936 as well as between 1941 and 1942. Among the 410 inscriptions, only 90 were available completely while 300 are fragmented and 23 are label inscriptions. A stone inscription that has no direct connection to the temple and pertaining to 700 AD is the first inscription in the book to be released. Popularly known as Vaigai bank inscription, it speaks about a check dam being constructed across the river. This is the oldest one found in the temple while all the others pertain to the later Pandiya period between AD 1190 and 1311. He said the present structure was constructed in the 13th century AD and the shrines of the Goddess and God were built simultaneously. Many of the inscriptions talk about the land parcels donated for worship in the temple. A stone inscription in the East tower of the temple speaks of a protest by 64 palanquin bearers. The land given to them during the period of Vijayaranga Sokkanarthar was taken back, which they protested. When the administration refused to pay heed to their demands, one of the protesters had jumped off the tower and committed suicide, says the record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deities-meenakshi-sundareswarar-got-names-after-17th-century/articleshow/78285684.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: PSPCL west division conducts raids, imposes fines of Rs 13.70 lakh||LUDHIANA: In a big crackdown against the consumers who are indulging in power thefts and other such acts, the west division of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) conducted a mass checking drive on Tuesday at several places. During the campaign, 484 connections were checked and 40 consumers were found committing various offences and cases were slapped against them and they were fined Rs 13.70 lakh. Giving more information, Varinderpal Singh Saini, chief engineer of the PSPCL, said, “In a crackdown against the consumers indulging in power thefts and committing other violations, on Tuesday, 18 teams of our Ludhiana west division conducted raids in various areas under Millergunj, Giaspura and Sahnewal offices, which include Himmatpura, Bajigar Mohalla, Dhandari Kalan, Guru Nanak Colony, Makkar Colony, Mahadev Nagar, Samrat Colony and Ganpati Enclave. During the entire action, a total of 484 connections were checked by our teams. At the end of the operation 21 cases of power theft were registered while 19 cases of unauthorised use of electricity and burnt meters were registered. We have also imposed fines totalling Rs 13,70,539 from the defaulters. Those violators who will not pay up the fine will be liable to face further action against them.” Saini added that, “This is our last warning to the violators who are indulging in causing revenue loss to the department and other misadventures that no one will be spared and actions like this will continue in coming days as well.” Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Sanjeev Prabhakar, deputy chief engineer, west circle, under whose supervision the whole drive was conducted, said, “The raids were a great success as a total 40 cases were registered in a single day. Meanwhile, our officials played a great role as despite such huge area under three offices our teams did a great job by simultaneously carrying the action at all places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pspcl-west-divn-conducts-raids-imposes-fines-of-rs-13-70-lakh/articleshow/78283484.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kochi||Verdict in NIA case against IS fighter likely tomorrow||KOCHI: Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi would pronounce on Friday the verdict in the Islamic State (IS) case relating to Subahani Haja Moideen of Thodupuzha allegedly travelling to IS-controlled territory in 2015 to join the terror organization and wage war against Iraq. The verdict would be historic as it is one of the first cases wherein Section 125 of the IPC for waging war against any Asiatic power in alliance with the government of India was invoked. Experts say that this could be the first such case in Kerala, and arguably the first ever. The special court on Wednesday considered the case and posted the verdict for Friday. According to NIA chargesheet, the case pertains to the criminal conspiracy hatched by members of the proscribed terrorist organization Islamic State (IS) to wage war against India, by collecting explosives, and Iraq, an Asiatic power in alliance with India. Moideen was charged in the case for knowingly and intentionally becoming a member of IS in April 2015. Moideen was the lone accused who faced trial. The chargesheet said that he travelled to IS-controlled territory in 2015 via Turkey and was trained by IS at Mosul in Iraq in combat and warfare, and was deployed by the terrorist organization in Iraq to wage war against the Asiatic power, in alliance with government of India. The case is a rarity as the accused allegedly fought a war abroad for a terrorist organization and returned to tell the tale. It was alleged that he returned after seeing a friend charred to death, and being unable to withstand the violence. Moideen was arrested in 2016 after NIA busted a group, Ansar-ul-Khilafah Kerala, which followed IS ideology from Kanakamala in Kannur. Moideen’s case was split and a separate chargesheet was filed since he allegedly went to Iraq. Apart from Section 125, he was charged under IPC sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 122 (collecting arms, etc, with intention of waging war against the government of India) and sections 20, 38 and 39 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. In the trial that began in January 2019, 46 witnesses were examined, including a diplomat who served at the Indian embassy in Baghdad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/verdict-in-nia-case-against-is-fighter-likely-tomorrow/articleshow/78283508.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Artillery barrel hit: Concerns over charge in ammo||NAGPUR: The 155x52 mm advanced towed artillery gun system (ATAGS), claimed to have the world’s longest range of 48km, suffered a barrel burst during trials last week. Now, concerns have been raised that the method of firing the ammunition used at present may affect the gun’s performance. The guns have been made by Bharat Forge and Tata Power, and were being tested with shells made by Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) at the Pokhran range when the accident took place. An investigation is underway in the matter. To achieve a higher range, a shell has to be fired with extra charge or explosive. In ATAGS, the shell was fired with seven charge modules. Higher charge increases the pressure, which, beyond a certain limit, can affect the shell’s movement. This can lead to accidents like barrel hit, said sources. It is learnt that concerns were raised about the safety of firing the shells with higher charge a few days before the accident. The OFB, which makes the shell, refused to comment on the issue. The ATAGS has been designed by Pune’s Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE), a unit of Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO). The gun made by Tata Power suffered the barrel hit. The barrel in both Tata and Bharat Forge guns have been made by the latter. The ATAGS is designed to achieve a range of 42km and beyond. In 2017, it had achieved a record range of 48km. The shells for 155mm calibre howitzers made by the ordnance factory are designed to be fired with up to six charge modules and handle pressure up to 340 megapascals. To make the shell fly over 40km, seven charge modules are used. The OFB shells are made under transfer of technology (TOT) from South African company Dennel. Even in the TOT, it has been specified that the gun can handle service pressure of 340 megapascals, or six charge modules at the most. This is called zone 6 ammunition, and what has been used in ATAGS was zone 7. Higher pressure due to zone 7 can lead to risks. Zone 6 is the standard world over, the sources said. OFB only makes zone 6 ammunition, which is in line with NATO standards. Even the 155x52 calibre mounted gun system developed by the OFB uses zone 6, a source said. An official in one of the private companies confirmed that the shell was fired with zone 7 ammunition to achieve a higher charge, and rejected any claim that they had received any warning. So far, both Bharat Forge and Tata guns have fired over 1,000 rounds using the zone 7 rounds. The ATAGS barrel is designed to handle 440 megapascals of pressure. “The pressure handling capacity is basically meant for the barrel but even the shell is expected to withstand similar levels,” the source said. A final investigation into the incident will only reveal the truth said the company official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/artillery-barrel-hit-concerns-over-charge-in-ammo/articleshow/78284996.cms||Shishir Arya
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Now, Palike to issue guidelines for public washrooms in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With the pandemic raging and cases surging, BBMP will soon issue guidelines on how public washrooms in Bengaluru should operate. The city has 418 public washrooms and over 70 e-toilets for which no specific guidelines have been issued since the Covid-19 outbreak. Recently, 65 more e-toilets were approved. Several citizens use public washrooms and frequently touched surfaces like taps, flushes, door knobs and washbasins are potential Covid-19 carriers. In addition, there is contact when money changes hand between users and caretakers. Randeep D, special commissioner, solid waste management, said, “We will issue SOPs by next week on how public washrooms are to operate, considering there is no way one can avoid not using them.” The washrooms were never shut since the outbreak but they did operate for shorter durations. Randeep said. “These are closed spaces and therefore strict sanitisation measures need to be taken by the washroom operator to minimize chances of spreading the virus,” he said. The cost currently for using such facilities is Rs 2 for urinals, Rs 5 for toilets and Rs 10 for a bath. Operators are responsible for keeping them clean. Specific guidelines for the operators in terms of how many times they need to clean it and how to avoid overcrowding will be soon issued by the Palike for better management. Masks will be made mandatory even inside the washroom and not just when one is standing in a queue. Users will also need to be careful and must ensure they do not unnecessarily touch any surface and avoid crowding. It is in the best interest of the public that soap is provided along with sanitizers at the entrance and the exit of the washroom, BBMP officials said. “Instructions have been issued to the operators that they must have sanitisers at entry/exit points,” Randeep said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-palike-to-issue-guidelines-for-public-washrooms-in-bluru/articleshow/78283518.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two malls fined Rs 18 lakh for illegal banners||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Wednesday penalised two malls on Wednesday for raising advertisement banners illegally. While GVK One Mall in Banjara Hills was slapped with Rs 16.5 lakh, Sujana Mall in Kukatpally was penalised with Rs 2 lakh. The penalty was levied by GHMC’s directorate of enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) after netizens posted the pictures of the illegal advertisements and tagged EVDM officials. As per the new advertisement policy, if the height of an unauthorised advertisement hoarding exceeds 15 ft, a penalty of Rs 1 lakh is imposed per day. Also, flashing lights in advertisements erected without permission also attracts penalty under the new law. While the management of GVK was not reachable, staffers of Sujana Mall said that they were unaware of the penalty. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-malls-fined-rs-18-lakh-for-illegal-banners/articleshow/78285003.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC poll: SEC to follow Bihar model amid Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to replicate Covid-19 measures taken during the upcoming Bihar assembly elections to conduct Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. The Bihar elections are likely to be held in October-November. “We will closely follow the Bihar assembly polls as it is the first election amid Covid-19. The model will be replicated and we will ensure all EC guidelines are followed,” an official from the State Election Commission said. As of now, the officials from district election authority, Hyderabad, are being trained on election duties. On Wednesday, GHMC deputy commissioners and two computer operators from each circle were trained on ‘Te-Poll’ application. So far, summary revision of electoral rolls, web-casting, finalising polling booths and identification of counting centres have been taken up. “In October and November, extensive summary revision of electoral rolls will be taken up. Addition of new voters, deleting voters who are no longer alive, updating details (address, name correction etc) will be taken up,” SEC chief C Partha Sarathi said. Identification of polling booths was nearly complete, while identification of counting centres has started. Election Watch, an umbrella organisation of various civil societies from Greater Hyderabad, on Wednesday met SEC officials on Wednesday. “SEC chief Partha Sarathi expressed his interest in engaging resident welfare associations (RWAs) and civil societies primarily for electoral roll updation and poll station management,” a statement issued by United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (U-FERWAS) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-poll-sec-to-follow-bihar-model-amid-covid-19/articleshow/78285002.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Manpreet Ayali leads Akalis tractor rally against ‘anti-farmer’ ordinances||LUDHIANA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers under the leadership of Dakha MLA Manpreet Ayali carried out a tractor rally on Wednesday from Sidhwan Bet to Baddowal while raising the demand for revocation of the three agricultural Bills. They claimed that these ordinances were anti-farmer and it would leave the farmers to remain at the mercy of corporate houses. The rally started from Sidhwan Bet to Savadi and then to Mullanpur to reach Baddowal. The Akali workers drove their tractors while holding black flags and raising slogans, demanding that the NDA government revoke the Bills immediately or be ready for an even more intense agitation. Addressing the farmers at Savadhi anaj mandi, Ayali said the SAD had been taking up the need for revocation of the agricultural ordinances immediately after they came into being following apprehensions expressed by farmers as well as party workers. He said it was unfortunate that the BJP did not take the farmers and as well as AD into confidence while framing the agricultural ordinances. He said the Centre also failed to allay the apprehensions of farmers and did not secure the MSP regime by making its continuation a part of the Bills. “Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Parliament for the interest of farming community,” he said. Ayali also took on chief minister Amarinder Singh for ‘betraying’ the farmers. He said the chief minister had earlier backstabbed farmers by taking false vows in the name of the holy Gutka Sahib. “Now, he has tried to deceive farmers yet again by becoming a part of the high powered committee constituted to frame the agricultural Bills even as he is shedding crocodile tears for the cause of the farming community on the other,” he added. The Dakha MLA said in his constituency most of the farmers were in support of Akali Dal and since he is also a farmer first, he had told the party high command about sentiments of farmers about these ordinances. He said he would not hesitate in taking more stringent steps if required because he was an MLA just because of these people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ayali-leads-akalis-tractor-rally-against-anti-farmer-ordinances/articleshow/78283513.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||NUJS to urge for spl CLAT date for Covid candidates||Kolkata: National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) on Wednesday decided to appeal to the Consortium of National Law Universities, the umbrella body that conducts the entrance tests to 22 law universities of the country, to allow Covid-positive CLAT applicants to appear for the exam on a later date. CLAT is slated for September 28. NUJS received a notification from the consortium on Tuesday night, saying that candidates, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and those who were in isolation on medical advice, would not be allowed to appear for CLAT on Monday. All candidates who have registered for the entrance test were sent this notification, prompting several queries as well as appeals by students. NUJS vice-chancellor Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty, also the CLAT convenor in Bengal, said the decision was taken at a joint meeting by the consortium but he would write an appeal to it, asking the members to consider holding a special exam later for candidates who would not be able to write the exam on Monday owing to Covid or being in isolation. “Though it’s finally a joint call, I will write to the consortium,” Chakraborty said. In the past, National Testing Agency (NTA) had announced that Covid-positive candidates or those in isolation, who could not take NEET, would be given a chance to appear for another exam, to be held specially for such candidates later. The two-hour entrance test from 2pm to 4 pm will be taken by 3,000 candidates in Bengal, 2,000 among them being from the city. In Kolkata, the exam will be conducted at one centre—at TCS Gitobitan at Sector V, Salt Lake. The exam will be organised by TCS iON.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nujs-to-urge-for-spl-clat-date-for-covid-candidates/articleshow/78285005.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Nuggets of wisdom flow from this cop at traffic signals||Madurai: An autorickshaw driver parked his vehicle in a corner of Melamadai junction and was glued to his mobile phone recently when suddenly, he heard this on the public address system at the junction, “Brother, if you twiddle your thumbs, you cannot come up in life. You have to work hard round the clock and save every penny. Only then you can buy another vehicle. If you work hard now, you don’t need to depend on anyone else when you turn 60.”Surprised, he looked around and found that it was none other than the traffic police officer stationed there who was giving him a piece of advice. For sometime now, the 54-year-old sub inspector, Palaniyandi, has been a source of stress-buster for commuters waiting for the green light at signals such as Suguna Junction, Melamadai Junction and Aavin junction, which have public-address system. He cracks jokes and gives light-hearted talks replete with pun and alliteration, all with a social message. He talks about discipline, health, importance of savings, family relationship, hard work and education.Hailing from Tirupuvanam, Palaniyandi joined police service as a constable after completing plus two, but extensive reading has stood him apart. “I used to read a lot whenever I find time, apart from tending crops in my native place. I would have spent around Rs 1 lakh on books so far” he says.When he was transferred to the traffic wing a year ago, he noticed that stress was high among commuters. People were not cheerful and happy while on the road even though they rode comfortable bikes and cars. He feels that being stressful was a recipe for causing accidents.“I decided to give a pep talk to make them realise how blessed human beings are. One has to be thankful for what he/she has in life. One can think about what has to be done next, but should not think about the person next door,” he said. Often, commuters stop by and thank him for the motivational talks. Some even drape him with a shawl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nuggets-of-wisdom-flow-from-this-cop-at-traffic-signals/articleshow/78285685.cms||V Devanathan
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC to take up cleaning of areas along main roads every Sunday||LUDHIANA: In the coming days the city roads will get a new cleaner look, especially the central verges and green belts, as the civic body is going to launch a special drive every Sunday. The main roads will be taken up in a manner that proper cleaning of these could take place and green belts could also be maintained and cleaned. Most of the residents had complained about poor upkeep of roadside green belts, where trash could be seen lying, including the central verges. The wild growth on the central verges was also common on most of the main roads. The main ones like Chandigarh road, Ferozepur road, Sherpur to Jalandhar bypass, etc. will be taken up one by one. The officials have selected Sunday for the activity as machinery and staff remains free and no official work takes place then. Sources revealed that such drives were being carried out to create a vibe among the city residents that the civic body was taking up the all-round sanitation drives. The aim is to improve ranking in Swachhta Survekshan. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal while confirming the move said, “From next Sunday, all main roads will be taken up one by one and I will personally monitor the ongoing work.” He said each road would get two officials for regular checking and those officials would be responsible for cleaning and maintaining the green belt. Meanwhile, city residents said that the move was good but it should be followed regularly. A resident of Civil Lines, Harjot Kaur, said, :”It is a good initiative by the civic body officials to clean the central verges because sweepers sweep only along the sides of the roads but central verges or green belts are not taken up on regular basis.” She said this drive would become successful if it is carried out regularly and monitoring was also done properly. However, another resident from Model Town Extension Gurwant Singh said the authorities take up the survey at one time but then it gradually fades away with time. He said along with main roads some internal lanes should also be taken up so that there should be overall cleaning of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-take-up-cleaning-of-areas-along-main-roads-every-sunday/articleshow/78283502.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Demand surges for UG pure science courses||MANGALURU: The undergraduate commerce courses have continued to remain the most popular in undivided Dakshina Kannada, but the demand has surged two-fold for undergraduate pure science courses over the years. The educational institutions attribute a drastic shift to pure sciences due to saturation in the engineering stream. Besides, aspirants who want to have an illustrious career and get into research are inclined towards pure science courses. SDM College, Ujire, has 240 seats in pure science undergraduate courses. Until recently, it had only one batch, which had less than 120 students . “The intake doubled. Not only that, we are also taking in 10% extra seats,” says Satishchandra S, principal, SDM College, Ujire. According to Satishchandra there are two major reasons for the paradigm shift. There is a threat or uncertainty in the field of technology or engineering courses. Many engineering graduates find it hard to secure a job. The second reason is that the field which was once booming, is now stagnant. “Youngsters have also realized that getting into engineering-related jobs takes away personal comforts. It has graveyard shifts, deadlines and at the same time monotonous work. They have realized that getting into basic science opens up for new perspectives and vast opportunities,” he explained. Another science professor, explaining about the opportunities for undergraduate science graduates, said that the sky’s the limit. “One can get into teaching, research, government sector and many other fields if one takes up pure science. For many, this field becomes a passion oriented career,” he said. Another reason for increased demand could be that candidates who don’t get seats in any entrance examination finally settle for science undergraduate courses. The basic science subjects include physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics. “These pure science courses had no takers for the last 15 years. This year all 450 seats of various science stream combinations have got filled. The reason is that very few students are keen on taking up engineering compared to previous years,” says Richard Gonsalves, associate professor, St Aloysius College, Mangaluru. Commerce courses have been in high demand this year for students at the undergraduate level. Educational institutions say that commerce seats have filled up, but that there is still demand for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/demand-surges-for-ug-pure-science-courses/articleshow/78282300.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||70% accidents result of overspeeding in Hyderabad: Traffic police||HYDERABAD: Close to a thousand cases of overspeeding have been booked in the past three months in Hyderabad and its outskirts. Traffic police and experts said a majority of the accidents are caused by overspeeding and negligently driving.  “Nearly 70% of accidents on city roads, highways and ORR occur due to overspeeding. The speed limit is 100km/hour on ORR, but people tend to cruise at 120 km/hour and beyond,” said a senior traffic cop. In the last two weeks alone, Cyberabad traffic police recorded a total of 138 accidents, of which 50 occurred due to overspeeding. Last month, two friends died after their bike hit a divider while taking a turn in Mailardevpally, while cops said overspeeding was the cause of death. The traffic police booked over 1,000 cases of overspeeding using speed guns, but road safety experts said offenders often go scot-free. “There is no clarity on the speed limit on city roads,” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of Indian Federation of Road Safety. “Overspeeding is dangerous. Counselling sessions must be conducted for the offenders, as it impacts not only the drivers but safety of others too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-accidents-result-of-overspeeding-traffic-police/articleshow/78285008.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Joint commissioner, Gadvasu scientists visit dairy complexes||LUDHIANA: In order to get a clear view with regard to dairy farmers in the dairy complex at Haibowal and on Tajpur road, joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, along with scientists from Gadvasu, visited the dairy complexes on Wednesday. The main reason for visiting the dairy complexes was to get an idea about deficiencies in the existing system at these complexes so that these could be avoided at places where new dairy complexes would be shifted. A meeting of high-power committee has been fixed for Thursday, where all these things will be discussed. The officials also met the dairy farmers and asked them about their preferences. The dairy owners have demanded that they should not be shifted to a far-off place. Secondly, they demanded that they should be allowed for change of land use without paying anything to the MC. The joint commissioner said they had to put a report in the meeting on Thursday about the visit of Gadvasu scientists at both dairy complexes and also they wanted to know the views of dairy farmers as well. He said they would mention in their report about the demand of dairy farmers that they want CLU free of cost, while Haibowal dairy owners were even ready to leave the site on their own if they are not made to pay any CLU charges. He said the decision had to take place at government level and they would submit their report to the committee members for the same. The issue of shifting the dairy units is going on for a long time and whenever the Buddha Nullah pollution issue is taken up, the pollution created by the dairy units also gets highlighted. At Haibowal dairy complex there is one bio-CNG plant but it is not sufficient to take the load of waste being generated from the dairy units. When this plant was established the number of cattle were less but now numbers have increased. However, at the Tajpur road dairy complex there is no facility to tackle the waste being generated from the dairy units and everything is going into Buddha Nullah directly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jt-commissioner-gadvasu-scientists-visit-dairy-complexes/articleshow/78283533.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Three firms come forward for ICCC contract||LUDHIANA: In order to finalise the firm to hand over the working of integrated command and control centre (ICCC), a presentation was organised on Wednesday, where three companies participated. The officials claimed that they would check technical abilities of these firms now and then there would be a final decision regarding the finalising of the company. The ICCC will check the CCTV cameras already installed in city and more will be installed to keep a check on the ongoing civic facilities. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that they had called up the companies for giving presentation so that they could take a decision on which firm should get the contract. He said they would try to add features like keeping a tab on the working of employees in field so that no employee should miss his duty. In this project more than 300 CCTV cameras are to be installed on city roads along with the already installed 1,400 CCTV cameras in control of the traffic police. Once the ICCC will become operational, the civic officials will also get control of all CCCTV cameras to keep a tab on traffic and other activities. As per officials, the control will remain with the MC as well as the traffic police. The civic body officials said the project would cost Rs 55 crore. Since July, last year, efforts are going on for hiring a contractor. It was the fourth attempt now and this time three firms had come forward for the project. This project can help in improving urban safety and security and quick response in case of any emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-firms-come-forward-for-iccc-contract/articleshow/78283517.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Madurai||VOC Port makes rapid strides in handling long wind blades||Madurai: The V O Chidambaranar Port handled windmill blades of length 74.90 metre, the longest of its kind handled through Indian ports recently.According to a press release, the Panama flagged vessel ‘M V Ginkgo Arrow’ was berthed at 23.30 hrs on September 15 at the port and loaded 50 windmill towers and 33 wind blades. The loading of the 74.9-metre-long wind blades were carried out diligently using the ship’s hydraulic cranes and the vessel sailed from the port on September 20 to the port of New Orleans, USA. The Windmill blades and towers were safely transported by freight carriers, using specialized wind blade and tower transportation trucks all the way from Oragadam, Chennai, to Tuticorin. It is stated that V O Chidambaranar Port is witnessing a remarkable surge in handling wind blades and wind blade towers. The Port has handled 881 wind blades and 397 wind blade towers as on 21 September during this financial year. Chairman, VOC Port Trust T K Ramachandran, IAS congratulated the port officials, agents, transporters and exporters for their commendable feat. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/voc-port-makes-rapid-strides-in-handling-long-wind-blades/articleshow/78285687.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Clear confusion on GHMC wards, says T Cong||Hyderabad: Congress has demanded that the TRS government clarify whether it would go to polls to the existing 150 wards in GHMC or increase the wards’ numbers before conducting the elections. Telangana Congress election coordination committee, which held a meeting under the chairmanship of Marri Shashidhar Reddy on Wednesday, said the govt should notify the reservations of SC, ST and BC wards advance and not hours before the election notification is issued as was done in 2016. In the past, a lot of discrepancies came up in the enumeration of BC voters as the data was manipulated for the ruling party, he alleged. “The process of reservation of wards was doneto suit the needs of the ruling party,” Shashidhar said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clear-confusion-on-ghmc-wards-says-t-cong/articleshow/78285011.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Academics seek syllabus cut in curtailed session||Kolkata: Only a reduced syllabus could be completed in the curtailed timeframe under the UGC’s proposed 2020-21 academic calendar, said academics and university administrators. Otherwise, completing the syllabus and the mandatory coursework in a six-day-a-week format was impractical, they said. Going by the proposed calendar, the UGC has set a 16-week semester with a week’s preparatory leave before the first semester exam from March 8, 2021 and the second semester exam from August 9, 2021. “UGC has not said anything about cutting down on the syllabus yet. According to the norms, 80% of undergraduate syllabi across universities should maintain uniformity. Each university has the autonomy to decide on only 20% of the remaining curriculum. So, there is little room for universities to reduce syllabus. UGC has to decide on it,” said a senior JU professor. “Given that school boards have already adopted reduced syllabus to adjust with the shorter school academic calendar, the UGC, too, may take the route.” Another senior academic also said, “It is for the UGC to come up with a solution. They have suggested online, off-line or blended mode of teaching but for all practical purposes, universities and colleges are facing challenges in conducting online classes.” According to a professor, barring at a few city-based colleges, teachers at most institutes were having a tough time conducting online classes. In a few cases, all that the teachers could do was send coursework on WhatsApp groups. Even professor at Jadavpur and Presidency universities reportedly had teething problems reaching out to all students. The other problem, teachers said, were the holidays scheduled in between. A senior CU faculty members said curtailing a six-month semester to four-and-a-half months posed a challenge as everything had to be finished within a short period. According to the proposed calendar, a week-long summer break is slated for late August 2021, between two sessions, but no provision has been made for a winter break. A university administrator said, “We will inform the state and UGC about the logistics challenges if the proposals are firmed up without reducing the syllabus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/academics-seek-syllabus-cut-in-curtailed-session/articleshow/78285018.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held for harassing housewife||Hyderabad: Two persons were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly harassing and blackmailing a housewife from KPHB Colony. The accused were identified as K Madhav, 39, and Raghav, 41. Posing as an astrologist, Madhav used to visit the victim’s house in his neighbourhood to perform pujas and rituals. According to the complainant, he advised her to re-marry her husband as a remedy. Later, in the absence of her husband, Madhav, on the pretext of an alleged remedy and with the help of his friend Raghav, married her at a temple at Pragathi Nagar. Later, he started harassing her to get a car and another house to lead a family life with him. Fed up with his harassment, the woman lodged a complaint and police arrested the duo on Wednesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-harassing-housewife/articleshow/78285014.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||From Delhi University to dream job? Covid can’t stop them||NEW DELHI: It is not all gloomy for collegian job seekers despite the coronavirus looming large over the economy. Placement data from Delhi University shows that recruitment offers have not ceased or even slowed down as expected but increased relative to past years between March and June. In the first quarter of 2020-21, the offers have been encouraging, providing hope for better things in the remaining months of the financial year. At Shri Ram College of Commerce, the response was marginally muted. The highest package offered was Rs17 lakh p.a. against Rs31 lakh last year. And also while the average salary offered was Rs6.8 lakh per annum compared with Rs8.4 lakh last year, there was, however, an almost 32% increase in the average offers made. Sanshita Vij, senior co-ordinator of the placement cell at SRCC, said, “The placement process was digitalised, but we were still worried that Covid could dampen recruitment. However, we noticed more companies wanting to hire people to work remotely, so we saw, statistically, a rise in hirings.” Even at Hindu College, when the 2019-20 placement season ended, the average compensation package was Rs7.5 lakh p.a., the highest being Rs31 lakh. This year, the top offer was Rs29 lakh. “The average salary offered has gone up to Rs8.4 lakh p.a. this year,” disclosed Shankar Kumar, faculty coordinator of Hindu’s placement cell. “Total placements till date number 22 with 7-8 months still to go. Last year, we placed 66 students. So, the scenario is not at all gloomy.” Recruiters from consulting and finance firms, FMCGs and startups picked up aspirants from Lady Shri Ram College for Women for a higher average remuneration offer of Rs9.4 lakh per annum, with the top offer being Rs30 lakh per annum. There was a 45% increase in new recruiters at Hansraj College, where the average compensation offered was Rs5.7 lakh per annum. At Indraprastha College for Women, the average salary offered was 19.1% higher than in the previous year. “Even in an already bleak job market when the Covid outbreak has taken a significant toll on the economy, the placement cell of the college saw an impressive increase in the average salary package, gross package value, off-campus opportunities and the number of interested companies,” said Indraprastha’s placement co-ordinator. “These companies hired a significant number of students from our campus.” Internships too are evoking interest. SRCC saw an astounding surge in recruiter interests, with FMCG giant HUL offering the highest stipend of Rs1.5 lakh per month for summer internship. At LSR, the highest internship compensation offered was Rs2,25,000 for five weeks, the average being Rs16,000 a month. At Hindu College, the average internship stipend was Rs15,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-du-to-dream-job-covid-cant-stop-them/articleshow/78285113.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 24, 2020||Kochi||Survivor to be cross examined from October 5||KOTTAYAM: Cross examination of the survivor in nun rape case will begin on October 5. Chief examination of the survivor was completed on September 17. Additional district court 1 judge G Gopakumar heard the objection of defence lawyer on Wednesday on a petition filed by prosecution. The court will pronounce the verdict on the petition on October 1. The court through an order has barred media from covering in-camera proceedings of the case. The court had given strict direction to Bishop Franco Mulakkal to be present in court without fail during the entire trial of the case. The charges against Mulakkal are under IPC sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 376C (sexual intercourse by person in authority), 377 (unnatural sex), 506 (1) (punishment for criminal intimidation), 376(2) (k) (being in a position of control or dominance over a woman, commits rape on such woman), 376 (2) (n) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). The chargesheet in the nun rape case was filed on April 9, 2019. Mulakkal, who faces charges of wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation in the case, can get life imprisonment or imprisonment of not less than 10 years, if proved guilty. The survivor in the case had filed a complaint with Kottayam police chief about the alleged sexual abuse from 2014 to 16 on June 27, 2018. The next day, June 28, the statement of the survivor was recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/survivor-to-be-cross-examined-from-oct-5/articleshow/78283541.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covid tally touching 8,500-mark in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: The Covid-19 caseload jumped up to 8,499 with addition of 210 new cases on Wednesday. Two deaths were recorded during the day taking the toll to 124. The day also witnessed discharge of 147 patients and the number of cured patients increased to 4,901, leaving 3,447 under treatment in the district. The two deceased included a 45-year-old woman from Ghutkala ward and a 34-year-old person from Nehru Nagar ward in Chandrapur city. Both the deceased had co-morbidities and died at GMCH during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-tally-touching-8-5k-mark-in-chandrapur/articleshow/78285015.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Release white paper on Hyd spending: BJP||Hyderabad: Bharatiya Janata Party floor leader in the legislative council N Ramchander Rao on Wednesday demanded that the government release a white paper on the total amount spent for development of Hyderabad in the last four years. Addressing media persons here, the BJP MLC said: “Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said the government has spent Rs 65,000 crore on development works in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, particularly in Hyderabad. But, the city is experiencing innumerable problems, including bad roads and open nalas, causing inconvenience to residents.” Ramchander Rao said the recent rains had claimed two lives just a day after the minister’s claim of spending Rs 65,000 crore. “Remember chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and KTR have promised to make Hyderabad into a world-class city,” he said. He alleged that TRS leaders are making false promises just before the GHMC elections to win the confidence of voters. “ Voters have realised their mistake and this time they will not fall into the trap,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-white-paper-on-hyd-spending-bjp/articleshow/78285048.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government tables report on encroachment of Wakf land||BENGALURU: A controversial report linking several Congress politicians, current and former, to encroachment of Wakf properties was tabled in the assembly on Wednesday, eight years after it was submitted. The names of sitting Congress legislators NA Haris, Tanveer Sait and Kaneez Fatima, member of legislative council CM Ibrahim, Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge, former MP Rehman Khan and disqualified MLA R Roshan Baig, among others, feature in the report. The Karnataka State Minorities Commission headed by Anwar Manippady prepared the report in 2012. The claim that Congress figures were involved in encroachment of Wakf land is expected to embarrass the party, though it has maintained from the start that the report was politically motivated and far from the truth. The previous Congress government led by Siddaramaiah decided not to table an action taken report on the findings, categorically rejecting them. The BS Yediyurappa government has decided to breathe fresh life into the issue, tabling the entire report, including the details of Wakf land that the commission had said was encroached upon and the names of people allegedly involved. Manippady claimed in the report that this scam was bigger than the 2G scam, estimating that Wakf land worth Rs 2 lakh crore was either encroached upon or sold off to private entities. The report also names IAS and IPS officers, who were allegedly involved in dodgy deals for thousands of acres, and former chief minister Dharam Singh, ex-Union minister CK Jaffer Sharief and former minister Qamar-Ul-Islam, who are no more. Terming the people involved in the encroachment and sale as “Wakf land mafia”, the report claims 2,700 acres of property in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara and Koppal districts alone was illegally taken over. The commission had cited this as the “tip of the iceberg”, saying a detailed investigation was needed. In 2012, it recommended suspension of the then Karnataka State Board of Wakfs for one year, an inquiry by the Lokayukta, formation of a task force, and creation of a high-powered committee to handle the board’s responsibilities for the interim period. Report politically motivated The report and the move to table it are politically motivated. The report seeks to tarnish the names of our senior leaders. The person who prepared it was a BJP member. Saleem Ahmed, working president, KPCC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-govt-tables-report-on-encroachment-of-wakf-land/articleshow/78286462.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Rising cases of dengue posing challenge to health department||LUDHIANA: With the number of dengue cases being reported amid the current Covid-19 scenario, it is a big challenge for the health department to check the rise in such cases. Even as the state has more than 1,500 active cases of Covid, dengue cases have already started to be reported in the district. As per the health department records, till September 21 evening, 20 cases of dengue have been reported in the ongoing rainy season. Health department officials said that of these cases, four were reported after September 20. They added that whereas majority of the cases were reported from the city, two cases till now are from Sahnewal and one from Manupur and one suspected case is from Khanna area. Health department officials said that the serious aspect of the problem was that the number of cases of dengue till date had been more than what were reported till September end last year when just 12 cases were there. They added that the number was more or less the same in the few years before that as by September end around 30-31 cases would come, including in 2017 when the number of cases during the same period was 31. A health department officer asking not to be named said that they expect the cases of dengue to reach 30 by September end and increase in October and November. He added that during these months the day temperature hovers around 20 degrees Celsius, which is considered favourable for breeding of mosquitoes causing dengue. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga agreed that dengue was a challenge, especially when they were fighting Covid-19. He added that on Tuesday they had held a meeting with all stake holders to discuss steps to check the dengue. “Apart from municipal corporation teams that are also working on checking dengue, we have also constituted 18 teams comprising two members each that have an assistant malaria officer (AMO). They have started visiting each sub-division for checking. Apart from that, we have divided city into two parts and have deputed male supervisors and multi-purpose health workers, who will monitor the high risk areas. Our anti-larvae workers and multi-purpose health workers and breeding checkers have been deputed to survey high risk areas from where cases are coming. They will search source of infection and work on source reduction,” said the civil surgeon. “They will check breeding of mosquitoes by using larvicides,” he added. A health department officer said that they have also started checking coolers and would ensure that water is not accumulated in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rising-cases-of-dengue-posing-challenge-to-health-dept/articleshow/78283551.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Criminals use masks as ‘double protection’, from CCTV cams too||Madurai: Though many of us do not comply with the mask rule strictly, there are a few who wear masks promptly and strictly. According to police, anti-social elements who indulge in crimes do not fail to wear it as it helps them cover their face from getting exposed to CCTV cameras. Masks have made crime detecting a bit difficult. When a crime happens usually police used to check CCTV footages as a first step towards identifying the culprits and for some vital clues. A habitual offender can be identified using the footage. In some cases, police used to circulate screen grabs of suspects to get information from public. A police officer from Town Police Range said that mask rule has made crime detecting a little more complicated. Criminals religiously wear masks promptly as a double protection, from Covid-19 and from getting caught by police using footages.Another police officer said, earlier, many criminals used to wear helmets when it was made compulsory so that they would not be stopped at vehicles checks.However, a police officer said that detecting cases using face is only an aspect in crime detection. There are other information in solving cases which include tracing details of vehicles used by criminals, finger prints, modus operandi of the criminals and mobile phone tracking.“Offenders may think that they may escape if they cover their face using a mask. But we are far more equipped in cracking cases than only relying on CCTV footages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/criminals-use-masks-as-double-protection-from-cctv-cams-too/articleshow/78285705.cms||V Devanathan
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Consortium bars infected aspirants from taking common law test||BENGALURU: Aspirants who have tested positive for Covid-19 and those in quarantine will not be allowed to take the Common Law Admission Test 2020 slated to be held from 2pm to 4pm on Monday (September 28). The Consortium of National Law Universities issued a fresh set of guidelines on Wednesday for CLAT aspirants and one rule stated, "All candidates who have tested positive and are under medical surveillance or in isolation will not be permitted to take the CLAT 2020 examination." The move follows other national entrance exams like NEET and JEE, which had also barred infected candidates from taking the exams. This had led to a backlash with aspirants taking to Twitter to express their disappointment. But a member of the Consortium said, "We are bound by government regulations, but we're also thinking of ways to help such candidates." The guidelines state students will have to write roll numbers on rough sheets and dispose of them in a drop-box before leaving the examination hall. The UG question paper will have 150 questions and PG will have 120 questions. Each wrong answer will carry negative marking of 0.25 marks. Students will have to carry gloves, sanitisers, masks, a self-health declaration and a transparent water bottle, admit card and any government photo ID proof. Candidates must reach test centres an hour before the start of the examination. They will not be allowed to enter after 15 minutes of exam starting Any electronic and communication devices such as mobile phones, watches, calculator, headphones, etc are not allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/consortium-bars-infected-aspirants-from-taking-common-law-test/articleshow/78283603.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Madurai||Hope drives them on path to recovery||Madurai: Drivers of autorickshaws, cabs and omnibuses have been among the worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. While they fear they could contract the virus from negligent customers, the latter are apprehensive about the cleanliness of public transport vehicles. But the drivers see a ray of hope as people have started travelling though they fear a spike in cases could once again take them back to torrid times. Bad news came with new auto For Mohammed Lateef Sha, 42, an autorickshaw driver of Ellis Nagar, life has been a crawl back to normal as his trips earn him barely Rs 500 a day. Before lockdown, he earned Rs 800 to 1,000 at least 20 days a month. "I used to go as an acting driver too, making Rs 600 a day for local trips and Rs 1,000 for outstation," he said. His wife is a homemaker. His teenaged daughter goes to a special school while the younger one is a class VII student in a private school. The family needs Rs 30,000 a month so that he can pay Rs 8,000 for the loan he availed of to buy a new autorickshaw, Rs 3,000 rent and other expenses. He sincerely hopes things will get better. Bus drivers miss ‘bata’ From earning around Rs 30,000 a month, omni bus driver P Balamurugan, 42, has borrowed Rs 60,000 during the lockdown to run his family. The private driver, who shuttled between the southern districts and Chennai, Bengaluru and Vizag for 23 years, used to rely more on incentives (batta) than monthly salary for a decent living. The monthly salary of the drivers of nearly 60 buses owned by his employer is Rs 10,000. "But, I used to earn batta of Rs 1,750 for a round trip between the south and Chennai", he said. With some additional trips he made up to Rs 35,000 a month. Borrowings have increased Balamurugan’s total debt to more than Rs 2 lakh. He is hopeful of the government waiving the quarterly taxes imposed on omni buses during the lockdown and lifting restrictions on using AC and reduced occupancy of seats, similar to government buses. "My house owner has been gracious to allow me pay rent dues for the last six months later when I start earning," he said. It’s a longwait for taxi drivers Unlock with e-pass restrictions was no different from total lockdown for cab drivers like M Muthukumar, 29, who works for a cab aggregator as customers were still afraid to travel. “Last month we had trips for Rs 700 to Rs 800 a day. After the government cancelled e-pass we are now getting trips for Rs 1,500 a day. But we are completely out of business on most days. We have to have trips for Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 a day so that we will have some money after commission for the aggregator, vehicle due, fuel and running expenses," he said. He recalled his taxi having run for Rs 24,000 in six days just before the lockdown and he earned Rs 6,000. "We used to have 20 to 22 local trips a day," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hope-drives-them-on-path-to-recovery/articleshow/78285723.cms||M K Ananth
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Drug peddler arrested, 150gm opium seized||Hyderabad: An inter-state drug peddler was arrested and 150 grams of opium was seized from his possession at Nallakunta on Wednesday. Task Force sleuths apprehended Dinesh Kumar, 25, a private employee from Rajasthan. Dinesh has been staying at Prashanth Nagar in Kapra for the last six years working at a hardware store. Dinesh has been addicted to opium. Due to the lockdown, he lost his job and returned to his native place. Due to desperation, Dinesh hatched a plan to sell opium in Hyderabad and, as per a plan, he procured 1 kilo of opium from a contact in Rajasthan in the first week of September and came to Hyderabad.  “Dinesh sold a gram of opium for Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,600 to customers,” Task Force inspector S Raghavendra said. Task Force team apprehended the accused at Nallakunta and seized 150 grams of opium, a cell phone and a bike from his possession. The accused along with the seized property have been handed over to Nallakunta polcie for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-peddler-arrested-150gm-opium-seized/articleshow/78285043.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Government to move legally against media for ‘errant’ reporting||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to initiate legal proceedings and also to file a complaint at the Press Council of India against a section of the media which misreported the Secretariat fire incident. “The government decided to seek legal opinion on filing defamation suit against the newspapers and other media which reported that the chief minister and the chief secretary are behind the Secretariat fire,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He, however, didn’t reveal the names of media organizations that the government alleges to have misreported the fire incident and against whom legal action would be initiated. The CM alleged that the media did not go by scruples while reporting the Secretariat fire incident. Instead, they reported that the chief minister and the chief secretary were behind the fire. “Had they quoted this as allegations of someone, we could have understood. But it was not so. The media themselves opiniated that the CM and chief secretary are behind the fire, which cannot be justified,” said the chief minister. The advocate general has given opinion to state government that it can go ahead with the defamation suit against media. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said, “It is an attempt to silence the media which are criticizing the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-move-legally-against-media-for-errant-reporting/articleshow/78283614.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Seven deaths take Yavatmal’s Covid toll to 232||YAVATMAL: The district recorded seven deaths, including three from Yavatmal city, and two each from Umarkhed and Digras. The toll has reached 232. The district reported 239 new cases, including highest 79 from Yavatmal city, taking the caseload to 7,624. According to sources in GMC, there are 526 patients under treatment and 726 in home isolation. The day also saw 115 patients getting discharge, taking the number of recoveries past the 6,000-mark to reach 6,140. Divisional commissioner Piyush Singh inaugurated government scheme ‘My family, My responsibility’ in Babhulgaon tehsil. Volunteers are visiting door-to-door urging people to provide exact information about health of their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-deaths-take-yavatmals-covid-toll-to-232/articleshow/78285073.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Mullanpur Dakha: Congress tries to outdo SAD in mobilising crowds||LUDHIANA: Mullanpur Dakha turned out to be battleground of rallies on Wednesday as Congress and SAD both tried to outdo each other by mobilising huge crowds for tractor rally against the farm Bills passed by the Centre. In an effort to score over present SAD MLA Manpreet Ayali, Congress leader Captain Sandeep Sandhu organised the rally the same day and two hours before Ayali’s rally. Even after Sandhu gave a call for the rally on Tuesday night after Ayali’s announcement, huge crowds of party workers, farmers and villagers turned up at Sandhu’s rally. Though there is no clarity whether or not rally of any party had any permission from authorities but incidents of violations of social distancing were quite visible in Sandhu’s rally as well. The rally which started from Mullanpur ground near a dargah started at 8am and continued till afternoon as it passed through several villages of Mullanpur-Dakha constituency. In order to keep the enthusiasm of his workers and farmers on a high , Sandhu himself drove a tractor and at several spots he interacted with the villagers from where his cavalcade passed. Addressing the crowds, he said, “This is a very small contribution from our side in the campaign against the atrocities of the Centre against the poor farmers and farm workers. This is just the start and we have to ensure that we get our voice heard till Delhi. Our chief minister Amarinder Singh has already said that we will do anything to ensure that these Bills are rolled back.” Sandhu added, “Both SAD and BJP are trying to kill farmers who have been serving the nation for more than 50 years. SAD also must answer on its double standards and stop playing sacrifice card. If they were so serious and concerned about interests of farmers, then why in the first place they signed the farm ordinances and now their Union minister has resigned from the cabinet. SAD has been fully exposed in front of the Punjabis and the party has now lost the little bit of ground it was left with.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-tries-to-outdo-sad-in-mobilising-crowds/articleshow/78283586.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Depressed teenage girl commits suicide in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: A 14-year-old girl was found hanging in her house under mysterious circumstances on Wednesday morning. According to the family, the girl was upset and depressed for the past some time. However, nobody knows the reason behind it. The girl has been identified as Aarti Yadav of Mahadev Nagar of Kanganwal area. She was a class IX student and was at home due to lockdown. Madho Das, father of the teenage girl, said that his daughter was depressed for the past some time. They had also asked the reason for it but she did not tell anything. On Tuesday night, the entire family had dinner and went for sleep. On Wednesday morning, when he woke up he found the girl missing from the bedroom. He started looking for him and found her hanging in another room from a ceiling fan. The father then raised an alarm and with the help of neighbours he took the girl to a nearby private hospital. There the doctors declared her dead. The police was immediately called. ASI Opinderjit Singh, in-charge, police post, Kanganwal, said that the police had not recovered any suicide note from the spot. This is a mysterious death of a teenage girl. The family is yet to record their statement for further proceedings. Meanwhile, the body has been sent to civil hospital for autopsy. Further action will depend on the basis of the autopsy report and statements recorded by the family of Aarti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/depressed-teenage-girl-commits-suicide/articleshow/78283604.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Distancing, quick sampling, early result make citizens flock to RPTS test centre||Nagpur: Rishikesh, a resident of Manewada, wakes up around 4.30am and leaves for Regional Police Training School (RPTS) at Surendra Nagar, around 7 km away on Wednesday. Though he reaches the RPTS at 5.15am, he is still not in the first five to be enrolled for an RT-PCR test done by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) here. Along with him, there are people from Jaitala, Mankapur, Civil Lines and other places who have opted for RPTS over the testing centre in their areas. The sample collection starts at 12 noon but people queue up here hours before.Less crowding, quick sampling and early result are the main reasons they give for choosing RPTS centre over other six RT-PCR centres.The first person to reach RPTS centre volunteers to prepare a list of people on ‘first come, first served’ basis. Only 50 tokens are distributed later in the day. Around 6am, when TOI reached the testing centre, 25 people had already enrolled while many more continued to arrive. Those coming before 7am are mostly the ones who had returned without giving their swab sample a day before. “I came to know of the token system on Tuesday. Without it, we have to wait until all in the queue are tested. So I came today,” said Chaitram Sahare, who works in a furniture shop.Centre incharge Dr Manoj Morey said a token system has been introduced to ensure there is no crowding and people don’t have to stand for long in the queue. “Four to five family members are accepted against each token. The token is given as per serial order of arrival,” he said.Samples from the centre are sent directly to NEERI lab where Dr Krishna Khairnar has developed a new, efficient testing method. Doctors and people in the know are also referring many to RPTS due to this development.“We are collecting dry swab samples. It is collected in the virus transport media (VTM) tube without the liquid. Only the swab stick is taken in the tube. Dr Khairnar’s method helps get the result within 3 to 4 hours,” said Dr Morey.Other RT-PCR centres at Nagpur University lower hostel, Morris College Girls Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Raj Nagar PWD quarters and Pachpaoli CCC have been sending samples to IGGMCH labs from where they are distributed to different labs.As each lab is facing its own problems from machine malfunction to staff testing positive, the result don’t come for two or three days.Based on serial order in the list, citizens form a queue around 9am while the RPTS centre staff issues tokens. When the gates are opened around 10.30am, people call their relatives for registration and sample registration form (SRF) number generation. The SRF number facilitates real time entry of patient details and test result on ICMR portal.Dr Morey said once the enrolled ones are done, walk-ins too are accepted. “This system cuts the overall PPE kit usage for swab collection team and other staff,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/distancing-quick-sampling-early-result-make-citizens-flock-to-rpts-test-centre/articleshow/78282445.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 24, 2020||Mangaluru||NMPT wants fisheries department to follow protocol as per international regulations||MANGALURU: The New Mangalore Port Trust has urged the department of fisheries to follow protocol, in permitting the entry of fishing vessels that are in distress, inside the port. “The port as per ministry of home affairs guidelines comes under International Ship and Port Safety (ISPS) regulations, which is an international security regulation. Failure to adhere to ISPS could lead to EXIM cargo from the port being stopped,” warned Akkaraju Venkata Ramana, chairman. The port offers sanctuary to fishing trawlers in distress. Since the port is governed by ISPS regulations, Ramana said the port has informed the department in writing long back to follow well documented digitised procedures to balance between regulations and requirements of fishing trawlers, to ease the burden of local fishermen when they are in distress. However, the department has never tried to work on it and acts as a silent spectator. Despite repeated follow-ups and in the absence of a well-defined system, the international shipping community and the ministry will construe as breach of security to allow fishing trawlers inside the port. “If we do not follow ISPS regulations, then the international maritime community will stop NMPT from handling EXIM cargo. CISF manages security at NMPT. It is only the CISF that can allow any fishing boat or trawler inside only after proper authorisation and identification. This is imperative in that there is the possibility or threat that terrorists might hijack local fishing trawlers and enter the port. This makes it all the more imperative that entry of any boat or trawler must be done through a well-defined, quick and easy digitised platform,” Ramana said. “We have urged the department who deal with fishing trawlers to coordinate and identify the trawlers in distress through mobile app or digital communication,” he said. Ruing that this was not happening, he said the department expects the port to allow fishing trawlers and boats to enter the port as and when they are in distress, without following proper digital procedures. “We are doing so after verifying credentials with local fishermen over the phone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nmpt-wants-fisheries-department-to-follow-protocol-as-per-intl-regulations/articleshow/78282411.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||No of private Covid hospitals increases by eight in city||Nagpur: With eight more private hospitals starting treatment of Covid patients, the number of private institutions taking care of coronavirus affected people has now increased from 39 to 47.NMC officials said at present there are 53 hospitals in the city that treat Covid patients — six government and 47 private. While government hospitals have 1,514 beds, the private ones have 1,922 beds. Thus the total number of beds for Covid patients in the city is 3,436.NMC has also prepared a dashboard of beds in private hospitals. This shows the number of vacant beds for Covid patients on real-time basis.The civic body has also appointed a ‘Corona Mitra’ for each private hospital treating the patients. Relatives of the patients can contact this person in case they face of any problem.NMC has deployed five ambulances in each of its 10 zones. The civic body has 65 ambulances. Control rooms have been set up in each zone to monitor these vehicles. A nodal officer has been appointed for each control room.In case a serious Covid patient is facing any problem, his or her relatives should contact the NMC control rooms at the zonal level, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-of-private-covid-hospitals-increases-by-eight-in-city/articleshow/78282424.cms||Ashish Roy
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Three Covid deaths, 110 new cases in Wardha||WARDHA: The district reported 110 new Covid-19 positive cases and three deaths on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 3,697 and death toll to 97. Total recoveries reached 1,847 after 94 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. A 40-year-old man from Hinganghat, an 80-year-old man from Pulgaon and a 69-year-old woman from Arvi died during treatment. A total of 429 reports were received on Wednesday. Highest 62 positive cases came from Wardha, followed by Hinganghat (21), Deoli (14), Selu (8), Arvi (4) and Karanja (1). Now, there are 1,753 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-covid-deaths-110-new-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/78285105.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Probe tenure extended third time||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has, for the third time, extended the tenure of magisterial inquiry into the encounter between Maoists and Thunderbolt team at Agali in Palakkad last year, in which four Maoists were killed. The extension has been provided due to delay in receiving the ballistic analysis report. The government had on November 6, last year, entrusted Palakkad collector to conduct a magisterial inquiry into the firings and submit the report within three months. On February 6, 2020, government extended the probe period by two more months. It was again extended till August 22 on April 6. The collector had written to the government that the ballistic analysis report of the objects seized from the Maoists at Agali has not been received yet, because of which the inquiry could not be completed. On the basis of the letter, the government has decided to extend the inquiry period till December 31, 2020. The encounter happened on October 28 and 29, last year, in which four Maoists — Manivasagam, Karthik, Suresh and Srimathi —were gunned down. While one Maoist was killed on October 28, the remaining were killed on the second day’s exchange of fire between Thunderbolt team and Maoists. Two cases were registered in this regard. Police had seized as many as seven guns, including one AK-47, two shot guns, two 303 rifles and two country-made guns, from the Maoists after the Manjikkandy encounter. Police had also recovered 105 ammunitions of 303 rifles, 50 ammunitions of 7.62mm caliber, one full magazine of AK-47 rifle, 25 empty magazines of AK-47 rifle, 50 cartridges of 12 bore, Rs 69,000 in cash, one laptop, two Kindles, pen drives, memory cards, two kg deer meat, uniforms and knives from Manjikkandy. According to the police report, the cadres, who are trained in using sophisticated and automatic weapons, were divided into four Dalams and have been operating since 2013. It further said under the Western Ghats Special Zone Committee, four dalams are operating in the state — Nadukani, Bhavani Siruvani and Kabani. As many as seven Maoists have been killed in encounters in the state since 2016. Sources said even though the report on such a sensitive matter should be completed and submitted in a time-bound manner, since there were a lot of recoveries in the incident and the state has only limited resources, the delay might have occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-tenure-extended-third-time/articleshow/78283718.cms||KP Saikiran
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Graveyard class hours new normal for foreign varsity students||BENGALURU: Sadhika Rao, an alumnus of Greenwood High, enrolled as a freshman at the University of California, Berkeley, for an economics course. However, with the pandemic forcing universities to go online, Sadhika now takes her classes from her home in Bengaluru. But she has an extra challenge to overcome— the time difference. Her college runs 12.5 hours behind Indian Standard Time. “My classes are from 8am to 2pm, which is around 8.30pm-2.30am IST,” Sadhika said. “After classes, we have webinars, interviews, clubs and other activities that I don’t want to miss. So, I end up sleeping only after breakfast at 8am. My body clock has changed. Even on weekends, I follow the same schedule so as not to throw my body clock out of gear. I catch up on school work and assignments on weekend nights.” Like Sadhika, hundreds of students from Bengaluru who are enrolled in universities abroad, especially in the US, Canada and Australia, are trying to cope up with their new schedule as their universities run on a different time zone. Almost a month into their classes now, most of them have acclimatised to the new normal. “I have turned completely nocturnal,” said Anuj Pahuja, a pre-medical student at Case Western Reserve University, Ohio. “Although I have more time now since there are no distractions, it’s extremely hard to focus at that time of the night. My exams last week were at 2am and I had to put in great efforts to be at my best.” Students point out that even their eating habits have changed. “I have my breakfast at 2pm, my lunch at 10pm and dinner at 4am. My mom puts my food in the fridge so I don’t go hungry. An advantage is that we save $8,000-9,000 on food and accommodation,” Anuj, a graduate of Indus International School, added. Ananya Chaudhary, a graduate of Inventure Academy and a computer science student at Carnegie Mellon University, Pennsylvania, said, “I literally do not see the sun these days. My mother worries that I’m not getting enough sunlight and exercise. I also do not meet my family as much. But it’s also nice to study at night: it’s quiet and there are no distractions. I tried learning through recorded videos, but I was not satisfied. I prefer synchronous classes.” Assignment deadlines and project collaboration work also need to be adjusted keeping in mind the time difference. “Deadlines are usually US time midnight. We have to make sure our assignments are completed the night before,” said Apurva, a neuroscience student at Ohio State University from Bengaluru. Some students have picked courses that suit their timings and do not go much into the night. “I do not have live lectures. But the interaction with professors happens at night. Even while lectures are going on well, I feel we miss the personal connect with the professors,” said Siddarth Chakravarthy, a student at Rose Hulman Institute of Technology, Indiana. “My challenge is not with the time zones but with the nature of my subject as it calls for a lot of equipment and workshop space,” said Ann Edvin, a fashion design student of Parsons School of Design, New York.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/graveyard-class-hours-new-normal-for-foreign-varsity-students/articleshow/78283681.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Hyderabad||24-year-old auto driver stabbed to death at Balapur||Hyderabad: A 24-year-old auto driver was stabbed to death by a group of unidentified assailants at Balapur on the city outskirts in the early hours of Wednesday. Sayyed Momin Ali was returning home with his friend in Wadi-e-Mustafa Colony in Balapur when four assailants stopped his scooter in an isolated lane and picked up an argument. “During the argument, they attacked him with knives,” Balapur inspector B Bhaskar said. Momin, who suffered severe stab injuries, collapsed on the spot. At 1.30 am, Momin Ali along with friend Mohammed Khalid went to another friend Farhan’s house. Khalid along with other friends rushed Momin Ali to Osmania General Hospital where he succumbed while undergoing treatment. A Clues team of Rachakonda police commissionerate visited the crime scene along with a dog squad and collected evidence. Police are verifying the CCTV camera footage in the locality to identify the assailants. “Locals said the attack was a fallout of a land dispute. We are yet to find out the real motive,” the inspector said. A murder case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC. A clues team of Rachakonda police commissionerate visited the crime scene and collected evidence. Police are verifying CCTV footage to identify the assailants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/24-year-old-auto-driver-stabbed-to-death-at-balapur/articleshow/78285109.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In a year with no parallel, reopening of schools poses a dilemma||NEW DELHI: In March, when an unchronicled viral disease reached India, most state governments took quick steps to close the school to prevent infection. The lockdown prolonged the closure. The decision to shut educational institutions was easy, but re-opening them has proved doubly tough. With parents firm about the guaranteed safety of their children, all that the authorities have been able to do is to wait and watch. While many schools cautiously reopened for classes IX to XII elsewhere, admittedly with less than enthusiastic attendance, Delhi government decided to prolong the shutdown. Educators, though, wonder about the closure affecting the academic and mental wellbeing of children. Madhulika Sen, former principal, Tagore International School, and now an education advisor, said, “We could take cues from other states that have allowed reopening. But given Delhi’s Covid situation, I don’t think classes can resume in October. While students in classes X and XII will have completed their syllabus by November, starting the junior classes then looks difficult. But we could begin with classes VI-VIII, IX and XI, that too in different time slots.” United Nations information showed that by mid-April 2020, 94% of learners worldwide, or 1.6 billion youngsters from pre-primary to higher education, were affected by the pandemic and school closure in 200 countries. In August, according to UNICEF, 105 of the 134 countries that had closed schools allowed them to reopen or decided on a reopening date. Denmark, which did not have too many Covid cases, resumed schools in April with unmasked students in micro groups. South Korea permitted school to start but had to close them again. SK Bhattacharya, chairman of the Action Committee, an association of private unaided schools in Delhi, said, “We are in the third half of the academic session. How long can schools remain closed? We should use the time to redesign the classroom for reopening, plan teacher-student ratio, decide whether to run school buses.” Bhattacharya added, “If the government sticks to its order on reopening schools after October 5, it will be welcomed by private schools. Online classes have their limitations. Students of the 2020-21 batch are suffering not only academically, but also psychologically with doubts about their future and career.” Suruchi Gandhi, principal, Bal Bharti School, Dwarka, was worried about how the closure would impact the inculcation of life skills. “We don’t know when the vaccine will be ready. Studies are going on through online classes, but the kids are not getting a chance to learn life skills. Primary children are missing out on personal interaction, and that worries me a lot,” she fretted. The education boards would have to rethink the syllabus, said Shailendra Sharma, advisor to the director of education, Delhi. “We hope this year will be treated as a special year for assessment purposes. CBSE reduced the syllabus in the expectation that schools would reopen by July,” he said. “Online classes for XI and XII have nearly 90% attendance. Up to Class X, we have 80% of the students closely engaged.” However, parents are not eager about schools reopening. When the Directorate of Education asked schools to seek the parents’ opinion on the central government’s circular calling senior students back to classes, parents mostly baulked. At Bal Bharti School, Dwarka, 65% of the parents responded in the negative to sending their children back to school. At Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, 75% of the parents of classes IX-XII students gave a thumbs down, while in another private school, parents of just 25 students in a class of 400 were amenable to the resumption of classes. Unlike their parents, students want to return to school, say teachers who have interacted with their students. “They say online learning is not much fun and they want to meet friends. The Class XII students, especially, want to enjoy their last year in school,” claimed an English teacher of a south Delhi school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/catch-2020-in-a-year-with-no-parallel-reopening-of-schools-poses-a-dilemma/articleshow/78285152.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Confident Dev hopes to shine at Roland Garros||Ahmedabad: While all eyes will be on the the 12-time French Open winner and ‘king of clay’ Rafael Nadal sweating it out with the in-form Novak Djokovic and rising stars such as Dominic Thiem and Alexender Zverev at the Roland Garros starting Sunday, there is plenty of interest in the Grand Slam for the tennis fans in Ahmedabad too.While Ahmedabad-born Ankita Raina has entered the second round of the women’s qualifiers, another city boy Dev Javia is all set to fly to the French capital on September 29.“Dev will be playing the Junior French Open wildcard tournament in Paris against the champions from Brazil and Mexico on October 2,’’ said Shrimal Bhatt, Dev’s coach who will accompany the 18-year-old to Paris. “A win at the Junior French Open 2020 (Roland Garros) wildcard tournament will ensure a wild card for the Junior main Draw from Oct 4-10. It is great to see a Gujarati boy competing at the Grand Slam venue,’’ said Shrimal, who is also the secretary of the Gujarat State Tennis Association.The 18-yr-old Dev too is excited to be playing in Paris. “It is indeed a dream come true for me to play at the Roland Garros. I hope to see my idol Nadal playing live at the same venue,’’ said Dev, who practices at the Altevol Tennis Academy in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confident-dev-hopes-to-shine-at-roland-garros/articleshow/78285120.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
September 24, 2020||Surat||Poor financial health kills 50-year-old Surat dentist||Surat: A 50-year-old dentist allegedly committed suicide by slitting his throat with a surgical blade in his clinic in Kaskiwad locality on Tuesday night.Preliminary investigation suggested that Dr Azim Patrawala took the drastic step due to financial crisis that had worsened during the lockdown. He ran the clinic wit his wife Sarah who is also a dentist.At around 10pm on Tuesday, his elder daughter went to check at his clinic as Dr Patrawala did not return home at his usual time of 7pm. She found him lying in a pool of blood.“The cut on the throat was two inches deep and roughly three inches long. Postmortem and forensic experts confirmed that he committed suicide,” said a police officer at Lalgate police station. “The family members told us that Dr Patrawala was upset due to worsening financial condition. Police are also trying to find out if he was under debt,” said a police official.Dr Patrwala have two daughters, one aged 17 years and other 12. Dr Patrwala was also a sailing enthusiast and actively promoted this sport, which is rare in this region. He used to guide and support in organizing sailing competition organised at Magdalla every year. He also started Surat Sailing Club and visited multiple locations abroad to participate in sailing expeditions. “He was a sportsman and sailing enthusiast. I cannot believe that he could commit suicide. It is a shocker for many of his friends,” said a businessman who used to exercise with Dr Patrawala at a city club in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/poor-financial-health-kills-50-year-old-surat-dentist/articleshow/78283783.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown boom: Birth control halted by Covid, number of strays up in Chennai||CHENNAI: Sandhya V, a resident of Anna Nagar, was shocked to find six new male dogs in her neighbourhood a few weeks ago. The canines appeared out of nowhere and were chasing a female dog that was in heat. “We had to call the corporation and a veterinary doctor to catch and neuter the dogs. The number of dogs in residential localities has gone up during the lockdown, especially in June,” she said. Thin traffic, closed campuses and deserted beaches have resulted in a visible spike in the number of stray dogs in the core city, say activists. With Greater Chennai Corporation busy fighting Covid-19 and NGOs stalling the animal birth control programme, the number of stray dogs has gone up in the past few months. Newborn pups, used to empty roads and quiet neighbourhoods, now seem allergic to traffic. Officials are preparing for birth control drives and NGOs have promised to resume work in a month’s time, but they have a huge task at hand given that there are more animals to tend to. Civic officials have not conducted any enumeration in the recent past and the last one in 2018 found that the city had 57,366 stray dogs. Dr Sokkalingam, veterinary doctor formerly with Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), said unless many dogs were sterilised in a short time, the number of strays will remain the same or go up. “Each dog comes to heat at least twice a year and one stray gives birth to six to eight pups at a time. By the time 1,000 dogs are sterilised, there would be another 1,000 pups in the same locality. We need to create more infrastructure facilities and spend on it if we want to reduce their numbers,” he said. Out of the 15 zones, Blue Cross is in charge of the sterilisation programme in Valasaravakkam, Adyar, Perungudi and Alandur. The SPCA takes care of Ambattur. Both NGOs have stalled work for about five months now due to the pandemic. Delayed payments from the corporation also affected work, they said. “The NGOs sterilise anywhere between three and 12 dogs a day, which is very low. The corporation has four dog catchers and a dog-catching vehicle per zone, but these can act only on complaints. The corporation has to be proactive and undertake the birth control programme with targets in mind,” said Suresh, a resident and volunteer, who was chased by a dog near Besant Nagar. Dawn Williams, the general manager of Blue Cross, said there will be a spike in the number of strays as the birth control programme is stalled. “Many dogs have died of hunger and new dogs that people see in localities have come in search of food from areas such as beaches and industrial corridors. These areas that have been shut due to Covid have left them with no sources of food or water,” he said. Corporation veterinary officer, Dr Kamal Hussain, said the next enumeration would be done in 2022. “We are sure that the numbers will come down by then,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-boom-birth-control-halted-by-covid-number-of-strays-up-in-city/articleshow/78283702.cms||Komal Gautham
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Confusion over removal of Mahadev Vidrohi as president of Sarva Seva Sangh||WARDHA: After a special online meeting on Wednesday of executive committee and members, Sarva Seva Sangh (SSS) issued a letter claiming to have removed Mahadev Vidrohi from the post of president. However, Vidrohi said the meeting and the letter are unconstitutional, and there is no outward number on the letter. The viral letter signed by Bhavani Shankar Kusum, election officer from Jaipur (Rajasthan), says Vidrohi’s tenure ended on March 31, 2020, but was extended to December 31, 2020, as elections could not be held during the pandemic. But the emergency meeting was held to dismiss him, and a letter has also been handed over to the charity commissioner’s office. The letter also names Chandan Pal as interim president. In the meeting on Wednesday attended by 30 members, former president, president of Sewagram Ashram Pratishthan and trustees. Asha Bothra objected to the working style of Vidrohi and suggested his removal. Vidrohi was also accused of suppressing the Bhudan scam in Telangana. Chandan Pal was appointed as interim president in his place. Shivcharan Thakur, president of Maharashtra Pradesh Sarvoday Mandal, announced the decision to hold a nationwide convention of SSS at Sewagram in December 2020, the letter mentions. Vidrohi said a meeting cannot be held without the permission of the president and secretaries as per the constitution of SSS. Also, the election has been scheduled for December 6, 2020, as per the order of the office of the charity commissioner. He insisted his term is until December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-over-removal-of-mahadev-vidrohi-as-prez-of-sarva-seva-sangh/articleshow/78285117.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru DC sets up six sub-committees for Dasara celebrations||Mysuru: In tune with the plan for low-key Dasara celebration this year, Mysuru deputy commissioner and Dasara special officer Sharat B on Wednesday set up six sub-committees for the celebrations, nominated Dasara deputy officers and appointed senior officials as working presidents and secretaries to manage them. Surprisingly, the government has agreed to set up a tableaux although the Dasara procession is restricted within the Mysuru Palace premises. “The Dasara high power committee headed by CM BS Yediyurappa on September 8 decided for simple celebrations this year in view of the pandemic. As per the directions, Dasara sub-committees have been formed to manage the celebrations,” said the DC. As per the decision, six sub-committees have been formed. Additional DC BS Manjunathaswamy will be the deputy special officer, while MCC additional commissioner Shashikumar will be the working president and MCC zonal 8 commissioner Kuberappa will be the secretary for the reception and invitation sub-committee. Similarly, CESC managing director Manohar M Bevinamara will be the deputy special officer, CESC executive engineer Munigopalaraju will be the working president and CESC NR Mohalla assistant engineer Yogesh BK will be secretary for illumination sub-committee. For procession sub-committee, city police commissioner Chandragupta will be the deputy special officer, DCP (law and order) A N Prakash Gowda will be the working president, ACP Shashidhar MN will be the secretary and department of Kannada and culture assistant director Channappa H and Mysuru Palace Board deputy director TS Subramanya will be co-ordinators. The cultural dasara sub-committee will have ZP CEO Bharathi D as deputy special officer, Rangayana joint director V N Mallikharjunaswamy as working president and department of Kannada and culture assistant director Channappa H as secretary and Mysuru Palace Board deputy director TS Subramanya as co-ordinator. Similarly, the cleanliness and arrangements sub-committee, will have MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde as deputy special officer. The tableaux sub-committee will have ZP chief planning officer Pande as deputy special officer, department of industries and commerce joint director DK Lingaraju as working president and Khadi and village industries deputy director Meghala as secretary. Restrictions during Dasara inauguration DC Sharat B on Wednesday said that only 200 invitees will be allowed to participate in the inauguration programme atop Chamundi Hills. Entry of general public to the hills in the morning during the inauguration will be restricted “People accompanying the guests, without a pass or permission from the police department, will not be allowed to enter the premises. The police department will take measures to restrict people, vehicle parking, traffic and security on the inauguration day,” said the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dc-sets-up-six-sub-committees-for-dasara-celebrations/articleshow/78282487.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Two held for ferrying liquor worth Rs 13 lakh||VADODARA: The local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police arrested two persons for ferrying Indian-Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 13 lakh in Waghodiya on Tuesday midnight. LCB sleuths said that they had received information about the truck going towards Waghodiya from Vadodara carrying liquor and had kept a watch for it near Madhavnagar village. Around midnight they stopped the suspicious truck and checked its carriage and found the boxes of liquor bottles hidden beneath bundles of clothes used for mopping the floor. “There were 500 bundles of mops, and these were kept in such a manner that the liquor boxes could not be seen from anywhere,” said a police official. There were 153 boxes containing 1,836 bottles of liquor worth Rs 13 lakh. The driver of the truck Sunder Singh Jat and cleaner Ajay Khatik were detained and questioned about the source of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-ferrying-liquor-worth-rs-13-lakh/articleshow/78283085.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Surat||Surat mephedrone racket turns bigger, three arrested||Surat: A garment seller, a textile unit owner and one more person were nabbed on Wednesday in three separate cases of massive mephedrone trafficking racket busted in the city. In all, the crime branch seized mephedrone, a party drug better known by various names like ‘Meow Meow’ or ‘White Magic,’ worth Rs 1.31 crore. While Salman alias Aman Mohammad Hanif Zaveri, 27, a resident of Adajan Patiya, was caught with 1,011.82 gm of the banned substance on Tuesday night, two others - Sanket Aslaliya and Vinay alias Bunty Patel - were caught from Sarthana and Varachha respectively. The seizure is touted to be the biggest in the history of Surat city. Salman was caught with six plastic bags containing 1.011.82 gm mephedrone worth Rs 1 crore early on Tuesday. Police had stopped his car to check and found bags containing fine powder while some was in crystalline form. The seized drugs are of different colours and shades. During preliminary investigation, police found that the Salman ran a city-wide racket of drug trafficking with his partner Adil, who is yet to be nabbed. Salman will be will be arrested after he tests negative for Covid-19. In Sarthana, police nabbed 22-year-old Sanket Aslaliya from a shop in Sayona Plaza Shopping Centre and seized 304.98 gm mephedrone worth Rs 30 lakh. He was selling drugs in partnership with Salman. Aslaliya runs an online garment selling business with his brother. “Police had specific information based on which the drug traffickers were nabbed. The drive against drugs and those involved in it will not be spared,” said city police commissioner Ajay Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-mephedrone-racket-turns-bigger-three-arrested/articleshow/78283690.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 24, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru’s name to be recommended for Smart City scheme||MYSURU: The government has decided to recommend to the Centre to include Mysuru under the Smart City project. “The urban development department is preparing a proposal in this regard,” said Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) commissioner Gurudutt Hegde. According to sources, the state government is sending a proposal seeking inclusion of three cities of the state under the Smart City scheme. Kalaburugi and Ballari are the two other cities. It can be recalled that till now Smart City projects are being implemented in six cities of the state, including Shivamogga, the home district of chief minister B S Yediyurappa. “If Mysuru is included under the Smart City project, a special purpose vehicle (SPV) will be formed to implement the development schemes,” said sources in the state urban development department. “Mysuru was in the race for the Smart City scheme earlier as well, however, it missed out as it received central funding in other projects, including the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), and AMRUT,” said sources. K S Shivashankar, secretary, Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP), a civic group, said that the need of the hour is smart planning and execution of works instead of any such scheme. “If the quality of works and innovation are not maintained, no scheme will bring any changes on the ground. Funding can be done in any name. The need of the hour is how well we execute the scheme and how innovative we are in spending,” he said. However, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha expressed scepticism about the state government’s proposal to the Centre. “The central government did not invite any applications. There is no proposal to increase the number of Smart Cities in the country beyond 100 cities. So, I am not sure that Mysuru will get selected for this scheme,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysurus-name-to-be-recommended-for-smart-city-scheme/articleshow/78282534.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Government says no misappropriation as it denies judicial commission probe||BENGALURU: The government on Wednesday claimed it spent Rs 4,200 crore between March and August on the fight against Covid-19 and admitted the “war” against the virus is far from “won”. While responding to accusations from Congress of misappropriation in purchase of medical equipment on a debate in the legislative assembly and speaking on government’s efforts to tackle the pandemic, medical education minister K Sudhakar insisted there has been no wrongdoing. “While the opposition claims Rs 2,300 crore was misappropriated, I would like to place on record that the total expenditure in the fight against the pandemic itself is Rs 4,200 crore,” Sudhakar said. “The amount has been spent by 15 departments of the state in their various capacities.” The minister said the health and family welfare department, at Rs 1,142 crore, spent the most, while his department — medical education — spent Rs 76 crore. The next biggest spenders after the health department is the labour welfare board, which exhausted Rs 824 crore in direct benefit transfers (DBT) to 16.5 lakh labourers. Reiterating the government’s claim that there is no misappropriation, Sudhakar said four scrutiny committees had looked into every purchase of medical equipment, including personal protection equipment (PPE) and ventilators. “In the past six months, we have tried to upgrade medical health facilities and that is the reason we have spent on high quality products,” he said, while insisting opposition allegations are misleading. Citing the example of the Rs 18 lakh ventilator which was procured by the government, Sudhakar said only one such piece was procured at that rate. “Now, the opposition claims that neighbouring Tamil Nadu purchased 100 ventilators at Rs 4.8 lakh each. These ventilators are transport or ambulance ventilators and cannot be used in ICUs. The Rs 18 lakh ventilator is of high quality which we use in the ICU,” he said. However, the minister could not respond to questions raised by opposition leader Siddaramaiah on the functioning of ventilators. “As far as I understand, the basic function of any ventilator is to provide artificial breathing facility for patients who cannot breathe independently. What does it matter whether it is Rs 4 lakh or Rs 18 lakh? Who are these people who are using the Rs 18 lakh ventilator?” Siddaramaiah retorted. However, the minister merely repeated that there was no misappropriation and refused to accede to the opposition’s demand for a judicial commission probe into the purchase of equipment. Unhappy with the response, Congress and JD(S) legislators walked out of the assembly in protest.  Earlier, Sudhakar blamed an “influx of people from outside the state” for the huge spike in Covid-19 cases in the state over the past couple of months. “Every state in the country and other nations as well, has seen a spike in cases for two or three months on account of a sudden rush of migrants back home,” Sudhakar said. “Karnataka has also been a victim of this trend as thousands of people returned from mostly high-risk states.” The minister said the sharp rise in numbers coincided with unlock phases, since people could move around freely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-says-no-misappropriation-as-it-denies-judicial-commission-probe/articleshow/78283777.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kochi||Government can’t be mute spectator, must act: HC||Kochi: State government and municipal corporations cannot remain mute spectators when dreaded diseases are prevailing due to mosquito breeding and should take adequate and effective steps for mosquito eradication, the Kerala high court has ordered. A division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly also ordered the government and corporations to remove waste accumulating in cities and other areas on a day-to-day basis. The court issued the order after considering a public interest litigation (WP-C No. 23271/2013) filed by Renjith K R of Jagathi in Thiruvananthapuram as a party-in-person. He had sought an order for government to take measures to ensure that the people of Kerala are living without the menace of mosquito bites, and thereby free from the fatal dengue fever and other communicable diseases spread by mosquitoes. In the judgment, the court pointed out that municipal corporations have not attained the target of eradication of mosquitoes, in spite of destroying larvae at source, and that deaths are occurring due to dengue fever. Keeping the environment clean and tidy, and removal of waste and other useless materials so as to ensure healthy and sanitary conditions conducive to the welfare of the citizens are mandatory requirements to be discharged by a municipal corporation, the court said. Similarly, the state government and local bodies have to ensure the life and liberty of the citizens in its fullest sense by bearing in mind the fundamental right guaranteed to the citizens under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the court noted. The court then said in the judgment, “Therefore, taking into account the responsibilities imposed upon the state and the corporations as per the provisions of the Act, 1994 and the Constitution of India, the state and the corporations cannot remain as mute spectators, when such dreaded diseases are prevailing due to the menace of mosquito breeding. Every citizen also has an equal duty and obligation to ensure that city, drains, lakes and rivers, and all public amenities and public places are clean and tidy, failing which the authorities will not be able to achieve the target of mosquito eradication.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-cant-be-mute-spectator-must-act-hc/articleshow/78283788.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Residents pool in funds, look after dogs, cats||CHENNAI: In less than two years, 80 people of a residential community in Lake Area, Valluvar Kottam, have gone from having no opinion on animal rights to becoming champions of every distressed stray in the neighbourhood. Thanks to Ramanath, a retired businessman, animal lover and founder-secretary of their residents welfare association who has sensitized them to turn contributors to a fund pool that is used to treat injured and sick animals, and sterilise strays in the locality. Almost three years after the Madras High Court ordered the Tamil Nadu Curriculum Frameworks committee to incorporate a subject on animal welfare for students, a few resident association are doing their bit at home. “I had been working on animal welfare for almost two decades. It started with me reaching out to a couple of friends for support, and later, asking residents at association meetings to bring to our attention any injured cat, dog, bird or cattle they came across,” says Ramanath. “Soon, we saw that a small monthly contribution of around Rs 200 per person could raise enough to help a lot of animals. More importantly, our resident volunteers also saw that it didn’t take much to help, and came forward,” says Ramanath. KK Nagar resident Aparna Saravanakumar’s WhatsApp group members have helped sterilize 15 dogs and 35 cats over the past three years. Having tied up with a local clinic, they pool in funds to help animals in trauma, with maggot wounds and in need of vaccinations. “Many government-run pounds are overpopulated and surgery techniques at times outdated. Often, an unvaccinated stray taken for ABC surgery returns with fatal infections,” she says. Anuradha Balasubramanian lives in Ramaniyam Abhishek, where around five families have taken it upon themselves to tend to stray cats post the lockdown. “From a time when it was difficult to even own a pet in this apartment complex, our children are now actively involved in rescues. This is the kind of environment we’d like them to grow up in,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-pool-in-funds-look-after-dogs-cats/articleshow/78283768.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Reduce mortality rate, PM tells BS Yeddyurappa||BENGALURU: Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief minister BS Yeddyurappa on Wednesday to focus on reducing the mortality rate to 1% and positivity rate below 5%. He also directed the state government to double the number of tests and stress on breaking the chain. The PM said the Centre has increased the limit on Covid-19 related expenditure under SDRF from 35% to 50% so that states can get more funds. Yediyurappa told the PM the state has been conducting about 70,000 tests per day and would step it up. So far, 43 lakh samples have been tested. "Increase in number of tests is helping us bring down positivity and case fatality rates steadily. The state's death rate has come down from 2.6% in mid-July to 1.54% now. In the past week, it’s only 1.3%. Fatality rate will be brought down to less than 1% as per the Centre’s goal," he said. He said now there are 18,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals and the number will go up soon. He said senior officers will ensure that oxygen is transported to hospitals across the state and permission to convert industrial oxygen cylinders as medical cylinders has been issued. Consumption of oxygen is increasing and availability of oxygen for medical purposes is around 375 tonnes per day which is sufficient for the time being. "The department of industrial policy and promotion may be advised to incentivise industry to set up new oxygen generation units," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/reduce-mortality-rate-pm-tells-bsy/articleshow/78283805.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Stalker opens fire in Delhi's Sarita Vihar, held||NEW DELHI: After being repeatedly ignored by his ex-girlfriend, a 27-year-old married man opened fire at her house in Sarita Vihar on Sunday night and also issued dire threats. After two days of search, the man was arrested from a nearby jungle area on Tuesday. He was also involved in a case of assault in the past. The accused, Sumit Tomar, was a resident of Ali Vihar and used to work in a telecom company in Noida, police said. The countrymade pistol used by him to open fire was seized. The matter came to light when the 24-year-old woman called police and said that she and her family members heard a gunshot outside their house on Sunday. They saw Tomar standing there with a pistol in his hand. Tomar shouted at her before fleeing, the woman told the cops. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the woman and Tomar knew each other for the past ten years. “The woman said that after Tomar got married in 2018, she started distancing herself from him to which he repeatedly objected,” Meena added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stalker-opens-fire-in-sarita-vihar-held/articleshow/78285175.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||3.5% dip in Vidarbha’s total recoveries after Nagpur dist reconciliation||NAGPUR: Vidarbha is set to touch the one-lakh mark of recoveries in the coming days, but the recovery rate dipped on Wednesday following reconciliation by the Nagpur district civil surgeon. The numbers dropped by 2,657, slashing the overall recovery rate of the region by around 3.5% to 73.6% from 77% on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 1,357 patients got discharged from Nagpur district while its tally was 55,212 a day before. “In order to remove duplication in discharge, the office of civil surgeon corrected the figures,” a note read. Nagpur’s tally now stands at 51,912, bringing Vidarbha’s count of recovered patients down to 93,994 from 96,184. On Wednesday, 2,467 patients were declared recovered in Vidarbha. The region once again reported high number of deaths on Wednesday. Total 85 deaths were reported from 10 districts, with only Buldhana not reporting any fatality on Wednesday. Vidarbha’s caseload has reached 1,27,690 and death toll 3,458. There are now 30,238 active patients in the region. New cases were again below 3,000-mark with the day’s tally touching 2,743. Gadchiroli (85), Buldhana (64) and Washim (60) were the only three districts to report under 100 new cases. Highest 1,291 cases and 55 deaths were reported from Nagpur district. Gondia reported its highest single day tally of 331 cases which was also second highest in the day from Vidarbha. The district also reported three deaths. Yavatmal (239), Chandrapur (210), Amravati (166), Bhandara (110), and Wardha (110) too saw high number of cases. Yavatmal (7) reported second highest deaths of the day followed by Amravati (6), Wardha, Washim, Gondia (3 each), Bhandara and Akola (2 each) and Gadchiroli (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-5-dip-in-vids-total-recoveries-after-nagpur-dist-reconciliation/articleshow/78285163.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Gang rape in Delhi hotel: Woman accomplice arrested too||NEW DELHI: A 33-year-old woman who allegedly provoked five men to gang-rape a 27-year-old woman in a five-star hotel room in Lutyens’ Delhi has been arrested. The accused has been identified as Anushka, who was staying at a paying-guest accommodation in south Delhi and learning a foreign language from a private institute, police said. The survivor also told police that the accused woman had forcibly held her hands and tore her clothes. The room was booked in the name of two businessmen from south India, who are absconding. Three more people, including main accused Manoj Sharma, were arrested earlier. Sharma, the cops said, had promised a loan of Rs 18 lakh to the survivor, a tourist guide-cum-ticket booking agent, for opening a restaurant. Both Sharma and Anushka had accompanied her to the hotel room on the pretext of getting her a subsidised rate, the complaint stated. Four more men were already present and all five had raped her, the survivor alleged. Sharma later dropped her home following which she went to AIIMS. The survivor’s statement under Section 164 of CrPc has been recorded. Police have found the loan documents and forms from Sharma’s office in Lutyens’ Delhi. Police said AIIMS had informed it about the alleged assault and a case of gang rape and causing hurt was registered at Connaught Place police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-rape-in-hotel-woman-accomplice-arrested-too/articleshow/78285183.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Problem tigress of Tipeshwar captured||Nagpur/Yavatmal: The state forest department on Wednesday averted Avni-type situation by capturing a problem tigress in a two-hour operation from Andharwadi on the outskirts of Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary. The animal was captured in 36 hours after orders were issued by PCCF (wildlife). This is the sixth tiger to be captured this year. While one was released post-capture, two tigers died in captivity. One tiger was shifted to Maharajbagh zoo. Another tiger rescued from Chichpalli is in captivity in Chandrapur. In 2018, messing up the capture operation of problem tigress Avni aka T1 in the Pandharkawda division had put the forest department and government in a tight spot. Avni was shot by a hired private shooter on November 2, 2018. The captured tigress T2-C1 was one of the three sub-adult tigers (2 males & a female), caused a scare among locals in at least five villages — Andharwadi, Kopamandvi, Wasri, Kobbai, and Sunna — outside the sanctuary for the last four months. There were at least 14 cattle and 3 goat kills for which compensation was delayed during the period. According to forest officials, T2-C1 was responsible for at least 6 cattle kills and had earlier injured one person. The killing of a woman Laxmibai Dadanje on Saturday (September 18) was the last straw causing resentment among locals and politicians demanding the capture of the beast. The rapid rescue teams (RRTs) from Melghat and Amravati did a splendid job by smoothly capturing the tigress. PCCF (wildlife) NH Kakodkar issued orders on Monday evening and on Wednesday morning T2-C1 was captured. The first dart was missed when the animal was at 10-metre. Later, Santosh Kasbekar of Melghat successfully fired the second shot. The teams were led by wildlife vets Dr Akshay Ghatare (Melghat) and Dr Chetan Patond (Pench). Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray lauded the teams for smooth capture. After the fatal incident, forest minister Sanjay Rathod had directed the officials to post rescue teams and at least 50 staffers were monitoring the tigress. “We deployed 27 camera traps and based on the scientific evidence, permission was sought to capture the problem tigress,” said Yavatmal CCF SV Ramarao. The tigress has been shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre. According to Pandharkawda DFO Subhash Dumare they had received an official communiqué on Tuesday from Mumbai to cage the tigress. Villagers heaved a sigh of relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/problem-tigress-of-tipeshwar-captured/articleshow/78283815.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 24, 2020||Kochi||KSHRC orders probe into man’s incarceration||ALAPPUZHA: The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) on Wednesday ordered a probe into the case of Joshi, 58, who is in jail for over 500 days in connection with the attack on LDF election committee office, even after the court acquitted him on September 17 this year. Mannancherry police arrested Joshi, Kandathil House, on April 17, 2019, alleging that he attacked the LDF’s Lok Sabha election committee office in Mannancherry. He was sent to central jail in Thiruvananthapuram since nobody bailed him out. As Joshi could not afford an advocate, district legal service authority appointed advocate P P Baiju for him. Baiju said that on September 17 this year, Alappuzha district and assistant sessions judge V Manju acquitted Joshi as the prosecution didn’t prove his role in the incident. “Mannancherry police arrested him on April 17 last year. The prosecution could not produce any evidence to prove that he committed the crime. So, the court acquitted him on September 17 this year and the order was also mailed to the jail authorities. But the jail authorities have not released him till date and it is a violation of human rights,” said Baiju. “KSHRC member P Mohanadas told the Alappuzha district police chief to submit a report on the imprisonment of Joshi for 521 days. The commission also asked for a report from the investigation officer of the case within 30 days. The jail authorities said that Joshi could be released on October 17. The jail authorities also said that they need the court order by post. The commission also asked the central jail superintendent to submit a report about why they are delaying Joshi’s release even after the court ordered to release him,” the press note of the commission said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kshrc-orders-probe-into-mans-incarceration/articleshow/78283829.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Nine schools across Tamil Nadu in trouble for asking 100% fees||CHENNAI: Sending a strong message to schools that demand 100% fees from parents thereby flouting court orders, the Madras high court initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings against nine private schools in the state. The nine schools are -- PSBB Millenium CBSE School, Coimbatore; PS Chidambara Nadar Senior Secondary School, Virudhunagar; Shatriya Vidyasala Matric Higher Secondary School, Virudhunagar; Shatriya Vidyasala Higher .Secondary School, Virudhunagar; Muslim Higher Secondary School, Ramanathapuram; Don Bosco Matriculation Higher Seconday School, Paramakkudi; SHNV Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Sivakasi; Sri Shankara Vidya Kendriya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Thiruvottriyur; and Hussain Memorial Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ambattur. On July 17, Justice N Anand Venkatesh had fixed 75% of last year’s fees as the tentative fee for the present academic year and permitted private educational institutions to collect 40% of it by August 31. Subsequently, the court was informed that many schools were flouting the court order and were demanding 100% fees. The court directed the school education department to inquire and file a report. When the pleas came up for hearing on Wednesday, the school education department filed a report with supporting documents and submitted that nine schools have been found violating the court order. “After scrutinizing all the complaints received by the chief educational officers, a prima facie material is available against nine schools, who have insisted in payment of 100% fees which is in direct violation of the orders passed by this court,” advocate-general Vijay Narayan said. He said as and when any complaints are received, the same will be inquired and principal secretary of the school education department will ensure that schools under the state government complied with the interim order passed by this court. Recording the submissions, the judge said, “This court had made it clear even at the time of passing the interim order that any school that is found violating the order will be dealt with sternly in accordance with law.” It was also indicated that contempt proceedings will be initiated against the persons in-charge of the schools which violate the order. The prima facie material available is enough for the court to initiate contempt proceedings against the nine schools, Justice Anand Venkatesh said while directing the registry to initiate the proceedings and issue notices to the correspondents of the schools returnable by October 14. This apart, in a separate proceeding, the judge directed the CBSE to open a new email account for parents to send complaints of fee violation in CBSE schools and give it wide publicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/9-schools-across-tn-in-trouble-for-asking-100-fees/articleshow/78283828.cms||Suresh Kumar
September 24, 2020||Surat||Locals irked by waste on Surat roads||Surat: Dr Saros Bhacca, a neurosurgeon and a prominent Parsi community member is a worried man these days. No, he isn’t worried about the health of people he has been treating for over two decades now, but of his own and other residents of his ‘filthy’ area in Shahpore area. For, around his home, a heritage structure, piles of waste are getting dumped with authorities giving it scant attention in the past few months. After waste started turning hillocks from piles around the back door of his residence, Dr Bhacca was forced to stop using that door. Even the road turned pure ‘wastage’ from lack of active cleaning activities and while motorists dare juggle their way through the garbage dumps, pedestrians steer clear of the stinking mess. Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) health department does remove waste often but in absence of a permanent solution to the messy problem, residents of the locality are raising a stink demanding a solution. “Despite several complaints, SMC could not find a permanent solution to the problem. Within minutes of cleaning, someone would invariably throw waste here again,” said Dr Bhacca. SMC’s staff used to keep watch in the area but they too failed to stop people in moving vehicles from throwing waste here, he informed. Bhacca had also installed CCTV around the spot and caught many throwing waste. But that too did not help to stop the menace. “Not only around my home but I have seen piles of waste on public roads at many locations due to the irresponsible behaviour of people and inaction by the civic body. I can’t believe that Surat is ranked the second cleanest city of India,” Bhacca added. Due to the dumping of waste, the underground drainage of Bhacca’s home also got blocked and a separate pipeline had to be laid. To find a solution Bhacca filed several online complaints that were closed without solving his problem, he claimed. He also filed multiple RTIs to find a solution to the problem. “We take action often but if the problem is continuing, I will check. We have repaired the drainage line that got blocked,” said Dr M N Patel, deputy health officer, central zone, ZMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/locals-irked-by-waste-on-surat-roads/articleshow/78283872.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||City bizman booked for Rs14 crore embezzlement||Nagpur: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is learnt to have registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA 2002) against businessman Pramod Manmode, who also heads Nirmal Ujjwal Credit Cooperative Society. The charge is in a case involving alleged diversion of Rs14 crore collected from residents of Nirmal Nagari, a real estate project promoted by Manmode. ED’s action comes on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered by the state police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) after complaints by Nirmal Nagari residents. Manmode told TOI he was admitted in a hospital and not aware of any action by the ED. He also denied having received any summons from the ED. Complainant Ravindra Puttewar said Manmode had collected over Rs14 crore from residents of Nirmal Nagari in the name of maintenance, electricity and water charges. The funds were, however, diverted into the Nirmal Ujjwal Credit Cooperative Society, instead of being used for the stated purpose. “This amounts to misuse of residents’ funds. The money was used for lending through the cooperative society,” he said. Puttewar told TOI he had filed the complaint before both, the EOW and ED. In the complaint with the ED, he had also highlighted the unregulated deposits being taken by the credit cooperative society. Puttewar said his complaint also says that Manmode had also diverted Rs203 crore from the cooperative society to a textile project in Kondhali, and Rs37 crore for purchase of land at a separate location. Another Rs103 crore collected as deposits in the society were invested in mutual funds in violation of norms, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-bizman-booked-for-rs14-crore-embezzlement/articleshow/78283851.cms||Shishir Arya
September 24, 2020||Hubballi||Scholar calls for a sustained protest against amendments to farm laws||HUBBALLI: Linguistic scholar and Padma Shri award recipient GN Devy on Wednesday dubbed the amendments to the APMC Act passed by the central government ‘anti-labourer’ and said that they would only benefit private players and not the common people. Devy was addressing porters from AMPC mandis in Hubballi, who assembled under the banner of APMC Hamali Karmikara Okkuta (R) to protest the amendments. “Once the amended law comes into force, farmers will not come to APMC mandis to sell their produce, which will render those employed at these yards jobless,” he said. The scholar said that porters and other labourers either directly employed at the APMC mandis or depending on them for their subsistence in an indirect way, were only trying to provide for their families and ensure their children received a good education. “But this new law may well compel these labourers to send their kids to work as porters. There is a need for a sustained protest against these amendments across the country,” Devy said. The protesters pointed out that there were more than four lakh porters employed at APMC mandis, Grameen Bazaar, the Mill Godown, et al across the district. “Most of those employed at such places are Dalits and members of backward communities,” they said. General secretary of the okkuta for Karnataka Mahesh Pattar, Basavaneppa Neeralagi, Gurusiddappa Ambiger, Kariyappa Dalawai, Kariyappa Girisagar, Hussainsab Nadaf, Lakshmawwa Hosuri and Khatalsab Mulla were among those who participated in the protest on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/scholar-calls-for-a-sustained-protest-against-amendments-to-farm-laws/articleshow/78282676.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||In Pallavaram, the road is a dump yard||CHENNAI: Traffic congestion is not the only problem on Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road. A mountain of garbage next to a construction site near Vels University signal is hard to miss. Lakshmi Narayanan, a resident of Natesan Nagar, told TOI that the residents’ association had complained about the garbage several times, but the authorities have taken no action. “We had complained to the municipality several times in the past six months. The garbage enters our premises. Earlier, the municipality would transport it to the Vengadamandalam dump yard. But we have no idea why the municipality is dumping the garbage on the road,” he said. David Manohar, a resident and activist from Chromepet, said the transfer station constructed in 2015 should be put to use. “Earlier, the garbage would be taken inside the transfer station located right next to this dump. We have no idea why they are dumping it on the road now,” he said. C Mathivanan, commissioner of the Pallavaram municipality, said the Vengadamandalam dumpyard was nonfunctional due to an NGT order. “We need to treat the legacy waste that is dumped there only after that can we take the daily waste to that place. Once that is complete, we will set up an incinerator and a treatment plant there that will manage waste from Pallavaram and Tambaram.” He said biodegradable waste is converted into manure at compost plants set up in 27 locations. “The dump by the road will be cleared in the next six days,” he said. Mathivanan said the municipality has sanctioned an incineration plant and bio-mining work at Vengadamandalam plant for Rs 9.5cr. “We have no space. Once the infrastructure is ready, Pallavaram municipality will be a model for waste management,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-pallavaram-the-road-is-a-dump-yard/articleshow/78283858.cms||Komal Gautham
September 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Screening for jury begins for state film awards||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The screening of films for the jury constituted for Kerala State Film Awards 2019 began at Chalachithra Academy’s Ramu Kariat theatre on Wednesday amid strict compliance with Covid-19 safety protocol. The screening began after the jury members and the staff of the academywere subjected to rapid antigen test. Jury chairman Madhu Ambat and member L Bhoominathan attended the screening based on the government’s order reducing quarantine time to seven days for those arriving from outside the state. The other members of the jury are directors Salim Ahamed, Abrid Shine, cinematographer and director Vipin Mohan, sound engineer S Radhakrishnan, singer Lathika, actor Jomol, writer Benyamin and C Ajoy, secretary of Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, who is also the member secretary of the jury. The jury has been divided into two sub-committees. As many as 119 films have been submitted for Kerala State Film Awards 2019. Five of these films are categorized as children’s films.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/screening-for-jury-begins-for-state-film-awards/articleshow/78283912.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mysuru||Three children drown in farm pond in Mysuru village||MYSURU: Three children aged between 2 and 4 met a watery grave after accidentally falling into a farm pond while playing in a Mysuru village. Sanjay, 4, Rohit, 4 and Kaveri,2, all children of agricultural labourers from Ballari, allegedly drowned in the pond while their parents were working in sugarcane field in Ankanahalli, in T Narasipura taluk, 35 kms from Mysuru. The parents of the children had come to Mysuru in search of work post lockdown and were employed by a farmer to harvest sugarcane, T Narasipura police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-children-drown-in-farm-pond/articleshow/78282672.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||No more stopover, fly directly from Kolkata to UK now||KOLKATA: A week after the fiasco over Air India's direct flights between London and Kolkata that turned out to be hopping ones with the first flight stopping in Delhi and the second one in Mumbai, the airline on Wednesday announced it would henceforth operate direct between the two cities as had been announced in the original schedule. Flight AI 1150 took off from London's Heathrow airport on Wednesday noon local time and is scheduled to reach Kolkata at 2.20am on Thursday. The return flight, AI 1149, is scheduled to depart Kolkata four hours later at 6.20am and reach London at 12.20pm local time. The announcement was welcomed by the travel trade industry as well as passengers who had purchased tickets on the direct 11-hour flight but were facing the prospect of an 18-hour journey following the halt in Mumbai. Air India had blamed the change in routing to the slot being withdrawn at the last hour by authorities in the UK, something that both Heathrow Airport representatives and the UK Civial Aviation Authority had denied. Refusing to be drawn further into the controversy, the AI spokesperson said the Vande Bharat flights scheduled till October 24 would henceforth operate on the pre-scheduled route, ferrying passengers directly between the two cities. "It is good to know AI has sorted out the issues on direct operations. The travel trade fraternity will extend its support to ensure that the flight is a success. But it will also require concerted marketing on the part of the airline. We hope the airline will now be consistent so that passenger confidence returns," said Travel Agents' Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. "Flights usually require at least three months to stabilise. There is no magic that can drive up loads within a week, particularly in a pandemic situation when leisure travel has disappeared. The airline can look at altering the flight time to reach Kolkata around noon and depart therafter. This will help people residing in the Northeast and other eastern states to take the flight," said Travel Agents' Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni. Though the UK is issuing all categories of visas and processing them within five-seven working days, tourism is yet to take off. At present, the flyers are either students travelling to join institutions in the UK or those visiting friends and relatives who reside in the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-stopover-fly-directly-to-uk-now/articleshow/78283884.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Doc who risked life to save patient on road to recovery||Chennai: Surat-based anaesthetist Dr Sanket Mehta, who was admitted to intensive care isolation for breathlessness after he tested positive for Covid-19, had pulled out his oxygen tube so that he could save another elderly patient who needed immediate ventilation. A few days later, the health condition of Dr Mehta worsened and he was rushed to Chennai in a critical condition on a ventilator and ECMO. On Tuesday, a team of doctors and nurses rejoiced when they weaned him off ECMO and ruled out lung transplant. “He was recuperating well in the initial period, but without oxygen support for nearly 20 minutes. In addition, his exposure to a high-risk patient probably increased the viral load. His condition deteriorated drastically,” said Dr Suresh Rao, co-director, Institute of Heart & Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Healthcare. On August 9, Dr Mehta helped another patient in the ICU of BAPS Hospital in Adajan, but since then his condition had worsened. On August 21, he was put on a ventilator and the next day the doctor put him in ECMO. When his situation did not improve on September 13, he was brought to Chennai by air. “His oxygen levels were fluctuating and he was dependent on ECMO for oxygenation. His chest x-ray showed ‘white out’ lungs meaning the lungs were stiff and not contributing to oxygen exchange,” said Dr Rao. Senior doctors led by transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan decided to waitlist him for a lung transplant. “The plan was to stabilise him and then do the transplant. But as we made some minor tweaks to ECMO the oxygen saturation improved,” he said. Dr Mehta is now on a ventilator but has been breathing spontaneously ruling out the need for lung transplant. And when the decision was announced, doctors and paramedics cheered out loud. Hospital pulmonologist Dr Apar Jindal said Dr Sanket was a great example of solidarity towards profession and humanity. “He is a real medical hero. We are happy that we were able to help improve the patient's lungs and avoid escalation to transplant,” he said. Dr Mehta will remain on ventilator for some more weeks and with intensive physiotherapy and muscle power he will be able to get back to normal life soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doc-who-risked-life-to-save-patient-on-road-to-recovery/articleshow/78283890.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||New Kolkata airport facility to help maintain Covid protocol||KOLKATA: Fears of social distancing protocol violations inside the Kolkata airport terminal will be allayed once the new transfer facility for domestic transit passengers is commissioned in phases from Thursday, airport officials said. Since the spike in passenger volume at Kolkata airport following the partial lifting of flight ban from six cities from September-beginning, passengers have taken to social media and complained about overcrowding inside the terminal building. Though it is adquately large to ensure the minimum 6ft distance between passengers and airport or airline staff, the crowding happened at the entrance and security check where long queues are noticed on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, when the flight count shoots up by nearly 30%. “From Thursday, transit passengers on arrival at Kolkata airport will be able to move directly into the departure security hold area after being frisked at a dedicated security check portal. This will ease congestion at the departure level entance to the terminal and the security check there as they will no longer require to exit and re-enter the terminal or use the security check facility at the departure level. At least 1,500 passengers travelling in our airline will be benefited,” said an IndiGo official. Developed at a cost of Rs 6.5 crore, airport officials said the 24,000-sq ft transfer facility will be open to passengers in phases. “As per the current SOP, Thursday is a lean day in terms of passenger traffic when direct flights from six cities are not allowed to land at the airport. We will start the facility with a few flights and over the next few days, we will keep adding more passengers from multiple flights using this facility,” said a senior airport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-airport-facility-to-help-maintain-covid-protocol/articleshow/78283914.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 24, 2020||World||Trump says may or may not approve stricter FDA guidelines for Covid vaccine||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he may or may not approve any new, more stringent FDA standards for an emergency authorization of a Covid-19 vaccine, saying such a proposal would appear political. Trump has repeatedly said a vaccine for Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, could be ready for distribution ahead of the Nov 3 presidential election. The Washington Post reported on Tuesday the US Food and Drug Administration would issue the guidance to boost transparency and public trust as health experts have become increasingly concerned the Trump administration might be interfering in the approval process to rush out a vaccine. Trump, however, questioned why a vaccine would need to be delayed and said such a proposal by the FDA would appear to be politically-driven. "We're looking at that and that has to be approved by the White House. We may or may not approve it," Trump told a White House news conference, when asked about the Post report. "That sounds like a political move. Because when you have Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, these great companies, coming up with the vaccines, and they've done testing and everything else, I'm saying why would they have to be adding great length to the process." Trump added he had "tremendous trust" in those companies. Few vaccine developers were expected to have definitive trial results before the presidential election. Pfizer Inc had been the exception, although its timetable could slip with new guidance. Moderna Inc has said it is unlikely to have data in October. AstraZeneca Plc's trial in the United States is halted while investigators try to determine whether a serious neurological problem suffered by one participant in the company's U.K. trial was caused by the vaccine. US Food and Drug Administration head Stephen Hahn did not directly address the Washington Post report when testifying before the Senate earlier on Wednesday. But he did say regulators would likely provide additional information on the emergency use authorization process. At the same hearing, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention head Robert Redfield said he expects there to be about 700 million doses of vaccines available by late March or April, enough for 350 million people. "I think that's going to take us April, May, June, you know, possibly July, to get the entire American public completely vaccinated," Redfield told the US Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-may-or-may-not-approve-stricter-fda-guidelines-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/78286581.cms||---
September 24, 2020||World||Trump says may or may not approve stricter FDA guidelines for Covid vaccine||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he may or may not approve any new, more stringent FDA standards for an emergency authorization of a Covid-19 vaccine, saying such a proposal would appear political. Trump has repeatedly said a vaccine for Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, could be ready for distribution ahead of the Nov 3 presidential election. The Washington Post reported on Tuesday the US Food and Drug Administration would issue the guidance to boost transparency and public trust as health experts have become increasingly concerned the Trump administration might be interfering in the approval process to rush out a vaccine. Trump, however, questioned why a vaccine would need to be delayed and said such a proposal by the FDA would appear to be politically-driven. "We're looking at that and that has to be approved by the White House. We may or may not approve it," Trump told a White House news conference, when asked about the Post report. "That sounds like a political move. Because when you have Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, these great companies, coming up with the vaccines, and they've done testing and everything else, I'm saying why would they have to be adding great length to the process." Trump added he had "tremendous trust" in those companies. Few vaccine developers were expected to have definitive trial results before the presidential election. Pfizer Inc had been the exception, although its timetable could slip with new guidance. Moderna Inc has said it is unlikely to have data in October. AstraZeneca Plc's trial in the United States is halted while investigators try to determine whether a serious neurological problem suffered by one participant in the company's U.K. trial was caused by the vaccine. US Food and Drug Administration head Stephen Hahn did not directly address the Washington Post report when testifying before the Senate earlier on Wednesday. But he did say regulators would likely provide additional information on the emergency use authorization process. At the same hearing, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention head Robert Redfield said he expects there to be about 700 million doses of vaccines available by late March or April, enough for 350 million people. "I think that's going to take us April, May, June, you know, possibly July, to get the entire American public completely vaccinated," Redfield told the US Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-says-may-or-may-not-approve-stricter-fda-guidelines-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/78286612.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kochi||Survivor still in hospital for want of shelter||IDUKKI: One of the survivors of the Pettimudy landslide, Saraswathi, 53, remains in hospital despite completing treatment, because she has no shelter. According to relatives, the woman survived with injuries and was admitted in Kolencherry hospital in a serious condition. After treatment, she was admitted to Munnar Tata Tea General hospital. “My mother continues to be in the hospital as she hasn’t got shelter from the parent company nor the government,” said her son Mahendran. Saraswathi and husband Rajayya (55) were residents of Pettimudy and their three children live in Tamil Nadu. Rajayya was a watcher of Kannan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) company and died in the landslide. “My marriage was fixed for August 23, but got postponed due to the tragedy. Revenue officials said that my family was included in the rehabilitation package. My mother needs a temporary shelter in Munnar and hence she is still in hospital,” said Mahendran. She will need frequent checkup and hence cannot go far from the area, he said. “We lost many family members in the tragedy. We met KDHP officials for a temporary home in Munnar but didn’t get a favourable reply. The one offered is in Kadalar estate and it is far from Munnar,” he added. One of her relatives, Jagadeesh said, “A lot of our family members died, including my mother and brother.” Devikulam tahsildar Giji M Kunnappalli told TOI, “The survivor Saraswathi was included in the list of eight people for the rehabilitation package. If the family members submit an application to us, we will discuss the issue with KDHP officials and arrange a shelter for the woman. The district collector has selected land in Kuttiyarvalley for the rehabilitation package. I sent a proposal to the district collector on Tuesday.” According to a KDHP official, the company already provided shelter and job security to the permanent company workers who survived the tragedy. The company already offered Rs 1 crore to the rehabilitation package, said the official. Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said, “I talked to KDHP officials and they provided accommodation in Kadalar. But since the person is not willing to go there, I will try to arrange shelter for her. The rehabilitation process is going on at a fast pace.” A total of 22 families from 30 homes in four tea estate layams (cluster of workers’ quarters) went under the landslide on August 6 night at Pettimudy near Rajamala under KDHP and 66 bodies were recovered while four are still missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/survivor-still-in-hospital-for-want-of-shelter/articleshow/78283967.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||12-year-old girl in Vejalpur ends life after spat with sister||AHMEDABAD: In these times of online education, a spat with her elder sister over use of a smart-phone led a 12-year old girl in the city to end her life. Shock swept the Vejalpur area of the city after the young girl committed suicide by hanging herself with a dupatta from the grill of the iron ladder at her flat. Inspector L D Odedara, of Vejalpur police said that the girl, Rinku Kumawat, a student of Class VI, had a fight with her elder sister, 14, over using a smart-phone for online classes on Monday afternoon. Sources said there was only one smartphone between the two sisters which had become a bone of contention especially as both had to use it for their online education. After the quarrel on Monday, Rinku rushed upstairs to the terrace with a dupatta in hand. When she failed to return after an hour, her family members began searching for her. After looking through the house and building, they went to the terrace where they were shocked to find her hanging from the iron ladder. The family members called a 108 ambulance and took her to Jivraj Mehta hospital in Vejalpur where she was declared brought dead, Odedara said. Odedara said that the girls’ father works at chemist’s shop in Vejalpur. Police are yet to take statements of the bereaved family members as they were in utter shock after the incident. Neighbours said that the family was in shock as they girl showed no sign of being depressed. They are finding it hard to believe that a quarrel with her sister over a mobile phone could lead such a young child to end her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12-year-old-girl-ends-life-after-spat-with-sister/articleshow/78263606.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Kolkata||Pay DA within Dec 16, HC tells state||Kolkata: The state administrative tribunal (SAT) on Wednesday directed the state government to pay pending DA to employees on a par central government and by considering the All India Consumer Price Index (AICPI). The state has to comply within December 16, 2020, said Sardar Amjad Ali, counsel for the employees. The bench of justices Ranjit Bag and Subesh Das issued the order and fixed December 16 as the next date of hearing. Nabanna officials felt that the state will have to spend around Rs 18,000 crore for paying pending DA. Malay Mukhopadhyay, general secretary of Confederation of State Government Employees (INTIC) who had filed the petition, said that SAT, while hearing a contempt petition on Wednesday, ordered the state government to comply its previous order of July 26, 2019. Firdous Shamim, another counsel of the employees, said the state had prayed for an adjournment in the absence of advocate general, but it was overruled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pay-da-within-dec-16-hc-tells-state/articleshow/78283941.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||Dog stabbed on head, animal cruelty cases on the rise in Covid-19 times||Nagpur: The cases of animal cruelty seem to have gone up amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. According to experts, the animal abusers need to be punished strictly as scientific evidence indicates they may go on to become “serial killers and big criminals”. Recently, veterinary surgeon Dr Ushma Patel treated a female stray dog that was brutally stabbed on the forehead. “The injury was so deep her skull was visible, she was bleeding profusely. It was not an irregular wound from any natural accident, it was a very clean and clear lacerated deep wound caused by a sharp object, showing intentional stabbing on the head,” said Dr Patel. The female is a mother of nine puppies and would stay in a colony near Hingna Road. She would usually sleep outside chicken shops. Nearby resident Dinesh Bhakhare, who used to feed her regularly and rescued the injured dog, suspects some among those who own mutton shops there may have hit the dog with a butcher’s knife. Some days back, a heart-wrenching crime came to the fore when eyes of a dog were brutally pulled out using a sharp object. The incident, which took place in Naik Nagar, created outrage among animal activists. Experts claimed the cases of animal abuse have been on the rise. “An empty mind is Devil’s workshop. Due to the lockdown, many miscreants are indulging in such crimes. The worst part is that the punishment for abusing or a killing an animal is hardly Rs 50 fine,” said Dr Patel. Citing various researches, she added, “It has been proven repeatedly that it first starts with animal abuse and ends up with human violence. We need to address the issue right at the root.” According to animal rights activists, strict punishment for animal abuse offences is needed. “Thanks to public awareness, at least such incidents are coming to the fore. Because of lockdown, people have become frustrated and depressed and this is also leading to the increase number of these cases. Police are never interested in registering these cases as they want to maintain zero crime figures and this is encouraging the wrongdoers, who don’t hesitate to repeat the crimes,” said animal welfare activist Ankita Shah, adding that weak cruelty penalties was also causing high number of such cases. Smita Mire, founder of animal welfare organization Save Speechless Organization (SSO), stated that animal cruelty was taking place at an extreme level. “We recently received a complaint stating that someone dumped newly-born puppies after tying them up in a garbage bag. The actual number of cruelty cases is far more than what is being reported. People hesitate in coming out and raising voice against such crimes,” added Mire. Citing that prime minister Narendra Modi recently encouraged citizens to adopt dogs of Indian breed, Shah added, “There should be a different forum to address animal cruelty cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dog-stabbed-on-head-animal-cruelty-cases-on-the-rise-in-covid-19-times/articleshow/78283939.cms||Manka Behl
September 24, 2020||Bhopal||No data on deaths, infection of health workers, reveals RTI||BHOPAL: Three wings of the Union health ministry have “no data” on the cases of infection and death of health workers in the country, going by a Right to Information (RTI) reply. The RTI query was sent to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which replied that “the desired information is not available with this office”. “Health workers have been given the status of corona warriors and are working in the care of people infected with coronavirus in the country. Hospitals were showered with flowers to express solidarity and respect for these health workers. Bands were played in front of hospitals,” said RTI activist Chandrashekar Gaur. He sought information regarding infection and cases of death due to Covid-19 among doctors, nursing staff, pharmacists and other health workers. “Three wings of the health department did not have the answer. How many health workers have been infected and died due to Covid-19? It seems there is no centralised data available,” said Gaur. Earlier in the pandemic, the Union government announced Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for Covid-19 frontline warriors. The RTI application was filed at the DGHS on July 14. From there, the application was transferred to the department of Health and Family Welfare. The application was then transferred to National Centre for Disease Control. NCDC disposed of the application and replied, “With reference to your RTI request received on transfer from Department of Health and Family Welfare u/s 6 (3) of the RTI Act, 2005, the desired information is not available with this office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-data-on-infection-death-of-health-workers-during-pandemic-reveals-rti/articleshow/78283936.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant alert issued||Coimbatore: The forest department has issued a notice to residents, including farmers, living at Kuppepalayam, Devarayapuram and on the Mettupalayam Ooty Road cautioning them that about heavy elephant movement in these areas. Residents have been told to avoid stepping out of their homes. The development comes after two wild elephants were noticed roaming around at Kuppepalayam on Monday and a lone male elephant was seen moving around on the Mettupalayam-Ooty Road on the same night.Forest department said that a pair of wild elephants was seen moving around from 9pm on Monday near the brick kilns at Kuppepalayam and were chased away only at 2.30am on Tuesday. On the Ooty-Mettupalayam Road, a lone male elephant was seen moving around in the wee hours of Tuesday morning. “People should avoid stepping out, walking or riding two wheelers during the dark. If someone has to step out, they should carry a torch light. If people can hear or know that a wild elephant is in the vicinity, they should further stay in doors and contact the forest department,” said the notice. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-alert-issued/articleshow/78283945.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chennai||Gang abducts PA of Tamil Nadu minister||UDUMALPET: The personal assistant of Tamil Nadu animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan was kidnapped by a masked gang in broad daylight on Wednesday and abandoned a few hours later. M Karnan, 35, of Thanthoni village, was at the Udumalpet MLA office on Ansari Road in the town when a five-member gang came in a car around 11.30am. They dragged him out of the office, pushed him into the car and drove away. Almost two hours later, he was dropped at Valavadi near Dhali, about 15km away from the abduction spot. Karnan claimed that the kidnap was for political reasons. “The gang wanted some information. I didn’t have the information they sought,’’ he told reporters outside the Dhali police station without elaborating. “Only after the arrest of the offenders and after a thorough police investigation, will know the motive behind the kidnap,’’ the minister told TOI. A CCTV footage that captured the daring kidnap shows the assailant’s car slowly approaching the MLA’s office and stopping near the entrance. Four men with their faces covered by masks and kerchiefs enter the office, while the driver waits in the car. Within two minutes they are seen dragging Karnan out of the office holding him by his neck. They shove him inside the car even as he tries to wriggle out and speed away from the spot. The gang abandoned him at Dhali near Udumalpet around 1.30pm after allegedly taking away his gold chain, ring and valuables. He reached an AIADMK functionary’s house there and informed the police. Subsequently he visited Dhali police station where west zone IG K Periaiah and Tirupur SP Disha Mittal inquired him. Talking to reporters in front of the Dhali police station, Karnan gave contradictory statements. Initially he said that they threatened him demanding money, but did not specify the quantum of money. Moments later, when asked if he was kidnapped due to personal enmity, he said it was due to political motive. “It was not due to any personal motive, but political motive. They sought some information which I didn’t have. So they dropped me near Vazhavadi after snatching my chain and ring,’’ he said. According to Karnan, the gang demanded his ATM card too, but Karnan said he had missed the card during the melee. Karnan however said he could identify the gang if he sees them again. “They had knives and a pistol with which they threatened me inside the car,” he said. Karnan, has been the personal aide of Udumalai Radhakrishnan for the past seven years. Udumalai Radhakrishnan told TOI that there were no threats to Karnan in the past. SP Disha Mittal said that they have formed special teams to nab to gang. Watch Caught on cam: Tamil Nadu minister's PA kidnapped in Tiruppur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-abducts-pa-of-tn-minister/articleshow/78285233.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Complaint filed against lab for ‘false’ Covid tests||Coimbatore: A resident of Kovilmedu on Wednesday filed a police complaint against a private laboratory at Vadavalli in the city accusing it of providing false Covid-19 positive reports. N Manikandan, the complainant, a staffer of a construction company, said, “As part of my company’s requirement, we were asked to take Covid-19 test. I had given swab samples at the private lab at Vadavalli on Tuesday and later that day, I received a call from them that I had tested positive.”Manikanadan said he did not have any symptoms, so he took a repeat test at a different laboratory in the evening. “On Wednesday morning, the report said I was negative.” About a month ago, the lab had given a fake positive report to one of his colleagues, who tested after taking the test at another lab, Manikandan alleged. He and his friend approached the lab to seek a clarification, but staffers there rebuked them for questioning their tests. After this, he filed a complaint at Vadavalli police station. Police are yet to register a case. A senior microbiologist from the lab, said, “After the patient sought explanation from us on Wednesday morning, we retested his samples. The CT values were 30-31and he is still positive for the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/complaint-filed-against-lab-for-false-covid-tests/articleshow/78283982.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘Junk plea on show-cause notice issued to Pilot camp’||JAIPUR: An application was filed in the Rajasthan High Court seeking dismissal of the petition filed by Congress legislator Prithviraj Meena challenging the show-cause notice issued by speaker C P Joshi on July 14 under anti-defection law facing disqualification from the assembly for not attending the Congress Legislature Party meeting held on July 13. Petitioner Mohanlal Nama, a social worker, who was impleaded as a respondent to the petition, said that since the matter was resolved after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s group reached a compromise with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the petition had lost its relevance and be dismissed with heavy cost as the petitioners had wasted the court’s time. The court, while accepting the writ petition, raising several questions on the constitutionality of the political development gave liberty to the respondents of application for early hearing. Now, Vimal Chaudhary, counsel for the petitioner said that since the political crisis has blown over, there is no point in continuing with the case and it should be closed. Now, the Sachin Pilot camp had to take a decision as whether they wanted the court to examine the larger questions of ‘dissent’ and defection and the role of the speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/junk-plea-on-show-cause-notice-issued-to-pilot-camp/articleshow/78283986.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Judicial magistrate investigates charges of custodial death||Tirupur: A day after a 30-year-old man died at a police station in Tirupur, a judicial magistrate visited the station on Wednesday to probe allegations of custodial death.The deceased, C Manikandan of Chettipalayam, was taken to the Nallur police station on Tuesday for questioning in connection with the death of a woman. According to police, during the investigation, Manikandan collapsed on the floor. He was rushed to the government hospital in Tirupur, where doctors pronounced him dead upon arrival. His relatives staged a protest alleging that he died due to police torture. However, police denied the charges and said that Manikandan had suffered an epileptic attack.In the wake of the custodial death allegations, judicial magistrate IV T Nithyakala visited the station and conducted inquiries with police personnel for more than an hour. Sources said that the magistrate wanted to know about the case for which Manikandan was brought to the station, relatives who accompanied him, police personnel who interrogated him and the duration he was at the station. She also went through the footage from the CCTV camera installed in the station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/judicial-magistrate-investigates-charges-of-custodial-death/articleshow/78283963.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Meerut||Filmed in loo, warned for asking salary, say 52 teachers of Meerut school||MEERUT: Fifty-two teachers of a private school in Meerut (UP) have told police that the management of their school was secretly filming them inside the toilets and blackmailing them with the footage for months into working without salary. Police registered an FIR on Wednesday against the secretary of the management committee and his son for alleged sexual harassment. They were booked under IPC sections 354 (a) (sexual harassment), 354 (c) (voyeurism) and 504 (intentional insult) at Meerut's Sadar Bazaar police station. The secretary's son was arrested later in the evening. The teachers have alleged in the complaint that the secretary would threaten them with the objectionable images caught on CCTV whenever they raised their voice and demanded pending salaries. The secretary denied the charges. “The sexual harassment allegations are absolutely false. It is true that we were unable to pay salaries for the last few months due to prevailing situation," he said. “There is no CCTV camera inside the women's toilets. But they have been installed in the gents’ toilets," the secretary said, adding, "This was done against the backdrop of recent cases of murders inside some schools.” The school hit headlines in 2017 when it asked students to get "chief minister Yogi Adityanath-like haircut". Local police have started a probe. Vijay Gupta, station officer of Sadar Bazar police station, said, “On the basis of the complaint, an FIR has been filed. We are investigating the matter." A forensic team has also been roped in to assist police in its investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/filmed-in-loo-warned-for-asking-salary-say-52-teachers-of-meerut-school/articleshow/78281487.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Ventilator failure led to woman’s death: Family||Coimbatore: Family members of a 45-year-old woman, who died at the government hospital in Tirupur, said it was ventilator failure that caused her death and petitioned the district collector’s office on Wednesday, seeking a proper inquiry.J Krishna Kumar, a relative of D Anuradha of Mumoorthy Nagar in Tirupur, said, “She was admitted to the hospital with fever on September 16. She had asthma. As she was tested negative for Covid-19, she was undergoing treatment in the general ward. She was moved to the intensive care unit (ICU) on Monday after she developed breathing difficulties.”He said her condition had started to improve after she was put on ventilator. “When the power supply was interrupted around 10.30am on Tuesday, she struggled to breathe and her condition started to deteriorate. The power cut lasted for three hours and doctors did their best to regularize her breathing, but in vain. She died around 5.30pm.”Kumar said the woman could have survived if the oxygen supply was not interrupted and demanded the district administration to conduct a proper inquiry into the issue.The woman was a resident of Mumoorthy Nagar in Tirupur.When contacted, hospital dean Valli Sathyamoorthy said the patient was suffering from bronchial pneumonia and died of cardiac arrest and respiratory failure. “Unlike what her relatives say, her death has nothing to do with the power cut. The oxygen supply was not interrupted during the power failure as there was power backup in the hospital. Also, the power supply was restored in 40 minutes. The patient died only in the evening.”On Tuesday, two Covid-19 patients on ventilators had died in the hospital shortly after the power supply was interrupted when construction workers accidentally damaged electricity cables on its premises. Their relatives cited the ventilator failure as a cause of their death. Officials, however, refuted their charges and said the two were really sick and had succumbed to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ventilator-failure-led-to-womans-death-family/articleshow/78283998.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer MP’s plea in House to cut GST on marble, granite||Ajmer: Ajmer BJP MP Bhagirath Choudhary on Wednesday raised the issue of redusing the GST on marble and granite products from 18 per cent to 3 per cent to develop the market back in Kishangarh-Madanganj of Ajmer. Choudhary took the issue in the zero hour of Lok Sabha.Choudhary said Rajasthan is a major producer of marble and granite and out of 33 districts, 23 are producers of the stones marble and around 50 lakh workers are directly or indirectly related to this sector. In Rajasthan, there are about 3,000 stone cutting industrial units and they came under small industries and play an important role in GDP of the country. Previously the excise tax on both marble and granite was only 5 per cent. Due to the pandemic, the sector is suffering and there are possibilities that many of the units will closed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-mps-plea-in-house-to-cut-gst-on-marble-granite/articleshow/78283993.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Seven-year-old boy mowed down by SUV in Kardhani||Jaipur: A seven-year-old boy was mowed down by a SUV in Kardhani police station area on Wednesday morning when he was playing on the road. Although no one has been arrested yet, prima facie, it appears that the vehicle was at slow speed when the accident occurred. The deceased has been identified as Shivpratap Singh.Bhanwar Singh Rathore, sub-inspector, Jhotwara police station, said, “The child was playing outside his home when driver of the vehicle Suresh Yadav hit him. He fled, but we are trying to catch him. We have registered a case against Yadav. We will initiate an investigation soon,” said the official.“Yadav mowed down the child while he was trying to scare the children, though, we cannot say that with certainty.” According to officials, the driver had threatened the children earlier as well, but claimed that it was an accidental death.“The child was taken to the hospital after the accident, but was declared dead as the injuries were too severe,” added the official.Meanwhile, the cops are also looking for Yadav.Rathore said, “The driver first hit a vendor, then the child and then an electric pole though the family claimed that he was a tea totaller and we are still trying to fathom the reason behind this incident. It is quite possible that the accused was in another state of mind though it does not change the status of the crime.”The child’s family has accused the driver of murder and the cops claimed that prima facie it does not appear to be a case of intentional killing and more of an accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/seven-year-old-boy-mowed-down-by-suv-in-kardhani/articleshow/78284004.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mysuru||Man held with deer meat||Mysuru: Male Mahadeshwara Swamy Wildlife Division foresters arrested a man for hunting a deer on Wednesday. The arrested is Murugegowda, 45, a resident Kanchalli village in Hanuru taluk in Chamarajanagara district. It is said that five persons had entered the forest with weapons on Tuesday night to hunt wild animals. Around 4am on Wednesday, Hanuru buffer zone range forest officer (RFO) Veeresh Gowda and forest staff were patrolling at Uppala forest area at Pacchedoddi beat. They noticed the men with weapons and deer meat. The forest staff caught Murugegowda while the others escaped. They are looking for the other accused Perumala Shetty, Madesh, Muthegowda and Govindhegowda. DCF V Yedukondalu said they arrested Murugegowda and seized a single barrel gun, cartridges and around 20 kg of deer meat. The accused was produced before a court which sent him to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-held-with-deer-meat/articleshow/78282732.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Police get custody of murder accused||Coimbatore: The second judicial magistrate court on Wednesday granted three-day police custody of Arumugam, an accused in the murder of a Hindu Munnani supporter in the city.sThe accused, who was absconding since the murder of C Biju at Ram Nagar on September 13, surrendered before a court in Sivakasi last week. Following this, the Kattoor police sought custody of the accused and the court granted it on Wednesay. Police officials said Arumugam, an active member of Mukkulathor Pulipadai, a caste-based organisation, planned the murder while six others executed it. Police have already arrested Raja, Karthik, Ilaiyaraja, Praveen alias kili, Prabhu, Vivek and Aravind immediately after the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-get-custody-of-murder-accused/articleshow/78283988.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Petrol bomb hurled at BJP man’s residence||Coimbatore: A petrol bomb hurled at the house a BJP functionary at Bharatidasan Nagar in Anupparpalayam in Tirupur on Wednesday did not cause any damage, police said.House owner Krishnamoorthi, vice-president of the commercial wing of the party at Angeripalayam zone, had left for Palani with his family early Wednesday. They returned around 12.30pm to find a broken liquor bottle with a wick in front of the house.Special teams are investigating the incident, a police officer said. Krishnamoorthi and his wife had joined BJP a few months ago, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/petrol-bomb-hurled-at-bjp-mans-residence/articleshow/78283991.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bareilly||Crocodile enters into sugar mill’s water tank in Palia, rescued||BAREILLY: A 6-foot crocodile entered into a large water tank of Bajaj-Hindustan sugar mill in Palia town of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday. The employees responsible for the maintenance of the tank were shocked to find the “strange object” resting on the floor of the tank, and rushed out for help. Soon, the forest department officials were called and the crocodile was rescued, but not before a four hour long operation. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Anil Patel told TOI, “It was a tricky rescue operation as the tank was 10-foot deep. We first drained the tank and the two men were sent inside and they tied the reptile carefully and then it was pulled out of the tank.” Patel further said, “It was a male crocodile, and nearly 3-year-old. It may have come along with flood water and reached inside the sugar mill. Fortunately, it didn’t harm anyone and was rescued unhurt. We have released it into the Sharda River. The rivers in Kheri pass through Dudhwa forests and are full of crocodiles. They are often washed away with flood waters and reach village ponds and human habitats.” Last year, a sub-adult crocodile had entered a police station in Palia town. So far, the forest department has rescued 20 crocodiles since April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/crocodile-enters-into-sugar-mills-water-tank-rescued/articleshow/78281516.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||HC rejects Prashant Rahi’s bail plea third time||Nagpur: In yet another setback for Naxal leader GN Saibaba’s accomplice Prashant Rahi, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday, rejected his bail plea and application for suspension of sentence. This is third time, his bail petition is dismissed by HC, according to special public prosecutor Prashant Sathianathan. While hearing Rahi’s another appeal challenging his conviction, a division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Amit Borkar admitted it for final hearing to be held in November third week. A resident of Chandraskhekar Nagar in Dehradun, Rahi was facing charges for aiding and abetting Naxal activities and waging a war against the nation. Both Saibaba and Rahi were awarded life imprisonment along with Hem Mishra, Pandu Narote and Vijay Tirki. The petitioner was convicted Sections 13, 18, 20, 38 and 39 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Section 120-B of Indian Penal Code by Gadchiroli Sessions Court on March 17, 2017, for his links with Maoists and indulgence into anti-national activities along with his accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-prashant-rahis-bail-plea-third-time/articleshow/78284009.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Diya raises Ramgarh Dam issue in Parliament||Jaipur: Expressing her concern over the plight of Ramgarh Dam, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari during Zero Hour in the Parliament said that the reservoir which was recognised as the only source of drinking water in Jaipur and its surrounding areas has completely dried up. There was a time when the dam had 64-feet of water and in 1982, the rowing events of the Asian Games took place. But after this, due to the negligence of the administration, the number of encroachments started to increase in the catchment areas of the dam and the water stopped flowing in. Today, the situation is such that there is not even a single drop of water in the dam, she said.She said due to this, Jaipur city with a population of 8 lakh is craving for water today. Efforts are being made by many NGOs, public representatives and the media to revive the dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/diya-raises-ramgarh-dam-issue-in-parliament/articleshow/78284014.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Special educators connect with disabled children to beat lockdown blues||Coimbatore: Special educators from the district, who offer pedagogical aid for disabled students and those with special needs at government and government aided schools, have been ensuring they don’t lose contact with their students during the lockdown.These teachers have been giving lessons and exercises through WhatsApp groups, and also through phone calls. For visually challenged students and kids with low vision, they send audio lessons in WhatsApp, or direct students to listen to Kalvi TV programmes. For hearing impaired students, Kalvi TV has started to incorporate sign language interpretation, they said.The main challenge, educators said, is to guide children with intellectual disabilities as other means don’t help them. For such children, they send simplified course materials and assignments apart from being in phone contact with students to monitor their progress. R Chitra, a special educator from Perianaickenpalayam block, said she sends simplified one-word answer questions and two-mark questions to students with intellectual disabilities, which they write and send back in WhatsApp. “Most parents of children with intellectual disabilities are educated and aware. Also, for these kids, one parent would be at home to take care of them. So they cooperate with our efforts, which has been very helpful to us,” she said.Special educators send simplified assignments and video lessons in WhatsApp to V R Anish, a special student in Class X, said his mother I Ramakumari. “He writes down the assignment. I help him wherever necessary. We send the completed assignment to the teacher. She then contacts us over phone to guide him,” she said.Under the Inclusive Education of the Disabled at Secondary Stage (IEDSS), there are around 20 special educators in the district, who handle Classes IX-XII. In addition, there are 70 special educators who handle lower classes, said Samagra Shiksha officials. They added that they have asked special educators to be in contact with these children. They visit government and aided schools regularly and help disabled kids and those with special needs with their regular lessons and also offer other help such as exercises and yoga for the children. Educators said, with schools still closed, they were not able to offer these extra care for kids with special needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-educators-connect-with-disabled-children-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/78284013.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Labour unions protest against privatisation, agri reform bills||Coimbatore: Labour unions in the district on Monday came together to protest against the Centre’s move to amend labour laws, privatise government sectors and also against the farm bills.The Centre and the state should pay Rs 7,500 per month for April, May and June to workers of unorganised sectors, whose livelihood was hit due to the lockdown, they said and also demanded that retrenchment and pay cuts must be stopped. Members of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) and other unions took part in the protests held at the collectorate, unorgainsed sector workers welfare board office and other locations.The protesters also opposed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill — which they termed as anti-farmer. Protesters burnt copies of the bills at Thadagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/labour-unions-protest-against-privatisation-agri-reform-bills/articleshow/78284024.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Wildlife week in Jodhpur from Oct 1||Jodhpur: The forest department in Jodhpur is going to observe wildlife week in digital format this year given the restrictions due to pandemic.Starting from October 1, the multi-event programme will have focus on human-animal relations.ACF (Wildlife) K K Vyas said that this year’s event will be celebrated as a campaign called ‘Roar and Revive’ with an objective of exploring the relationship between human beings and animals and testing the awareness among the children about the wildlife.Activities like drawing, painting, essay writing and poetry writing will take place in this event under three categories for the students of Classes 1 to 12.“We have classified the participants into three categories namely Chinkara, Cheetal and Sambhar dividing classes across these three categories,” said Vyas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wildlife-week-in-jodhpur-from-oct-1/articleshow/78284045.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK man flies to pray for party’s victory||Coimbatore: An AIADMK representative, along with his family, took a helicopter ride from the city to Srivilliputhur on Wednesday to pray at the Andal temple for the party’s victory in the upcoming assembly elections.R C M Vishnu Prabhu, deputy secretary of AIADMK youth brigade, said it was the recently introduced helicopter service in the city that they used to fly to the temple.“We left the city at 9.15am from the helipad at NGGO Colony and landed at a helipad on a school ground at Srivilliputhur at 10.15am. We performed pujas and annadhanam at the temple for around two hours. We reached the city back at 2pm,” he said.He said they visited the Andal temple at Srivilliputhur to pray for the party’s victory in the upcoming assembly elections. “MGR founded the party on October 17, 1972. We would enter the golden jubilee year soon. We prayed for the party to remain in power when we enter the golden jubilee year and win more than 200 seats in the elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-man-flies-to-pray-for-partys-victory/articleshow/78284006.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Assembly passes amendment bill to increase BBMP wards||BENGALURU: The assembly on Wednesday passed the Karnataka Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill to facilitate a measure to increase the number of civic wards in Bengaluru from 198 to 250. The amendment was based on a special report submitted by the joint select committee headed by BJP legislator S Raghu. The committee is tasked with scrutinising the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill, 2020, which envisages a separate law to govern the civic administration. It tabled an interim report in the assembly on Tuesday. Wednesday’s development is the first step towards increasing the number of BBMP wards. The legislative council and the governor must now bless the move. The KMC (Amendment) Act will be tabled in the council for approval on Thursday and then sent to the governor. Later, it will be submitted to the Karnataka high court, which is hearing a petition that wants BBMP polls to be conducted without delay. “This amendment is being introduced keeping in the urgency to hold BMMP polls. We will inform the same to the high court in a day or two,” law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy told the assembly, requesting the opposition to cooperate and pass the amendment bill without much discussion. Senior Congress members, including former minister KJ George, demanded a discussion, saying BBMP should be divided into four independent municipalities as a single mayor and commissioner may not be able to do justice to the proposed 250 wards. “A detailed discussion on the issues related to the city administration can be held separately when the BBMP bill is tabled in the house. As a single amendment is being brought now just to apprise the court, there is a sense of urgency,” Madhuswamy said. 19 bills passed in a day On Wednesday, the house passed 19 bills, some of which triggered a spirited debate between the opposition and treasury benches. The Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) (Amendment) Bill; Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Bill; and Karnataka Stone Crushers Regulation (Amendment) Bill were among the proposals that were passed. Penalty for unlicensed racecourses hiked The government has increased the penalty for people who take part in unlicensed horse races. A bill to amend the corresponding law was passed in the legislative council. The penalty on individuals has been hiked from Rs 500 to Rs 50,000. The fine on managements of unlicensed racecourses has been raised from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1 lakh. Land reforms, APMC bills On Thursday, the assembly will take up two contentious proposals — the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The proceedings are expected to be stormy as Congress and JD(S), led by leader of opposition Siddaramaiah, plan to raise serious objections to the bills, which they have termed as anti-farmer. Siddaramaiah has demanded a debate. “Such sensitive pieces of legislation cannot be allowed to pass without discussion. Let us have a debate,” he said. The government is looking to pass the bills despite a state-wide shutdown called by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha on September 28. Sangha president Kodihalli Chandrashekar said the protest would be held against the central and state governments’ “anti-farmer” policies. Congress, JD-S, Left parties, trade unions, truck owners’ associations and auto unions are supporting the shutdown call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/assembly-passes-amendment-bill-to-increase-bbmp-wards/articleshow/78286473.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Meerut||Those living in 10km periphery of Hastinapur sanctuary can’t keep gun without forest department nod||Meerut: Gun holders living within 10-km periphery of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary will now have to apply and get an additional licence from the UP forest department. While making the licence mandatory, the Meerut’s divisional forest office has cited a 2014 order of Allahabad high court and a 2017 order of UP Principal Chief Conservator Office (UPPCCF).According to divisional forest officer of Meerut, Aditi Sharma, “To protect the wildlife, we have directed all license holders to register their names in the divisional forest office only after that their license will be considered valid. There is a one-time fee of Rs 2,500. Besides, all the licenses that are pending for renewal will also have to get a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Forest Department.”Direction to obtain the list of all license holders living in the periphery of the sanctuary has been given to police stations located in Mawana tehsil of Meerut, under whose jurisdiction the region falls.The high court order was given by a two judge bench comprising the then chief justice DY Chandrachud and justice Dilip Gupta. The order took the reference from Wildlife Protection Act 1972 pertaining to registration of arms and directed district magistrates of the districts including Amroha, Meerut, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar and Hapur that every person residing in ten kilometers of any such sanctuary and holding a licence “shall apply in such form, on payment of such fee and within such time as may be prescribed, to the chief wildlife warden or the authorised officer, for the registration of his name.Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary, spread over an area of 2,073sq-km in the five districts, is inhabited by various species like barasingha, leopard, antelope, wild cat, dolphins, gharials, turtles, etc. Soon after the high court order, the state government directed the administrations of all those districts where sanctuary were present to cancel gun licenses of people residing in the area of sanctuary’s periphery. Around 4,000 license holders were identified in the five districts.However, in 2018, relaxation was given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/those-living-in-10km-periphery-of-hastinapur-sanctuary-cant-keep-gun-without-forest-department-nod/articleshow/78281517.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||21% Covid patients at home care: Public health dept pulls up dist||Coimbatore: The district has a whopping 21% of the active Covid-19 cases in home isolation. However, as per the government direction, only 5% of the active cases could be allowed to remain in home quarantine at a time.This is also despite the district having more than 6,000 beds in hospitals and Covid care centres to treat people who test positive for the virus.Home isolation as an option was introduced in the state to address the issue of shortage of beds in treatment facilities. According to a source, home isolation could be recommended only when beds are not available. “But despite the availability of beds, health officers are allowing a majority of the active cases to remain in home isolation. As on Tuesday, 21% of the 4,559 active cases in the district was in home quarantine. This is four times higher than the state government recommended ratio of 5%.”A day after the data was presented before the state government, the director of public health, Dr Selvavinayagam, arrived in the district on Wednesday to monitor the Covid-19 control and treatment protocols. “I will submit a report on Thursday and provide them further instructions,” he said.As per the available data with the district administration, 953 Covid-19 patients were in home isolation as on Tuesday. At least, 655 of them were in city corporation limits and 298 in municipalities and rural areas.A senior government official said, “The issue with home isolation is that the infected person invariably ends up infecting other members of the house. This is what happened in Chennai too after home isolation was allowed. So, cases increase further.”Initially, home isolation was allowed only in households without senior citizens with comorbidities and children aged below five, that too if there was a separate room for the patient. Only patients below 60 were offered the option.However, on July 2, the Indian Council of Medical Research revised its home isolation guidelines, allowing elderly patients aged above 60 years to stay in home quarantine “after proper evaluation by a treating medical officer”.The district started allowing home isolation in mid-August when 68 people, who were mainly doctors and their family members, were given permission. The number has swelled by 15 times in the past five weeks.“Now, beds in Covid care centres, including the one at Codissia trade fair complex with 1,300 beds, and private hospitals are emptying out. Allowing such rampant home isolation may leave many patients prone to happy hypoxia and lung deterioration. They may not be aware of the same and fail to get medical attention on time, putting their lives at stake. Delayed hospitalization was the main factor that led to spike in Covid-19 fatalities in July-end and August,” the government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/21-covid-patients-at-home-care-public-health-dept-pulls-up-dist/articleshow/78285245.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||NU Pariksha app to be available on Playstore from today||Nagpur: Nagpur University would be formally launching its much awaited exam app named ‘Pariksha’ on Thursday, through which the final year students would be able to appear in multiple choice questions (MCQ) examinations using smartphones. As first reported by TOI on Tuesday, the students need to download app from Google Playstore through their numbers registered with NU. Earlier, the exams were supposed to commence from October 1 and conclude on 18, but due to UPSC paper on October 4, about 50 papers scheduled that day have been deferred to October 19. Applauding NU officials for developing app in quick time, vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari said those unable to appear in online exams would be allowed to appear in offline mode after October 19. “Minister of state for education Prajakt Tanpure appreciated a unique feature of our app that it can work even in remotest areas where connectivity is a problem,” he told the media. BOEE director Prafulla Sable informed students can appear in mock tests from Thursday and paper would be available for them round-the-clock. Earlier, NU had decided to offer them mock tests from September 24-27. As reported by TOI, the exams of final year failure students have been entrusted to colleges and a majority of them has already started conducting exams from September 15. “We have told them to complete papers by September 30 and send results to us. Even online practical exams of final year students have commenced in their respective colleges,” Sable said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-pariksha-app-to-be-available-on-playstore-from-today/articleshow/78284106.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi still lagging in gold standard of Covid-19 testing||NEW DELHI: Over the past one week, there hasn’t been any significant increase in the number of tests being conducted using RT-PCR, which is considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing. Data shared by the state health department showed that the total number of tests conducted using RT-PCR over the past eight days, from September 16 to 22, hovered between 8,828 (on September 21) and 11,322 (September 20). Currently, Delhi has a capacity of conducting nearly 15,000 RT-PCR tests daily. On September 16, Delhi High Court had suggested that the AAP government increase the RT-PCR testing capacity to the maximum possible as rapid antigen tests were only 60% accurate. On Wednesday, when Delhi recorded 3,714 new cases, the number of tests over the past 24 hours stood at 59,580. Of this, 10,359 tests (17%) were done using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat, while the remaining 49,221 (83%) were conducted using rapid antigen tests (RAT), which has a lower sensitivity. Before this, from September 16 to 22, RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests conducted in Delhi stood at 11,275, 9,564, 11,203, 10,681, 11,322, 8,828 and 9,459, respectively. Public health specialists said RT-PCR tests needed to be scaled up for more effective tracing and tracking of Covid-19 cases. “In case of RAT, which is easier to perform compared with RT-PCR, chances of false negatives are much higher. Such people may continue to spread the disease,” said a specialist. Till date, over 2.56 lakh cases of Covid-19 have been recorded in Delhi. In all, 5,087 people have died due to the infection, including 36 fatalities over the past 24 hours. Testing needs to be ramped up for timely diagnosis so that people testing positive are offered the right treatment at the earliest, doctors say. In mid-June, the number of RT-PCR tests being conducted daily was 5,000-6,000, which has gone up to 11,000 a day now. Delhi government, sources said, was working out the modalities for making and rolling out an expansion plan. On the ground, RT-PCR demands more manpower compared with RAT. “Antigen tests do not require high skills because health workers need to follow simple techniques to get the results, which are out within 15 to 30 minutes. But RT-PCR samples cannot be analysed using a RAT-like kit. The samples need to be properly packed and transported to the testing centres. Improper handling can result in labs giving inconclusive results,” said an official, adding that manpower was a less difficult challenge. RAT was introduced on June 18. Initially, it was used for testing in containment zones. Later, in mid-July, as more kits were made available by the government, the health department expanded testing through this method to multiple points across all 11 revenue districts in the capital to scale up testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-still-lagging-in-gold-standard-of-covid-testing/articleshow/78285253.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Six cyber criminals in SOG net for duping 2 of crores||JAIPUR: A team of Special Operations Group (SOG) brought to Jaipur the gang of cyber criminals on production warrant who were arrested by Rajsamand police for defrauding a person of Rs 85 lakh. The same gang had also defrauded another person of Rs 2.5 crore in Bhilwara in the name of giving insurance which was registered with SOG. The accused hail from UP-NCR region. According to officials, the gang had been operating since 2014. Rajsamand police had received the complaint on August 31 in which it was alleged that the gang had defrauded the complainant out of Rs 85 lakh over a period of three years from 2017 to 2020 following which the cops got into action and arrested the six accused. They were identified as Mohammad Javed (31), Ravi Kumar (32), Rahul Garg (33), Gaurav Bansal (31), Sanjay Chaudhary (31) and Sonu Baghel (27). The gang also duped a complainant in Bhilwara for around six years between 2014 and 2020 which is being investigated by SOG. While the complainant in Bhilwara was financially well off, the target in Rajsamand came from a humble background and took loan to pay for the fraud insurance. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS said, “Based on the investigation so far, it has come to the notice that they have committed many frauds in different parts of the country. Second, their other associates are being identified and arrests are to be made. Third, we are trying to unearth as to how the data has been stolen, or there is some involvement of others to give the data of such target group. The gang was brought from Rajsamand to Jaipur and it was found that they were also involved in duping a person out of Rs 1.5 crore in Malviya Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-cyber-criminals-in-sog-net-for-duping-2-of-crores/articleshow/78284077.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor’s wife alleges sexual assault||MUMBAI: A Bollywood actor’s wife on Tuesday submitted a complaint to Versova police, seeking an FIR against him for sexually assaulting her multiple times on the pretext of inducing her to believe their marriage was legal. A police officer said they were verifying the details. She alleged that on September 4 she was shocked, when served a copy of an anticipatory bail plea her husband’s brother filed, from Dindoshi court, in which he mentioned her as the former wife. The bail was rejected in the case that she filed against her husband’s brother for molesting her 17-year-old daughter, who was seven then. She alleged that he never clarified or responded to emails and text messages whenever she asked about their relationship. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actors-wife-alleges-sexual-assault/articleshow/78284552.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana: Train runs over boy, he survives unhurt||AGRA: By the time loco pilot Deewan Singh and his assistant Atul Anand could spot a two-year-old in the middle of the tracks their goods train was already running. They hurried to apply emergency brakes and the train screeched to a halt but only after it had passed over the boy. Filled with dread, Deewan and Atul jumped out. They blinked in disbelief but also utter relief at what they saw -- and heard. The child was crying, scared but miraculously unhurt. It was near Ballabgarh railway station in Haryana’s Faridabad district. The station is usually not too busy. These days, less so. “The two-year-old and his 14-year-old brother were playing at the station. They must have been on the tracks when the elder brother left the child there,” said SK Srivastava, commercial manager of Agra divisional railways. That was when the Delhi-Agra train was on its way back. In a 19-second video of the incident, which begins right after the train stopped, the boy can be seen crying uncontrollably from beneath the train while a teenager, presumably his brother, is held by the loco pilot. The video went viral on Wednesday. The point where the video ends is where Deewan and Atul got to work. “The child was trapped beneath the engine,” Srivastava said. Getting him out would not be easy. So the two loco pilots first tried to calm him down and then, slowly, eased him out of the dangerously cramped space. He was then handed over to his relieved mother. The toddler had no injury. “Railway authorities have been informed about the incident. The loco pilots will be rewarded by the divisional railway manager,” Srivastava said. Watch Miraculous escape for 2-year-old stuck under engine of goods train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/train-runs-over-2-year-old-he-survives-unhurt/articleshow/78287585.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 24, 2020||Agra||Haryana: Train runs over boy, he survives unhurt||AGRA: By the time loco pilot Deewan Singh and his assistant Atul Anand could spot a two-year-old in the middle of the tracks their goods train was already running. They hurried to apply emergency brakes and the train screeched to a halt but only after it had passed over the boy. Filled with dread, Deewan and Atul jumped out. They blinked in disbelief but also utter relief at what they saw -- and heard. The child was crying, scared but miraculously unhurt. It was near Ballabgarh railway station in Haryana’s Faridabad district. The station is usually not too busy. These days, less so. “The two-year-old and his 14-year-old brother were playing at the station. They must have been on the tracks when the elder brother left the child there,” said SK Srivastava, commercial manager of Agra divisional railways. That was when the Delhi-Agra train was on its way back. In a 19-second video of the incident, which begins right after the train stopped, the boy can be seen crying uncontrollably from beneath the train while a teenager, presumably his brother, is held by the loco pilot. The video went viral on Wednesday. The point where the video ends is where Deewan and Atul got to work. “The child was trapped beneath the engine,” Srivastava said. Getting him out would not be easy. So the two loco pilots first tried to calm him down and then, slowly, eased him out of the dangerously cramped space. He was then handed over to his relieved mother. The toddler had no injury. “Railway authorities have been informed about the incident. The loco pilots will be rewarded by the divisional railway manager,” Srivastava said. Watch Miraculous escape for 2-year-old stuck under engine of goods train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/train-runs-over-2-year-old-he-survives-unhurt/articleshow/78281523.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi civic chief seeks a fresh list of ‘dangerous & very dangerous buildings’||BHIWANDI: The Jilani building crash in Bhiwandi has come seven years after a structure collapsed at Mumbra’s Lucky Compound, killing 76 people. It is Mumbai Metropolitan Region’s worst building crash. Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal commissioner Pankaj Ashiya told TOI the internal civic probe has revealed the Jilani building was constructed in 1984 as a ground-plus-one-storey structure, when it was under the purview of Dhamankar Gram Panchayat. Two more floors were built illegally in 2006. Times ViewIllegally constructed and poorly maintained buildings are the outcome of a broken regulatory system under the Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal corporation. If civic officers and builders are primarily responsible for this mess, local politicians and landlords who play a role in the redevelopment and resettlement process must share a part of the blame. The 38 lives lost should weigh on their conscience.Most of the bodies recovered on Wednesday were of firstfloor residents. The first and second floors of the building had caved into the soil following the crash and only the flattened third floor was at the ground level. Rescuers managed to reach the first floor on the third day of digging. Meanwhile, Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh visited the site on Wednesday to inspect the relief work. He also met Ashiya and discussed the issue of unauthorized and dangerous buildings in the city. Shaikh told mediapersons that “soon a concrete policy decision” on the issue will be taken at the state government level. Ashiya ordered all his ward officers to prepare a fresh list of “dangerous and very dangerous buildings” across the city and submit the details so that these can be evacuated. Ashiya told TOI: “I have ordered all my ward officers to prepare a fresh list of dangerous and very dangerous buildings so that the civic committee that I have formed following the crash can give its report within a week and further steps can be taken.” BNMC officials said they had prepared a list of 107 such structures in January, of which 102 have already been vacated and eight demolished. Deepak Sawant, deputy municipal commissioner, BNMC, said, “Along with 107 buildings under the dangerous and very dangerous category, we also have a list of 220 other structures that require minor repairs. The civic body had already alerted their owners and residents last month about the repairs.” Narpoli police said builder Sayyed Jilani is on the run. Maloji Shinde, senior police inspector of Narpoli police station, said, “Our team is searching for the accused.” Jilani is said to be a known spiritual leader who has several properties in Bhiwandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhiwandi-civic-chief-seeks-a-fresh-list-of-dangerous-very-dangerous-buildings/articleshow/78286603.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||89 test positive, 2 succumb to virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 89 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 3,267, of which 719 are active cases. The toll shot up to 23, with two more patients succumbing to Covid-19 in the hill district. Most of the new cases were reported from rural areas such as Kambatti, Jakkanarai and Kerben, among other areas. Only three people were tested positive for the virus from Ooty. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said 25 of the 89 new cases had travel histories to other districts, while the remaining were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. “Positive cases with no comorbidity and age group between 10 and 60 years are advised home quarantine,” the official said. He said they were collecting throat swabs from people entering the hill retreat from other districts with e-pass for Covid-19 testing. “And they are advised to remain in self quarantine till the test results are out.” At least 2,525 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the Nilgiris so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/89-test-positive-2-succumb-to-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78285248.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Industrial pollution in Luni river affecting soil quality, groundwater||JAISALMER: The rain-fed Luni river, which used to be a boon for Balotara, Samdadi, Siwana, Sindhari, Gudamalani tehsil in Barmer district, is now ruining these places. The polluted water in the river has spoiled the drinking water in a large number of wells and fertile lands are becoming barren. The polluted water in the river is adding to the worries of the farmers in many villages, as the water has started reaching to Samdadi and many areas in Barmer district. Till a few years ago, monsoon waters used to replenish the Luni river, which was like a lifeline to the people of Barmer district and used to bring prosperity. However, fatal, chemically polluted water discarded into the river by the textile industries in Balotara, Pali and Jodhpur districts has ruined the river. The chemical effluents of the textile units functioning in Jodhpur and Pali districts are discharged into Bandi river, which eventually merges into the Luni river, the rain-fed river passing from Barmer district, near Samdadi and it has reached Samdadi tehsil. During monsoon, under the shield of rains, the chemically polluted water from CETP plant and textile units in Pali and Balotara are discharged into the river. This has also caused another problem. The polluted river water then seeps into the ground and as a result, groundwater is getting polluted in many areas and the land is turning infertile for cultivation consequently. The polluted water from Bandi river merging with the Luni river has polluted the water in agriculture wells in the 22-km area along the river in Samdadi tehsil area. The polluted water is adversely affecting soil quality and thus agriculture for the last 40 years, but the government has not made any special efforts to stop the menace. From Samdadi tehsil to the last point of Luni river that is Kutch ki Khadi, the river has become polluted, adding to the issue. Pradushan Nivaran evum Paryavaran Sanrakshan Samiti Balotara secretary Om Prakash Soni said that when the farmers came to know about the damage due to the chemical pollution, they struggled to stop the chemical pollution into the river and to revive the river, but no government has made any concrete plans for the conservation of the river. On the other hand, a worker from Samdadi Sunil Dave said that during monsoon, factories release chemical water in the river in Pali, which with rainwater reaches Samdadi. From Rampura area in Samdadi up to 22km, the Luni river is polluted and is directly affecting the wells and groundwater. The water in the wells in many villages including Rampura, Godo ka wada, Mahesh Nagar Ajeet, Bhanawas, Charano ka Vada, Samdadi, Karmavas etc is not in a condition to drink and it cannot be used for irrigation as well. The farmers are worried and agriculture is getting affected adversely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industrial-pollution-in-luni-river-affecting-soil-quality-groundwater/articleshow/78284103.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod to nursing course fee revision||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved revision of fee structure in various nursing courses with effect from academic session 2020-21. The increase in fee will be applicable prospectively only to new students joining in session from 2020-21. All the existing enrolled students will continue to pay at old rates for the full course. An official spokesperson said the revision has been proposed with regard to ANM Nursing course in government and private nursing colleges, BSc nursing (Basic) and BSc nursing (Post Basic) in private colleges of the state. The spokesperson added that the decision had been taken to strengthen the medical education and infrastructural facilities at government and private medical colleges. The hike is in accordance with the recommendations of a committee constituted under principal secretary, medical education on January 29, 2020, by the medical education and research department, in compliance of the orders passed on August 2, 2017, by the Punjab and Haryana high court in the matter of civil writ petition No. 24359 of 2016-Nursing Training Institutes Association, Punjab. The spokesperson said that the committee, after detailed deliberations on March 23, 2020, and keeping in view the fee structure in other states as well as increase in overall expenses, unanimously recommended that the fee for government institutions be fixed lower than private institutions. The general nursing and midwifery (GNM) course fee should not be revised as it is likely to be stopped by the Indian Nursing Council from 2021, it further recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-revision-in-fee-structure-in-nursing-colleges/articleshow/78286043.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Professor, accused of raping relative, denied pre-arrest bail||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on September 21 rejected the pre-arrest bail plea of a married Mumbai college professor accused of raping a relative after allegedly promising to marry her. Justice C V Bhadang, who observed that though there may have been a delay in filing an FIR by the woman, as alleged by advocate Tushar Sonawane for the accused, it would not be decisive for the pre-arrest bail plea. Additional public prosecutor Ajay Patil said an investigation was needed as the woman, aged 29, alleged she had met him on a bus in 2018 and they had relations from February 2019 to June 2019 after he proposed to her. The man allegedly gave her a wedding necklace and they lived together, with him promising a “formal ceremony later’’. The woman said she learnt in February that he was already married and an FIR was filed in July. The man alleged he was being falsely implicated and she would have been aware of his marital status as they were “closely related’’. The HC said such an argument “cannot prima facie be accepted. Even assuming the complainant was aware of the marital status of the applicant, there is no justification for the alleged act attributed to the applicant, when he was aware he is married and ought to have acted responsibly. Prima facie, the applicant has not shown any reason for his false implication for a near relative making such allegations,’’ the HC said in its order. It said the man pleaded it was “consensual’’. The HC said it was “paramount’’ that the case be investigated. Jusice Bhadang iterated a “well-settled” position that “custodial interrogation is qualitatively different than interrogation, when accused is armed with an order of anticipatory bail”, and denied him relief against arrest. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prof-accused-of-raping-relative-denied-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/78284556.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 24, 2020||Goa||SC likely to hear Mhadei Bachao Abhiyan’s contempt plea next month||Keri: A contempt petition filed by the Mhadei Bachao Abhiyan (MBA) before the Supreme Court over the damming and diversion of the Mhadei and its tributaries by Karnataka is likely to come up for hearing next month. MBA president Nirmala Sawant told TOI that the NGO’s earlier petition was disposed of by the apex court after Karnataka’s senior counsel submitted that the southern state would not divert water from the Kalasa nullah into the basin of the Malaprabha river. “However, when we discovered that Karnataka has diverted water from the Mhadei basin into the Malaprabha, we decided to file the contempt petition,” she said. The Goa government had already filed its contempt petition in the matter before the apex court on August 8, 2018, even before the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal submitted its award to the Centre. Goa had subsequently filed a special leave petition on July 18, 2019, seeking that the Supreme Court review the tribunal’s decision. Chief minister Pramod Sawant recently told reporters that the state would be filing yet another contempt petition before the apex court to protect Goa’s interests in the matter. When contacted, advocate general Devidas Pangam said, “We are presently engrossed in filing one more contempt petition along with recent evidences of violations by Karnataka by diverting the natural flow of water coming to Goa into the Malaprabha basin. We are taking the necessary legal steps to protect Goa’s interests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-likely-to-hear-mhadei-bachao-abhiyans-contempt-plea-next-month/articleshow/78285260.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 24, 2020||Agra||104 new Covid positive cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 104 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 5,229. A 58-year-old woman died during treatment at SN Medical College. She was a resident of Sikandra locality and was suffering from cancer. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 120 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Moreover, 105 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 5,229 cases, 4,153 [79.4%] have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are now 956 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/104-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78281535.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Fortified rice ready in Trichy, to be distributed from Oct 1||Trichy: With the state government launching the distribution of fortified rice to ration card holders to fight malnutrition, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) in Trichy has started moving 12,000 tonnes of rice added with the micronutrients to 1,224 ration shops in the district. The scheme funded by the Union government is to be implemented for the first time in Trichy district as a pilot project. Distribution of the rice fortified with iron, folic acid, and Vitamin B12 will commence on October 1 across the district. Around 7.5 lakh cardholders in Trichy district in the 1,224 ration shops will be benefitted from the value-added rice, officials said. TNCSC has commenced the process of transporting the fortified rice to the respective ration shops from September 21 onwards, senior regional manager of TNCSC, Trichy, G Chitrarasu told TOI. “A total 12,000 tonnes of rice is ready to distribute. We will complete the transportation within a week to facilitate the distribution from October 1,” he said. For rice fortification, the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution is the nodal agency and has allocated Rs 10 crore for three years to follow up this process. The amount includes the cost for supplying fortified rice kernel, blending, lab work, and transportation. The cost of fortifying the rice will be shared between the center and the state governments in the ratio of 75:25, officials said. The government has distributed the fortified rice kernels to Trichy separately. “We have assigned some rice mills to add the micronutrients to the regular rice. Fortified rice kernels will be added to the boiled and raw rice,” the official further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fortified-rice-ready-in-trichy-to-be-distributed-from-oct-1/articleshow/78285247.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to fill 8,393 posts of pre-primary teachers||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet has approved filling up of 8,393 posts of pre-primary teachers. Relaxation in age and special credit will be given to existing experienced volunteers working in the education department at the time of recruitment. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said this would make the pre-primary government schools more competitive with private institutions and increase enrolment. The cabinet also gave the go ahead to the departmental service rules for pre-primary school teachers. Though the total requirement of pre-primary teachers stands at 12,000, the fiscal situation prevented the finance department from approving full recruitment, said Amarinder. Efforts would be made to complete the remaining recruitment at the earliest, said Amarinder, stressing on the importance of strengthening the pre-primary teaching systems in government schools. According to an official spokesperson, 8,393 posts of pre-primary school teachers would be filled up, calculated with a norm of one teacher for every 30 students as actual enrolment of students at present. The cabinet also accorded approval to the proposal of the department to relax the upper age limit for volunteers, such as Sikhiya Providers, education providers, education volunteers, EGS volunteers, AIE volunteers and special training resource (STR) volunteers, working under various educational schemes. The annual financial implications involved in the first three years, till these 8,393 teachers are under probation would be Rs 103.73 crore, whereas the annual financial implications would be Rs 374.20 crore after they complete the probation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-nod-to-fill-8393-posts-of-pre-primary-teachers/articleshow/78286045.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Constable held for posing as CM’s PA||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police have arrested a constable, identified as Manjinder Singh, for duping several people by impersonating as personal assistant (PA) to the chief minister and using a mobile app to falsely project him as senior officer of various designations. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta has directed the special Punjab Armed Police DGP to dismiss the constable, who had been found to be indulging in criminal acts and was acquitted in three different cases on earlier occasions. Recruited as a constable in the Punjab Police in 2006, Manjinder was presently deployed as a sentry guard at 1st IRB, Patiala. The DGP said the police had initiated action after Vijay N Zade, secretary expenditure and director mining, said he had been getting calls from a person claiming that he was speaking from CM’s residence. When it was checked, it was found that no such person was on duty at CM’s residence or office. However, the mobile app showed that the call had emanated from “CM house, Chandigarh”, Gupta said. During preliminary investigations, the MBA degree holder cop disclosed that he had been calling up various officers by posing as Kuldeep Singh, PA to Punjab CM. These included Malerkotla DSP Sumit Sood, Ropar mining officer Manjeet Kaur Dhillon, superintendent of PRTC at Faridkot Sita Ram and naka in-charge near Nandpur Keshon Patiala-Sirhind road, police post Fagan Majra. A criminal case has been registered against him under various sections of the IPC and the I-T Act at Tripuri police station, Patiala. Further investigations are on and more revelations are expected, including the names of various victims whom he had duped and the amount he collected from them. Eight mobile phones and a white SUV have been recovered from the accused’s possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cop-held-for-posing-as-cms-pa/articleshow/78286046.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Trial of exclusive two-wheelers lane in Trichy city exposes several challenges||Trichy: The implementation of a separate lane for two-wheelers between head post office (HPO) and MGR statue may pose several challenges to the Trichy police as was revealed during the trial run in the past week. Non-compliance of the rule by motorists and commercial establishments came to the fore during the exercise. The city police led by commissioner J Loganathan had come up with the idea considering the increasing number of road accidents involving two-wheelers. The 1,250-metre-long stretch from HPO roundabout to MGR statue got yellow painted markings on both sides of the stretch as part of this. The system was slated to be extended to other city roads also with enough space. According to the plan, 5 metres from the middle of the road was allocated for four-wheelers while the next 2 metres was demarcated for two-wheelers. The rest of the space, if available, on the extreme left will be utilized for parking or classified as ‘No Parking’ zone depending on the space. Nearly ten days into the trial run, one could see that motorists were least compliant with the new initiative. The traffic constable on duty at the HPO round-about advised motorists using public address system (PAS) about the formation of the new lane and insisted they use the track. However, several two-wheeler riders did not use the track while bikes, cars and even mini-trucks began parking haphazardly on the track dedicated for bikes. This forced obedient users of the track to deviate from it. Besides, four-wheelers also trespassed into the tracks of two-wheeler. The police put up spring pillars at several points on the marking for two-wheeler to alert the violators. Deputy Commissioner of police, crime and traffic, R Vetharathinam said that around 30 commercial establishments have been issued notice to regulate parking in front of their shops. “Wherever we have enough space, we are allotting it for parking. If there’s no space, it is a no-parking zone. Commercial establishments have been advised to tell customers to park vehicles in the dedicated space at some distance and walk to the shop,” said DCP Vetharathinam. He also said that reducing the speed of two-wheelers was one of the objectives of the separate track. About the perennial traffic congestion in front of Campion school in the morning and evening, DCP said they have a plan to regulate traffic once the school reopens. The track near the court bus stop was not used by any two-wheeler rider due to difficulty in negotiating the curve. “We will observe the violations till the two-wheeler track officially opens for full-fledged traffic after which violators will face the music,” said the DCP exuding confidence that the track will definitely ensure a safe ride to two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trial-of-exclusive-two-wheelers-lane-in-trichy-city-exposes-several-challenges/articleshow/78285254.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Cases continue to spike as people ignore all prevention measures||Coimbatore: Relaxation of lockdown and poor enforcement of prevention measures appear to be a dangerous mix of cocktail for the district, which recorded 587 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, when the tally touched 27,744.At least 512 patients were discharged from treatment facilities on the day. With this, the number of active cases in the district stands at 4,630.The toll, meanwhile, rose to 396 with the state recording four more deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin.Absence of strict social distancing measures and lack of mask etiquette have been costing the industrial city, where Covid-19 cases are on a constant spike, a lot. The Covid-19 spread seems to be under control in Chennai, Cuddalore and other districts. While the district logged nearly 600 new cases on the day, other major cities in the state, except Salem, have recorded a dip numbers. The health department is struggling to contain the virus spread in the district, where new cases are piling up daily in existing hotspots and slowly spreading to other areas.The city corporation as well as the health officials said they have intensified the prevention measures and attributed the spike to the waning seriousness among the public in following precautionary steps. An official said, “Roads are congested, markets are crowded, offices are functioning and eateries are buzzing with people. Social distancing is ignored in most of the places.”He said many people were either not wearing masks or wearing them in a wrong way that doesn’t not help in arresting the spread of the virus.There was no let-up in new case of Covid-19 across the western zone, which had almost touched the number of fresh cases reported daily by the Chennai region. While the Chennai region had 1,700 new cases, the west zone had 1,671 cases - higher than the cases in south (589) and central regions (598) of the state put together.In terms of Covid-19 fatalities, the west zone, which comprises eight districts including Coimbatore and Salem, had more deaths (21) on Wednesday than the Chennai region (17).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cases-continue-to-spike-as-people-ignore-all-prevention-measures/articleshow/78285256.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt plans to hire oxygen tankers from other states||PUNE: The shortage of cryogenic mobile tankers supplying liquid oxygen in Maharashtra is set to ease with the government planning to hire such vehicles from other states. The Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration (FDA), along with the state health department and the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA), is working on easing the supplies of cryogenic oxygen mobile tankers by adding more to the existing 148 vehicles in the state. The development follows after the road transport and highways ministry in its latest order exempted cryogenic mobile tankers supplying oxygen from permit requirements. Top sources from AIIGMA, who are part of the Union government committee overseeing oxygen supply across the country, stated that before September 21, cryogenic mobile tankers supplying oxygen within one state could not be hired to serve in other states as per the rules in the existing Motor Vehicles Act 1988. The AIIGMA had brought to the notice of the ministry these problems, after which the latter on September 21 issued a notification on the exemption of permit requirements for such vehicles till March next year. AIIGMA president Saket Tiku told TOI, “There is a dearth of cryogenic mobile tankers in Maharashtra. What made the situation more complicated were the rules in the Motor Vehicles Act. For instance, a vehicle registered in Maharashtra can do business only within Maharashtra. It cannot cater to the industry of another state, even though it can go to that state. This created problems in hiring such oxygen supply tankers from other states.” He added, “However, with the ministry of road transport and highways excluding vehicles involved in exclusively supplying oxygen from permit requirements, this issue has now been taken care of. The states can now hire oxygen supply vehicles that have not been registered in their jurisdiction.” At a recent meeting between FDA, state health department and AIIGMA officials, it was proposed that the Maharashtra government could hire these mobile cryogenic tankers from other states and keep the vehicles at their disposal for a specific period of time to ease supplies of oxygen to hospitals, said Tiku. A senior Maharashtra FDA official told TOI, “We are awaiting the nod for funds to be sanctioned for this under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund. This is expected to ease the logistical issues like cryogenic mobile tanker availability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-plans-to-hire-oxygen-tankers-from-other-states/articleshow/78285262.cms||Neha Madaan
September 24, 2020||Bhopal||Sambal Yojana, pillar of strength for poor: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday that his government is committed to the welfare of the poor.  “We had started Sambal Yojana to help poor families from the time of birth of a child in the family to death of a person in that family. But, previous government discontinued the scheme aimed at equitable distribution of resources in the society and let the poor get his due,” said Chouhan at a function held at Minto Hall to mark the transfer of Rs 80 crore to 3,700 beneficiaries of Sambal Yojana. The CM said that the scheme is like a pillar of strength for poor families and he would see to it that it is never discontinued. Eery family would be provided a pucca house within three years. Chouhan said that migrant workers, who have returned to the state during lockdown, would also be included in the scheme and efforts would be to provide them jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sambal-pillar-of-strength-for-poor-cm/articleshow/78284133.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants pre-arrest bail to man over ruckus for hospital bed||MUMBAI: Observing that the pandemic causes anxiety and “unexpected behaviour’’ when loved ones fall sick, Justice Bharati Dangre of Bombay high court recently granted pre-arrest bail to a man accused of deterring a public servant from doing his duty in a village on July 28. The man, it can be assumed, was anxious to get treatment and a hospital bed for his mother who tested positive for Covid-19, said the judge granting him pre-arrest bail of Rs20,000 and directing him to deposit Rs10,000 with the chief minister’s relief fund. “The pandemic has brought the world on its knees,’’ said Justice Dangre. The man said his mother was quarantined at home as no bed was available in any nearby hospital, while he was “continuously under pressure from villagers to get her admitted to some hospital’’. He said no beds were available in the government hospital and a private hospital told him to deposit Rs 1 lakh. He ran “helter-skelter for help’’. He learnt government hospital doctors were visiting the gram panchayat office and approached them with his grievance, but alleged he was “humiliated and verbally assaulted’’ on July 27. The FIR alleged that he “created a ruckus’’ and tried to stop the driver of a government vehicle, thus deterring a public servant from his duty. The HC said people were @still grappling with the pandemic”. The judge reasoned that the man never intended to hinder anyone. “He might have overstepped his limits’’ in his anxiety for his mother’s treatment. But he said the man “must pay the price for his irresponsible behaviour” as the government with limited resources was trying its best.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-man-over-ruckus-for-hosp-bed/articleshow/78284561.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Buy remdesivir only at hospitals, says FDA||PUNE: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Wednesday, while confirming the arrival of 20,000 vials of remedesivir in Pune division, said patients’ relatives should not approach retail medical stores or wholesale distributors to purchase the drug. Officials said the drug is now being supplied directly to all hospitals treating Covid-19. They asked families to first approach hospital pharmacies or call the chemists’ association — at 9404968053/9822404960/9822192558 — if they’re still unable to find the medicine. The FDA also asked doctors to use the drug only in hypoxic patients (with blood oxygen saturation below 94% in room air) or those requiring mechanical ventilation or supplemental oxygen. “Two manufacturers — Hetero and Cipla — sent 17,000 and 3,000 vials respectively to Pune division on Wednesday. There is likely to be no shortage from now,” FDA, Pune division’s joint commissioner, SB Patil told TOI. Patil added, “There are five manufacturers of remdesivir who supply the drug directly to hospitals treating Covid-19 via distributors. Another firm provides the drug to hospitals as per orders, without involving distributors. In both cases, the supply is direct-to-hospital.” He said “indiscriminate use” of remdesivir on non-indicated patients was one of the reasons for the shortage. “The drug should only be used as per the state’s clinical guidelines,” he said. Senior doctor Narendra Javadekar said,“Remdesivir and tocilizumab are expensive Covid drugs. And patients from well-to-do families feel that because these drugs are expensive, they must be very effective. So they start urging doctors to use them right from the start of treatment.” Two pharma firms have cut the price of remdesivir by nearly 40% for state-run medical colleges attached hospitals treating Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/buy-remdesivir-only-at-hosps-fda/articleshow/78285259.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 24, 2020||Chandigarh||J&K official languages bill bulldozed in Parl: Sukhbir Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has said it was shocking how the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, was bulldozed in the Parliament by muzzling the voice of people of Jammu and Kashmir in support of Punjabi language. Sukhbir said it was a matter of deep concern that parliamentary procedures had not been followed while putting up the bill for approval before the Parliament. He said the bill was neither put on the agenda of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, nor the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. “Even today (Wednesday), it was passed at the last minute in the absence of the opposition,” said the SAD president. The bill was taken up for approval without taking into consideration the objections of the SAD as well as other regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, he added. Sukhbir said while speaking in the Lok Sabha, he had earlier pointed out that Punjabi was not only the mother tongue of a large number of people of the union territory, but was also a recognised language as per the constitution of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. He termed the entire development as a sad day for democracy. He also expressed anguish that while Punjabi had been excluded from the list of official languages, English had been included in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jk-official-languages-bill-bulldozed-in-parl-sukhbir/articleshow/78286050.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Nagpur||White Chippi is officially state mangrove tree||Nagpur: The state government finally put the official stamp on ‘White Chippi’ (Sonneratia alba) as state mangrove tree of Maharashtra. A GR to declaring it a state tree was issued on Wednesday. The state wildlife board (SWBL) in its 15th meeting held under the chairmanship of Uddhav Thackeray cleared the proposal to declare Sonneratia alba as the ‘state mangrove tree’. Sonneratia alba as “State Mangrove Tree” will be known to students, common man and will help in creating awareness about the importance of mangroves and marine biodiversity among the students and the people so that the mangroves are conserved and get the support of common man in conserving them. Maharashtra is the first state in country to designate Sonneratia alba as a symbol of mangrove conservation and this symbolic recognition will secure a pride of place for the species and mangroves in the hearts of people of coastal region which will be an important stepping stone to get active support of people to conserve mangroves and marine biodiversity all along the long coast line. Earlier, Maharashtra has declared the state tree (Mango), state animal (Giant Squirrel), state bird (Green Pigeon), state butterfly (Blue Mormon), state flower (Jarul Lagerstroemia speciosa) to highlight their ecological importance. Maharashtra has a long coast line of 720km having a typical mangrove habitat harbouring a variety of flora and fauna. There are 60 mangrove plant species in the world, out of which Maharashtra has about 20 species. Sonneratia alba is one of the important evergreen mangrove tree species occurring in the coastal districts of Maharashtra. It is known as ‘White Chippi’ in local parlance as it bears beautiful white flowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/white-chippi-is-officially-state-mangrove-tree/articleshow/78284141.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Karur dist admin to sell pack of siddha medicines||Trichy: Karur district administration has rolled out a scheme of selling a pack of siddha medicines at subsidized rate from Tuesday as part of a measure to control the spread of Covid-19 in the district. The initiative was taken by Karur district collector T Anbazhagan. Introduced by the state transport minister M R Vijaya Baskar, the packs containing four siddha medicines – 50 g of Kabasura Kudineer chooranam, 100 ml of Aadathoda Manappagu, 50 Amukkira tablets, 50 Thalisathi tablets -- have been made available at the bus stand in Karur. The pack will be sold for Rs 100 instead of its actual price of Rs 150 per pack. Vijaya Baskar said that a family with five members can take the medicines in the pack for five days to boost their immunity. Vijaya Baskar also said that Karur district administration procured five tonnes of Kabasura Kudineer chooranam from Tamil Nadu medicinal plant farms and herbal medicine corporation limited (TAMPCOL). The drink prepared under the supervision of the siddha practitioners was distributed among the people across the district four times over the past few months.The scheme will be extended further to Amma pharmacy and Amma Canteen across the district.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-dist-admin-to-sell-pack-of-siddha-medicines/articleshow/78285250.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Opposition questions government over Nehru statue||BENGALURU: Opposition members in the legislative council on Wednesday demanded that a statue of Jawaharlal Nehru be reinstalled at its original spot in Vidhana Soudha. The statue was shifted from its south-east location in the complex to the north-west side to facilitate Metro construction. At the time, the government had said it would be moved back once the work ended. Raising the issue in the council, Congress member K Govindraj sought a timeline from the government. Floor leader Kota Srinivas Poojary, replying on behalf of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, said the government would consider the demand. Riled by the reply, Congress and JD(S) members pressed for a definite answer. “The Metro work concluded more than a year ago, but no action has been taken by the government. How much more time do you need to shift the statue? It’s the commitment of the government and it must be honoured,” Govindaraj said. Basavaraj Horatti, BK Hariprasad, PR Ramesh and other members joined the chorus, asking the government to set a deadline. Poojary said the government had a lot of respect towards Nehru, the country’s first prime minister, and it would move the statue back to its position. But he refused to set a deadline. The discussion ended after he said he would discuss the issue with the chief minister and take a call at the earliest. Probe into Ganga Kalyana scheme The state government has decided to form a house committee to look into allegations of financial irregularities in the Ganga Kalyana irrigation scheme. Members from across party lines stressed on the need for an inquiry and floor leader in the legislative council and muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary agreed to the demand. “The government will set up the committee after discussing the issue with social welfare minister Govind Karjol,” he said. Earlier, MLC NA Narayanaswamy of BJP raised the issue under Rule 72, alleging large-scale corruption in the irrigation scheme. Several MLCs concurred with Narayana Swamy. Following complaints of corruption, the government had in 2019 created a panel under retired IAS officer Venkataiah to look into the allegations. The panel has sought more time to submit the report, citing Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-opposition-questions-govt-over-nehru-statue/articleshow/78286528.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot flags off state’s first underground Metro stretch||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday inaugurated Metro Phase 1-B, the state’s first underground Metro train, which will run in the Walled City covering a distance of 2.12 km from Chandpole to Badi Chaupar. The first Metro of the day ran empty from Badi Chaupar area. The next train that came 10 minutes later had chief whip Mahesh Joshi, MLA Amin Kagji, Jaipur Vyapaar Mnadal president Subhash Goyal, businessmen and officials of Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation. Due to the pandemic, Gehlot inaugurated the corridor from his residence. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariwas and senior officers were present at the station. Gehlot said while maintaining the heritage look, the Metro will boost the tourism of Jaipur. “Metro is a good start for Rajasthan. Our Government is not seeing loss or profit in running the Metro because it is the social responsibility of the Governments to provide cheap and easy transport service to people. Transport and Metro have become the backbone of the city with growing population of the city,” said Gehlot. He requested to explore the possibilities of starting a low cost Metro Lite Project in the state. Besides this, he demanded to connect cities such as Jodhpur and Bikaner with Smart City Project so that urban development works could take place in these cities also. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal said, “Safe, pollution free, cheap and comfortable travel will be accessible to people along with tourists coming to Jaipur with the starting of underground Metro. This will also ease traffic jams to a great extent in the Walled City.” The 11.3km route from Badi Chaupar to Mansarovar will take around 26 minutes. Around 178 trains will run throughout the day once life returns to normal. There will be 89 trips from Badi Chaupar to Mansarovar in a day as of now. Watch Rajasthan: CM Gehlot inaugurates state's first underground metro stretch in Jaipur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-flags-off-states-first-underground-metro-stretch/articleshow/78284131.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Srinagar||J&K official languages bill bulldozed in Parl: Sukhbir Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has said it was shocking how the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, was bulldozed in the Parliament by muzzling the voice of people of Jammu and Kashmir in support of Punjabi language. Sukhbir said it was a matter of deep concern that parliamentary procedures had not been followed while putting up the bill for approval before the Parliament. He said the bill was neither put on the agenda of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, nor the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. “Even today (Wednesday), it was passed at the last minute in the absence of the opposition,” said the SAD president. The bill was taken up for approval without taking into consideration the objections of the SAD as well as other regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, he added. Sukhbir said while speaking in the Lok Sabha, he had earlier pointed out that Punjabi was not only the mother tongue of a large number of people of the union territory, but was also a recognised language as per the constitution of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. He termed the entire development as a sad day for democracy. He also expressed anguish that while Punjabi had been excluded from the list of official languages, English had been included in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/jk-official-languages-bill-bulldozed-in-parl-sukhbir/articleshow/78290886.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Jammu||J&K official languages bill bulldozed in Parl: Sukhbir Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has said it was shocking how the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, was bulldozed in the Parliament by muzzling the voice of people of Jammu and Kashmir in support of Punjabi language. Sukhbir said it was a matter of deep concern that parliamentary procedures had not been followed while putting up the bill for approval before the Parliament. He said the bill was neither put on the agenda of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, nor the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. “Even today (Wednesday), it was passed at the last minute in the absence of the opposition,” said the SAD president. The bill was taken up for approval without taking into consideration the objections of the SAD as well as other regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, he added. Sukhbir said while speaking in the Lok Sabha, he had earlier pointed out that Punjabi was not only the mother tongue of a large number of people of the union territory, but was also a recognised language as per the constitution of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. He termed the entire development as a sad day for democracy. He also expressed anguish that while Punjabi had been excluded from the list of official languages, English had been included in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/jk-official-languages-bill-bulldozed-in-parl-sukhbir/articleshow/78290885.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Agra||Truck rams into bike on Agra-Kanpur highway, one killed||AGRA: One person was killed when a truck collided with the road divider on Agra-Kanpur highway in village Naushehra under the Shikohabad police station of Firozabad district. The truck broke the divider and rammed into a bike and overturned. The biker died on the spot and the truck driver was critically injured. The deceased has been identified as 40-year-old Ganga Ram, a resident of Barsana Nagar Panchayat of Mathura district. Relative of the deceased, Uday Bhan, who was on another bike said that they both were garment traders and were going to Etawah. Shikohabad circle officer Baldev Singh Khaneda said, “The truck was coming from the opposite direction. It broke the divider and rammed into the bike. The biker died on the spot while the truck overturned. The truck driver has been identified as Udayveer Singh, resident of village Dhakpur under Shikohabad police station. He was admitted to the trauma centre in a critical condition. So far, no formal complaint has been received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/truck-rams-into-bike-on-agra-kanpur-highway-one-killed/articleshow/78281547.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Bhopal||‘Artistes must have vision to survive during pandemic’||BHOPAL: After two days of lyrical theatrical presentations, the grand finale of Rang Sangeet festival on Wednesday turned out to be a cultural fiesta, a proverbial cherry on the cake, for the live audience at MSMD and all those who watched it on social media. Theatre doyen Habib Tanvir’s daughter, Nageen Tanvir, who not only scripted the revival of her father’s Naya Theatre post his demise, but also took his legacy forward, captivated the audience’s attention from the word ‘go’. Rains did try to play spoilsport, but the diehard theatre and music lovers, stood there are enjoyed it, undettered. A multi-linguist along with being an actor and singer to reckon with, Nageen took the audience along on a mellifluous journey which had all shades, as she sung songs from different plays, in Bengali, Chhattisgarhi and Urdu, switching gears with effortless ease. Her rendition of the ghazal ‘Ghaib se chalne lagi ek zehreeli hawa’ evoked painful memories of Bhopal Gas Tragedy for many, while ‘Khoonrez karishma naaz sitam’ from iconic play Agra Bazar transported the onlookers to a bygone era, of centuries ago. ‘Taake Koyla baare baare’, based on Rabindranath Tagore’s play ‘Sacrifice’ was like a gentle breeze while the prayer in Chhattisgarhi ‘Sees jhukao mai Saraswati ke sumiran’ created a spiritual aura. Talking to TOI, Nageen admitted these are tough times for all, more so for stage performers. “Artistes must have faith in themselves and vision to survive during pandemic. Unless you reinvent yourself, you will stagnate. This is also the time when you must have the conviction that you will survive financial woes and look inward for inspiration with a balanced sense of spirituality.” She said, in Covid times, it is innovation that will keep the hope and art forms alive. “Treat this as a special chance to connect even more deeply with just 100 people in the audience, which are officially allowed for now. It is the rasa that would flow once you form a rapport with audience; then you have nothing to fear. Your fire can’t be extinguished. This feeling of fear or insecurity about survival is all internal; it is in your hand to not allow it to blossom.” Performing after a gap of over 10 months in front of a live audience, Nageen admitted that she never gets jitters before a performance. “I just rehearse then relax and go with the flow,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/artistes-must-have-faith-and-vision-to-survive-during-pandemic-nageen-tanvir/articleshow/78284154.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
September 24, 2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi building collapse: Mom’s body found clutching 3-year-old’s||BHIWANDI: Rescue workers at the Jilani site teared up on finding the body of Farida Khan (30) clutching that of her youngest three-year-old daughter Reha in the debris on Wednesday. Rescuers also found the bodies of her two older daughters Falak (5) and Farah (6) as well as her husband Murtuza (35). Their son Sadiq (8) survived as he had left for his grandfather, Mustafa’s place in another Bhiwandi locality a day before the tragedy. A relative said the family resided on the first floor of the building and Murtuza ran a shop in Bhiwandi. Wasim Shaikh, a local resident who helped rescuers for three days, told TOI: “Though I had pulled out other bodies, I will never forget the way Farida had held her daughter to save her.” Faijan Ansari, another local, said, “She had covered her daughter completely against the falling ceiling.” Mustafa, who lives with his other son, spent three days at the site in the hope that Murtuza and family would be found alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhiwandi-building-collapse-moms-body-found-clutching-3-year-olds/articleshow/78286616.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy student only one from TN to bag NSS award from Prez||Trichy: A student of Bishop Heber College in Trichy has been selected for the National Service Scheme (NSS) award, under the student category. M Dharma Sastha, 20, is the only NSS volunteer from Tamil Nadu to be conferred the award this year.Scheduled to be organised online by the ministry of youth affairs and sports, the award ceremony will be held virtually from New Delhi on Thursday, when President Ram Nath Kovind will confer the award on Dharma Sastha.A final year BBA student, Dharma Sastha, will be the first student from the Bishop Heber College to receive the award. On being selected for the award, Dharma Sastha said that he was inculcated with the mentality to help others, right from childhood. “I help out people whenever possible. As soon as I joined the college, I enrolled at the NSS club in the college. After completing two years, I have been made general secretary of the club because of my dedication towards service to others,” said Dharma Sastha.Talking about his participation in national and international level camps, Dharma Sastha said he felt honoured about his participation in the Republic Day Parade, held in New Delhi in 2019.NSS program officer of Bishop Heber College, R Ravi, said that the award was the recognition for the youth’s committed service to anyone, irrespective of the situation. “Though he was actively involved in several social service schemes, I would like to underline his voluntary participation in the rehabilitation work during Gaja cyclone, while several others stayed away,” he said.While keeping his passion towards serving the society, Dharma Sastha, aspires to land a job in the railways to give a comfortable life to his family, comprising his parents and two brothers who are relying on the income of his father, who is a carpenter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-student-only-one-from-tn-to-bag-nss-award-from-prez/articleshow/78285261.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Surat||Surat: Bankers cycle to work for green benefits||SURAT: In a novel initiative to promote health and green environment, Surat-based Varachha Co-operative Bank Ltd (VCB) has started giving its employees monetary incentives if they cycle to work daily. “We have started giving monetary incentives of Rs 500 per month from this month to employees who cycle to our bank offices. We asked employees staying within 4-5 km away from the office to use cycles to commute and are happy that 15 have already joined the 'cycle to work campaign'. Many more are joining in the coming days,” chairman, Varachha Co-operative Bank Ltd, Kanji Bhalala told TOI. “The idea is to promote the habit of exercising among employees by way of cycling to work. This would help them remain fit and healthy and the other benefit is to help the environment too by less use of fuel-based vehicles and less pollution. We want to promote it in a big way and appeal to the public to use cycle as well in their routine life,” Bhalala added. “Since the time this campaign was launched in our bank, I have been cycling 4 km daily from home to office in Bombay Market and takes me around 25 minutes to reach in the morning. It keeps me fit, the environment healthy and plus I get money too,” Jayesh Parsana, an employee, told TOI. “I cycle to work from Nanpura for the last 20 days. I had always been wanting to cycle for health reasons, but now with the incentive it’s a win-win as I also save about Rs 20 every day on commuting,'' says Dhaval Rana, 30, a peon at VCB. In fact, VCB's general manager Vitthal Dhanani also cycles to work on every Saturday. “I cycle to the office every Saturday to encourage employees to use this green mode of transport. I also appeal to people to use cycles in their daily life,” Dhanani said. VCB, founded in 1995, has over 350 employees in its various bank branches including in Ankleshwar, Navsari and Ahmedabad among other cities who serve the bank’s 4.5 lakh customer base.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bankers-cycle-to-work-for-green-benefits/articleshow/78282883.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 24, 2020||Dehradun||‘Chinese encroachment in at least 4 districts of Nepal’||Pithoragarh: China is alleged to have been steadily encroaching on land in border areas of Nepal, the information regarding which is now trickling out. While the construction of at least nine buildings in the Lapcha-Limi area of Humla district of Nepal allegedly by the Chinese Army came to light a few days ago, sources told TOI that a survey by the Nepalese agriculture ministry sometime back has shown evidence of more encroachment by the Chinese along the Nepal-China border. A source, privy to the survey conducted by the ministry, said that the encroachments have been spotted across four districts. “Most of the areas occupied in these districts are catchment areas of rivers, including areas of Bhagdare river in Humla, Karnali river, Sanjen river, and Lemde river in Rasuwa; Bhurjug river, Kharne river, and Jamburiver in Sindhupalchowk, Bhotekoshi river and Samjug river in Sankhuwasabha as well as Kamkhola river and Arun river,” the source said. The issue of Chinese encroachment was also raised in the Nepalese parliament in June this year by three MPs of the opposition Nepali Congress — Devendra Raj Kandel, Sanjaya Kumar Gautam and Satya Narayan Sharma Khanal. The MPs had alleged that China had encroached a total of 64 hectares of land in Dolakha, Humla, Sindhupalchowk, Sankhuwasabha, Gorkha and Rasuwa districts of the country. They said that some of the total 98 boundary pillars along the over 1400-km-long border between Nepal and China had gone missing. “The boundary pillar numbers 35, 37 and 38 located in the border of Gorkha district and pillar number 62 located in Nampa Pass of Solukhumbu are missing,” the MPs had said, accusing China of shifting pillar number 35 of Gorkha district towards Nepal, “as a result of which Rui village lying in the northern part of Gorkha has been encroached by China and 72 households are now under Tibet Autonomous Region of China.” Similarly, 18 households located at Jiujiu of Darchula district have been encroached by China, the resolution moved by the MPs said. Meanwhile, several protesters marched towards the Chinese embassy in Kathmandu on Wednesday, carrying placards with slogans such as 'Stop border encroachment', 'Return encroached Nepali land', 'Chinese imperialism is dead' and 'Open the border'. The protesters were stopped by police before they could reach the embassy area. Reacting to the recent allegations that the Chinese army had constructed buildings in Humla district of Nepal, officials of the Chinese embassy in Nepal had a day ago issued a statement denying China had been involved in the construction of any buildings in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chinese-encroachment-in-at-least-4-districts-of-nepal/articleshow/78282831.cms||Prem Punetha
September 24, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region tally surges past 2.61 lakh, 84 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded 3,886 cases on Wednesday as compared to 3,047 recoveries, taking its tally and cured count above 2.61 lakh and 2.13 lakh, respectively. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 84 patients succumbed to the infection in the region on Wednesday, including 46 from the PMC limits, 15 from the PCMC limits and 23 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas. With this, the PMR toll has risen to 5,954. An official from the PMC health department said asymptomatic patients had been advised home isolation if they had separate toilet facilities, rooms and caretaker at home. Over 10,781 patients in PMC limits are in home isolation, while 6,526 were admitted in various hospitals till Wednesday. A PMC report said over 3,500 patients put on oxygen support in the city limits on Wednesday. As many as 952 patients were at critical condition, of whom 496 were on ventilator support. The report stated that as many as 16,475 samples were tested on Wednesday in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-surges-past-2-61-lakh-84-more-dead/articleshow/78285266.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 24, 2020||Delhi||No genie in their lamps: Dim view in potter’s colony before Diwali||NEW DELHI: Every year, with Diwali in sight, potter Sher Singh Prajapati works extra hours to have earthen lamps ready. Every potter sells thousands of the diyas during the festival period. This year, 50-year-old Prajapati is unsure of following his annual routine because he has no kiln to bake his products. In the past year, inhabitants of the potter’s colony in southwest Delhi’s Uttam Nagar have been ordered to shut down their kilns to prevent pollution. A report prepared by Delhi Pollution Control Committee on August 25 revealed that 166 bhattis in the area had been dismantled and notices demanding environmental compensation issued to the potters. When TOI visited the earthenware maker’s colony last week, there was very little activity going there. Most shops had on display old pots and lamps made before the lockdown was announced. For Delhi’s biggest pottery colony, to add to the dismal summer sales due to Covid-19 and the lockdown is the pollution-affected Diwali period. “How will we bake our products if we are not allowed to use our furnaces?” asked a perplexed Prajapati. “No one is prohibiting the use of tandoors and fired ovens across the city, only our furnaces, which run for just two hours and only once or twice a week. DPCC finds that is a problem.” Bhagwan Singh, 62, has gamely carried on, moulding hundreds of diyas every minute and laying them in his basement to dry. Singh says he will move the lamps to the roof to dry and harden further. “We have asked for assistance in switching to PNG or CNG furnaces, but DPCC has done little to help us. Instead, it has fined some of us up to Rs 2 lakh,” said Singh, astounded at the amount that he said he had never earned in his lifetime. The elderly potter said that they can roll out hundreds of the earthen lamps every minute. A thousand of them sell for Rs 350 at wholesale rates. “We sell lakhs every Diwali, but we don’t earn much as you can see,” he pointed out. “It is with Diwali sales that we sustain the winter. But for a year now, we have barely had any earnings.” Most potters in the colony are selling earthen pots and wares from their old stocks and are looking at no fresh source of income in the days ahead. A woman potter whose furnace was demolished said she was desperate for a solution to her problem. “We should have received assistance of some sort from the authorities. Instead, we have been fined or exhausted our savings,” she said. “Diwali, which is the best time of the year for us, now looks likely to bypass us this time.” When contacted for a response, DPCC officials said the pottery kilns were shut down because the potters had no consent to operate them and the bhattis also violated the air and water pollution control laws. “These furnaces are usually in the ground and use oil. This causes air pollution and contaminates groundwater,” claimed an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-genie-in-their-lamps-dim-view-in-potters-colony-before-diwali/articleshow/78285273.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 24, 2020||Pune||ICMR asks officials to send TrueNat testing machines to remote regions||PUNE: The Indian Council of Medical Research is pushing for the deployment of TrueNat devices in rural parts of the country that don’t have labs to test for Covid-19. TrueNat — already approved for use by the ICMR in May — is a battery-powered device that uses the RT-PCR technology. Importantly, it’s portable and can work in regions with limited civic infrastructure. Experts added the devices, because of their portability, can be quickly dispatched to far-flung regions. Testing on the TrueNat devices is also cheaper than the regular RT-PCR machines, which need specialised personnel and a laboratory environment. The machines have already been deployed to test residents of villages deep inside the forested regions of Gadchiroli district in the state and in towns along coastal Andhra Pradesh. “The machines are now being sought by a number of states. Uttar Pradesh acquired 117 machines for all its 75 districts; Bihar has ordered 50 machines. Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh all have sought these machines,” said Sriram Natrajan, director and CEO of Molbio Diagnostics, which has developed the TrueNat device. The company has installed nearly 3,000 of the machines nationwide, with over 41 lakh Covid tests carried out on them so far. The machine can be carried in a briefcase and one charge lasts 10 hours. “An eight-hour shift can process 45 tests and most states are running three shifts a day,” Natrajan said. An ICMR official said, “In rural and semi-urban areas, where there is a shortage of labs, these devices can function from the nearest district hospital.” A senior central government official said, “Testing forms an integral part of virus mitigation strategy. An expanded testing network can catch infection in the community and for that, TrueNat plays a vital role.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-asks-officials-to-send-truenat-testing-machines-to-remote-regions/articleshow/78285268.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||Bus operators in Jharkhand eye festive crowd, seek restart of Bihar services||Jamshedpur: Nearly three weeks after intra-state bus services resumed in Jharkhand, private bus operators have asked the authorities to restart bus services between Jharkhand and Bihar. The operators said that plying their vehicles with just 15-20 passengers is not viable and resuming bus services between the two neighbouring states can help revive the transport sector. Jamshedpur Bus Operators’ Welfare Association (JBOWA) functionary Upendra Kumar Sharma said, “People from Jharkhand frequently travel to Bihar during the festive season and it is time both the state governments allow buses to ply.” Bus operator Abhishekh Singh said they get the maximum number of passengers travelling to and from Bihar during Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath Puja. “With a very few passenger trains operating at the moment, the government should allow inter-state bus services to resume,” he added. Until March, before the pandemic broke out, as many as 450 buses plied from Bhuyandih bus terminus to Bihar, Odisha and Bengal, transporting 22,000 passengers on a daily basis. Transporter Kunal Kishore said no passenger train, barring the Puri-New Delhi Purushottam Express, arriving in Tatanagar, their woes have been doubled. “With 70 passenger trains crossing Tatanagar every day, each bus would earlier have around 200 passengers travelling to different districts from the station on a regular basis. I hope the government resumes the train services in Tatanagar soon,” Kishore said. Meanwhile, JBOWA functionary Uday Prasad Singh said state transport minister Champai Soren had announced that that road and other taxes of passenger buses would be waived off, but the government has not come out with a notification. “Even if the taxes are waived, it would not compensate for the losses that the bus operators have suffered in six months due to lockdown,” he said. Demanding relief to the transporters, bus operator Akhilesh Singh said the Centre should waive off all the EMIs and the interest on loans secured for purchasing large commercial vehicles till December to help them overcome the financial crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bus-operators-in-jharkhand-eye-festive-crowd-seek-restart-of-bihar-services/articleshow/78283380.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand education minister keeps word, spends own money to gift cars to toppers||RANCHI: Keeping his promise, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Wednesday gifted two Maruti Altos to the state toppers of matriculation and intermediate examinations at a function held at Vidhan Sabha. Mahto did not use government fund and instead used the money contributed by the people of his constituency and pitched in himself to buy the cars as it was his personal promise. The toppers — Amit Kumar of SRSSR High School, Giridih for intermidiate and Manish Kumar Katiyar of Residential School, Netarhat for matriculation — were jointly handed over the keys by Mahto, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto and chairman of Jharkhand Academic Council Dr Arvind Prasad Singh. The keys bore Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s logo. In his address, Mahto said, “From the next year, I will adopt the state toppers and help them achieve their goals and become administrative officers.” Mahto said the idea of adopting students came after one MLA suggested that instead of cars, cash prizes would have helped the students pursue their academic goals. When asked about the JMM logo on the keys, he reasoned that being a member of the party he felt it was proper to credit the party. JMM sources, however, clarified that it was Mahato’s personal initiative which was commendable. It may be noted here that Mahto has been distributing laptops among district toppers in his constituency for the last 15 years. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto emphasised on the importance of instilling good morals among students rather than just making them engineers, doctors and other professionals. He said society should play its role in promoting promising students, adding that the incentive announced by the education minister will encourage many students to work harder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/edu-min-keeps-word-spends-own-money-to-gift-cars-to-toppers/articleshow/78284136.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||NTPC fears underground fire as protest stops coal transport||Hazaribag: As the ongoing protests by the displaced raiyyats of National Thermal Power Corporation’s (NTPC) Pakri-Barwadih coal project in Barkagaon block entered its 23rd day, the district administration on Wednesday said it is trying to persuade the agitators to allow the PSU to remove its 5,500 metric ton of dumped coal from the area to avoid catching a fire. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand said, “I had sent sub-divisional officer Vidya Bhushan Kumar to Barkagaon to convince the protesters to end their agitation and also to urge them to allow the NTPC to transport its dumped coal so that it does not catch fire due to heat. However, there has not been any progress yet even though we have spoken to every stakeholder.” According to NTPC officials, the protesters have restricted the transportation of coal from the mines through the road and railway routes, leading to work coming to complete halt. Prashant Kashyap, the executive director of the project, said, “We apprised the NTPC headquarters, the Union coal ministry and the district administration of the situation. If the dumped coal is not allowed to be removed, there is a chance that it might catch fire due to the heat, leading coal seams getting damaged.” He added that NTPC has already suffered losses worth Rs 23 crore and needless to say, the fire will add to its woes if it breaks out. Residents of 12 panchayats in Barkagaon are on a protest, spearheaded Congress’s Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad, since September 1 to press for their demand for adequate monetary compensation and jobs under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The residents had withdrawn their protests in July after the state government had constituted a committee under North Chotanagpur commissioner Kamal John Lakra. The committee submitted its report to the state land reforms and revenue department’s secretary, Kamal Kishore Soan, on August 31. But the residents did not find “any concrete assurance from the government” following which they resumed their protest from this month. When asked, DC Anand said, “We are awaiting instructions from the government. But as of now, the protests have been peaceful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ntpc-fears-underground-fire-as-protest-stops-coal-transport/articleshow/78283808.cms||Abhijit Sen
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||Displaced Patratu locals hunger strike called off||Ramgarh: The displaced villagers of as many as 25 hamlets under Patratu block on Wednesday called off their eight-day long hunger strike after a successful tripartite negotiation with the district administration and the Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (PVUNL). Nearly 300 villagers, including women, under the banner of Visthapit Prabhavit Sangharsh Morcha (VPSM) had been on a hunger strike in their respective villages from September 16 demanding compensation for their land, which was acquired by the erstwhile Patratu Thermal Power Station (PTPS). They claimed that they did not get their dues. The land was transferred to PVUNL after NTPC and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) signed an MoU in 2016 and formed a special purpose vehicle for commissioning a 4,000MW super thermal power plant on the site of PTPS. The first phase of the construction — three units of 800MW capacity each — is currently underway. The calling off the hunger strike follows after nearly a dozen villagers were taken to hospital after their health deteriorated during strike and the administration as well as the PVUNL management invited the outfit for a tripartite negotiation to resolve the crisis. VPSM general secretary Kishore Kumar Mahto said, “The hunger strike was called off as the district administration as well as the PVUNL management have agreed to consider our demands.” Jugnu Minj, the additional collector in Ramgarh who was present in the negotiation, said that Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh had already asked the villagers to submit their pending land compensation claims for settlement. He added that only five displaced families have applied for the settlement of displacement benefits as per provisions. PVUNL deputy general manager Y Devashish, who also attended the negotiation, informed that they are giving priority to the villagers for the contractual jobs at the power plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/displaced-patratu-locals-hunger-strike-called-off/articleshow/78283398.cms||N K Agarwal
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||Activists urge Rameshwar to include more beneficiaries in new food security scheme||Ranchi: Activists from the ‘Right To Food Jharkhand’ on Wednesday urged the state government to include more beneficiaries under the Jharkhand Rajya Khadya Suraksha Yojana (JRKSY). A delegation, led by economist and activist Jean Dreze, met state minister for food and civil supplies Rameshwar Oraon and handed over a memorandum to him in this regard. The delegation said that the state’s proposed target of covering 15 lakh beneficiaries under the scheme is low. Stating that the scheme will only cover 3.5 lakh households in Jharkhand, the delegation suggested that the government must consider ensuring the inclusion of all eligible households under JRKSY. On September 8, the state cabinet had okayed a proposal to roll out the JRSKY. The scheme will entail a monthly entitlement of 5 kg foodgrains to the beneficiaries at a cost of Re 1 per kg. The scheme is aimed at covering those households which do not fall within the ambit of National Food Security Act as nine lakh ration card applications are pending in Jharkhand. In its notification, the state government had fixed September 30 as the last date of application for the scheme. The delegation claimed that the time frame is too short and it must be extended. The delegation also demanded the inclusion of pulses, cooking oil and salt under the new scheme and demanded more priority be given to SC and ST applicants. Oraon said, “Their suggestions and demands have been welcomed. A follow up meeting has been proposed to iron out and act on the suggestions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/activists-urge-rameshwar-to-include-more-beneficiaries-in-new-food-security-scheme/articleshow/78283422.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 24, 2020||Goa||Sanjivani sugar factoryunder agri dept ambit||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said the cabinet has approved the transfer of Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana and similar units from the ambit of the department of cooperation to agriculture. The initiative will allow Sanjivani to avail of the various benefits extended to sugar manufacturing units under the central schemes of the agriculture department. The office of registrar of cooperative societies sent a proposal for the transfer of the factory to the general administrative department (GAD). Accordingly, GAD drafted the notification to carry out necessary changes in the business of the government of Goa (allocation) Rules, 1987. On Tuesday, Sawant in presence of the deputy chief minister Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar assured the farmers that the sugar factory at Dharbandora, Ponda will not be shut permanently. Kavlekar had told reporters that a decision will be taken on transferring the sugar factory from the ambit of co-operation to the agriculture department for availing of the central funds. “Many people had approached the government to restart the factory under the public-private-partnership (PPP) mode. We will discuss the issue in detail and arrive at a decision,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanjivani-sugar-factoryunder-agri-dept-ambit/articleshow/78285282.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||Caterers, decorators form human chain to protest cap on no. of guests at weddings||Dhanbad: Over 1,500 decorators, tent house owners and caterers formed a human chain in Dhanbad’s Randhir Verma Chowk on Wednesday to protest against the state government’s ruling to cap the number of guests at wedding ceremonies to 50. The restriction was enforced in order to stop Covid-19 from spreading. The protest was held barely 500 metre from the office of the deputy commissioner where the protesters demanded an increase in the number of guests to 300 in order to help them tide over the financial crisis. With masks and gloves in place, the protesters carried utensils, musical instruments and cutlery to the protest as symbols of their trade. President of the Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, Pradeep Singh, said, “We are going through the worst phase of our life. If the situation continues like this, we will be compelled to sell our equipment in order to sustain our families. We have already lost all our savings in the last six months.” As per the association’s estimates, more than 1 lakh people directly or indirectly eke out a living through weddings. “Our last hope is on the upcoming wedding season which begins from November. But if the number of guests continues to be limited to 50, we won’t be able to sustain ourselves,” Singh said. Another decorator, Dwarika Tiwari said, “We are compelled to pay godown rents to store our equipment despite lack of income or government assistance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/caterers-decorators-form-human-chain-to-protest-cap-on-no-of-guests-at-weddings/articleshow/78283473.cms||---
September 24, 2020||Ranchi||Cops end stir after 2-yr extn vow||Ranchi: Former assistant police personnel, who were protesting for the last 12 days at Morhabadi ground, ended their stir on Wednesday after state minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur assured them that the government is willing to extend their service for the next two years for now. Thakur also told them that a high-level committee will be set up to look into their demands. The protesters started leaving the ground from the evening. Thakur also said that the decision to extend their service has come from chief minister Hemant Soren. One of the protesters, who was a part of the delegation that met Thakur, said, “The government has assured us a two-year extension for now. Following the other assurances in the meeting, we are withdrawing the protest.” The former police personnel, whose contract expired in August this year, were protesting to demand an extension of their service till 60 years of age, an increase in their honorarium to Rs 18,000 per month from the existing Rs 10,000 and permitting allowances at par with the regular police personnel. Though Thakur had assured the protesters that the government will look into their demands during his visit to the ground, the agitation was not called off in want of clarity of the assurances. It may be mentioned that the former police personnel had turned aggressive twice in these 12 days leading to injuries to several protesters and personnel of Ranchi Police, including SP (city) Saurav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-end-stir-after-2-yr-extn-vow/articleshow/78283983.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand education minister keeps word, spends own money to gift cars to toppers||RANCHI: Keeping his promise, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Wednesday gifted two Maruti Altos to the state toppers of matriculation and intermediate examinations at a function held at Vidhan Sabha. Mahto did not use government fund and instead used the money contributed by the people of his constituency and pitched in himself to buy the cars as it was his personal promise. The toppers — Amit Kumar of SRSSR High School, Giridih for intermidiate and Manish Kumar Katiyar of Residential School, Netarhat for matriculation — were jointly handed over the keys by Mahto, Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto and chairman of Jharkhand Academic Council Dr Arvind Prasad Singh. The keys bore Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s logo. In his address, Mahto said, “From the next year, I will adopt the state toppers and help them achieve their goals and become administrative officers.” Mahto said the idea of adopting students came after one MLA suggested that instead of cars, cash prizes would have helped the students pursue their academic goals. When asked about the JMM logo on the keys, he reasoned that being a member of the party he felt it was proper to credit the party. JMM sources, however, clarified that it was Mahato’s personal initiative which was commendable. It may be noted here that Mahto has been distributing laptops among district toppers in his constituency for the last 15 years. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto emphasised on the importance of instilling good morals among students rather than just making them engineers, doctors and other professionals. He said society should play its role in promoting promising students, adding that the incentive announced by the education minister will encourage many students to work harder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/edu-min-keeps-word-spends-own-money-to-gift-cars-to-toppers/articleshow/78292871.cms||Sanjay Sahay
