September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Narayan Rao first Karnataka MLA to succumb to Covid||BENGALURU: Congress legislator B Narayan Rao died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday (Sept 24), becoming the first MLA of Karnataka and eighth lawmaker of any state to fall prey to novel coronavirus. Rao was 65 and is survived by his wife and two sons. Earlier, Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Govardhan Dangi, West Bengal TMC MLAs Samaresh Das and Tamonash Ghosh, UP ministers Chetan Chauhan and Kamal Rani Varun, Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh and Tamil Nadu DMK MLA J Anbazhagan had succumbed to Covid-19 between June 10 and September 15. Rao, who represented Basavakalyan constituency in Bidar district, was admitted to Manipal Hospital on September 1 after testing positive for coronavirus. “After being diagnosed with a severe infection, he was critically ill with multi-organ failure. He passed away at 3.55pm on Thursday,” Manipal Hospital said in a statement. Karnataka Congress president DK Shivkumar said Rao was a committed Congressman known for his simplicity and service to the poor. “Heartfelt condolences to his family in this time of grief,” he wrote on Twitter. In the past couple of months, a few prominent politicians from Karnataka have passed away, some of them due to Covid. On Wednesday (Sept 23) night, Belagavi MP Suresh Angadi died of Covid-19. BJP’s newly-elected Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti succumbed to the infection on September 17. On August 4, B Satyanarayana, JD(S) MLA from Sira in Tumakuru district, passed away after a prolonged illness. He had tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/narayan-rao-first-ktaka-mla-to-succumb-to-covid/articleshow/78303768.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Scientific and technological handling of corona crisis discussed in webinar||A webinar on the topic of 'Corona pandemic: scientific and technological handling' was organised by University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University on Thursday. The expert speaker was Dr Vimal Bhanot, who retired as professor from Birla institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani. He provided an insight and created awareness regarding the evolution of the corona pandemic situation and the key challenges faced by individuals. He said that all of us, especially youngsters have to come forward and join hands to overcome this Covid-19 situation. The webinar was interactive as participants got to know about various aspects of the virus. The event was coordinated by Dr Amandeep Puri and Dr Puneet Jai Kaur, assistant professors, UIET along with Dr Bhawna Sharma, an associate professor, CSE department, Govt College of Engineering and Technology (GCET), Jammu. The Webinar was attended by 75 participants which included faculty, research scholars and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scientific-and-technological-handling-of-corona-crisis-discussed-in-webinar/articleshow/78304163.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||From SSR, Covid fighters to sanitisers: Chandannagar lightings play on current affairs||After almost six months of inactivity due to the lockdown, the light engineers of Chandannagar are finally back in action, beating the pandemic blues with innovative lighting ideas picked straight from national news. From remembering late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, creating social awareness during the corona period to paying respect to frontline warriors, this year’s light arrangements will see innovations that touched our lives in recent times. Homage to Sushant Singh RajputAt veteran lighting designer Babu Pal’s worshop, workers seemed busy perforating plates on a huge Sushant Singh Rajput stencil. “We perforate and put LED lights in it before colouring the plate and polishing it with varnish. Right now, we are working on Park Street’s illumination project by the government,” said Babu. But why SSR, we ask. “We got an order from a popular Puja organiser in Chandannagar. They wanted to pay tribute to the late actor through our lightings,” he said. When contacted, Nirmal Kumar Das of the Puja committee said, “We all are pained by the untimely death of the young actor. We are not interested in the controversy that is taking place with regards to his death right now. We just want to remember him fondly and hope his soul rests in peace.” Covid is the new themeElaborating on his projects, Babu added that they have just started getting confirmations of orders. “Till recently, we thought there would be no orders this year. Then, I got a call from the CM office. We are focusing on frontline workers, like doctors, nurses, policemen, civic workers, journalists and firefighters, who served us relentlessly all through the lockdown. We will pay respect to them through light arrangements. To add to the celebratory spirit, we will also make lightings of Ma Durga and her children — everyone wearing masks,” said Babu, who is also working on other Puja assignments, including Sreebhumi, Mysore Palace, Karnataka, and Mukherjee Barir Puja in Murshidabad. Encouraging people to sanitise handsBabu is not the only one. Other light artisans have also received orders to depict the Covid-19 situation. Manoj Saha, an artisan, said, “I am working on a pandal gate in Asansol that will depict the importance of sanitiser. There are other lightings to create awareness in the pandemic situation.” Explaining about the project, Debashish Majhi, one of the Puja committee members, said, “This is to help us manage the crowd. The lighting will convey the message of social distancing, sanitisation and other elements of basic hygiene.” Some other lightings will focus on encouraging people to wear masks. Artisan Habul Chatterjee said, “We are working on awareness banners, like ‘No mask, no entry’. We barely have any order now. Hence, we could not work on any theme. We have to make do with whatever we've got." Plummeting market and hopeEvidently, the business has taken a nosedive in this pandemic. “Out of 100, only four to five contractors managed to get some orders. But that is nothing. Earlier, we used to close orders by May. By this time, we used to work on five-six projects. This year, we have just started getting orders and I am working on only two. Earlier, about 30-40 labourers used to work with me. This year, I could not employ more than 12 people so far. The light labourers across Chandannagar have started other businesses, like selling chicken, fish or delivering groceries,” said Kashinath Das, who is currently working on a project from Beleghata Rashmani Bazar Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-ssr-covid-fighters-to-sanitisers-chandannagar-lightings-play-on-current-affairs/articleshow/78305056.cms||Ruman Ganguly
September 25, 2020||Pune||The iconic Rambo Circus goes digital; to perform online amid the pandemic||When the lockdown forced people to stay indoors and the entertainment industry took a hit, the iconic Rambo Circus’ business was crippled. With no shows since March, the Pune-based circus group and artistes, who have been stationed in Airoli since the lockdown, have been struggling to survive. However, the artistes and the owner of one of the oldest circuses in the country are all geared up to go digital with their shows, starting today. Titled ‘Life is a circus’, the circus group’s online show will be an hour-long live performance that people can watch on their digital devices. Sujith Dilip, owner of Rambo Circus, says, “Our artistes are excited about being seen on screen. It’s something they are doing for the first time, but it’s the only way we can survive. The digital show came as a challenge and an opportunity, and we decided to go for it. Ultimately, like we always say, the show must go on. Embracing the new normal was the only way to overcome our financial woes amid the pandemic.” Here's a sneak-peek into the rehearsals!  https://www.instagram.com/p/CFg7VZogxTs/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link   https://www.instagram.com/p/CFg7VZogxTs/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;utm_campaign=loading    Around 30 performers and 30 people from the technical team came together to put up shows that are themed around the life of circus artistes, evolution of circus in the changing times with a special finale show dedicated to corona warriors. Following social distancing and all other necessary precautions, the performances, including clowning, trapeze acts and other stunts, will be presented for the audience to enjoy from the confines of their homes. Read AlsoCovid-19 forces Rambo Circus to fold its tent, but online shows may rescue itThe Pune-based Rambo circus was on the verge of an upgrade. It had consulted with top Russian firms to create and deploy immersive, dreamy situations in live shows to enthrall new audiences using lighting and imagine techniques.Read AlsoSujit Dilip from Rambo Circus created historySujit Dilip hosts World Circus Day celebrations in the Mumbai and is supported by the World Circus Federation“We were gearing up to revamp our shows and refine entertainment at par with international productions. However, COVID-19 and the lockdown didn’t just shatter our dreams, but also crippled our business. We have all been struggling to sustain. While some artistes and technicians chose to go back to their native places, many decided to stay back and fight this battle together," adds Sujith, who founded Rambo Circus in 1991. Sujith reached out to several authorities and government bodies to seek financial help for his crew. However, he was only met with disappointment. “Fortunately, people like Sonu Sood, Kunal Kapoor, and some others have helped raise funds, while local politicians and groups have been providing us with food. While it’s a great help, the artistes need an income and that is why we decided to go digital,” says Sujith. Biju Nair, principal clown from the circus, who has been associated with the group for about the decade now, says, “An empty tent in the peak season is something that breaks our hearts and morale. We’ve seen many challenges over the decades, and now we’re set to overcome this one by entertaining people using the internet. This has been my life and so, instead of leaving it, I decided to stay put, go with the flow and perform in the new normal.” In a heartwarming video, Biju urges circus lovers to support the artform. Check out the video!  https://www.instagram.com/tv/CFAGcK2Agh0/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link   https://www.instagram.com/tv/CFAGcK2Agh0/?utm_source=ig_embed&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;utm_campaign=loading    The group rehearsed for three weeks and worked hard to make the performances look spectacular on-screen. While the artistes were thrilled to perform for the camera, it was no cakewalk for them.  Biju says, “While we were happy to get back to work, we were unaware of the technicalities of shooting. I was often reminded to look into the camera and perform. Besides, not having a live audience, people shouting and cheering for you, and the happy faces of children in the crowd is something that I missed a lot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/the-iconic-rambo-circus-goes-digital-to-steam-shows-online-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/78309322.cms||Amrita Prasad
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Lack of work inspires Chandannagar lightman to innovate||Lighting artisan Pintu Mukherjee is in business for three decades now. He and his team of artisans designed lights for many pandals, including Singhi Park, for years. This year, however, is different. Till now, there is no confirmation of orders. The workshop that used to be abuzz with activity is completely silent now. However, the grim state could not deter the innovative spirit of Pintu. During the lockdown, he put together an industrial roti maker and mustard oil machine for both domestic and industrial use. “This roti maker can make 500 rotis at one go. One can customise sizes. In five to seven minutes one can extract oil out of one kg of mustard. I have just made the prototype. I am in the process of making it lighter so that we can take it to the market,” said a proud Pintu. Like rest of the world, 2020 painted a grim picture for Pintu. “This used to be the busiest time for us and on the basis of business between Ganesh Puja and Rash Purnima, we made money to run our family. This year there is no work. I had to let go many of my employees, who are now selling chicken nearby,” he rued. Pintu was tired of not being in business. “So one morning, I decided to put my skills into something different. I knew how to cut iron plates and assemble machines. I thought of making some useful things. Now, if I get light arrangement orders, I will start working. But I will continue working on the machines I made,” he told us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lack-of-work-inspires-chandannagar-lightman-to-innovate/articleshow/78305511.cms||Ruman Ganguly
September 25, 2020||India||Dhawan, key architect of India’s space programme, was a transformational leader||“Of all the animals, perhaps, man is the only one who can think and perceive a phenomenon beyond the range of his senses…” the opening line of a lecture note from 1972, reads. These were words of Prof Satish Dhawan (September 25, 1920 — January 3, 2002), a scientist whose unrivalled contribution to Indian science propelled its space programme to breach frontiers. While Dhawan was speaking on remote sensing in the lecture, those who’ve worked closely with him say it is Dhawan’s vision beyond the immediate, that helped transform the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). Dhawan, born in Srinagar and educated in India and Caltech Institute of Technology in the US, succeeded Vikram Sarabhai, the founder of the Indian space programme, as chairman, Isro. In the decade following his appointment he directed the Indian space programme through a period of extraordinary growth and spectacular achievement. Late Isro chairman Prof UR Rao, who succeeded Dhawan had once told TOI: “If Sarabhai was the foundation, Dhawan was the guiding light.” In an official statement, Isro says Dhawan was a passionate teacher, a demanding research guide and a pragmatic engineer, renowned as the father of experimental fluid dynamics research in India. “Dhawan shaped the Indian space programme based on the broad vision of Vikram Sarabhai,” Isro said in an official statement. He took charge of the space program as chairman, Isro in 1972 and continued till 1984, while he was continuing as director, IISc. He was also the chairman of the space commission and secretary, department of space. “His major scientific and technical contribution to the space programme are operationalising multipurpose Indian National Satellite Project (INSAT), National Natural Resources Management System (NNRMS) and final configuration of India’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV), the dependable workhorse of Isro,” Isro added. Following his death in 2002, India’s spaceport at Sriharikota was renamed after him. K Radhakrishnan, former chairman, Isro told TOI: “There are transactional leaders — those who lack long-term vision and are focussed on projects on hand — and there are transformational leaders who create future leaders with their vision that aims to touch all constituents. Dhawan was the latter.” Another former Isro chairman K Kasturirangan in his piece for the Indian Academy of Sciences, while listing a host of qualities that made Dhawan the good leader, speaks of how Bengaluru (then Bangalore) to be the headquarters for Isro. Kasturirangan, who was closely associated with Dhawan, says: “He was a person who could think well ahead. It was his strategic decision that kept the headquarters in Bangalore...He knew Bangalore had several advantages, that the city could accelerate satellite building activities, which had just been taken up, using the institutions like IISc, National Aeronautical Laboratories (now National Aerospace Laboratories or NAL) and industries like HAL and BEL.” Both Radhakrishnan and Kasturirangan spoke of how multi-talented Dhawan was — his academic degrees were BA in Mathematics and Physics, MA in English Literature, BE in Mechanical Engineering, MS in Aeronautical Engineering and PhD in Aeronautics and Mathematics — and how his ability to build and carry a team forward shaped Indian space programme. Former India president and rocket-and-missile scientist APJ Abdul Kalam had recollected multiple times how Dhawan had taken the responsibility of the SLV (satellite launch vehicle) failures but gave the credit of its success to his juniors from the project management team. Hans Liepmann, considered one of the three legends of Caltech along with Dhawan wrote this when the latter passed away: “I have often mused about the bifurcation points in one’s life, the times when a small and sometimes even unwelcome choice of alternative results in major changes in one’s future. One of these bifurcations (in, I believe, 1946) resulted in my meeting Satish Dhawan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dhawan-key-architect-of-indias-space-programme-was-a-transformational-leader/articleshow/78304776.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 25, 2020||India||Covid-19: Active cases fall but positivity rises||NEW DELHI: The seven-day rolling average growth rate in active cases of Covid-19 in India has slipped into the negative helped by recoveries exceeding daily new cases for last six consecutive days, indicating a decline in the actual caseload of the infection, even as a drop in average of daily tests through the week has raised concerns. The seven-day average growth rate in active cases was -0.6% for the September 17-23 period. However, active cases in the country rose again on Thursday, breaking a six-day declining trend. Lower testing numbers have resulted in a rise in positivity rate — the percentage of positive cases in total tests. The positivity rate in the first three days of this week was 9.3%, as opposed to 8.7% in the previous two weeks, pointing to the need for ramping up testing. Even after testing rose to over 11.5 lakh on Wednesday, the cumulative tests in the first four days of this week (Sunday to Wednesday) were over 12% lower than the same period last week. Meanwhile, 85,821 fresh cases were recorded in the country on Thursday, as per data from state governments, taking the cumulative caseload to over 58.1 lakh. Daily cases have remained below the 90,000 mark for five straight days. The daily death toll was recorded at 1,141, above the 1,100 mark for the second day running. With a little over 80,000 recoveries around the country, active cases rose by more than 4,000 on Thursday. As Thursday’s rise showed, the trend of falling active cases could be tentative and may well give way to further rises with some experts speaking of a “second wave”. But if the trend consolidates — even with ups and downs — it would spell some relief for health workers and officials battling the disease. While the recent decline in the actual caseload has raised hopes that the pandemic may be showing some initial signs of levelling off, experts are concerned over the fewer tests conducted over last few days, as compared to the previous week. “Decreasing number of active cases and its negative growth is indeed good. However, it is too early to say if this is happening because we are finding less cases, as a result of low testing, or because our new cases have actually dropped. India has reduced its daily testing at a time when our positivity rate is on an increasing trajectory. It is a wrong strategy and we might be missing out a lot of cases out there which only helps to increase the spread on the ground,” says health economist Rijo M John. Health ministry officials said the overall slacker testing in the last few days is primarily because of a few states and the Centre has asked them – particularly those with a high burden of the disease and a high positivity rate – to strengthen testing and tracking to ensure early detection. “India is reporting exponential increase in recoveries because of its focused strategies and effective people-centric measures,” an official said. During his review meeting with seven high burden states on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also asked states to focus on testing, tracing, treatment, surveillance and effective messaging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-active-cases-fall-but-positivity-rises/articleshow/78305877.cms||---
September 25, 2020||India||Top N-scientist Sekhar Basu dies of Covid||Eminent nuclear scientist Sekhar Basu died of Covid-19 in a Kolkata hospital early Thursday, bringing the curtain down on a career that saw him championing major research and development programmes as a former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), director of the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) and secretary of the Department of Atomic Energy. Basu, who turned 68 just three days ago, had been hospitalised on September 15 with low oxygen saturation and kidney complications. PM Narendra Modi led the flood of tributes to the scientist. “I join the atomic energy fraternity in grieving the passing away of Dr Sekhar Basu, a renowned nuclear scientist who played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering,” he tweeted. Conferred the Padma Shri in 2014 for his sterling contributions to India’s atomic energy programme, Basu had spearheaded the development of the highly complex reactor for the country’s first nuclear-powered submarine INS Arihant. He continued to guide the nuclear propulsion programme for seagoing versions. Basu had also been involved in the design, development, construction and operation of nuclear recycle plants at Tarapur and Kalpakkam, involving reprocessing and nuclear waste management. Speaking to TOI, former AEC chairman and veteran nuclear scientist Anil Kakodkar said, “Losing him at such an early age is very tragic. He was much younger than all of us (former chairmen). He was a doer, demonstrating his ability to handle difficult and large projects successfully. He did excellent work in the nuclear submarine reactor and nuclear recycle programmes. In fact, the country is performing well in these areas due to his rich contributions.” Born on September 20, 1952, Basu did his schooling at Kolkata’s Ballygunge Government School and graduated in mechanical engineering from Mumbai’s Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute in 1974. After completing a year’s training in nuclear science and engineering at BARC, he joined its reactor engineering division in 1975. “He was an extremely competent technologist, with an ability to integrate multi-disciplinary activities and develop multiple state of the art technology systems. One of the last projects in which he had taken keen interest was to develop cyclotron technology for medical isotope production,” said a statement issued by the DAE. Post-retirement, Basu would shuttle between Mumbai and Kolkata to fulfil mentorship roles in various projects. He is survived by his wife, mother and New Zealand-based son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-n-scientist-sekhar-basu-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78306133.cms||Surendra Singh
September 25, 2020||India||Women join ‘hate speech’ vs ‘free speech’ SC case||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court may be wary of going down the slippery slope of having to play the super censor by allowing its pre-telecast ban on Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ programme to be a precedent, but the decision, and the observations that came with it, seem to have given an opening to those who want the judiciary to be the oversight on TV programming. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph had last week, while imposing a ban on a TV programme for vilifying Muslims, expressed doubts about the desirability of the court being dragged into the role of censor even as it pitched “dignity of community” into the pool of grounds on which to impose reasonable restrictions on free speech. The balancing job appeared to act as different cues for two different sets who approached the court on Thursday and could set the stage for another debate on right to free speech which can draw in others also. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera’s wife Kota Neelima and late spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi’s wife Sangeeta Tyagi jointly moved an application, through advocate Sunil Fernandes, and said there was an urgent need to control the spiralling trend of hate speech among many TV anchors. They named four TV anchors and said they had a tendency of giving more space to pro-government views and stifling the views of the opposition. “These TV anchors are usually loud, aggressive and discourteous to the ‘guest’ on his/her channel, who dissents or does not toe the government’s line in stark contrast to the deferential and almost supine behaviour towards pro-government voices. They allot a disproportionate amount of TV time to pro-government voices and truncate airtime to opposition voices,” they said in their petition. Taking a cue from Justice Joseph’s observations during the hearing about anchors muting those guests who do not agree with their view, Neelima and Tyagi said, “The anchors constantly interrupt and heckle the opposition voice and when this would not yield the desired results, they ‘mute’ the said guest. Thus, the viewer can ‘see’ the guest speaking, but is unable to ‘hear’ him, just like a pantomime”. If the exhortation to the court to play the content controller sought to build on Justice Joseph’s observations, another woman petitioner, social activist Madhu Kishwar, tapped into the court’s wariness, articulated by Justice Chandrachud, about the court ending up being cast as a super censor. Referring to the pre-telecast restraint imposed on Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ on the ground that its theme about alleged rigging of recruitment tests conducted by UPSC by Muslims prima facie amounted to vilification of the minority community, Kishwar cautioned about the implications of the ban for right to free expression. “Free speech, apart from being a freedom guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a), is also a facet of Article 21 that is liberty and, therefore, there lies a presumption of innocence not only in favour of the maker of the speech but also in the favour of ‘speech’ itself. And, therefore, no speech can be condemned or branded as ‘hate speech’ with a trial or proceeding or procedure prescribed under law,” Kishwar said through her counsel Ravi Sharma. Requesting reference of the issue to a five-judge bench, Kishwar said, “Prior restraint is the most extreme form of restriction on free speech and can only be considered reasonable if the same is applied in the interest of public order, security of state, or friendly relations with other countries... While the tone and tenor of graphics and even some words used in the episodes of ‘Bindas Bol' might be undesirable, it is not that they are unacceptable or constitutionally proscribed”. She said it would be wrong to single out the TV channel when public discourse for the last 10-15 years had been of identical nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/women-join-hate-speech-vs-free-speech-sc-case/articleshow/78306192.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 25, 2020||India||Elgar case: SC junks Sudha Bharadwaj bail plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed its disinclination to grant bail on medical ground to Sudha Bharadwaj, arrested by the NIA in 2018 for her alleged role in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima violence, after her lawyer failed to justify the charge that jail authorities had falsely declared the activist to be medically fit. A bench of Justices Uday Umesh Lalit and Ajay Rastogi questioned Bharadwaj’s counsel Vrinda Grover as to who made a statement before the high court that the medical report produced by the authorities was false. Grover never answered and sought to explain why she was saying that medical facilities in jail were inadequate. The bench read out the report from the doctor who had examined Bharadwaj in jail and had said that she did not suffer from any major ailment and that the jail had a stock of medicines required for her. When Grover made light of the charges levelled by the NIA against Bharadwaj, the bench said, “If you perceive the charges to be insignificant, why don’t you move a regular bail petition rather than on medical ground?” This forced Grover to withdraw the petition and the SC dismissed it as withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elgar-case-sc-junks-sudha-bharadwaj-bail-plea/articleshow/78306358.cms||---
September 25, 2020||---||Upendra Kushwaha set to quit Bihar opposition alliance, may rejoin NDA||PATNA: Weeks after HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi returning to the NDA fold, the opposition Mahagathbandhan is all set to lose another ally with Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) president Upendra Kushwaha ready to return to the alliance in power. RLSP sources indicated on Thursday that Kushwaha has made up his mind to severe ties with the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan. The formal announcement will be made by Kushwaha “in the next couple of days”, sources said. “The grand alliance is in tatters. There is no hope left for further discussion. Time is running out and we cannot wait for talks with the grand alliance,” RLSP national secretary-general Madhav Anand said. Kushwaha had exited the NDA in December 2018 to join the RJD-led alliance to contest the 2019 parliamentary election and the upcoming assembly polls. Sources said he also saw himself as the “CM-in-waiting” as a result of which he constantly pilloried CM Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/kushwaha-set-to-quit-bihar-opposition-alliance-may-rejoin-nda/articleshow/78306379.cms||Abhay Singh
September 25, 2020||India||Govt ready to talk to farmers even at midnight: Agriculture minister on bills||NEW DELHI: Offering to hold talks with farmers to clear apprehensions about the farm bills, BJP on Thursday accused Congress of "double-faced" politics and said Rahul Gandhi should first disassociate his party from its 2019 election manifesto in which it had promised what the Modi government has done. At a press conference, senior BJP leader and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government's commitment to farmers' welfare and said the new measures would bring them remunerative prices for their produce. Tomar said the government was open to holding talks with farmers. "If any farmer wants to speak to any government representative on these bills even at midnight, we are ready," he added. He claimed that opposition members' criticism during debates was never about the provisions of these proposed laws but on things they did not have or other unconnected issues. Reacting to the demand that there should be a law to ensure that farmers are not paid less than the minimum support price when the proposed laws come into force, he said MSP was always an administrative decision of the government and would remain so. "Why did Congress not bring a law during its 50 years of rule if it thinks this was necessary?" he asked. He also cited reports of various commissions and reported views of Sharad Pawar, who was agriculture minister in the UPA government, to assert that the farm bills were in line with their recommendations. Asked about Rahul’s charge that the Modi government had harmed farmers and was now doing "PR", Tomar said the Congress leader should first withdraw his party's manifesto if he wanted to oppose these bills. If he agreed with the Congress manifesto of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, then he should join efforts in educating farmers, he added. Congress was "misleading" farmers and practising "double-faced" politics, he said, adding that this would weaken the party and the nation as well. Highlighting the Modi government's pro-farmers policies, he said it had given Rs 7 lakh crore to them through purchase of their produce in its six years in office, which was more than double of the UPA's 10 years. Tomar said good people had ceased to matter in Congress, and those leading it had ceased to matter in the country. “Farmers, so far, were forced to sell their produce in mandis. In Punjab, there's 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, through these bills, farmers will be able to sell their produce even outside the ambit of the mandi, even outside their state at any price they choose,” Tomar said. Watch Farm bills: Govt ready to talk to farmers even at midnight, says Narendra Singh Tomar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-ready-to-talk-to-farmers-even-at-midnight-agriculture-minister-on-bills/articleshow/78306394.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Congress: Central, state govts anti-farmer||PATNA: Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Thursday slammed the central and state governments over passage of farm Bills in the Parliament. Rajya Sabha MP and AICC incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil, on the other hand, said if elected to power in the state, the Congress will come up with a Minimum Support Price Guarantee Act for the farmers. Addressing mediapersons at Sadaquat Ashram here, Surjewala said, “Even farmland has been mortgaged in the country. At least 62 crore farmers are on warpath following the passage of the Bills. However, PM Narendra Modi and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar are misguiding people.” “If there is no procurement system and Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), how will the farmers get minimum support price (MSP)? Is it possible for the Food Corporation of India to purchase the agriculture produce from the farms of 15 crore framers? What is the punishment for big corporates if they do not buy at MSP?” Surjewala asked. He also cited the example of Bihar where APMC was removed in 2006 by the Nitish government. “Bihar is an example of how farmers are unable to sell their produce at MSP. None of the three Bills passed in Parliament talk about punishment to corporate if they purchase produce below MSP,” Surjewala added. Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo cited the example of an FIR lodged against potato farmers in Gujarat by a corporate giant involved in production of chips. “Did PM Modi stand for those framers?” he asked. Gohil lashed out at the NDA government in Bihar for supporting the Bills. “Twelve political parties in the country have raised voice against the farm Bills, including the RJD. If the Grand Alliance (GA) comes to power in the state, it will bring Minimum Support Price Guarantee Act. The GA allies will sit together to discuss the matter,” Gohil added. The Congress has planned a phase-wise demonstration against the Bills in Bihar from Saturday. On October 2, the party will submit a memorandum to the governor to be forwarded to the President. From October 2 to 31, party members will visit villages and collect signatures of people against the Bills. “We have targeted to collect two crore signatures. Our party president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi will submit the signatures to the President,” Surjewala added. The Congress has also decided to extend support to the Bharat bandh called by different farmer organisations on Friday. The RJD has also extended its support to the bandh. RJD’s state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said party members will sit in protest in all the district headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-central-state-govts-anti-farmer/articleshow/78302226.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 25, 2020||Mysuru||Girl rescued from alcoholic father||Madikeri: An 8-year-old girl has been given shelter at the District Girl Children Home here following complaints that she was being harassed by her alcoholic father. Chandrashekhar, a resident of Sulugalale Colony in Dundalli, has two daughters aged 8 and 6. He is a labourer in the village, and it is said that he used to return home from work sloshed. In a drunken stupor, he used to allegedly torture his wife and the daughters. Upset over his behaviour, his wife returned to her parents two years ago, along with their two daughters. However, Chandrashekhar convinced her and brought back the elder daughter and admitted her to a government school. However, he continued to harass the girl, asking her to drop out of school and do household chores. Despite having his mother at home, it is said that Chandrashekhar was not buying groceries and vegetables for cooking, and this had prompted his neighbours to feed the two. Fed up over her plight, the girl requested the neighbours to help her join the District Girl Children Home, after which they brought the matter to the notice of Children Helpline Centre and the child welfare department. Officers and activists shifted the girl to the children’s home, while Shanivarasanthe police sent Chandrashekhar in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/girl-rescued-from-alcoholic-father/articleshow/78302670.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||N-scientist Sekhar Basu dies of Covid||Kolkata: Eminent nuclear scientist Sekhar Basu, 68, succumbed to Covid at a private hospital in Kolkata early on Thursday. A former director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre and a secretary to the government of India’s department of atomic energy, Basu had been admitted to hospital on September 15 with low oxygen saturation and kidney ailments. Trained as a mechanical engineer, Basu was a former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission and received the Padma Shri in 2014. He is survived by his wife, mother and son. His son is based in New Zealand. Basu played a key role in the design, development and construction of India’s first nuclear plants at Tarapur, Maharashtra, and Kalpakkam, Tamil Nadu, and is credited with having evolved strategies for safe radioactive disposal in gaseous, liquid and solid forms. He was also involved in the effective management of nuclear waste, which included segregation, characterization, handling, treatment, conditioning and monitoring. As the project director of the prototype marine nuclear propulsion plant and, subsequently, as chief executive of the Nuclear Recycle Board, he guided programmes related to the development and operation of nuclear recycle plants, involving fuel reprocessing and nuclear waste management. Offering his condolences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “I join the atomic energy fraternity in grieving the passing away of Dr Sekhar Basu, a renowned nuclear scientist who played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. Om Shanti!” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, sent out a tweet saying, “Grieved to hear about the passing away of veteran nuclear scientist and former Atomic Energy Commission chairman, Dr Sekhar Basu. My condolences to his family and colleagues.” Nuclear scientist Anil Kakodkar, former AEC chairman with whom Basu had worked closely since 1996, said his death is a great personal loss. “He had an unparalleled ability to take up difficult projects, iron out difficulties and make them successful. He did excellent work in the nuclear submarine reactor and nuclear recycle programme. The country is performing well in these areas due to his contributions,” said Kakodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/n-scientist-sekhar-basu-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78303960.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||Rs 72cr retrieved from ineligible PM Kisan beneficiaries: Min||Thanjavur/ Ranipet: The state government has recovered Rs 72 crore from ineligible beneficiaries in the PM-Kisan scam till date, Tamil Nadu agriculture minister R Doraikannu said on Thursday. He told mediapersons at Thanjavur that the entire misappropriated money would be recovered from ineligible beneficiaries. “Taking advantage of the pandemic, some touts indulged in irregularities by joining hands with some internet café owners in various districts,” he said. Tamil Nadu government was swift to act once the issue was brought to its knowledge, he said. Doraikannu said several officials and contract staff involved in the scam had been arrested and many had been suspended. Departmental action was initiated against all those who were found guilty, he said. Talking about the farm bills that were passed in the Parliament, he said, “Farmers will not be affected by the Union government's new farm bills. That is why the Tamil Nadu government supports the bills.” Meanwhile, the CBCID sleuths arrested an assistant agriculture officer, Rajasekaran, posted at Kalavai block in Ranipet district in connection with the scam. He has been remanded in judicial custody. Earlier, a data entry operator, Subramani, was arrested in Ranipet district. So far, Rs 55 lakh has been recovered from ineligible beneficiaries in Ranipet district, where 2,064 such people have been identified. In Villupuram district, one more contract worker, Ponniah, 33, has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-72cr-retrieved-from-ineligible-pm-kisan-beneficiaries-min/articleshow/78304132.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||UTI MF, Mazagon Dock IPOs on Tue||Mumbai: The rush to mop up shares of companies going public continued on Dalal Street with the launch of two IPOs on Thursday, while one closed successfully. The country’s oldest fund house UTI Mutual Fund said its Rs 2,150-crore IPO will open on September 29. Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders’s Rs 444-crore offer will also open on the same day. On Thursday, Angel Broking’s Rs 600-crore IPO closed with a subscription of four times. In the run-up to the public offer, the company had raised Rs 180 crore from anchor investors. In the IPO that opened on Tuesday, there was demand for shares worth Rs 1,660 crore compared to an offer size of Rs 420 crore, data from the exchanges showed. Earlier this week, two more IPOs closed successfully. On Wednesday, the Rs 2,242-crore IPO for CAMS closed with a subscription of 47 times, while the Rs 318-crore offer for Chemcon Specialty Chemicals closed with 149 times oversubscription. And on Monday, the stock of Route Mobile was listed at more than double its IPO price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uti-mf-mazagon-dock-ipos-on-tue/articleshow/78304827.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Fraudsters arrested from B’luru||Kolkata: A Nigerian and an Ivory Coast national were arrested from Bengaluru by Bidhannagar police on Wednesday for allegedly duping a Salt Lake resident of more than Rs 82 lakh over several weeks. The duo was produced in a local court and is being brought to Kolkata in transit remand. Cops said Donous Arnold Patrick, 30, and Bake Asoro, 30, posed as women on social media, befriended middle-aged men and lured them into investing in businesses. “Kushal Das Mahapatra paid Rs 82 lakh in three instalments before realizing he was being duped,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fraudsters-arrested-from-bluru/articleshow/78304227.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Upendra Kushwaha likely to return to NDA fold||PATNA: After three weeks of HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi returning to the NDA fold, the opposition Mahagthbandhan is all set to lose another ally with RLSP’s president Upendra Kushwaha ready to return to the ruling alliance. RLSP sources indicated on Thursday that Kushwaha has made up his mind to sever ties with the RJD-led Grand Alliance. The formal announcement regarding his “Ghar Vapasi” will be made by Kushwaha “in the next couple of days”, sources said. “The grand alliance is in the ICU. There is no hope left for further discussion in the grand alliance (read the RJD). For us, time is running out and we cannot wait till eternity for talks with the grand alliance,” RLSP national secretary-general Madhav Anand said. He, however, added, “In politics, anything can happen and doors are never closed.” A former Union minister in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre during 2014-18, Kushwaha had exited the NDA in December 2018 to join the RJD-led alliance to contest the 2019 parliamentary election and the 2020 assembly polls. He also saw himself as the “CM in waiting” as a result of which he constantly pilloried CM Nitish Kumar. The participants in the party’s conclave of the national and state office-bearers and districts presidents held in Patna on Thursday authorized Kushwaha to make all decisions concerning the future course of action, including the seat-sharing talks within the NDA. A cross-section of RLSP leaders indicated that the party’s rank and file were dissatisfied with the continued neglect of Kushwaha’s bid on seat-sharing matters by RJD. The sources said they also felt that the seat-sharing had to be resolved early, as the Election Commission was set to announce the poll schedule in the “next three-four days”, followed by election notifications. If RLSP becomes a part of the NDA, Kushwaha would be again be saddled with seat allotment talks. During the 2015 assembly elections, from the NDA side, BJP contested 157 seats, LJP fought in 43 seats, RLSP and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) 22 seats each. Curiously, in the 2015 assembly elections, Nitish and his JD(U) was a major constituent of the grand alliance though he returned to the NDA in July 2017. This time around, just how many seats Kushwaha’s party will get to contest has not yet been decided, as, at the moment, the NDA is beset with its own set of problems such as the differences between LJP president Chirag Paswan and CM Nitish Kumar. “Let the BJP first sort out the differences between Chirag and Nitish. Then, the BJP, JD(U) and LJP will resolve their seat-sharing issues. Only after that, the RLSP’s claims will be sorted out,” an RLSP source said. Not surprisingly, in his address to the party’s conclave on Friday, Kushwaha said that the issue of him becoming the CM was not the issue now, and not even the seats to be allotted to the party. “We are committed to the improvement of the state’s educational system and health care facilities,” Kushwaha spokesman Bhola Sharma said quoting Kushwaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-likely-to-return-to-nda-fold/articleshow/78302182.cms||Abhay Singh
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||RMC likely to increase grant for Rajkot crematoriums||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) is likely to increase the grant given to the four crematoriums in the city. A proposal was move in this regard as as work load had increased owing to the coronavirus pandemic. The decision in this regard is likely to be taken during the standing committee scheduled on Friday. RMC provides a grant of Rs 200 per body to each crematorium. A proposal has been placed before the standing committee increase the grant to Rs 300 per body. Standing committee chairman Uday Kangad told TOI “Looking at the current situation there is sudden reduction in donation received by the crematorium on one hand, while the expenditure incurred for electricity and wood has increased many folds due to the pandemic. The proposal will be discussed in Friday’s meeting.” Rajkot has four crematoriums that fall under the jurisdiction of RMC. These are located in Ramnathpara, Mota Mauva, Mavdi and on 80-foot-Road. Ramnath Para is the biggest and oldest crematorium. According to a rough estimate 20-25 bodies are cremated at Ramnath Para before the pandemic. It has two electric and four traditional facility for cremation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-likely-to-increase-grant-for-rajkot-crematoriums/articleshow/78303709.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||St Stephen’s asked to submit report on quota for disabled||NEW DELHI: The court of chief commissioner for persons with disabilities has asked Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College to submit a report if it was ensuring the rights of students with disabilities as per the Act of 2016. The court has taken suo motu cognisance of a report published by TOI on September 17. The notice by SK Prasad, deputy chief commissioner, was sent to the college and the university on September 22 with the subject titled, “Non-implementation of 5% reservation of seats for persons with disability (PwD) as per Section 32 of the Rights of persons with disability Act 2016.” All government institutions of higher education and other higher education institutions receiving aid from the government have to reserve not less than 5% seats for persons with benchmark disability, the notice stated. “It is advised to submit your comments to this court within two weeks from the date of receipt of this letter ensuring that Section 36 of the Rights of persons with disabilities Act has been implemented in admissions of the students of disabilities,” the notice added. In July, Delhi University had written to St Stephen’s College asking it to ensure that when the cutoff scores for admissions were determined, they were “sufficiently lowered” for persons with disabilities, at least “to the level of points required by applicants who are part of Church of North India”. But when the eligibility scores were released on September 15, the cutoff for PwD was still on the higher side in history and English even higher than what was required of scheduled tribe students. On Thursday, the college principal, John Varghese did not respond to TOI’s request for a comment. Earlier, he had argued, “Calculating the cutoff is governed by the admission policy of the college, which mandates that candidates for different categories are to be called for the interviews in the ratio of 1:6 and 1:8 for general and Christian applicants, respectively. In each category, the cutoff is restricted to the point at which the required ratio of applicants is available. The seats reserved for the PH category are 5% of the total seats, which will be 21 seats across disciplines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/st-stephens-asked-to-submit-report-on-quota-for-disabled/articleshow/78305996.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 25, 2020||Patna||Two held for forcing 4 women to consume human excreta in Bihar||PATNA: A group of people allegedly forced a 45-year-old woman and three members of her family to consume human excreta at the tribal-dominated Khaira village in Katihar, police said on Thursday. Although the incident took place on Tuesday evening, the matter was reported to the Mufassil police station of the district on Wednesday, which prompted the cops to arrest two of the offenders — Pradip Oraon (40) and Ranjeet Oran (32). According to the FIR, one Rukhmini Devi and her three sisters — Savita Devi, Meena Kumari and Kunti Kumari — were forced to consume human excreta by Dilip Oraon and 10 others. They also thrashed the women when they refused to follow their diktats. The SHO of Mufassil police station, Ranjeet Kumar, told this newspaper, “After a six-year-old girl, stated to be the daughter of one Dilip Oraon, fell ill a few months ago, a local priest blamed their neighbour, Rukmini, for it. He also alleged that she practised black magic.” He added, “A mob reached Rukmini’s house on Tuesday and forced her to drink human excreta in full public view. Her sisters also met the same fate when they intervened and tried to rescue her.” Altogether 11 people, including three women, have been named as accused in the FIR lodged on the statement of Savita. “While two of them have been arrested, raids are being conducted to nab others,” the SHO said, adding that all the four victims, who had been admitted to the Katihar sadar hospital, were out of danger. The accused were produced before a local court which remanded them to 14 days’ judicial custody on Thursday. Katihar sub-divisional police officer, Amarkant Jha, said, “They have been booked under sections 328 and 307 of the IPC as well as Section ¾ of the Anti-Superstition and Black Magic Act.” If pronounced guilty by the court, the accused may be liable for punishment up to five to seven years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-held-for-forcing-4-women-to-consume-human-excreta/articleshow/78301163.cms||Ramashankar
September 25, 2020||Patna||Patna civic body okays land for plastic processing unit||PATNA: The proposal to provide land for setting up a plastic processing unit at Ramchak Bairiya landfill site to the urban development and housing department was passed at the 20th general board meeting of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) held at S K Memorial Hall here on Thursday. Patna mayor Sita Sahu, who chaired the meeting, said 12-decimal land at Ramchak Bairiya has been allotted to the urban development and housing department for setting up a plastic processing unit to recycle plastic waste from the garbage dump. The PMC board members approved altogether 34 proposals tabled in the meeting, including those related to solid waste management, organic waste composters, equipment for for civic work, redevelopment of slum areas, secondary garbage point, construction of crematorium and water supply. These proposals were earlier passed by the empowered committee members of the civic body. Sahu said two bio-methanation plants, with 20 TPD and 50 TPD capacities, respectively, would be set up at Bazaar Samiti. “An automated material recovery facility for solid waste with 150 TPD capacity will also come up at the landfill site. The PMC will hire dust trommel machines from the private suppliers for segregation of legacy waste. Altogether 23 organic waste compost plants will be set up at major vegetable and fruit markets in the city,” she added. The PMC will also procure mist water spray for each ward, 10 anti-smoke guns/water sprinklers for hotspot areas and 10 sweeping machines. The civic body is also set to launch ‘Swachhta Survekshan League 2021-Citizen Engagement’ soon. The civic body has also passed the proposal of rental bicycle services to be managed by a private firm in the city. The civic body has selected 30 areas where park, water supply and modular toilet facilities will be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-oks-land-for-plastic-processing-unit/articleshow/78301337.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Six more Metro trains from next week||KOLKATA: Metro Railway has decided to run six more trains on the north-south corridor from Monday and extend services by half an hour. Metro Railway GM Manoj Joshi said, “We are adding six services to the existing 110 on the north-south line and extending the time up to 7.30pm. Services will start at 8am as usual. Trains will run at intervals of 10 minutes during peak hours (9am-11.30am and 4.30pm-7pm) and 15 minutes for the rest of the day.” On Thursday, the north-south corridor ferried 48,042 passengers while the East-West line carried 102.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/6-more-metro-trains-from-next-week/articleshow/78304234.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Allahabad||No one should be seen in public sans masks: HC||Prayagraj: Allahabad high court has issued a mandamus for entire UP directing that “no person should be seen outside his/her house without a mask on his/her face and he/she should check that the mask covers both the nose and the mouth”. The court directed the police in all the districts to deploy task forces to implement this mandamus. Hearing a PIL seeking better conditions at quarantine centres, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar directed that each task force should consist of many more police personnel than presently have been deployed. “Needless to say that violation of this mandamus would entail rigorous punishments. The police and the administration cannot get away by saying that people are to be blamed for not wearing the masks. They cannot say that despite their best efforts, masks are not being worn. The people and the administration should realize that today wearing of masks is not only for the protection of the person who is wearing it but it is now also important for protecting the whole society and if a person commits a crime against society, he has to be punished,” the court added. The court further directed that the police of the entire state have to necessarily take appropriate action under relevant provisions of the various penal laws, the moment it finds a person without a mask in the public. The court further directed that the advocate commissioners, whom the court has appointed, shall report to the zonal officers and the municipal commissioners. Further, they shall also mail their report regarding the exercise of the task forces on a daily basis to the registrar, Legal Cell, High Court Allahabad on his email Id and shall also forward the same to the additional advocate general. In addition to it, the court further directed that the medical facilities should be made available to one and all. “The task forces which have been constituted for rendering medical help should have empathy towards the ill,” the court added. While directing to put up this matter again on September 28, 2020, for the next hearing, the court directed that a copy of this order be sent to the additional chief secretary (Home), Uttar Pradesh, director general of police, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow and all the district magistrates, senior superintendents of police and superintendents of police of all the districts of the state within 48 hours for necessary action and compliance of the order at their end. The order was passed on September 23 and came to limelight on September 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-one-should-be-seen-in-public-sans-masks-hc/articleshow/78301891.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Man fined Rs 9.6cr for illegal sand mining||Madurai: The state government on Thursday informed Madras high court that a fine of Rs 9.57 crore was imposed on a person who was involved in illegal sand mining in Tirunelveli district. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by B Sivasankar who sought a direction to restrain a person from undertaking illegal sand mining activities at Therku Kallidaikuruchi village in the district. Pursuant to the earlier direction, Tirunelveli district collector and superintendent of police appeared before the court through videoconferencing. The special government pleader submitted that according to the collector’s report, a penalty of Rs 9.57 crore was imposed on the person involved in illegal mining misusing his licence issued for stock yard. The concerned village administrative officer was placed under suspension and five people were arrested in a case registered in this regard. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that the collector’s status report reveals that rampant illegal sand mining was done by the man. Had the officials carried out regular inspections, such kinds of incidents could have been prevented. The judges observed that the collector undertakes to put in place an effective monitoring mechanism to prevent such illegal activities in future. Since these kinds of cases are repeatedly filed, the assistance of additional advocate general M Sricharan Rangarajan is required in cases of similar nature. Dispensing with the appearance of the collector and SP, the judges directed the collector to file a further status report on the progress in penalty and confiscation proceedings initiated in the case, which was adjourned to November 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-fined-rs-9-6cr-for-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/78304117.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Nitish: Farm Bills to benefit farmers||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday said the situation in Bihar was quite different from other parts of the country as far as implementation of the farm Bills is concerned. Describing the Bills passed by the Parliament as beneficial for the farmers, Nitish said Bihar initiated the step in this regard way back in 2006. “The rest of the country is proceeding on the same path which the state had done much earlier,” he told media persons. The CM clarified that the procurement of agriculture produce is done in the state through PACS. Before the NDA government in Bihar, which came to power in November 2005, there was no provision for procurement of farm produce. “The new system was adopted in 2006 for the first time,” he said, adding the election of PACS functionaries is properly conducted. Earlier, the CM interacted with workers of the party for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Nitish, who was accompanied by state assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, held one to one meeting with party workers, who had gathered in large numbers to seek tickets for the upcoming assembly polls. Sources said Nitish got feedback from the workers about the sitting MLAs of the party, people’s perception about their performance in the last five years and above all the winability of the prospective candidates. He also sought to know about the new faces from their respective constituencies, who may replace the sitting legislators. Some workers favoured allotment of tickets to young candidates. “The CM listened to every worker and also wanted to know the reason for fielding young netas,” a senior JD(U) functionary said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Since elections are round the corner, it is imperative for the party chief to seek opinion from workers. Moreover, there are some workers who wanted to share their feelings with the party chief ahead of the polls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-farm-bills-to-benefit-farmers/articleshow/78303169.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Hone skills of pupils, Rajnath tells teachers||PATNA: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday appealed to the teachers to impart basic knowledge to students and also hone their skills in tune with the New Education Policy (NEP) of the Centre. Singh was addressing teachers and other intellectuals who had gathered at state BJP headquarters here through videoconferencing from New Delhi. Those present on the occasion included deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Mangal Pandey and Vinod Narayan Jha, as well as MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav. Singh said NEP-2020 would not only make a new India, but also help in fulfilling the aspirations of students as it stresses on imparting basic education, knowledge and also honing the skills of students to induce in them entrepreneurial ability. Singh said the state government had done a lot of work in the last 15 years to improve the condition of teachers in the state. He described Bihar as ‘Gyan ki dharti (land of knowledge)’. Earlier, deputy CM Modi gave a broad overview of the steps taken by the state government for improvement of school and higher education in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hone-skills-of-pupils-rajnath-tells-teachers/articleshow/78302292.cms||Abhay Singh
September 25, 2020||Surat||Four accused cops shunted out of city||Surat: The four suspended Surat city cops accused in suicide abatement case of businessman Durlabh Patel were shunted out of the city following order from state police chief DGP Ashish Bhatia. Patel had ended life by jumping into water-filled quarry at Khanjroli village of Surat on September 7, allegedly due to harassment by the accused cops and others over a land deal. Suspended police inspector L P Bodana, who is one of the prime accused, was transferred to Police Training College, Junagadh. Other accused, ASI Kiransinh Parmar was transferred to Amreli, while constables Ajay Bhopala was shunted to Surendranagar and Vijay Shinde to Devbhumi Dwarka. Meanwhile, police got voice spectrograph test done of the two arrested accused Raju Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani at Directorate of Forensic Science at Gandhinagar on Tuesday. The test was done to match the voice of the accused with the multiple audio and video recordings recovered by the police. Out of 10 accused, eight are yet to get arrested even after 15 days of the offence being registered. This include the four cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-accused-cops-shunted-out-of-city/articleshow/78302072.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||‘No problem with Tejas as CM face’||PATNA: CPI national executive member and former JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar on Thursday said he had no problem if Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was projected as the CM face of the Grand Alliance (GA) in the state. “It is natural that the largest party in the alliance is keen to project its leader as the CM,” Kanhaiya told a television news channel. However, he appeared concerned that there was delay in seat-sharing talks with the Left parties. Kanhaiya, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 parliamentary elections from Begusarai, said he would not contest the assembly elections in the state. CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey said Kanhaiya would camp in the state during the assembly elections and also campaign for the candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-problem-with-tejas-as-cm-face/articleshow/78302244.cms||Abhay Singh
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Tomar sheds ‘pretense’ of honesty: Amarinder||Chandigarh: Reacting to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh expressed shock at what he termed “atrocious lies” over the state and Congress party’s stand on the controversial farm bills. He accused the BJP leader of “shedding even the pretense of fairness and honesty in pursuit of his party’s demonic agenda”. “In his desperation to promote the BJP-led NDA government’s conspiracy to ruin the farmers, Tomar had thrown all proprietary to the winds, spreading disinformation against the Congress in general, and him in particular, by peddling shameless falsehoods,” he said. Terming Tomar’s latest remarks a pack of “outrageous lies”, he said the minister’s entire statement, as part of a reported interview, was nothing more than unsubstantiated allegations, false claims and deceitful verbal assurances, which provided neither any basis nor any reason for trust or belief. On Tomar’s question as to “why did he (Amarinder) keep it in his manifesto that APMC will be changed”, Amarinder said it was obvious that the minister had not even read the Punjab Congress 2017 manifesto. The manifesto had clearly promised that “Updation of APMC Act will be done to ensure direct access of farmers to the national and international markets through digital technology without tinkering with the existing MSP system” and “Government of India will not be allowed to tinker with the existing MSP system. Instead they will be pursued to effectively implement MSP for other crops i.e. maize, pulses also. Further, it had stated that agriculture marketing will be upgraded and digitised with a complete ban on utilisation of Mandi Board Funds for purposes other than agriculture marketing.” Amarinder noted that there was a difference between changing the APMC for the better, which the Congress manifesto clearly promised in detail, and destroying the tried and tested APMC system to benefit a few corporate cronies, which the BJP-led Government’s new farm Bills were designed to do. Even the Congress 2019 LS poll manifesto also categorically stated that MSP would be protected at all costs and that thousands of markets/mandis would be set up by the state governments to provide easy access to farmers for profitable sale of their produce, the chief minister pointed out. “Tell me one place in which your three bills have made any such promise to the farmers,” he dared Tomar, accusing the minister for spreading brazen lies in an attempt to fool the farmers. “If the minister is so sincere about the welfare of the farmers, why does he not get the Bills amended to incorporate categorical and clear commitments by the Centre on retaining the MSP as well as the mandi system,” asked Amarinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tomar-sheds-pretense-of-honesty-amarinder/articleshow/78305331.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||Pandemic makes 90% Indians careful with expenses: Survey||Mumbai: Even as Indians increase their spending with the easing of lockdowns, over 90% of respondents in a survey said that the pandemic has made them more careful with expenditure as against 75% of global respondents. Indians are being increasingly careful with money despite many of them (56%) reporting a spike in spending in July compared to global peers (46%). According to a global survey conducted by Standard Chartered Bank, 76% of survey respondents in India (versus 62% globally) said that the economic impact of Covid-19 has made them more likely to track their spending. The study of 12,000 adults across 12 markets — Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mainland China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Taiwan, the UAE, the UK and the US — is the second in a three-part series, looking at how Covid-19 has transformed consumers’ way of life, and what changes could be here to stay. According to the survey, India has the most respondents (78%) who are positive about shopping online versus 64% globally. UK respondents were the least inclined to spend online with only 49% saying that they were more positive now about buying online. Incidentally, the UK has the least number of respondents (55%) who said they would be more careful about spending. Another area where India topped the list among positive responses was in cashless spending with 87% of respondents saying that the country will go cashless in five years versus 64% globally. Consumers around the world, including in India, are now spending more on basics — such as groceries and healthcare — and digital devices than they did before the pandemic, and they expect this increase to continue in the future. Meanwhile, in India, 64% of people say they have spent less on travel/holidays than they did before the pandemic (64% globally), while 30% have spent less on experiences (41% globally) and 56% have spent less on clothes (55% globally).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-makes-90-indians-careful-with-expenses-survey/articleshow/78304837.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||‘Business ease must to boost investment’||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Among business leaders, Biocon executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw is, perhaps, uniquely positioned to comment on Covid-19 as she’s recently recovered from the virus herself, and her firm is in the thick of things to get solutions for it. She firmly believes what is required is the removal of “regulatory cholesterol that is impeding business efficiency and increasing cost of doing business”… How far has your business returned to normal? We have ramped up from 50% in April to 90% in August. What challenges has the new normal posed, and any major learnings? Being an essential industry, we have critical operational functions that can’t be done remotely. Any employee testing positive disrupts activity. We have therefore zoned all our campuses so that we contain any outbreak to the zone and not disrupt the entire campus. Moreover, we have initiated a calibrated and aggressive testing to ensure the campus is Covid-19 free. What are you doing to ensure work-life balance? A rotation between work from home, and on-site working is proving to be very effective in providing work-life balance. More importantly, we have introduced online yoga, exercises and even cooking classes. Should the government go for a much bigger public investment programme? Demand for our drugs has not reduced. However, there is a huge slump in demand for consumer goods, auto, real estate, tourism, etc. Until normalcy returns, it will be difficult to spur demand. Augmenting business ease can incentivise more investment and employment. How do you think the government has handled the Covid pandemic, and what more is needed? Multiple forms of testing need to be developed as a model to assess disease burden and predict outbreaks and evaluate safe zones. In addition, we are not systematically triaging patients between home quarantine and hospitalisation. We should prevent overwhelming our hospitals. Rapid antigen testing and pooled RT-PCR as well as rapid antibody testing are useful in large-scale testing, which must be conducted every two weeks in congested areas to prevent large outbreaks. Contact tracing has slackened, and we can’t afford to let this happen. Masking ought to be a civil society effort. Goa is a great example of a well-controlled safe state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/business-ease-must-to-boost-investment/articleshow/78304686.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 25, 2020||Business||‘Job creation is most important challenge’||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh’s earlier open-door policy has transitioned in the new normal to an ‘open virtual-door policy’. He, however, believes that human beings inherently need proximity for interaction to be at their best. Parekh says employment generation has emerged as the biggest challenge with people losing their livelihoods overnight… What challenges does the new normal pose? Today, India, like the rest of the world, is attempting to get ‘somewhere closer to normal’. For organisations, this period has been challenging as the workforce had to transition to WFH and, now, find optimum solutions to get back to the workplace. How to get new business? No one knows if changes in customer behaviour are permanent or temporary. I am confident that for India, the worst is behind us. No major economy has had such a strict lockdown for so long. Naturally, the GDP numbers should not be alarming. The high-frequency data — e-tolls, e-way bills, digital transactions, electricity, fuel, 2-wheelers, cars, — all have been showing sequential growth over previous month. What are the people-related challenges that have arisen? The divide has severely widened between the rich and the poor, formal and informal sectors, the permanent versus the temporary worker, digital jobs versus those that need physical contact. Many lost their livelihoods overnight. Creation of jobs, to my mind, is the most important challenge on hand. How was it to raise capital globally amid a lockdown? We felt that in the current environment there could be inorganic opportunities. It’s always better to have sufficient capital so, when these opportunities arise, we are not scrambling for capital. There were challenges in getting large teams to coordinate. We had 19 bankers on board. Earlier we would have travelled to meet investors across the globe. This was done quite efficiently through virtual meetings. Key learning from this crisis? Work culture matters, immensely. Second, most companies have been thrown into a ‘forced re-boot’. Bottom line is workforces need to be flexible and adaptable to changing conditions. Third is the time-tested principles of integrity & transparency. Trust is the foundational principle that holds all relationships. Lastly, there is no substitute for being prudent. Raise capital when you don’t need it rather than raising capital when your back is against the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/job-creation-is-most-important-challenge/articleshow/78304525.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: App to capture real-time data on accidents||PATNA: A mobile application, christened ‘Bihar Parivahan’, will soon be launched to record real-time data on road accidents in the state. Developed by the transport department, it will also keep track of the accidents that have happened in the past, place of occurrence, time, date, casualty, vehicle number, investigating officer and names of victim and accused. According to transport department officials, users can download the app from Google Play Store in the next few days. “The main aim of launching the app is to record road accidents in the state and reduce the number of deaths by analysing different ways to prevent such incidents,” transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper on Thursday and added that the app would contain information in digital form. After its launch, the police stations will feed all the required information related to road accidents into the app. “On the basis of these details, we will analyse the cause of accidents and deaths that may include lack of education, faulty road engineering, inadequate signage, bad junction design and unavailability of emergency care. We will find solutions accordingly and help reduce the number of road accidents and fatalities,” Agarwal said. He added, “At present, all the data are collected manually at the end of the year, which is a time-consuming task. With the ‘Bihar Parivahan’ mobile app, the process will take less time and ensure proper action.” Additional information related to driving licence, fine for violation of traffic rules, permit fee, pollution-under-control certificate and tax payment will also be available on the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/app-to-capture-real-time-data-on-accidents/articleshow/78301294.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: Many children apprehensive about resuming old routine||PATNA: After spending nearly seven months at home amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of students are feeling apprehensive about rejoining city schools and resuming their old lifestyle. During the corona crisis, they pulled a lot of all-nighters, attended online classes, watched films on OTT platforms and woke up late in the morning. Their eating habits also went for a toss as they skipped meals and ate junk food. St Michael’s High School student Alina S Joe admits that the lockdown has made her lazy as she did not follow a fixed routine. “It may take some time, but I will get back to my normal routine soon,” she hopes. Khushi, who studies in Carmel High School, is worried about waking up in the morning. The Class XI student says, “After months of sleeping late, I will have to get up early and get dressed for school now.” As soon as he heard of the education department’s decision to reopen schools, Class IX student Rishab Shrivastava started practising his old routine. He says, “During the lockdown, I became lazy, but I have resumed my normal routine now.” Loyola High School’s Aman Kumar is also trying to adjust to his old schedule. “After attending online classes, I would take a nap in the afternoon during the lockdown. I have to change that habit now so that I can maintain a proper balance between my studies and health,” he asserts. However, students like Shruti and Shubham, who study in Kendriya Vidyalaya and St Karen’s High School, followed a proper routine even during the lockdown. To them, going back to school and getting up early won’t be a problem. Shubham, who will appear for his Class X exams next year, says, “Board exams are important as they decide a student’s future. Therefore, I focused on my studies and followed a balanced routine during the lockdown.” All secondary and higher secondary schools in the state will partially reopen for the students of classes IX to XII from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-children-apprehensive-about-resuming-old-routine/articleshow/78301320.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||KMC to upload land info to ease mutation process||KOLKATA: The KMC assessment department will soon upload information on the city’s available land and its status, especially in areas located off EM Bypass or parts of added areas such as Behala, Tollygunge and Jadavpur, on its website to help prospective buyers choose the right kind of plot or purchase flats without subsequent legal hassles. Besides this, the civic body’s assessment department will also inform the state’s land registration department about the nature and character of land in added areas, especially along EM Bypass, so that property buyers don’t face problems during registration. It will be a relief for buyers like Joydeb Banerjee, a banker and a Behala resident, who had run from pillar to post to get the mutation of his flat done, but in vain. Banerjee had purchased a flat in Madurdaha a year ago. But when he approached the KMC assessment department for the mutation, he was asked to submit a no-objection certificate from the state fisheries department as the land on which the building was constructed used to be a water body. Banerjee had asked his promoter to give him a copy of the NOC, but the latter said he had no such certificate from the fisheries department. Banerjee is now looking to sell the flat. A section of the KMC assessment department officials conceded that in several parts of the city, especially in large areas off EM Bypass, buyers were being deprived of the legal status, or mutation, of their properties due to existing civic rules which demand a NOC from the state fisheries department. “A large number of buyers are getting deprived since they don’t have first-hand knowledge of the character of land in added areas, like Patuli, New Garia, Panchasayar, Mukundapur, Madurdaha, Kalikapur and Anandapur among others. Though the nature of land in such areas has undergone a change, we still demand an NOC from fisheries department according to norms,” said a KMC assessment department official. “We will also provide useful data relating to land in our added areas to the state registration department officials so that they can go through it and help the buyers accordingly,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-upload-land-info-to-ease-mutation-process/articleshow/78304215.cms||Saikat Ray
September 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Met issues warning for heavy rain and lightning till tomorrow||PATNA: The Patna Meteorological Centre on Thursday issued a warning for moderate to heavy rainfall across the state over the next 48 hours. A special bulletin issued by the centre also stated that very heavy showers were expected in north Bihar districts like East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Supaul, Darbhanga, Madhubani and Araria. Patna and neighbouring districts are also likely to receive medium to heavy rain. Besides, the Met issued an orange alert predicting very heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning in several north and south Bihar districts for Friday and yellow warning for Saturday. While an orange warning expects the authorities to be prepared for extreme weather conditions, a yellow alert asks them to be aware. The bulletin, therefore, asked people to “take safety and precautionary steps”. In the last 24 hours, heavy rainfall occurred at a few places over the north, south-central, south-west and south-eastern parts of the state. Moderate showers were also witnessed in other parts of Bihar. According to the daily weather bulletin issued by the Met on Thursday evening, southwest monsoon has been vigorous over Bihar. Places, which received significant rainfall, include Forbesganj (220mm), Taibpur (190mm) in Vaishali, Marsrakh (150mm) in Saran, Bahadurganj (130mm) in Kishanganj, and Sonbarsa, Bairgania, Gaunaha, Jalalpur and Tribeni (all 120mm). Patna received 39.4mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Experts attributed the vigorous monsoon in Bihar to a couple of weather systems. “The low-pressure area over eastern Uttar Pradesh and the monsoon trough line passing through Bihar along with moisture feeding in the region from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea are likely to maintain vigorous monsoon conditions in the state over the next 48 hours. While the entire state is expected to witness showers along with lightning, the northern districts are likely to witness higher intensity rainfall,” Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist, told TOI. Meanwhile, the ongoing rainy spell led to the apprehension of a flood-like situation in low-lying areas of north Bihar. The discharge from the Valmiki Nagar Barrage on the Gandak surged to 4 lakh cusec on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-issues-warning-for-heavy-rain-lightning-till-tomorrow/articleshow/78301184.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 25, 2020||Patna||Patna Junction gets organic food waste converter plant||PATNA: An organic food waste compost converter plant, installed at Patna Junction by the railways, will be made functional on October 2 to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the hi-tech plant, installed with an expenditure of Rs 6 lakh, has the capacity to dispose of 25kg of waste per day. “The purpose behind installing this plant under waste management programme is to keep platforms and station premises neat and clean. “Waste materials like leftover food and eatables from the pantry cars and coaches will be collected and dumped into this plant. The plant is well equipped to prepare manure and supply gas to the running room at the Karbigahiya end of Patna Junction for cooking purpose,” he said. The DRM added, “The greatest advantage of the waste management plant is that it is environmental friendly. Trained railway employees are testing the plant to make it functional from October 2. Railways has set up a dedicated team of staff whose duty will be to collect food waste materials from pantry cars and coaches of each train.” Meanwhile, the railways has reviewed functioning of the newly installed linen kiosk service centre at the Patna Junction. “Railways has launched this service under the corporate social responsibility scheme to fulfil the needs of passengers during the Covid-19 pandemic. Linen kiosk centre has evoked good response from passengers,” the DRM said. He added at a time when linens are not being supplied to passengers in the special trains due to coronavirus, their demand has gone high. “Railways intends to install three more linen kiosks – one each at Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur and Patliputra Junction in near future. Linen kiosk has use-and-throw non-woven bed sheets, toilet sheet covers, masks, hand gloves and other Covid-related items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-junction-gets-organic-food-waste-converter-plant/articleshow/78301349.cms||Kumod Verma
September 25, 2020||Patna||Student hangs self in Patna||PATNA/BAGAHA: One Vicky Kumar (22) a first-year student of Chandragupta Institute of Management-Patna, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his rented accommodation in Kisan Colony under the Phulwarisharif police station area of the city on Thursday. SHO of Phulwarisharif police station Md Raiq-ur-Rahman said no suicide note was recovered from the room. Police said Vicky, a native of Biharsharif in Nalanda district, was living with his family in Kisan Colony. The family members apprehended foul play when he didn’t wake up in the morning. They broke open the room only to find him lying dead. The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/student-hangs-self-in-city/articleshow/78302327.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Mahabodhi temple awaits tourists||GAYA: Footfall at the world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara in Bodhgaya continues to remain comparatively less even after the shrine reopened for devotees and tourists after around five months on Monday. Authorities at the Mahavihara attribute the low footfall to lack of international flights operations and full-fledged train services owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The only solace for those associated with the tourism-related business is that the annual events in Bodhgaya have not been cancelled but postponed. Normally, the tourist season in Bodhgaya begins in October and continues till February. During this duration, various events are organised where tourists and devotees from Buddhist countries such as Japan, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Cambodia, Lao, Bhutan, Nepal, and Tibet participate. Mahabodhi Mahavihara chief monk Bhikkhu Chalinda said, “After the Mahavihara opened on Monday, on an average around 400 people have visited daily to have a darshan of the Buddha in the sanctum sanctorum. But most of the visitors are locals, and only a few are foreigners, who are staying in the monasteries in Bodh Gaya.” He admitted that once the train and the flight services resume, the footfall will increase. “Now, the Mahavihara is opening from 6 to 9 am and 3 to 6 pm. But from October 1, it will open from 5 am to 9 pm. According to Covid -19 protocol, only 10 visitors are allowed entry inside the sanctum sanctorum at a time,” the monk added. The Tourist Guides Association of Bihar president Rakesh Kumar said he is receiving inquiries from Buddhist followers in Holland, a few European countries and the UK among others. “Apart from abroad, a large number of visitors from north-east and the southern states also come to Bodh Gaya. People want to come to the holy town and offer prayers for the safety of their family members and the friends from the ongoing Covid -19 pandemic,” he said. Kumar added, “The Prime Minister’s approach to starting efforts towards boosting the economy has pinned hope among the local businessmen, who are undergoing severe financial crisis. Several shop owners have even not earned a single penny for the last many days during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahabodhi-temple-awaits-tourists/articleshow/78301232.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||Hero’s Munjal, Twitter back ShareChat||BENGALURU: ShareChat, a social media startup focused on local language-based platforms, has raised $40 million in a fresh round of funding to drive growth of its new short video application Moj. The round has seen entry of new investors like Hero MotoCorp’s chairman Pawan Munjal and DCM Shriram Family offices. It also has existing backers like Twitter and venture capital investors SAIF Partners, Lightspeed Venture Partners and India Quotient. The new round takes the total capital raised by ShareChat to $264 million. It is not clear if ShareChat’s Chinese investors — smartphone maker Xiaomi besides venture firms like Shunwei Capital and Morningside — also participated in the round. ShareChat launched Moj to capitalise on the growth in the market in July this year after China’s TikTok was banned by the Indian government. ShareChat and Moj claim that they have over 240 million monthly active users (MAUs) together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/heros-munjal-twitter-back-sharechat/articleshow/78304722.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||Aarogya Setu downloads drops 90% since launch||CHENNAI: As cities get unlocked and authorities relax restrictions around its mandatory enforcement, the country’s national contact tracing app Aarogya Setu has seen monthly downloads rate fall by over 90% in August compared to its launch in April. Data from app intelligence firm Sensor Tower shows that while Aarogya Setu had average monthly downloads of around 8 crore in the month of April (when it first launched), downloads have steadily dipped with August recording just 0.42 crore new monthly downloads. Similarly, daily downloads of the app were at 0.27 crore in April and are at 0.01 crore in August. “To date, Aarogya Setu has generated 140.6 million (14.06 crore) downloads across the Google and Apple app stores and that comes to around 13.8% of India’s population as per our calculations,” a spokesperson for Sensor Tower said. On Google Play store, the app ranked number one for all app downloads from April 3 to May 29. It fell out of the top 10 download rankings on June 24 and its lowest ranking was on September 21 when it ranked No 107 for all app downloads, data showed. The number of users who deleted or uninstalled the app could not be ascertained and the National Informatics Centre (developer of the app) did not respond to TOIs queries on the same. Developed by Meity, Aarogya Setu uses GPS and bluetooth tech to record details of all people that a smartphone holder may have come in contact with, and alerts them if any one of those people, at a later point in time, test positive for Covid-19. The fall in the app’s adoption comes at a time when citizens prepare for return to normalcy and tech-enabled contact tracing becomes more critical. A recent study by Google and Oxford University’s Nuffield Department of Medicine showed that with an app used by 15% of the population and a well-staffed contact-tracing workforce, countries can see a 15% drop in infection rates and an 11% drop in Covid-19 deaths. After making the app mandatory for both public and private sector workers and for various public transport, the government diluted the provisions in May amid growing concerns on data privacy and issues in enforcement. Besides concerns raised by cyber law specialists, the app was reviewed poorly by tech publication MIT Technology Review which gave only 1 out of 5 stars to the app for collecting more data than necessary. To ensure transparency, the government made the app open source and also started a bug bounty program urging security experts to report bugs and vulnerabilities. Earlier this week, Sanjay Dhotre, the minister of state for electronics and IT told the Parliament that there are 15.71 crore registered users of the Aarogya Setu app and the app is equipped with standard security features to protect confidentiality and security of user data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aarogya-setu-downloads-drops-90-since-launch/articleshow/78304259.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Father of rape survivor gets her foetus aborted||RAJKOT: A man and his relatives were booked on Wednesday for the alleged abortion of his 13-year-old daughter after she was raped and impregnated by his relative in Vejalaga village of Chuda taluka in Surendranagar district. Police said the 35-year-old accused, who happened to be a distant relative of the girl’s family, had raped her six months ago. The crime came to light after the survivor’s aunt lodged a complaint with Chuda police station. The survivor’s aunt alleged that after girl became pregnant, her father decided to abort her foetus. “The survivor’s father, the accused and his brother Ramnik, took the girl to Botad where they admitted her to Puja Hospital where the abortion was done on Tuesday. As her health deteriorated, they shifted her to a hospital in Ahmedabad,” said J R Dangar, sub-inspector with Chuda police station. “We have booked trio along with the doctor and the staff of Puja Hospital, who had carried out the abortion. The relative has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and sections 376 and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy, ” added Dangar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/father-of-rape-survivor-gets-her-foetus-aborted/articleshow/78303813.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Don’t kill Vadodara’s heritage: MP tells Lok Sabha||VADODARA: The issue of a proposed multi-storey building project next to the heritage Pratap Vilas Palace was raised in the Parliament on Tuesday. The railways is planning to accommodate some of its offices in the new building proposed on the lawns right opposite the palace. But the project has met with stiff opposition from many Barodians including the royal Gaekwad family. Vadodara BJP MP Ranjan Bhatt Bhatt said in the Lok Sabha that the palace was gifted to the railways by the family of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad and it was a heritage building with a large campus around it. She pointed out that the tall building would overshadow the palace and its beauty would be lost forever. She demanded an alternative site should be selected for the project. Bhatt shared her speech she made during the zero hour in Lok Sabha on her social media account. Controversy over the new building surfaced in July this year when the Gaekwad family started an online petition against it. MS University chancellor and royal family member, Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad even wrote to railway minister Piyush Goyal urging him to stop building construction. The railways is reportedly planning to accommodate National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI) and other offices in the new building. The royal family suggested that the building can come up on Oval Ground that is in the same premises but away from the palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dont-kill-vadodaras-heritage-mp-tells-ls/articleshow/78301504.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Showers batter Chhapra town||CHHAPRA: The incessant showers, which began in Chhapra on Wednesday night, left major parts of the town inundated. Areas like Judges Colony and Salempur as well as the premises of the SDO office, Town police station, sadar hospital, Sri Nandan Library and the municipal corporation were waterlogged on Thursday. Rainwater entered the campus of Rajendra College as a result of which principal Pramendra Ranjan ordered its closure till September 30. “Nearly 3-4 inches of water entered my chamber and damaged my computer and many important documents. There is water in other departments of the college too,” the principal told this newspaper. Sadhanapuri locality also remained flooded on Thursday. Savitri Sharma, a retired teacher, pointed out, “I cannot step out my house due to knee-deep water in my area. This has happened because the main drain of the town, popularly known as ‘Kanua Nala’, is choked.” She also claimed that workers of the Chhapra Municipal Corporation were “trying their best to pump out water since Thursday morning, but to no avail”. The residents have now braced themselves for more rainfall predicted by the Patna Meteorological Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/showers-batter-chhapra-town/articleshow/78301198.cms||H K Verma
September 25, 2020||Patna||President honours NSS volunteer||PATNA: President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday honoured Niraj Kumar, a volunteer of the National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of the College of Commerce, Arts and Science (COCAS), Patna, with the NSS award 2018-19. The award was presented through virtual mode. COCAS principal T K Shandilya said it was an honour to the institution. The NSS unit of the college has been engaged in various social activities for over three decades. The principal said Niraj was the only one from Bihar among the 42 NSS volunteers honoured by the President. NSS regional director of Bihar and Jharkhand Binay Kumar said 6,68,000 volunteers from 668 units in colleges and universities in Bihar comprised an effective youth force dedicated to social services. Kirti, the NSS programme officer of COCAS, said Niraj, a student of the medical lab technician course and native of Purnia, has been engaged in activities like mountaineering in the Himalayan range, teaching to slum dwelling children, clean Ganga initiative and earned many awards in the past. The COCAS NSS unit recently distributed masks and sanitisers among hundreds of people living in different localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/president-honours-nss-volunteer/articleshow/78301273.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||‘Localised lockdowns hit recovery’||Udit.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Sanjiv Puri, who took over as chairman of ITC last year, is preparing the FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco giant for the ‘next normal’. According to him, industry dynamics will constantly get redefined. Puri also sounds a note of caution on localised lockdowns derailing recovery... How far has business returned to normal? ITC was quick off the block, ramping up production and resuming distribution in record time. Within 10 days, over 180 factories, 85% of the company’s wholesale distributors and associated warehouses, as well as agri-sourcing hubs, were made fully operational with stringent safety protocols. The later part of Q1 had witnessed progressive normalisation across all operating segments, barring hotels and stationery. However, the recent spate of localised lockdowns is impacting the recovery momentum. What challenges does the new normal pose? It is important to be compassionate and agile in crisis. Our priority was the safety of employees, partners and associates as also to help communities. Streamlining operations with agility, re-aligning the supply chain, ramping up capacity & repurposing facilities swiftly to meet the demand surge and fast-tracking design, development & go-to-market strategies of innovative products received extreme focus. What steps are needed from the government? The path-breaking agricultural reforms will unleash new opportunities and help raise farmers’ incomes. The thrust on infrastructure development and policy interventions to shape competitive ‘Make in India’ supply chains augur well for the economy. What are the learnings during the pandemic? Black swan events like the pandemic not only test the resilience and adaptive capacity but also unleash powerful forces of innovation. At ITC, we have nurtured vitality to create differentiated products & services in record speed, realign supply chains to react swiftly to disruptions, orchestrate timely partnerships, repurpose critical infrastructure to sharpen competitive advantage and embed sustainability meaningfully in strategy & action. Will you look at more digitisation, automation? Accelerated digital transformation has been the bedrock of ITC’s strategy and has driven change right from agriculture to supply chain to manufacturing to distribution. Industry 4.0, e-Choupal 4.0, and ‘Sixth Sense’, our marketing command centre, are powering change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/localised-lockdowns-hit-recovery/articleshow/78304394.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Business||RBI focuses on cybersecurity for co-op banks||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has come out with a cybersecurity framework for urban co-operative banks (UCBs). The move comes a week after the Lok Sabha passed a bill giving the RBI more power over co-operative banks. “The technology vision document for cybersecurity for UCBs has been formalised based on inputs from various stakeholders. It envisages to achieve its objective through a five-pillared strategic approach GUARD — governance oversight, utile technology investment, appropriate regulation and supervision, robust collaboration, and developing necessary IT, cybersecurity skills set,” the RBI said in a statement. Although co-operative banks are getting more and more integrated with mainstream payment systems, they are seen as the weak link in cybersecurity as many are not in a position to make the required investments. In 2018, Pune’s Cosmos Co-operative Bank saw one of the biggest cyberfrauds in the country with hackers managing to draw over Rs 90 crore through a malware attack on the bank’s servers. “Considering that the implementation of cybersecurity controls will be capital-intensive, UCBs may consider creating a reserve fund earmarked for implementing IT and cybersecurity projects. This reserve may be created out of its annual net profits over a period of time. To start with, an approach paper may be brought out by the National Federation of Urban Cooperative Banks and Credit Societies (NAFCUB) and federations of UCB in Phase I and the creation of fund may be carried out in Phase II,” the RBI said. As an alternative to capital investments, the RBI has suggested that UCBs could look at cost-effective technologies such as cloud- (preferably community) based services for IT solutions and cybersecurity controls. The RBI has also asked UCBs to develop their own technology vision document outlining their plans to incorporate IT solutions into their business in a secure manner. This vision document shall provide guidelines that can be used by the banks to design, develop, and implement IT operations not only as an organisational capability but as a strategic asset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-focuses-on-cybersecurity-for-co-op-banks/articleshow/78304737.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||GCMMF mulls its second Gujarat plant near Rajkot||Rajkot: There is a big reason for milk farmers of Saurashtra to celebrate. The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that owns the brand Amul, plans to set up its second milk processing plant in Gujarat in Rajkot. A decision in this regard was taken during the dairy major’s board meeting held at Anand on September 18. It has been decided to seek 70 acre land from the state government on the Rajkot-Jamnagar road for setting up the plant with capacity of processing 25-30 lakh litre milk per day. GCMMF had set up its first plant, which is Asia’s biggest milk processing unit, at Gandhinagar and for last two years the federation was mulling another plant near Rajkot to facilitate over 10 dairies unions of Saurashtra and Kutch.Talking to TOI, newly appointed vice chairman of GCMMF, Valamji Humbal said, “We have asked for land from the government for the new plant which will benefit more than 10 lakh milk producers of Saurashtra and Kutch regions.”“Currently, the milk unions across Saurashtra and Kutch procure average 30 lakh litre milk per day out of which they process half and produce pasteurized milk, buttermilk, curd and ghee. The remaining milk (nearly 15 lakh litre per day) is sent to GCMMF’s Gandhinagar plant where skimmed milk powder and other derivatives are made from it,” said Humbal, who is also chairman of Kutch’s Sarhad Dairy. Sources added that currently, the Gandhinagar plant processes 40 lakh litre milk per day.According to GCMMF sources, the estimated the cost of the new plant, once the land is allotted, would be roughly around Rs 200 crore.The milk producers’ unions are currently having small processing facilities in Rajkot, Kutch, Porbandar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Botad and Dwarka. “Due to low processing capacity, the dairies of Saurahstra and Kutch send excess milk to Gandhinagar. The transportation takes 6-12 hours which not only deteriorates the milk quality but is also a costly affair. Cost of transporting one litre roughly comes to Re 1. Which means transporting 15-16 lakh litres of milk every day to Gandhinagar would cost Rs 15-16 lakh. With the new processing unit this cost will be saved,” said Humbal.He added that looking at the future requirements, the GCMMF was planning a plant with a processing capacity of 25-30 lakh litre per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gcmmf-mulls-its-second-gujarat-plant-near-rajkot/articleshow/78303524.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 25, 2020||Business||Sensex tanks 1,115 pts on fears of bigger Covid hit||Mumbai: Fears about the surging Covid infections resulting in continuing economic hardships globally, including in India, led to a selloff in the markets with the sensex ending 1,115 points, or 3%, lower at 36,554. This is an over two-month-low closing level. The day’s selloff was led by software, financials and Reliance Industries, data on the BSE showed. It also left investors poorer by nearly Rs 4 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 147.5 lakh crore. Data on the NSE showed a 12% jump for daily volatility, measured by the India VIX, to 23.5 from 21 on Wednesday. Since its recent closing high at 39,303 points on September 16, the sensex has lost about 2,750 points, or 7%. During the same period, foreign funds have net sold stocks worth nearly Rs 3,800 crore, official data showed. According to Geojit Financial Services head of research Vinod Nair, Indian markets tracked weak global cues as the uncertainty witnessed in the last few days gave way to negativity, with the broader markets also underperforming. “The uncertainty regarding an economic recovery, the unabated rise in virus infections, and (Thursday) being the derivatives expiry day — all contributed to the negativity,” Nair said. In the currency market, the rupee dived 33 paise to touch a near one-month low of 73.90 against the US dollar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-1115-pts-on-fears-of-bigger-covid-hit/articleshow/78304789.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||CBCID officials appear before HC over delay in final report||Madurai: CB-CID officials on Thursday appeared before the Madras high court over delay in filing the final report in the Kanyakumari sexual harassment and extortion case. According to the prosecution case, Kasi alias Suji was arrested for shooting intimate videos and photographs of more than 100 young women and extorting lakhs of rupees from them. Some of his accomplices were also arrested in this connection.On September 22, the court had granted statutory bail to M Dinesh, one of Kasi’s accomplices, since the police hadn’t filed the final report even after expiry of 90 days of his remand. The court had summoned the CB-CID DSP and the investigating officer while observing that the final report was not filed in any of the six cases pending against Kasi though they were handed over to the specialized investigation agency. Terming it unfortunate, Justice V Bharathidasan orally observed that in such sensitive cases, final reports should be filed on time. It may be noted that Desan Jino, another accomplice of Kasi, was also granted bail last month in similar circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbcid-officials-appear-before-hc-over-delay-in-final-report/articleshow/78304107.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||Seva, suraksha my priorities: Bhadran||Rajkot: Senior IPS officer Deepan Bhadran took charge as Jamnagar district superintendent of police (DSP) on Thursday. He was welcomed by the senior officials of the district. “My priority is to work for Gujarat police’s symbol Seva, Suraksha and Shanti,” said Bhadran after taking charge.It’s believed that he has been sent to Jamnagar to rein in notorious gangs that have gone ‘out of control’. Bhadran, known to be a tough cop, carries a reputation of effectively hunting down notorious criminals.The extortion racket run by gangster Jayesh Patel and his men is one of the challenges that Bhadran faces after being transferred here from Ahmedabad crime branch where he was posted as a DCP. Patel is said to have fled to Dubai and was overseeing operations from there. Patel is accused in several land grabbing cases and had allegedly got advocate Kirit Joshi killed by contract killers two years ago.Being a coastal district, it is vulnerable to criminal activities and Bhadran is expected to keep strict vigilance on coastal areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seva-suraksha-my-priorities-bhadran/articleshow/78303404.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar hospital gets high resolution X-ray machine||Rajkot: The G G Hospital in Jamnagar has become the first hospital in Saurashtra region to get high resolution X-ray machine on Thursday. This machine will give provide accurate result about the lungs of covid patients during the early stage which will help in their treatment.The hospital is currently using portable X-ray machine with is not accurate. Due to Covid-19 infection a minor infection can result into pneumonia and excess fluid in lungs which could prove fatal.Dr Dharmesh Vasavda, deputy medical superintendent at the covid hospital said, “This machine give us the hig resolution X-ray which will help us in detecting even a minor infection in lungs. The state government has given this machine which will be made operational in a day or two.”On Thursday, Jamnagar reported 98 new Covid-19 cases. With this addition, the total active cases in the district rose to are 218.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-hospital-gets-high-resolution-x-ray-machine/articleshow/78303625.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||CRPF personnel from Nagpur lays down life in Kashmir||NAGPUR: Assistant sub-inspector Naresh Badole, 49, part of 117B battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), was martyred at Chadoora in Budgam in Kashmir on Thursday after two bike-borne terrorists fled after firing upon him. He was from Nagpur and his body was being flown into the city late evening. The assailants also fled with the assault rifle of the slain paramilitary trooper. Badole, a native of Gondia in eastern Vidarbha, had shifted to the city a few years back and was staying at Ashirwad Nagar. Badole was rushed to the Army Hospital at Kashmir but was declared dead. Badole, whose two daughters are students of engineering, had a sound record. He was set to get a promotion as sub-inspector soon. Having joined the service in 1990 as a constable, Badole had worked his way up the ladder in service. A relative said Badole had returned to the city after the outbreak of pandemic but had decided to return to his duty which was close to his heart. “He was a sincere and dedicated personnel who had joined duty amid Covid pandemic against the wishes of his family. Duty was always his first choice and he kept it ahead of all others,” said Badole’s brother-in-law Raju Nandeshwar who is deployed with city police wireless department. Badole’s last rites would be performed on Friday after senior CRPF officers pay their homage to the martyr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crpf-personnel-from-nagpur-lays-down-life-in-kashmir/articleshow/78305388.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 25, 2020||---||Auto dealers to cut showroom infra, jobs||Chennai: Motown will prune its dealer infrastructure as well as job cuts in the network as lower volumes squeeze profitability among auto dealerships. In a survey by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA), automobile dealers stressed on the ‘strong need’ for cutting both network and manpower since the volumes were too small to be profitable. “As compared to the slowdown we have not seen as many bulk closures of dealerships during the pandemic but there have been a lot of rightsizing as dealers have opted for smaller showrooms, fewer outlets and reduced manpower strength,” said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati. Around 286 dealerships shut down last year due to the slowdown impacting 32,000 jobs. “With profitability and volume under pressure, there is "stress in metro and tier 1 dealerships though rural outletss are doing better and some are even hiring,” added Vinkesh Gulati. Auto dealers have already seen a 15% cut in their workforce due to the reverse migration of outstation workers and dealerships are asking OEMs to "relook" manpower requirements in the network. The current contraction in the network comes on the back of a sudden expansion between 2010 to 2018 when ‘dealers invested heavily in both infrastructure and manpower’ said Gulati. With the downturn and now the pandemic, many dealers are now in poor financial health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//auto/news/auto-dealers-to-cut-showroom-infra-jobs/articleshow/78304329.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1.7 lakh Covid tests throw up 1,200 cases, tally reaches 1.74 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 1,71,046 Covid-19 samples were tested in 24 hours throwing up 1,203 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,74,266. Officially four deaths were also recorded, which took the toll to 878. With 1,59,700 recoveries, the number of active cases stand at 13,686 in the state, which has so far seen more than 64 lakh samples being tested. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar though a press statement said the health department was emphasizing to keep positive people in hospital, who do not have enough space for isolation at their home. Health minister Mangal Pandey through a tweet informed that 1,154 people have recovered in the past 24 hours and the recovery rate now stood at 91.64%. As per the health department data, one death each was reported from Patna, East Champaran, Saran and Supaul, taking the toll to 202, 35, 29 and 19 respectively. So far, Sheohar is the only district to have registered one death due to Covid-19 and Gopalganj has reported two deaths. Apart from these two districts, 10 others have registered a single-digit death so far. AIIMS-Patna on Thursday reported two deaths, including a 70-year-old man from Sipara road locality in Patna. Another deceased was a 48-year-old woman from Samastipur. As per information shared by the hospital’s Covid-19 nodal incharge, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 10 new patients were admitted and eight were discharged on Thursday. Amongst those admitted, one each was from Bakarganj-Baja and Rajeev Nagar locality in the capital. No death was reported from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. However, one patient was discharged and three were admitted at the hospital. Of, 1203 new Covid-19 cases registered on Thursday, 192 were from Patna, taking the tally to 26445. However, with 24,176 recoveries and 202 deaths, active cases stand at 2076. Covid-19 cases reported from other districts include Nalanda (85), Muzaffarpur (65), Araria (57) and Madhubani (52). Other districts reported less than 50 Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-7-lakh-covid-tests-throw-up-1200-cases-tally-reaches-1-74l/articleshow/78302113.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Friend beaten for uploading Dhrol victim’s pic on his WhatsApp||RAJKOT: For uploading Divyarajsinh Jadeja’s picture as his WhatsApp status, a friend of the sensational Dhrol murder victim was roughed up by the kin of arrested accused on Wednesday evening. Police said Divyarajsinh Sarvaiya (25) was kicked and pummelled allegedly by Harpalsinh Chudasma, brother-in-law of Omdevsinh Jadeja, who has been arrested in connection with the murder. Apart from Chudasma, Omdevsinh’s cousin brothers — Bhavinsinh, Yuvrajsinh and Bhagirathsinh —too joined in the thrashing. According to police the incident happened when Sarvaiya had gone to meet his friend at Trikonbaugh Circle, the exact spot where Divyarajsinh Jadeja was shot dead . “While Sarvaiya was waiting for his friend, the accused arrived at the spot and started hackling him about his WhatsApp status picture. Soon they started beating him up,” said M P Mori, assistant sub-inspector with Dhrol police station. “The accused even forced Sarvaiya to sit in their car for half an hour before letting him get out with a threat that if he acted against Omdevsinh, he would be killed,” Mori added. Divyarajsinh was killed on March 6 at the behest of two key conspirators, Omdevsinh and Anirudhdhasinh Sodha, who had given the contract of killing to two sharp shooters — Akhilesh Thakur and Rohitsinh Thakur — from Uttar Pradesh to finish the victim when he was getting into his car at Trikonbaugh circle. Sodha, Akhilesh, Rohit and Mustaq Pathan fired indiscriminately at Jadeja, killing him on the spot. According to the cops, the acrimony brewed from Sodha levying toll tax from drivers of the Jadeja’s trucks loaded with sand at his toll booth. Irked at the exploitation, Jadeja had threatened Sodha with dire consequences, if he continued to fleece his trucks. In the meantime, Omdevsinh, who had run into a dispute with Jadeja over possession of a plot of land worth Rs 50 lakh, learned about Jadeja’s enmity with Sodha, ganged up with Sodha and conspired the sinister plot to kill Divyarajsinh Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/friend-beaten-for-uploading-dhrol-victims-pic-on-his-whatsapp/articleshow/78303864.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Rajkot||Indian fisherman shot at by Pakistan personnel||RAJKOT: Five fisherman from Porbandar were fishing near the International Marine Boundary Line (IMBL) separating the marine border between India and Pakistan off Jakhau coast in Kutch district on Wednesday. Suddenly a Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) boat intercepted the Indian fishermen’s boat ‘Devlok’ and started firing unprovoked. Four shots were fired of which one hit fisherman was identified as Dhiru Bambhania (38) in his hand. Bambhania along with four other fishermen had set sail in the boat on September 6. “The PMSA boat first rammed into the Indian fishing boat and then the PMSA personnel fired four rounds at the Indian boat. One bullet hit Bambhania’s hand,” said Manish Lodhari, former president of Porbandar Fishermen’s Association. “After the incident, ‘Devlok’ sped towards Porbandar and the boat reached the safety of Porbandar shores on Thursday morning. We have urged the central government to deploy Indian coast guard and Indian Navy at the IMBL to thwart and deter misadventures by the PMSA,” Lodhari added. Last week, the PMSA had apprehended 16 boats with 56 Indian fishermen on board near the IMBL. At present there are more than 600 Indian fishermen lodged in the Pakistani jails, while more than 1,100 boats are in Pakistan’s custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/indian-fisherman-shot-at-by-pak-personnel/articleshow/78303780.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik’s death rate lower than nat’l average: Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal and commissioner of the municipal corporation Kailas Jadhav on Thursday said that the death rate of Nashik city was lower than the national fatality rate.While the death rate of the country is 1.59% and 2.68% for Maharashtra, the fatality rate of Nashik city currently stands at 1.46%. Previously, the fatality rate of the city stood at 2.92% on July 31 and 1.92% on August 31. Both Bhujbal and Jadhav maintained that the low death rate could be achieved by extensively screening,tracing and testing citizens for Covid-19 over a long time and providing early treatment to the confirmed patients. According to officials of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), they are targeting to bring the death rate below 1% by early October. “The entire medical fraternity is working overnight to bring the pandemic under control. The Covid-19 death rate in the city has reduced due to their efforts,” said Bhujbal. Jadhav said Nashik was among the few cities in Maharashtra whose death rate was low. “We have increased tracing and testing of suspects for early detection of patients and provided immediate treatment. We also conducted survey of comorbid patients. This has led to a drop in the fatality rate and increased recovery rate of patients,” said Jadhav.“We have also deployed around 800 teams of health officials and employees under the ‘My family, my responsibility’ programme to identify the symptomatic and asymptomatic patients and also conduct health check-up of citizens,” said the civic chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashiks-death-rate-lower-than-natl-average-bhujbal/articleshow/78304129.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 25, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govt response on plea for re-postmortem||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought response from the state government in a plea seeking re-postmortem of a youth’s body that was found hanging on a tree at Anaikaraipatti village in Madurai recently. In his petition, K Santhosh stated that his younger brother Idayakani was taken away by police on September 16 and found hanging the next day. Santosh alleged that the police had tortured Ramesh and staged it as a suicide. He stated that following the protests by family members, a case was registered in connection with this incident and two policemen were suspended, adding that the postmortem was conducted in a hurried manner at 5.30pm on the same day which is against the norms. The petitioner moved the court seeking a post mortem by a team of three forensic experts from Madurai, Theni and Sivaganga government medical college hospitals and videograph the same. Justice R Pongiappan sought response from the state government and adjourned the case to a further date for hearing. It is worth recalling that the State Human Rights Commission had also sought a report from the Madurai district SP in connection with the incident. In his petition, Santosh stated that police came to his house on September 16 and inquired about the whereabouts of Idayakani, who had married a girl who was their relative. Based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s parents, Saptur police allegedly harassed his family members asking them to come for inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-for-re-postmortem/articleshow/78304134.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Will quit if farmers fail to get MSP: Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||JIND/HISAR: Speaking on the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmer outfits on September 25, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader and Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said everyone has the right to protest in a democracy, but one should not cross the line. He was in Jind on Thursday to address the grievances of his party workers. Addressing a press conference at his party office in Jind, Dushyant said some people were misguiding farmers on three agriculture bills. “While on the one side, the Centre has increased MSP, on the other the Haryana government has assured farmers that the MSP will not come to an end. Therefore, farmers need to be beware of people with ulterior motives,” he said, adding, “If farmers fail to get MSP, I will resign from my post of deputy chief minister.” Chautala said Congress had mulled over these bills by forming CM committee seven years ago, but are now opposing them for political mileage. During his Hisar visit on the same day, Dushyant said the rumour that the government was trying to abolish the minimum support price (MSP) had been spread among the public by the opposition parties. He said the government would purchase every single grain of the farmers at the MSP. In Hisar district, Dushyant inaugurated the sub-tehsil complex, built at a cost of Rs 7.18 crore in Kheri Jalab village. He also inaugurated a railway overbridge built at the cost of Rs 25 crore at the railway station on the Nalwa-Umra road in Hansi and a newly-constructed water house at Kirara village. Dushyant, who arrived at the Hisar mini secretariat on Thursday afternoon to preside over a meeting with the district officials, had to enter through the backdoor due to the demonstration by the sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) and farmers. Although a large number of police force personnel were stationed outside the mini secretariat, as a precaution the deputy CM was made to enter through the backdoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/final-will-resign-if-farmers-fail-to-get-msp-dushyant/articleshow/78309323.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Plea against nod for quarrying in Manalur||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday ordered notice in a plea which called upon the authorities not to grant permission for quarrying operations in Manalur village in Sivaganga district since archeological excavation sites are situated in the area. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice in a public interest litigation filed by K Mahesh Raja, an advocate and resident of Manalur village. The petitioner stated that archeological excavations are carried out at four villages — Keeladi, Manalur, Agaram and Kondhagai in the district from where several ancient artefacts were unearthed. Manalur irrigation tank is situated between Keeladi and Manalur excavation sites. He stated that the irrigation tank acts as a source of water for agricultural activities and drinking water purposes. However, under the garb of carrying out kudimaramath works, illegal sand mining activities were taking place. Though he sent a representation to the authorities not to permit quarrying operations in Manalur village, there was no response. Hence, the petitioner moved HC Madurai bench which adjourned the case to October 13 for further hearing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-nod-for-quarrying-in-manalur/articleshow/78304142.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Allahabad||Man arrested for abducting toddler||Prayagraj: A man was arrested on Thursday after he allegedly kidnapped a 15-month-old boy to pressure the toddler’s father to get his girlfriend back, who had eloped with boy’s maternal uncle. The accused Nanhe and his aide Dildar were arrested over 42 hours after they kidnapped the boy Jishan. They are residents of Antoo in Pratapgarh and Mauaima respectively. According to police, Mansoor Ali from Karenda approached Kareli police on Tuesday and claimed that one of his distant relatives Nanhe and one of his aides had visited his house and kidnapped his 15-month-old boy Jishan. Nanhe had allegedly told Mansoor that Jishan’s maternal uncle Salman had eloped with his girlfriend. He threatened to kill the boy if Salman didn’t bring back his girlfriend, police said. A case under sections 363 and 364 of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against Nanhe and Dildar. Police traced the captors’ location near Kareli area based on an informer’s tip-off. The boy was rescued within 42 hours of the case being registered and the accused were arrested. Police said that Nanhe earlier used to live aboard and became friends with a Prayagraj-based woman through social media. Nanhe had also assured the woman that he would marry her once he returned to the city. Nanhe had also asked Salman to meet the woman and keep in touch with her. In the meantime, Salman and the woman also become friends. When Nanhe came to know about Salman’s proximity with the woman, he hatched a plan to teach the latter a lesson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-arrested-for-abducting-toddler/articleshow/78301909.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||5-day week sought at Bamu & SRTM||Aurangabad: The non- teaching staff of two state universities in Marathwada on Thursday joined the state-level pen-down agitation to press for Pay Commission benefits with an additional demand for five-day work week. The agitating employees from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) here and Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada (SRTM) University, Nanded, held separate protests. The non- teaching staff are pressing for time-bound promotion and immediate recruitment for vacant posts. Notably, the teaching sections of the state universities do not have five-day week. Kailas Pathrikar, president of the Association of Non-teaching Staff of Bamu, said it has been resolved during a meeting of state-level leaders that the ongoing agitation would stop only after a written assurance from the government. “The demand for releasing benefits of Seventh Pay Commission is almost two-year-old now. The government gives us assurances, but nothing happens. We will not cancel the agitation this time without written assurance,” he said. Bamu vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole and pro vice-chancellor Pravin Wakte held talks with the protesters and requested them to call off the agitation as the exams of final-year students are scheduled from October 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-day-week-sought-at-bamu-srtm/articleshow/78301290.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Centre dragging feet on MSP’||Chandigarh: Releasing minutes of the meeting of the high-powered committee constituted by the Centre, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday said the committee was set up to find ways of doubling farmers’ income. Talking to media persons, he said Punjab was not invited for the first meeting and was included in the committee in the wake of its opposition to its exclusion. However, he said in the second and third meetings, no agenda except that of enhancing farm income was discussed. “The agriculture bills will deprive the farmers of a safety cover. The Rs 50 increase in MSP of wheat announced by the Modi government recently was the least in the previous decade (only 2.6 %). The Commission for Agriculture Cost and Prices had recommended an increase of 6% in the wake of 8.4% food inflation. The Union government is dragging its feet from giving due MSP,” said Manpreet. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-dragging-feet-on-msp/articleshow/78305377.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Will quit if farmers fail to get MSP: Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||JIND/HISAR: Speaking on the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmer outfits on September 25, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader and Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said everyone has the right to protest in a democracy, but one should not cross the line. He was in Jind on Thursday to address the grievances of his party workers. Addressing a press conference at his party office in Jind, Dushyant said some people were misguiding farmers on three agriculture bills. “While on the one side, the Centre has increased MSP, on the other the Haryana government has assured farmers that the MSP will not come to an end. Therefore, farmers need to be beware of people with ulterior motives,” he said, adding, “If farmers fail to get MSP, I will resign from my post of deputy chief minister.” Chautala said Congress had mulled over these bills by forming CM committee seven years ago, but are now opposing them for political mileage. During his Hisar visit on the same day, Dushyant said the rumour that the government was trying to abolish the minimum support price (MSP) had been spread among the public by the opposition parties. He said the government would purchase every single grain of the farmers at the MSP. In Hisar district, Dushyant inaugurated the sub-tehsil complex, built at a cost of Rs 7.18 crore in Kheri Jalab village. He also inaugurated a railway overbridge built at the cost of Rs 25 crore at the railway station on the Nalwa-Umra road in Hansi and a newly-constructed water house at Kirara village. Dushyant, who arrived at the Hisar mini secretariat on Thursday afternoon to preside over a meeting with the district officials, had to enter through the backdoor due to the demonstration by the sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) and farmers. Although a large number of police force personnel were stationed outside the mini secretariat, as a precaution the deputy CM was made to enter through the backdoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/final-will-resign-if-farmers-fail-to-get-msp-dushyant/articleshow/78305354.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||HC stays privilege move against 18 DMK MLAs||Chennai: Unconvinced with the reasons cited for the assembly’s second attempt to initiate privilege proceedings against DMK chief M K Stalin and 17 of his party MLAs, the Madras high court stayed the notices issued by the privilege committee. The 18 faced the impugned proceedings for having gutka packets inside the House in 2017 to highlight easy availability of the banned material. Citing the first bench order in this regard when the notices issued first, Justice Puspha Sathyanarayana said: “It is to be stated that the first bench of this court has already adjudicated the issue of showcause notice in the given circumstances and held that the same suffered from a foundational error of assuming the conduct of the petitioners to be prohibited.” “The present notices are also issued on the same ground except stating that the permission of the speaker was not obtained before bringing in the banned/ prohibited gutka sachets. The question of permission of the speaker cannot be decided independently and the same can be decided only in the context of breach of privilege,” Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana said. Refusing to concur with the contention of advocate-general Vijay Narayanan that there is no urgency for passing an interim order on Thursday, the judge said: “As the petitioners have made out a prima facie case and the balance of convenience is in their favour, this court is of the view that the notices need to be stayed until further orders.” She then adjourned the hearing to October 28. On August 25, the first bench of the court headed by Chief Justice A P Sahi set aside the earlier notices issued against the MLAs due to ‘foundational error’. On September 7, the committee issued fresh notices to the 18 MLAs as the first bench granted liberty to the committee to commence the proceedings afresh if it feels so. Aggrieved, the MLAs moved the high court once again. Passing the interim order, the judge said, “…the division bench also had specifically given a finding that the possession of the banned items as per the notification per se will not amount to a breach, like possession of narcotic drugs or banned liquor bottles, etc.” As the declaration and final determination of the rights are already concluded by this court, it amounts to reopening of the issue. However, the same requires factual adjudication and till such conclusion is arrived at, the proceedings against the petitioners pursuant to the fresh showcause notices cannot be allowed to go on, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-stays-privilege-move-against-18-dmk-mlas/articleshow/78304153.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Plea to ensure social security for domestic workers||Madurai: National Domestic Workers Movement has demanded that they be given social security, as many of these workers are the sole breadwinners in their family.Speaking to reporters in Madurai, on Thursday, state coordinator of the movement, P Clara said that among the lakhs of job losses in India, a sector that has been badly hit was the domestic workers. They found that their employers were not ready to take them back when the pandemic struck and all of them were out of their jobs.The movement has about 1,000 registered members in Madurai, a miniscule proportion given the fact that there are over 1.5 lakh domestic workers in Madurai. If registered in the movement, it is ensured that they get proper wages as per their work. The basic fee for live-in workers is Rs 60 per hour, and for washing clothes it is Rs 2000 per month for a four-member family. Part-time workers also earn not less than Rs 10,000 per month if registered with the movement.Clara says that the condition is worse now, as now they are not allowed to enter the employer’s house in many parts of Madurai, and asked to do the washing outside and leave fearing that they could spread the disease. Hence their wages are also affected, she said.The Central government should enact laws for social security and also the welfare of these workers, as they come under the unorganized sector at present. A portion of house taxes could be set aside to provide social welfare to these workers among others, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-ensure-social-security-for-domestic-workers/articleshow/78304156.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||385 kg tobacco seized, 3 held in Madurai city||Madurai: The city police have seized 385 kg of banned tobacco products and arrested three people. The accused were identified as P Kannan, 30, from Keelavalavu, Syed Meeran, 40, from Kollampattarai Street and N Madhar Mydeen, 39, from Melur. A police officer said that a special city police team, which was on its rounds caught the trio wandering under suspicious circumstances at Thilagar Thidal police station. As they gave contradicting reply when questioned, they were taken to a police station for an inquiry. During the quizzing, they told the police that they were supplying banned tobacco items to shops in the city. The police team seized the 385 kg of tobacco stashed in a place. A case was registered with the Thilagar Thidal police station. A detailed inquiry was conducted to find out the network behind them.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/385-kg-tobacco-seized-3-held-in-madurai-city/articleshow/78304148.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: October 15 last date for EWS admissions in schools||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has finally issued an order to the schools and notified October 15 as the last day for admission under Economically Weaker Section/Disadvantaged (EWS/DG) category. The order brings respite to several parents whose kids were selected in the first draw of lots held in February. But before the admission process could be completed in March, the lockdown was announced. “In continuation to the circular dated March 20, the last date for reporting of successful candidates as per the draw held on February 29 has been now extended to October 15. This will be the final opportunity for the selected candidates to report to their respective allotted schools,” read the circular from Directorate of Education (DoE). Article 12 (1) (C) of the Right to Education Act 2009 mandates 25% reservation for the EWS/DG category in private schools. DoE conducts centralised admission and draw of lots for the seats notified by over 1,600 schools. The schools have been directed to grant admission to the remaining candidates and ensure the process of admission is smooth. “All private-unaided schools are requested to update the status of all the allotted candidates within three days. Non-compliance with the order shall be viewed seriously,” the order added. As per the official data, of over 40,000 seats, around 11,000 had been filled before the schools were closed down. Now, the parents hope that the admission process in the category for classes II and above will also begin soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/oct-15-last-date-for-ews-admissions-in-schools/articleshow/78306010.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Agri-marketing bills: Disadvantage for BJP in Punjab||Jalandhar: ‘A week is a long time in politics’: the saying sums up well the fast change in politics of Punjab, especially for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Till a week ago, the relationship between Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and BJP appeared like ‘nauhn te maas da rishta’ (bond of nail and flesh). Now, not only the alliance appears untenable but the overwhelming public sentiment in Punjab against the agri-marketing Bills can also make BJP untouchable for other parties for alliance in case the Union government does not manage to assuage the farmers of the state. Even as Badals are facing questions for their earlier support to the ordinances, several SAD supporters are now criticising BJP on social media openly and there is no dearth of calls from them to sever ties. For them BJP is now indefensible after it pushed the bills through in both the houses of parliament and farmers are up in arms against the Union government. In case this adverse sentiment lasts among farmers, then it can also hit BJP’s much talked about expansion plans in villages, as maximum opposition is coming from rural Punjab. Though the party is in overdrive to “dispel misgivings” among farmers about the bills, yet not only Sikh farmers — who traditionally vote for SAD than BJP — Hindu farmers also appear unhappy. For instance, strong voices of dissent have come from Hindu-Rajput farmers of the Mukerian belt – a stronghold of BJP, which played a crucial role in the victory of the party candidate in 2014 and 2019 parliament elections. “Despite our best efforts, it is becoming a major challenge to change the perception among farmers,” said a senior BJP leader. Till a week ago, BJP was more sought after. Though BJP’s vote share has mostly remained in single digit, as it contested around 20% of the seats, but all eyes have been on the party as the party leaders have been exuberating confidence, there have been talks of going solo or at least demand more seats from Akali Dal Badal. It was not just party’s own performance in 2014 and 2019 parliament elections, in which Modi wave clearly worked, but also due to the reason that Akali Dal (Badal) remained laggard in both the elections, which made BJP more confident and better poised to demand more seats from the alliance partners. Especially after Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa rebelled against Badals, it was suspected that in case he would gain weight it would open another option for the BJP. This factor has also been working in the minds of Akali cadres while considering shifting from Badals to Dhindsa. “If the prevailing sentiment continues, no Akali faction can afford to have alliance with BJP. Already Badals are facing heat for initially defending the ordinances,” said a senior leader of Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa led SAD (Democratic). Inquiries from senior BJP leaders also revealed that there is concern among party leaders about the prevailing situation. “Our cadres are now trying to defend the bills, but sentiment against these is so overwhelming that their pleas appear to be hardly working, at least for now” said a senior party leader. Box: Gram vikas meeting BJP is aggressively promoting its daily online “gram vikas meeting on agriculture reform ordinances” which have been kept open for all from 6pm to 7pm. People are being asked to pose questions also on the bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agri-marketing-bills-disadvantage-for-bjp-in-punjab/articleshow/78305392.cms||IP Singh
September 25, 2020||Agra||Amid farmers’ protests, Agra division restricts trains running to Amritsar||Agra: Based on an alert sounded by the Railway Board over farmers’ protests in parts of Punjab and Haryana, the Agra division of Indian Railways on Thursday restricted operations of at least three trains to Amritsar. SK Srivastava, commercial manager of Agra railway division said, “Two trains – Golden Temple Mail and Paschim Express –scheduled to reach Amritsar were operated till Ambala. Sachkhand Express was stopped in Delhi. The curbs will continue on Friday and Saturday too.” “Security arrangements have been tightened at all the stations. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) is on alert and has been directed foolproof monitoring of tracks,” he added. On Thursday, over 200 RPF personnel were deployed at the Kosi Kalan railway station of Mathura district, bordering Haryana. Farmers in Punjab on Thursday began their three-day ‘rail roko’ agitation to protest the three farm bills while the Ferozepur railway division suspended the operation of 14 special trains due to the stir. Many freight and parcel trains have also been rescheduled. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 were passed by voice vote in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. They await the President’s nod to become laws. In a letter issued to general managers of all railway zones, Director General, RPF, Arun Kumar said, “The joint countrywide action by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on September 25 may turn into total bandh in Punjab, Haryana and a series of blockades in various corners of the country. The impact may be pronounced in Punjab, Haryana and part of UP while other parts of the country may also be affected by the agitation.” “The trains are the lifeline to the nation and any hindrance in smooth running of trains will not only cause immense hardship to travelling passengers but also cause great loss to the economic well-being of the nation and its citizens. In order to deal effectively with such a scenario, a strike scheme has been formulated and regularly updated by the railway administration,” he stated. According to the railway officials, as many as 20 regular trains reaching different parts of Punjab and Haryana have been partially cancelled while five have been short-terminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amid-farmers-protests-agra-division-restricts-trains-running-to-amritsar/articleshow/78302693.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 25, 2020||Varanasi||Rafale fighter jets tied inbond with Ballia, Banaras||Varanasi: Rafale fighter aircraft, which were formally inducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF) on September 10 at Air Force Station, Ambala, in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh and Minister for the Armed Forces of France, Florence Parly, now have a strong connection with Banaras and Ballia districts of east Uttar Pradesh. The credit of flying one Rafale aircraft from Dassault Aviation Facility, Merignac, France, to Indian Air Force station Ambala, goes to Ballia boy, Wing Commander Manish Singh, while Banarasi girl Shivangi Singh has been selected to fly this multi-role air dominance aircraft in wartime. When the first batch of five Rafales landed at Ambala IAF station on July 29, Bakawa, the native village of Manish in Ballia erupted with joy as people burst crackers and distributed sweets. Manish, son of an ex-serviceman Madan Singh, was chosen for flying Rafale home and was sent to France for a six-month rigorous training. The eldest among four siblings, Manish did his primary schooling in the village, and later at Karnal Sainik School. He was inducted into IAF in 2002. The first batch of Rafales had three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft. The air-to-air refuelling planned during the first leg of the flight was undertaken by these pilots with dedicated tanker support from the French Air Force. Now, Shivangi, a resident of Phulwariya, Varanasi, will also fly the Rafale. Shivangi was commissioned in 2017, and has been flying MIG-21 Bisons. She is currently undergoing conversion training, and will soon become part of 17 Squadron ‘Golden Arrows’. Shivangi did her B.Sc. from Sunbeam College for Women in Varanasi and learnt flying as part of her NCC ‘A’ Certificate in 7UP Air Wing at Banaras Hindu University. After clearing the common aptitude test, she went to the Air Force Academy for training in July 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rafale-fighter-jets-tied-inbond-with-ballia-banaras/articleshow/78303199.cms||Binay Singh
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Auditors save patients Rs 90L in excess bills||Nashik: The auditors appointed at 65 private hospitals have saved nearly 1,000 patients almost Rs 90 lakh charges as excess bills in the past 20 days. In the past two months,the auditors have saved Rs 1.95 crore in excess bills benefitting over 4,000 Covid-19 patients. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has made pre-audit of bills mandatory for the private hospitals before the bills are handed over to Covid-19 patients at the time of discharge. So far, the auditors have checked 6,400 bills and have found overcharging in over 4,000 cases. “There had been many complaints about overcharging from the patients two months ago. But the complaints have reduced since we deployed auditors at all private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auditors-save-patients-rs-90l-in-excess-bills/articleshow/78304154.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Karunas seeks action against outfit||Madurai: Actor-turned-politician Karunas petitioned the south zone IG S Murugan on Thursday urging him to take action against functionaries of Mallar Perarasu Meetpu Kazhagam, a caste outfit, for using Thevar’s name in their posters. He stated that the members of the outfit had used ‘Thevar’ as suffix to the name of Immanuel Sekaran during his gurupooja that was conducted recently. The posters had emerged in Anupanadi in Madurai district while the gurupooja was observed in his native place Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district. He said that it is an act of mischief mongers carried out with ulterior motive of creating unrest among people from different communities. The Tiruvadanai MLA said, “Such posters were stuck to gain cheap publicity and such incidents should be handled with iron hands. It is also aimed at creating communal issues between communities, which have forgotten the bitter past and living peacefully,” he said. Karunas said that his outfit will seek two assembly segments from the alliance partner party to compete in the upcoming elections. He thanked the chief minister for inaugurated Cauvery-Gundaru linking scheme and opposed the agricultural bills passed by the central government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/karunas-seeks-action-against-outfit/articleshow/78304166.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Allow Ramlila under open-air theatre norms’||NEW DELHI: Navratri is three weeks away, and there is no word or guidelines from the Union home ministry on the organisation of the Ramlila re-enactments. The organisers of the annual festivals are keen to be allowed to carry on with the tradition. While some argue that they can be allowed to stage their spectacles under the open-air theatre regulations, others favour capping the number of viewers to prevent a Covid-19 spread. Ashok Agarwal, head of Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, which organises the manchan at the Red Fort foregrounds, said that when open-air theatre was allowed due to low risk of infection in airy spaces, Ramlila could also be allowed under the same provisions. “Our artists have started rehearsals and we have recorded 20 new religious songs,” Agarwal said. “Permission should be granted even if on a smaller scale.” Agarwal said that instead of 40,000 live spectators, the audience could be capped at 2,000 with the focus on digital transmission of the Ram story’s re-enactment. Similar demands for allowing Ramlilas to avoid a break in the annual tradition are coming from other prominent organisers. Former MP Jai Prakash Agarwal, who is associated with Nav Sri Dharmik Ramlila Committee, wanted the central and state government to be logical. “When Delhi Metro is being run, weekly markets are open, public transport is operating and Parliament even had its monsoon session, it isn’t rational to prohibit Ramlila festivities if prevent measures are followed,” he said. A municipal official revealed civic bodies were amenable to accepting bookings of parks and open areas for Ramlilas, but the approval had to come from Delhi Police. Suresh Bindal of Indraprastha Ramlila Committee, one of the biggest organisers in east Delhi, said that new digital technologies could be employed this year. “We are expecting the guidelines from the central government to come this week. Even if we are allowed to organise the plays on a smaller scale, with live telecast on YouTube and other platforms, we are ready for this,” Bindal said. Jagmohan Gotewala, who is general secretary of Nav Sri Dharmic Ramlila Committee, was also awaiting the guidelines for the festival from the central government. But, he said, preparations were being carried out so that the grand Dussehra spectacle could be organised at short notice if need be. “Packed food can be provided instead of the open counters that we usually organise to improve safety,” Gotewala noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allow-ramlila-under-open-air-theatre-norms/articleshow/78306024.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||MLA urges civic body to expedite UGD works||Madurai: Madurai Central MLA PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan has urged the city corporation to expedite the underground drainage work done as part of the Smart City program in his constituency as the people were facing hardships due to the ongoing works. Many works are underway in the city, especially near the Meenakshi temple in the four Masi streets, under the Smart City program. Roads have been dug up and people are finding it extremely difficult to walk on these roads due to the ongoing works. Commercial activity is also affected, due to the bad road conditions. The MLA said that as the ditches dug up for the roads had not been closed properly, it was causing problems to both motorists and pedestrians. He inspected the road from West Masi Street to Makkan Thoppu, on Thursday. He said that the work was being delayed without much progress. As there was a danger of the ditches filling up with water during the monsoon season they should be closed at the earliest, he said. Residents of Sampantha Moorthy street in ward number 80 urged the MLA to ensure that the road was relaid as it was badly damaged and this was also taken to the notice of the civic authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mla-urges-civic-body-to-expedite-ugd-works/articleshow/78304185.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nashik||CESC confident of improving Malegaon’s power situation||Nashik: The Kolkata-based power utility — Calcutta Electric Supply Company (CESC) — is confident of turning around the dismal power scenario in the textile town of Malegaon.The company has initiated firm steps to improve the power infrastructure to provide quality and uninterrupted power supply to consumers in Malegaon.CESC has won the power distribution franchise licence for 20 years from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) beginning March 1 this year. This is the company’s first venture in Maharashtra.Within the first six months, the company has already set up a 24x7 call centre to address power supply-related issues of consumers. It has also established a centralized command centre to monitor power restoration of LT & HT consumers. Though the activities got hampered during the Covid pandemic, the CESC tried its best to ensure good consumer service.“There is a need to overhaul the city’s power infrastructure to ensure that consumers get quality and uninterrupted power. We have started the task. Investments for infrastructure would not be a constraint, but there should be focus on power theft,” said Biplab Paul, the company’s chief operating officer (Malegaon).Malegaon has more than 1 lakh consumers — domestic, commercial and industrial — and needs around 1,100 million units of power annually. The biggest challenge for the power major remains transmission and distribution losses, mainly due to alleged rampant theft of power, especially by a section of the powerloom sector, and massive hooking without authorised supply in some pockets of the city. There have been instances where MSEDCL personnel were allegedly manhandled when they had gone to disconnect the illegal power lines.CESC has already replaced over 750 transformers and over 3,000 meters that were damaged due to alleged tampering. “Power theft is a big issue. We will act tough on everyone indulging in such malpractices,” said the company officials.The company has started robust vigilance activities to prevent power pilferage. Special surveillance is maintained on powerloom and plastic factories. “We have also started organising camps to create awareness among residents about safe and authorized use of power,” added company officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cesc-confident-of-improving-malegaons-power-situation/articleshow/78304183.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Collector calls for setting up nutri gardens in anganwadis||Madurai: Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay urged the panchayat presidents in the villages of Madurai to ensure that ‘nutri gardens’ are established in all the 2000 anganwadis and schools in the district to ensure that good vegetables are available to the children.Programs under the Poshan Abhiyaan or national nutrition mission are being conducted in many parts of the district to stress the importance of nutritious food. The collector has urged the panchayat presidents to ensure that kitchen gardens are established in the available land surrounding the anganwadis.As it is the monsoon season it is the best season to start these gardens and plant essential vegetables and medicinal trees and plants. Dr Vinay told the local body representatives to prepare the land for the gardens and also fence the selected plots, so that animals would not enter it.The gardens have already been established in 900 anganwadis in the district. The collector has directed the local bodies to avail funds for the gardens from the assistant director of panchayats and also horticulture department schemes.Seeds and saplings for the nutri gardens could be sourced from the horticulture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/collector-calls-for-setting-up-nutri-gardens-in-anganwadis/articleshow/78304195.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||With elections ahead, Tamil Nadu BJP likely to get new mentor soon||CHENNAI: Ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly election, the BJP high command is searching for an “ideal leader” to guide the state unit with strategies that would give the party the much-needed fillip to expand its base in the Dravidian turf and act as a bridge with the central leadership. A highly placed source said BJP national general secretary Muralidhar Rao, who is in-charge of Tamil Nadu for more than eight years, is likely to be replaced by October-end. Party national general secretary Ram Madhav and national secretary Sunil V Deodhar are said to be frontrunners for the post. Both are known for their aggressive poll strategies, the source said. “Ram Madhav is familiar with the two Dravidian parties and the state politics. He played a vital role in strengthening the BJP in the eastern part of the country. If he is made TN in-charge, it will help the party strike a formidable alliance and get a good number of seats along with the regional parties. He enjoys the trust of the national leaders too,” said the source. Like him, Sunil Deodhar is known as a shrewd strategist. He was assigned tasks in difficult political situations on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions and proved his mettle, point out senior BJP leaders. Deodhar was in-charge of Modi’s Varanasi constituency in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections and was later assigned to Tripura where the BJP won the assembly election. Though many consider this a regular exercise, the need to replace Muralidhar Rao is being considered as, under his guidance, the party failed to make gains in Tamil Nadu and did not witness much growth. “He failed to instill confidence among the party functionaries in the past eight years. The replacement will be a welcome move,” said a state leader, preferring anonymity. Citing the 2016 assembly election as an example, he added that the party went alone and many BJP candidates polled less than even NOTA. “Again in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Centre assigned the task of holding seat sharing talks with allies to Piyush Goyal and C T Ravi. Rao was kept out of it,” he said. The party leadership was considering a few other national-level leaders such as G V L Narasimha Rao and Y Satya Kumar, who is the national secretary of the party, for the post, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-elections-ahead-tn-bjp-likely-to-get-new-mentor-soon/articleshow/78304175.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Work on re-carpeting runway at Madurai soon, flights won’t be hit||Madurai: The work on re-carpeting the runway at the Madurai airport will begin soon and will be carried out at night so that it will not disrupt flight operations. The work is expected to be completed by mid-November next year. The runway at present is 2,286m long and 45m wide. Officials say that re-carpeting is carried out at different intervals at different airports depending on the number of flights and load factor. Frequent landing and take-offs leads to wear and tear of the runway. During every take-off and landing, some amount of rubber from the aircraft’s tyre will stick on the runway. As it gets accumulated over years, it will reduce the friction. Airport officials said that re-carpeting work was last carried out in 2007. “Re-carpeting is essential to ensure that the runway is in top condition to handle flight movements. There will be periodic assessments during which the decision for re-carpeting will be taken,” an official said. Airport enthusiasts however said that talks on re-carpeting began a year back and the work could have been carried out in the last six months when flight movement had come down due to the lockdown. Airport director S Senthil Valavan said that there would not be any disruption of flight schedule due to the work. Construction work on aprons to facilitate parking for five flights and two helicopters is also picking up pace, said airport officials. The airport currently has parking space for seven flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/work-on-re-carpeting-runway-at-madurai-soon-flights-wont-be-hit/articleshow/78304203.cms||V Devanathan
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||Villagers, factory owner booked as face-off over pollution turns ugly||Bareilly: An FIR has been registered against a plywood factory owner and a group of villagers for allegedly indulging in violence over pollution on Wednesday evening in Mahebaganj area of Lakhimpur Kheri district. The villagers gathered outside the factory to protest against discharge of effluents into the local pond. The lekhpal was at the spot to resolve the issue. Suddenly, some villagers started pelting stones at the factory and its owner opened fire in retaliation, he said. On his complaint, an FIR was lodged. A video of the factory owner and security staff firing in the air to disperse the crowd has gone viral. Residents alleged that the factory is situated in the residential area and is discharging untreated water into the pond. During the rainy season, the contaminated pond water rises and enters homes. It also seeps into the ground, rendering the soil unfit for agriculture. Their damaged crops are proof of the impact of pollution caused by the discharge of untreated effluents by the factory, they claimed. A local said, "This issue has been raised before the district administration on numerous occasions but no avail. Therefore, locals were forced to take action on their own." Factory owner could not be contacted. Suneel Singh, SHO, Lakhimpur Kotwali police station, told TOI, “We have registered the FIR on the complaint of the lekhpal against both parties under the sections of rioting. I am investigating this case."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villagers-factory-owner-booked-as-face-off-over-pollution-turns-ugly/articleshow/78299207.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Covid +ve , Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia gets dengue too, moved to private hospital||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was shifted to Max Smart in South Delhi on Thursday evening from Lok Nayak hospital. Sources said the decision was taken following tests, which confirmed that Sisodia suffered from dengue in addition to Covid-19. A source at Max hospital said the deputy CM has been kept in the ICU of Max Smart, which is designated for Covid-19 treatment. “His condition is stable. There is nothing to worry about at present,” the source added. Co-infection due to Covid-19 and dengue is emerging as a serious problem and doctors at several city hospitals have reported such instances in the past one week. “We don’t know much about possible complications associated with such co-infection as Covid-19 is a new disease. It is important to monitor such patients to ensure there is no sudden deterioration,” doctors say. Sisodia had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14. Initially, he was under home isolation. He was admitted to Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday when he complained about breathing difficulty. Earlier, on June 17, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital initially but later shifted to the Max hospital for administration of plasma therapy after developing pneumonia and having breathing trouble. He recovered in about two weeks. “Both dengue and Covid-19 are viral illnesses with no known cure. In dengue, a patient can go into shock due to extremely low blood pressure, which warrants medications to increase the blood pressure. On the other hand, in Covid-19, high blood pressure is linked to higher fatality,” the doctors say. Public health specialists say measures to prevent seasonal illnesses, more importantly dengue, need to be implemented strictly. “We have seen more than 40 dengue cases already this year. Of that, one patient had Covid-19 also. Fortunately, the patient came within two days of the onset of fever and timely medical intervention helped reduce the risk of complications,” Dr Ashutosh Biswas, professor of medicine at AIIMS, said. He added that co-infection adds to the risk of mortality and morbidity both. Watch Covid +ve , Delhi deputy CM gets dengue too, moved to private hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-ve-sisodia-gets-dengue-too-moved-to-private-hospital/articleshow/78305440.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Rain gives way to potholes in rural areas||Nashik: Heavy rain in the last few days has battered the roads in the rural areas of the district, which were already in a deplorable condition, and made way for gaping potholes, much to the inconvenience of motorists. Such is the state of the roads that the farmers are finding it very difficult to load crops from the farms and take it to the markets. “We have to load crops in bullock carts and bring them to some nearby junction from where they are loaded in small pickups,” said Sanjay Dugje, a farmer from Dindori taluka of Nashik district. The state of roads maintained by the zilla parishad and the state public works department is no different. Huge potholes greet the motorists on the state highway connecting Sogras Phata and Deola which is part of Vinchur-Shahada-Prakasha state highway and passes through Bhabad Bari Ghat near Chandwad. “We have to take this road to go to the marketplace in Pimpalgaon Baswant and Nashik. It becomes very difficult for motorists at night to drive through these pothole-riddled roads,” said Avinash Bagul, a motorist from Deola. The MSRTC drivers are also finding it difficult to drive their buses. “We cannot run our buses at 30 kmph. The roads are causing potential damage to the vehicles,” Said one of the drivers of MSRTC. The PWD officials admitted about the bad condition of thr roads and said repair works would be carried out as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-gives-way-to-potholes-in-rural-areas/articleshow/78304206.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||8-yr-old mauled to death by leopard in Pithoragarh||Dehradun: An 8-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard on Thursday evening in Pithoragarh’s Chhanna village. The girl was playing in her courtyard reportedly when she was attacked and dragged to death by a big cat. Prior to this incident, in Sukauli village of Pithoragarh, which is barely 12-15 km away from Chhanna, a mentally-unstable man in his 40s was killed by the leopard on Tuesday. The forest officials have deployed a patrolling team to nab the wild cat and are also planning to take permission from senior officials to either nab or kill the leopard. Incidentally, another small girl was killed in Almora on Sunday. TOI source in the forest department confirmed that this year, so far, human deaths due to leopard attacks in Uttarakhand have soared above a dozen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/8-yr-old-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/78302740.cms||Shivani Azad
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Arms suppliers in firing case denied bail||Vadodara: Two persons involved in the firing incident at Yakutpura on September 8 were denied bail by a sessions court on Thursday. The two accused Piru Sindhi and Anwar Maniyar were arrested on September 13 on charges of supplying arms to fire upon former Aam Aadmi Party leader, Ameena Sheikh. The duo had helped the key accused Moin Sheikh in attacking Sheikh, his sister-in-law. Sindhi and Maniyar had applied for bails last week claiming that they were dragged into the case on mere suspicion and had nothing to do with the dispute between Moin and Sheikh. The court of additional sessions judge G D Pasi turned down their pleas as police investigations were still on. Sindhi had claimed in his bail application that he had no active role in the crime and deals in real estate. Despite not having any criminal history, he had been arrested based on Moin’s statement. Maniyar too made similar claims to be absolved in the crime while arguing that he also lives 15km away from the victim’s home. The court, however, upheld the arguments made by additional public prosecutor Atul Vyas that the gun and cartridges used by Moin were provided by Sindhi and Maniyar. While Sindhi gave the gun, Maniyar gave five cartridges to Moin, of which one was fired upon Sheikh. Vyas also expressed apprehensions that if released on bail the duo may have an altercation with the complainant or even tamper with evidence. On September 8 Moin and his accomplice Amjad Dewan had gone to Sheikh’s house and in broad daylight, fired upon her before fleeing the spot. The attack was a pre-planned conspiracy over a long-pending property dispute between Moin and Sheikh’s husband, Naeem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/arms-suppliers-in-firing-case-denied-bail/articleshow/78301540.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Madurai||Central dists record 727 fresh cases as Thanjavur sees spike||Trichy/Madurai: The southern districts of the state reported 537 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Thursday. With this, the overall cases in the region have climbed to 1,08,252, which include 5,699 active cases, and toll to 1,818. Meanwhile, Thanjavur became the first district in the central region to cross the 10,000-mark in Covid-19 cases. The spike in fresh cases in the region (727) pushed the tally to 48,133, which include 5,407 active cases. The region also recorded five deaths taking the toll to 667.Tirunelveli (115) reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Still, Tirunelveli (947) has the highest number of active cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (819) and Madurai (754). Madurai continues to have the highest share (15%) of the overall Covid-19 cases in the southern region. However, the district’s recovery rate is at 96%.Except for Tirunelveli, all other southern districts reported less than 70 cases on Thursday, with Dindigul (45), Sivaganga (41), Tuticorin (38), Virudhunagar (31) and Ramanathapuram (16) reporting less than 50 cases. Virudhunagar (322), Sivaganga (298), and Ramanathapuram (194) have less than 500 active cases in the region. The six deaths in the region were reported one death each in Kanyakumari, Madurai, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirunelveli, and Virudhunagar. The death rate of the southern region is 1.7%.Among the central districts, Thanjavur recorded 190 cases, taking the tally to 10,026, which include 1,344 active cases. The district reported 1,595 cases in the past ten days with the daily average touching more than 150 cases. The district administration attributed the rise in numbers to the uncontrolled movement of people after the lockdown relaxation. A senior official in the district said that they were closely monitoring the situation and taking measures to contain the spread. With two deaths on Thursday, Thanjavur is on top in the region with 159 deaths.Trichy reported 126 cases on Thursday pushing the tally to 9,986. The number of patients discharged in the region is 42,059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-dists-record-727-fresh-cases-as-thanjavur-sees-spike/articleshow/78304213.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||2% of Goa’s population Covid-infected||PANAJI: In less than a month, the Covid-19 cases in the state have doubled to 30,000-plus, which means that about 2% of the state’s population has been infected. On Thursday, Goa’s active cases jumped to 5,822 with 673 new cases detected. Seven casualties took the death count to 384. On August 26, Goa’s cases had touched the 15,000 mark making it the first state in the country to have 1% of its population testing positive. The state, on Thursday, also reported 490 recoveries that pushed its total recoveries to 24,347. Of the seven deaths, four were from the Goa Medical College (GMC), two from the ESI-Covid hospital and one from the North Goa district hospital, Mapusa. Of these, two men — a 53-year-old from Vasco and an 83-year-old from Siolim — died within ten minutes of hospitalisation. All seven patients had comorbid conditions. Among the dead were two women — a 57-year-old from Taleigao and a 40-year-old from Curtorim. Among the other deceased were a 79-year-old man from Vasco, a 76-year-old man from Karapur and a 70-year-old man from Fatorda. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Thursday announced that 237 patients have been given plasma therapy so far and 127 plasmapheresis procedures have been done. A total of 66 people donated plasma. Employees of industrial units of Commscope Telecom Industry, Tulip Industries, as also that of deputy collectorates of North and South, KTCL and Goa police, have donated plasma, he said. The health minister said donating plasma after recovering from Covid-19 is a rare opportunity to save the lives of those who are fighting the virus. Meanwhile, in the state capital 39 more people tested positive taking its count to 355. Majority of the cases were reported from Chincholem, Altinho, Miramar and Ribandar. In the last few days, cases have risen in Panaji and are found in almost all parts of the city. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that during the initial period, infection was detected mostly in slums of the city, but now it is mostly the people residing in the city’s upmarket residential area that are testing positive. Caseload of the Siolim primary health rose to 209 while that of Porvorim touched 382. In South Goa, the centres that are witnessing marginal rise are Canacona and Curchorem. Margao continues to have the highest number of active cases and its tally stood at 454.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-of-states-population-covid-infected/articleshow/78305874.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Surat||Life in jail for Bharuch man who killed his two children||Bharuch/Surat: The Bharuch district and sessions court on Thursday sentenced to life imprisonment a 35-year-old man from Kavitha village of Bharuch taluka for killing his two children in 2015.The convict, Naresh Vasava, a farm labourer, had pushed his seven-year-old daughter Hemakshi and five-year-old son Akhil into a deep well on the village outskirts in 2015. Vasava resorted to the macabre crime over suspicion that his wife had an extramarital affair, said assistant public prosecutor, RJ Desai.In 2005, Naresh had married Laxmi, a divorcee, who had brought along her 11-year-old son Rahul born from her first marriage. Hemakshi and Akhil were born to Vasava and Laxmi. However, Vasava constantly suspected that the two were not his biological children but born out of Laxmi’s illicit affair.On November 1, 2015, Vasava left the house in the morning with three children telling his wife that he wanted to show them see crocodiles in the canal. Vasava went on the to a deserted place on the village outskirts where there was deep well. He told the children to watch look for crocodile inside the well. When the children were curiously looking inside, Vasava pushed all three of them into the well. While Hemakshi and Akhil drowned, Rahul got stuck on the wooden plank in the well. However, Vasava tried to push him again into the well, but he was unable to do so. Ultimately, he pulled out Rahul but threatened with similar fate if he revealed about the incident to anyone.According to Desai, Vasava had concocted a story saying that the children slipped into the canal and drowned while looking for the crocodile. He and Rahul tried to save them, but the kids had gone missing in the deep waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/life-in-jail-for-bharuch-man-who-killed-his-two-children/articleshow/78302127.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s power play at climate change event||NEW DELHI: Manipur’s Phayeng village has been given the tag of being India’s first carbon positive settlement. Delhi has implemented “Bijli Swaraj”—a strategy to shift to renewable energy and create green jobs and reduce dependency on fossil fuels. Punjab is making several efforts to control stubble burning. Different Indian states on Thursday showcased their actions being undertaken against climate change at an event titled “State Climate Leadership in India.” The event was hosted by The Climate Group in association with Delhi-based Climate Trends on the sidelines of the annual Climate Week NYC, which is being organised virtually this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi’s new electricity reforms can reduce close to 1.6mn tonnes of CO2 emissions annually, Roshan Shankar, adviser to Delhi government said while presenting his work at Climate Week NYC 2020. Shankar said not only had Delhi government launched a citizen-centric tariff subsidy with free electricity up to 200 units, Delhi’s solar policy 2016, its air quality declaration in 2019 and the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020 were also among initiatives to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. “Dwarka and Shakur Basti have a number of households that are now running through solar energy. For societies, Group Net Metering and Virtual Net Metering schemes are also allowing people to improve efficiency and save on cost, while giving electricity back to the grid,” Shankar added. Punjab, which has been under the scanner over stubble burning problem, said remedial measures have been in place since 2018, with the overall area under paddy reduced to 27 lakh hectares from 31.3 lakh hectares in 2018. The government was diversifying crops to promote a sustainable food production system. Phayeng village, which consists of less than 3,000 inhabitants, has been completely transformed from a barren, deforested land to a thriving ecosystem. Case studies from Kerala and Madhya Pradesh were also presented. Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, said the fundamentals to grow without increasing or creating emissions are key to how India’s ecological recovery takes place. “A carbon neutral village and a net zero village panchayat can pave the way for a carbon neutral country. It is clear that these initiatives by states will boost the central government’s commitment to the Paris Agreement,” said Khosla. Watch India showcases power play at climate change event||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-power-play-at-climate-change-event/articleshow/78306039.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 25, 2020||Madurai||With playschools shut, many teachers, entrepreneurs at risk of losing jobs||MADURAI: While all educational institutions were forced to close down amid the Covid-19 pandemic, for playschools especially, there is still no hope for reopening anytime soon. With online learning also not possible, many playschools across Tamil Nadu, including in Madurai, are facing permanent closure due to financial distress and many women teachers and entrepreneurs are at risk of losing their jobs and businesses. In Madurai district alone there are around 150 playschools with 1,500-2,000 teachers and caretakers. Calvary N Thyagarajan, president, Madurai preschools’ welfare association said that many playschools are already shut down while many are looking at closure in future as they are unable to survive financially. “Most playschools are run by women entrepreneurs, often using rented spaces. For months now most do not have any income and are unable to pay the rent. It is not possible for them to pay salaries for their staff either,” he said. Shafnam Shafana, director, Cute Hearts Playschool, said that running playschools is more of a dream and passion for women entrepreneurs like her. “Only after so many struggles, women entrepreneurs open playschools. This situation should not discourage women from taking up the profession,” she said. For many women entrepreneurs, it took years to build up their playschool from scratch. “Unlike brands of playschool chains, women entrepreneurs have to do everything, right from advertising. As a startup, it took me four years to build a reach in Madurai. This year is a huge setback. Even with Covid-19 safety precautions, parents will not be so ready to send their children to playschools this year at least,” said Jeya Rajesh, correspondent, Kutties Villa, Anna Nagar and Teppakulam. So far, there have also been no announcements from the government regarding the reopening or functioning of playschools. September and October is usually the season when playschools get admissions. “The government should understand that education at the age of 3-5 is vital in a child’s life and come out with a proper plan to ensure access to education for such children,” said Shafanam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-playschools-shut-many-teachers-entrepreneurs-at-risk-of-losing-jobs/articleshow/78304220.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 25, 2020||Nashik||O2 requirement of hospitals in Nashik drops by 17%||Nashik: The requirement of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in Nashik has reduced by at least 17% in the last 10 days, assistant commissioner of FDA, Nashik, Madhuri Pawar said.Speaking to TOI, Pawar, who recently took charge, said that the present supply of medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals and centres treating Covid-19 patients with capacity of 7 cubic meters is around 5200 a day. “The daily requirement of these cylinders was around 17-20% higher than what it is now. We feel that the need for medical oxygen has reduced in these 10 days since an increasing number of patients are recovering per day,” added Pawar.According to her, there are eight oxygen plants in Nashik which cater to the medical oxygen needs of hospitals.“Although both the availability and requirement of medical oxygen are under control, we cannot afford to lower our guard since the demand could suddenly swell in future. We are continuing to maintain our vigil to prevent any diversion of the gas for non medical purposes,” added Pawar. Under the guidance of district collector Suraj Mandhare, the Nashik FDA has formed different teams led by Pawar to ensure that the gas reaches the hospitals and other Covid centers for patients. In the meantime, two more liquid oxygen manufacturing plants are in the offing that would further boost the availability of oxygen in Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/o2-requirement-of-hospitals-in-nashik-drops-by-17/articleshow/78304221.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Postal department announces special drive for new Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana & Public Provident Fund accounts||Aurangabad: The postal department has announced a special drive for opening new accounts under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY) and Public Provident Fund (PPF). The drive will be executed in Aurangabad and Jalna districts till September 30, said postal superintendent J Shiv Nagaraju. All postal staffers have been asked to attract citizens towards the SSY and PPF schemes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/postal-department-announces-special-drive-for-new-sukanya-samriddhi-yojana-public-provident-fund-accounts/articleshow/78301346.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid tally goes past 2.6 lakh; 36 deaths in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 3,834 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to over 2.6 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 5,123. Thirty-six fatalities due to Covid-19 were recorded in the last 24 hours, authorities said. According to Delhi government’s health bulletin, 59,183 tests — 9,814 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 49,369 rapid antigen tests — were conducted. Health minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with medical directors/medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing. Delhi’s chief secretary also held a review meeting with district magistrates on Covid-19 management, it added. In the last 24 days, Delhi has reported more than 85,000 new cases of Covid-19 averaging nearly 3,541 cases daily. The number of active cases in the state, which stood at 14,626, has gone up to 31,125. The impact of increase in active cases is clearly reflected in the increased rate of occupancy of hospital beds reserved for coronavirus patients in Delhi. Latest data showed 7,080 (45%) out of 15,806 Covid beds are occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds with a ventilator and without ventilator is 72% and 66% respectively. Total 17,995 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, officials said. Covid-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month, with September 16 recording 4,473 cases, the highest single-day spike till date. The daily surge in cases in Delhi had breached the 4,000-mark for the first time on September 9 while the number of fatalities recorded that day was 20. From September 9 to 19, fresh cases have been recorded more than 4,000 per day, except on September 14 when the figure stood at 3,229 with 26 deaths being recorded that day, according to official data. Delhi had seen a big surge in cases in June, but the spike had come down in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-tally-goes-past-2-6-lakh-36-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78305443.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||ED records statements of farmers who lodged land grab plaints against Azam Khan||Rampur: Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered statements of farmers who had lodged complaints against the jailed Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan for allegedly grabbing their agricultural land to build his private university.ED took cognisance of the case after over two dozen FIRs with charges of land grab were registered by Rampur police. ED officials reached Azeem Nagar police station on Wednesday, inspected the complaints and spoke to the farmers.Rampur SP Shagun Gautam told TOI ED officials had sought assistance from local police to summon the farmers who had lodged complaints against Azam and other Jauhar Trust members. Assistant Director of ED (Lucknow) Atul Jaiswal, who headed the team with other officials, reached Rampur from Lucknow. Thereafter ED officials recorded statements of the Aliyaganj village residents in the matter. Gautam said, “ED officials also visited the primary school in Sighankhera village and collected information on the land and farmers. The team also inspected Jauhar University. In 2019, ED had registered a criminal case of money laundering against SP leader Azam Khan in connection with multiple alleged land grab cases registered against him in Rampur. The agency had taken cognisance of at least 26 UP Police FIRs against the MP, to file its Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR). ECIR is ED’s equivalent of a police FIR.Sections of Prevention of Money Laundering Act had been pressed against Khan and others who are alleged to have grabbed land by threatening extortion. Local BJP leader Akash Kumar Saxena had also leveled allegations of money laundering against Khan and Jauhar Trust members. Saxena had sent a written complaint in the matter with ED in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ed-records-statements-of-farmers-who-lodged-land-grab-plaints-against-azam-khan/articleshow/78299236.cms||Nazar Abbas
September 25, 2020||Nashik||O2 tank to come up at GMCH Jalgaon||Nashik: With the surge in the demand for oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients, Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut has asked the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) there to install a tank supplying liquid oxygen. “We have sanctioned installation of an oxygen tank at GMCH so that the time between changing cylinders is cut down and oxygen can be supplied seamlessly to the Covid-19 patients,” said Raut. Currently, there are 9,122 active cases in the district. The GMCH, Jalgaon, has 355 beds for treating Covid-19 patients. There are 696 patients who are in need of oxygen. “This is the first tank to be installed at GMCH. Oxygen tanks will also be installed at the three sub-divisional hospitals in Chopra, Muktainagar and Jamner,” said Raut. Currently, the district requires around 1,800 jumbo oxygen cylinders per day against its availability of around 2,200 to 2300 cylinders per day. “With the current supplies of jumbo cylinders, we are catering to the state hospitals, along with the hospitals of the public sector undertakings like the railways, ordnance factory and the thermal power station. There is no shortage of oxygen supply right now,” said Raut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/o2-tank-to-come-up-at-gmch-jalgaon/articleshow/78304231.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 25, 2020||Kochi||Audit: Mayor responsible for release of security deposit||Kochi: In a major setback to mayor Soumini Jain, the performance audit department has held her responsible for releasing the security deposit (SD) to the contractor of Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) project flouting rules. The report states that Rs 91 lakh thus given to the contractor should be deposited back and the amount will be the liability of the mayor, additional secretary and engineers until the SD is paid back to the corporation. The auditors had conducted a probe into the alleged irregularities in the act of the mayor giving anticipatory approval for returning the SD. TOI had carried a series of reports regarding the anomalies including the one on September 24, 2019, which unravelled the fact that the mayor’s act was against government order and rules. It was based on a complaint filed by education standing committee chairperson Poornima Narayan and 22 other councillors that the probe was conducted. “The act of the mayor giving anticipatory approval for releasing the SD is against the rules. The mayor’s argument that the SD was released following an emergency is baseless. Moreover, there had been little progress in the work even several months after releasing the deposit. The finance standing committee didn’t oppose the releasing of the SD when the matter came for its consideration,” the report states. Earlier, there had been a move by the corporation officials to release the earnest money deposit (EMD) to the contractor. As per the tender documents, the amount shown as EMD is Rs 5 lakh. But the files kept at the corporation shows that the contractor had demanded to return Rs 45.61 lakh (EMD) to him in July 2017. The then superintending engineer had approved the note in this regard, the report states. But, the then secretary of the corporation A S Anuja had written a file note asking the officials to clear whether it is “EMD or security deposit”. But, no follow-up actions by the officials can be seen in the file. This gives rise to the suspicion that whether it was a wilful move on the part of the technical wing of the corporation to release the security deposit under the guise of returning EMD, auditors state in their report. This should be probed into and action should be taken against those responsible, if any foul play is found, the report states. As per Kochi corporation’s records, works worth around Rs 10 crore has been completed. But, auditors who visited the site that work to the tune of Rs 10 crore has not been done. The work of the basement and a part of the first floor have been completed. But, there is no facility for even a single family in the completed portion, auditors state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/audit-mayor-responsible-for-release-of-security-deposit/articleshow/78302766.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 25, 2020||Agra||Three years on, man gets 25 years jail sentence for raping minor||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Three years after being booked for raping a six-year-old girl, a special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) in UP's Muzaffarnagar has pronounced the man guilty and sent him to 25 years of imprisonment. Sajid, 32, was booked at New Mandi police station in February 2017 and kept in jail since. Special additional sessions judge of POCSO court Sanjeev Kumar Tiwari also asked the accused to pay a Rs 50,000 penalty which will be handed over to the rape survivor. "We have provided enough evidence and facts before the court and the accused got the sentence after three years," Dinesh Sharma, special public prosecutor, said on Thursday. It all happened on February 11, 2017. The accused lured the minor girl to an empty house with the promise of giving her Rs 10 and raped her. He was later caught by locals. The girl was found in a critical condition and received treatment for months. The girl’s father, who works as a labourer, had lodged a complaint against Sajid at New Mandi police station. A case under the relevant sections, including the POCSO Act, was registered and the accused was kept in jail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-years-on-man-gets-25-years-jail-sentence-for-raping-minor/articleshow/78302757.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Flying on tracks: RRTS trains promise luxury at 160kmph||New Delhi: Aerodynamic design, lightweight with plug-in doors, comfortable seats, luggage racks and a speed of 180 kmph — the country’s first Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) trains are going to be like an aircraft on rails. The first look of these state-of-the-art trains, which will be rolled out in 2022, was unveiled on Friday.Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, ministry of housing & urban affairs and chairman of National Capital Region Transport Corporation, which is executing the project, unveiled the look of the train that will be manufactured by Bombardier India at its plant in Savli, Gujarat.“The environment friendly, energy-efficient trains will improve the quality of life in and around the NCR by accelerating economic growth, creating economic opportunities and, at the same time, reducing pollution, carbon footprint, congestion and accidents,” Mishra added.Managing director of NCRTC Vinay Kumar Singh said, “We have awarded the rolling stock work with an integrated long-term comprehensive maintenance by the manufacturer, thereby leveraging the benefits of life cycle costing.”“With radiating stainless steel outer body, these aerodynamic RRTS trains will be lightweight and fully air-conditioned. The prototype is scheduled to roll off the production line in 2022 and will be put into public use after extensive trials,” a NCRTC spokesman said.The train coaches would have transverse 2x2 seats with adequate legroom, optimised aisle width with grab handles and rails for a comfortable journey for standing passengers, overhead luggage rack, mobile and laptop charging sockets, on-board Wi-Fi and double-glazed, tempered large safety glass windows that would offer passengers a panoramic view of the outside.“The train is designed for modern visual and audio announcements, which will give information about the next stop, final destination, etc. Innovative Train Control Monitoring System technology, as well as its predictive and condition-based monitoring features, will enhance the fleet’s performance by providing extensive train-to-ground diagnostics,” the spokesperson said.The design of the train has been made keeping in mind high acceleration and high deceleration given the maximum operational speed of 160 kmph and stations at every 5-10km. Trains would run under automatic operation to provide a smooth ride with precise stopping accuracy. There would be push buttons for opening doors, which will eliminate the requirement of opening all doors at every station, leading to energy saving.“Each train will have a business class carriage and a coach reserved for women. The business class will have spacious, comfortable and reclining seats, which will be accessible through a special lounge at the platform level. A vending machine will also be installed there,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/flying-on-tracks-rrts-trains-promise-luxury-at-160kmph/articleshow/78325843.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Agra||Two years on, communal unrest again leaves many hurt in Bulandshahr’s Syana||MEERUT: Two years after a bloody clash over alleged cow slaughter that left an SHO and a protester dead in Bulandshahr’s Syana, communal tension broke out again in the region on Thursday in a dispute over moving a bullock cart from the village path, leaving several injured. While police claimed that the incident “took them by surprise”, locals alleged that the former didn’t act in a timely manner. According to police sources, the dispute between the two communities in Barauli Vasudevpur village over a bullock cart was settled then and there three days ago, but it snowballed into a full-blown clash on Thursday. Eyewitnesses said that youths from both the communities attacked each other with lathis and even pelted stones causing injuries to several people. A villager, who claimed that his house was attacked, said, “The members of the minority community suddenly tried to break into our homes carrying lathis and stones. They also abused us incessantly.” Countering the allegations, another villager said, “A dispute occurred between the two communities over moving a bullock cart from the village path. The dominant community members became so aggressive that they thrashed a few kids for no reason. The episode led to tension in the region. The police should have acted on time, but they didn’t.” Bulandshahr SP (city) Atul Srivastava said, “Two persons have sustained injuries in the clash. However, the situation is under control now. We have started an inquiry and cases will be registered against those responsible for the violence.” In 2018, a mob had gone on the rampage after a cow carcass was found in a sugarcane field near Mahav village of Bulandshahr's Syana. Inspector Subodh Kumar Singh, posted at Syana station, was killed in the attack. A youth, Sumit Kumar, also died in the violence. Chingrawati police picket was set on fire too. Soon after the violence, police booked 27 named and more than 60 unnamed people under various sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-years-on-communal-unrest-again-leaves-many-hurt-in-bulandshahrs-syana/articleshow/78302748.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Sachkhand Express partially cancelled||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced partial cancellation of Nanded-Amritsar Sachkhand Express till Saturday due to an agitation called by the farmer unions from Punjab. Accordingly, the special train will not ply between Ambala Cantonment and Amritsar stations in both the directions. Meanwhile, the SCR has recently restored stoppage to Sachkhand Express at all designated stations on its route passing through Maharashtra in the wake of official permission from state government to resume the inter-state travel, public relations officer of Nanded division of SCR Rajesh Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sachkhand-express-partially-cancelled/articleshow/78301358.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Varanasi||Woman in interfaith marriage murdered for refusal to convert||Varanasi: The Sonbhadra police on Thursday arrested two persons from Bagghanala bridge area of the district for allegedly killing a woman whose headless body was recovered from Chopan on September 21. One of the accused is the husband of the woman. The police claimed the couple had entered into an interfaith marriage some two months back, and she was killed when the man’s family refused to accept her as she was not ready to convert to their religion. SP Sonbhadra Ashish Srivastava said, “The murdered woman has been identified as Priya Soni of Pritamnagar under the limits of Chopan police station. Among Priya’s killers, one is her husband Ejaz Ahmed and the other is his friend Shoib of Chopan.” “During initial interrogation, Ejaz has confessed to his crime. On his information, police have recovered the knife, spade and an iron road used in the murder. He mobile phone has also been recovered,” he added. Srivastava said, “Ejaz has disclosed that after he married Priya about two months back, his family didn’t allow her to enter their home stating that a woman of another religion was not welcome. However, Priya was adamant to go to her in-laws’ home with Ejaz without converting to his religion.” “Upset over her stand, Ejaz decided to kill Priya with the help of his friend Shoeb. After killing her, the duo beheaded her body to conceal her identity. Later, they dumped her body in jungles near Pritnagar of Chopan area. The head is yet to be recovered,” he said. Priya’s father Laxminarain Soni and her sister Sharmila had identified her with the help of her clothes, shoes and physique, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-in-interfaith-marriage-murdered-for-refusal-to-convert/articleshow/78303245.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 25, 2020||Meerut||CCTV DVRs from school to be sent for forensic examination to retrieve backup: Police||MEERUT: A day after 52 teachers of a private school here jointly complained to police that the management of their institution had been secretly filming them inside toilets and blackmailing them with the footage for months into working without salary, local police began collecting evidence for sending them for forensic examination. On Wednesday, police had lodged an FIR against the secretary of the school's management committee and his son for alleged sexual harassment. The secretary's son was arrested on Wednesday, said Iraz Raja, additional superintendent of police (ASP). According to police, the CCTV DVRs retrieved from the school premises will be sent for FSL examination in a bid to retrieve old backup. "Apart from DVRs, mobiles, laptops, hard disks and other gadgets of the accused will be seized and forensically examined for evidence," added Raja. According to the sleuths investigating the case, allegations of passing lewd remarks, double meaning conversations and threats were coherent across statements of 6-7 of the victims who recorded their statement with the police. "We are in the process of collecting more evidence and the secretary will soon be arrested," the ASP said. Earlier, the secretary had told TOI, "There is no CCTV camera inside the women's toilets. But they have been installed in the gents’ toilets. This was done against the backdrop of recent cases of murders inside some schools.” The school hit headlines in 2017 when it asked students to get "chief minister Yogi Adityanath-like haircut". (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cctv-dvrs-from-school-to-be-sent-for-forensic-examination-to-retrieve-backup-police/articleshow/78302770.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Meerut||Bodies of 2 sadhus found in west UP||MEERUT: Bodies of two unidentified sadhus have been found in Meerut and Baghpat, 25 kilometres apart. While one was found in a pond in Tikri village of Baghpat, the second was fished out from the Upper Ganga Canal in Sardhana region of Meerut. Police are clueless about the identity of the victims but feel the one found in Sardhana must have been brought here after the murder. Upender Malik, station officer, Sardhana, said, “A few villagers noticed the body floating in the canal and informed us. It seems the body was came here floating from elsewhere. We have launched an investigation and are trying to find out if any sadhu was reported missing in Meerut or nearby areas. The situation is normal and under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bodies-of-two-sadhus-found-25-km-apart-in-west-up/articleshow/78302764.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Burglars break into 3 homes, flee with goods worth Rs 2.5 lakh||NASHIK: The city police on Wednesday registered three cases of house break-ins that took place between September 20 (Sunday) and September 23 (Wednesday) in which cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 2.5 lakh were allegedly stolen. In one incident of house burglary in Jetha Market Society, Old Adgaon Naka, Panchavati, cash and goods worth Rs 1.35 lakh were stolen. According to the complainant Mala Talreja (61), someone broke into their house between Sunday evening to Monday and decamped with gold ornaments worth Rs 25,000 and Rs 1.10 lakh cash kept a safe in her cupboard. In another case registered with Mhasrul police station, unidentified suspects broke into Mohan Gode’s (34) house, in Sridhar Colony, Meher Dham Peth road between Tuesday and Wednesday when Gode was not at home. When the complainant returned home at 6 am on Wednesday, he found the door of the house open and gold ornaments worth Rs 42,000 missing. Mhasrul police station registered another incident of a house break-in. According to the complainant Vijay Chaudhary (34) a resident of Swami Vivekanand Nagar, Makhmalabad, unidentified suspects broke into his house when he was away between Wednesday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglars-break-into-3-homes-flee-with-goods-worth-rs-2-5-lakh/articleshow/78304239.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Varanasi||Speakers, woofers of Sarnath light & sound project stolen||VARANASI: Speakers and woofers of the ambitious light and sound show project were stolen from the high security Archeological Survey of India protected site of Dhamekh Stupa in Sarnath area. On a complaint by Rajkiya Nirman Nigam’s project manager, Sarnath police lodged an FIR against unidentified miscreants in this connection on Wednesday night.. However, the theft has stunned the senior officials including divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal as following the directives of CM Yogi Adityanath issued during his August 30 visit, he is personally monitoring this project to ensure its completion by September 30. SSP Amit Pathak said that an FIR under section 379 (theft) of IPC has been lodged with Sarnath police and teams have been formed to workout the case at the earliest. Police have also sought CCTV footages from ASI, he said. When TOI visited Dhamekh Stupa in Sarnath on Thursday, contractor Shatrughan Singh, who lodged the complaint on the behalf of RNN, said, “I along with technical staff had gone to the site to check the speaker boxes following rains when we found some boxes unscrewed and equipment worth Rs 10 lakh including four speakers of Rs 1.25 lakh each and woofers missing.” On being questioned about the security personnel, the ASI officials replied that the security guards deployed for protecting Dhamekh Stupa and other structures, were monitoring the entry and exit of people engaged by RNN but they had not been authorized to check the articles being carried by them. The commissioner held the theft incident as shocking and said that the project has been completed and is in the phase of trial. I had taken stock of it last week, he said adding that the matter is being investigated by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/speakers-woofers-of-sarnath-light-sound-project-stolen/articleshow/78303262.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks police chief to break honey trap web||NEW DELHI: Taking note of increasing number of cases of extortion by “honey trapping” unsuspecting people, Delhi High Court has asked the city police commissioner to step in. Justice Suresh Kait on Tuesday asked the police chief to call for reports from all police stations of cases of “honey trap” or extortion, and take action. Giving him four weeks’ time, the high court, while granting anticipatory bail to a rape-accused businessman who complained of extortion by being lured into a sexual encounter, added that “if the commissioner feels similar type of incidents had happened in Delhi in the year 2020, he shall issue standing orders to all the concerned police stations that action may be taken as per law, however, without harassing such person/alleged accused therein.” The court observed, though acceptance of allurement is not justified, allurement advanced for extortion of money is also not acceptable, saying it wants the police chief to “personally look into the matter” and find out if the woman complainant in the current case and her accomplice have indulged in similar alleged extortion with others also. It directed the man, represented through senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, to cooperate with the investigation and make himself available for interrogation and that he shall not contact or influence the woman and prosecution witnesses. Based on the complaint of rape filed by the woman, the prosecution said the two were strangers till August 24, and as she was looking for a job, she got the man’s number and texted him. Within hours the conversation turned personal and a meeting was fixed and the woman sent her location where the man came with a bottle of wine the same night, it alleged. It alleged that after drinks, the man raped her and she called her neighbour for help. When she came, she saw the man running away from the woman’s house and the matter was reported to police. However, the businessman cited WhatsApp chats, claiming the woman had got the man’s number through an online job portal and she asked him whether he was looking for any personal assistant. When the man said yes, the woman, instead of sending pictures in professional suits or attire, sent him her sensuous pictures in bathing suits or bikinis, he alleged. Pahwa argued that during the entire chatting, there was no whisper of any job opening or salary structure and work timings, rather she shared her bikini pictures by the pool to allure the man. “The modus operandi, which is prevailing nowadays in such cases can be divided into three parts. First — contact random strangers by different modes viz. WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram and other social networking sites; second — if the person responds, means he is interested, then seduce him/her by sending pictures, videos or chatting; third — when the strangers were trapped, call him / her at home and then make videos, level false charges/accusations, intimidate and thereafter demand money,” the accused submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-asks-police-chief-to-break-honey-trap-web/articleshow/78305445.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||CM terms farmer bills as biggest reform in agri sector; Cong lambasts Centre’s move||Dehradun: A day after the one-day assembly session ended both chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and opposition Congress held separate press conferences to highlight the pros and cons of the three farmer bills recently passed in the Parliament. CM Rawat said, “The role of middleman has been completely ended and it will largely benefit the farmers. The farmers can sell their produce in mandis or directly in the market. Apart from ending all sorts of pressure on the farmers, the move will help them get a good price for their produce.” On Congress protesting the bills, he said, “Some individuals were trying to mislead the farmers. However, such tricks will not last long.” On the other hand, Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh called it a move that will ruin India’s agricultural sector. Singh said that the Centre aims to push private houses into the agricultural sector. “We will continue to oppose the bills, which are aimed at harming farmers and the agricultural sector,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-terms-farmer-bills-as-biggest-reform-in-agri-sector-cong-lambasts-centres-move/articleshow/78302790.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 25, 2020||Kochi||People’s forum at Chellanamconducts ‘Kadalsamadhi’||Kochi: As the protest of Chellanam residents seeking a permanent solution for sea erosion completed 333 days on Thursday, the women members under the banner of Chellanam Janakeeya Vedi (CJV) conducted ‘Kadalsamadhi’, a protest by standing in the sea. Around 80 women members of the forum conducted the protest by standing in the sea at Gonduparambu fishing gap in Chellanam coast. Besides, around 300 residents observed a 10-hour hunger strike at their respective houses. “The plan was to conduct the strike for at least two hours in the sea. But at the request of the police due to pandemic restriction, it was concluded within an hour by 11am. “The chief minister had said that Rs 200 crore will be immediately used to protect the coast in the state. But all these promises are mere eyewash as elections are around the corner. We will not stop the protest until a comprehensive solution is implemented in Chellanam,” said convener of CJV Joseph Arackal. Heavy security arrangements were taken in the coast under the leadership of Mattancherry assistant commissioner. Policemen, fire and rescue officers and medical team were on standby to face any contingencies. The residents, under the banner of CJV, have been conducting various kinds of protest against the delay in completing the geotube project, which is lying stagnant for the past two-and-a-half years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/peoples-forum-at-chellanamconducts-kadalsamadhi/articleshow/78302792.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Varanasi||Vehicles of Mukhtar’s henchman seized||Varanasi: The district police on Thursday seized vehicles worth over Rs 12.65 lakhs of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s henchmen Gurucharan Singh under Gangster Act in Lanka area. SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi said that Gurucharan is close associate of fish trade mafia Abdul Salim, who was having monopoly in fish trade with the backing of Ansari. Gurucharan and others were arrested by the police on June 28 following recovery of banned species of Thai mangur fish from their stock in huge quantity, he said adding, he had been booked under Gangster Act on August 7 and following the order of district magistrate the action of confiscating his illegally earned properties was initiated. Team of police reached Gurucharan’s residence in SPG Colony under the limits of Lanka police station. Following public announcement his vehicles including pick-up van, motorcycle and others worth Rs 12,65,000 were seized. Tripathi said that Salim’s properties of Rs 26.33 lakhs had been seized on August 14. On June 28, Salim and his accomplices had been arrested following a raid of a joint team of police and other departments at Bunglow-51 of Cantonment area, where a pond full of fishes with prohibited species were recovered. According to police, Salim had taken guarantee of Mukhtar to seek bail from court in a murder case 20 years ago while he had also contested on former political party of don’s family Qaumi Ekta Dal in 2012 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vehicles-of-mukhtars-henchman-seized/articleshow/78303274.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kanpur||Local MP raises issue of removing rail track in LS||Kanpur:Local BJP MP Satyadeo Pachauri raised the issue of removing the 16 km-long Anwarganj-Mandhana railway track from the city during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Raising the issue, Pachauri said that the railway track, passing through the heart of the city, divides it into two parts -- North and South -- causing frequent traffic jams. The MP demanded that the railway track between Kanpur-Anwarganj and Mandhana should be removed and instead Mandhana should be connected with Panki. He said that the existing 18 railway crossings parallel to GT Road that witnesses pressure of more than 50 trains, have become a major traffic nuisance for residents of surrounding localities.  “On several occasions, our representatives had suggested that track between Kanpur-Anwarganj and Mandhana should be removed and instead Mandhana should be connected with Panki. Frequent closure of these crossings has been causing inconvenience ,” said locals. “The crossing sometimes remains closed for a long time causing major traffic snarls,,” said Fazal Rehman, a local of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/local-mp-raises-issue-of-removing-rail-track-in-ls/articleshow/78303285.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kanpur||Man rescued from kidnappers in Jhansi, 3 held||Jhansi: Within 48 hours of kidnapping of a 60-year old man police was able to apprehend three accused and rescued the victim on Thursday. The victim was identified as Gajraj Singh of Premnagar. Hisneighbour Vicky Ahirwar (28) lured him to a nearby State Bank of India building on the pretext of giving him a chequebook on Tuesday. Gajraj reached the place on the given time along with another neighbour. Here, Vicky along with two of his associates, Anil and Pawan, overpowered Gajraj, and after throwing chilli powder in his eyes, took him somewhere on a two-wheeler. The neighbour who had accompanied Gajraj to the SBI building, informed his son about the incident, who in turn informed police. On being informed, the police started trailing the accused immediately, and reached Bamer in Madhya Pradesh. On Thursday morning, police were tipped off about their presence in Gwalior. A raid was conducted in which the police rescued Gajraj and caught the key accused Vicky, his associate Pawan and Kajal, wife of Anil. On the other hand, Anil and Vicky’s wife escaped and are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-rescued-from-kidnappers-in-jhansi-3-held/articleshow/78303354.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kanpur||Man killed after falling in lift duct||Jhansi: In an attempt to run away from the police, a young man died after falling inside the duct of a lift from the fourth floor of Nagar Nigam building on late Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Asif. On Wednesday night, after being tipped off about a group of people gambling at Nagar Nigam, a police team raided the Nagar Nigam premises. The police caught five people gambling and arrested them. During the raid, the police found Asif sitting on his moped outside the Nagar Nigam building. As he saw the police approaching, Asif ran to save himself from the police and went inside the main building which was open. As per police, Asif went to the fourth floor, and in an attempt to hide himself, entered inside the duct of the lift, but he slipped and fell straight over the lift stationed on the ground floor. He was taken out and rushed to the hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-killed-after-falling-in-lift-duct/articleshow/78303306.cms||---
September 25, 2020||India||No legal basis for bid to alter status of Gilgit-Baltistan: India||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday hit out at Pakistan for the latter’s proposed change in the status of Gilgit-Baltistan saying any such action will have no legal basis. The government also reiterated that the entire territories of the UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh “have been and are” an integral part of India and would remain so. “Any action by Pakistan to alter the status of the militarily occupied so-called “Gilgit-Baltistan” has no legal basis whatsoever and is totally void ab-initio (from the beginning). Our position has always been clear and consistent,” said MEA, adding that Pakistan has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. Pakistan this week also announced that the postponed elections for the legislative assembly of Gilgit-Baltistan will be held on November 15. President Arif Alvi issued an official notification on Wednesday to fix the date of the elections. Pakistan’s minister for Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan affairs, Ali Amin Gandapur, was quoted as saying last week that PM Imran Khan would soon visit the region and make a formal announcement to elevate Gilgit-Baltistan to the status of a full-fledged province with all constitutional rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-legal-basis-for-bid-to-alter-status-of-gilgit-baltistan-india/articleshow/78306458.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kanpur||JJB approves remand of widow of Vikas’s aide Amar||Kanpur: The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) of Kanpur Dehat on Thursday approved a 14-day judicial custody remand for alleged minor widow of a slain aide of gangster Vikas Dubey. She was booked under stringent IPC sections, including murder and criminal conspiracy, and was later declared juvenile by the board. The minor, who was behind bars for over a month, was allegedly married to gangster Vikasaide, Amar, just three days before the Bikru bloodbath of July 2 night. Amar was shot by police in an encounter in Hamirpur, days before Vikas surrendered in Mahakal temple, Ujjain. The Chaubeypur police had moved an application in the JJB Kanpur Dehat on Tuesday, seeking the 14-day judicial custody of the minor, besides apprising it about the addition of eight more IPC sections and scrapping of IPC section 395 (punishment for dacoity) in the FIR. The added eight more IPC sections include 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, 396 (if any one of five or more persons, who are conjointly committing dacoity, commits murder in so committing dacoity, every one of those persons shall be punished), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and Explosives Act, informed police. “The board, however, has rejected our plea wherein we had objected to the minor’s 14-day judicial custody remand. We had also objected to mentioning of the minor girl as wife of Amar to which the board has summoned explanation from Chaubeypur police within three days,” said the minor girl’s lawyer Shivakant Dikshit. To recall, the minor accused soon after Bikru ambush had been booked and sent to jail under IPC sections 302, 307, 394, 395, 147, 148, 149, 120 b and 7 CLA Act by the police. The minor accused, who was on Thursday brought to JJB in Kanpur Dehat, was later sent back to Juvenile Home in Barabanki amid tight security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jjb-approves-remand-of-widow-of-vikass-aide-amar/articleshow/78303393.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-sarpanch, talati booked for false plaint||Vadodara: A former sarpanch and talati of Avakhal village in Shinor taluka were booked on Wednesday for forgery and giving false information and evidence against a businessman in 2012. The accused, former sarpanch Mukesh Vasava and then talati Kesarisinh Chauhan, had complained to joint director of industrial safety and health that the businessman, Rinku Patel, had forged the building permission letter and had constructed his industrial property. Police said that earlier the accused duo had given the building permission letter to Patel in August 2012. However, after they had a fallout with Patel, they lodged a false complaint against him. When their complaint was investigated, it turned out that they had committed the forgery. Vasava and Chauhan had given the letter to Patel without any resolution of the gram panchayat. “The accused duo wanted to fix the businessman in a false case to take revenge of their fallout. However, after checking the documents of the gram panchayat and the permission letter, it came to light that the letter was signed by the accused duo only,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-sarpanch-talati-booked-for-false-plaint/articleshow/78301614.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP Police head constable shoots himself dead at Police Lines||Bareilly: A 42-year-old UP Police head constable died after allegedly shooting himself in the head with his service carbine at the Police Lines in UP’s Moradabad on Thursday afternoon. The deceased, Mazhar Hussain, was deputed to Police Lines. According to Moradabad police, Hussain had joined duty on September 23 after a 10-day leave. The incident happened around 1pm on Thursday, when police personnel were resting in barrack number 4 at Police Lines.Pitamber Singh, another head constable, who was present at the time of the incident, said, “I returned from duty and lay down in the barracks after my lunch. Mazhar was also lying in his bed just a few metres away. Suddenly, I heard a gun shot. Initially, I thought it was the sound of glass breaking, but when I took a closer look, I saw Hussain lying in a pool of blood.” Senior police officials, including IG (Moradabad range) Ramit Sharma, SSP Prabhakar Chaudhari and superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand, who were reportedly at a meeting in Police Lines at the time, rushed to the spot.IG Sharma said, “The forensic team has collected evidence from the scene. The family has been informed and the body is being sent for postmortem. Statements of other police personnel who were present at the time, or had spoken to Hussain before his death, are being recorded. Information on the mental condition of the deceased is being gathered from the family to ascertain if he was undergoing any stress or depression, as the cop had just returned to duty after a 10-day leave.”Hussain was originally from Bareilly. He lived in Moradabad Police Line barracks while his family lived in Pilibhit. The deceased is survived by his wife, a clerk in Pilibhit block, and three children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-police-head-constable-shoots-himself-dead-at-police-lines/articleshow/78299318.cms||Maria Khan
September 25, 2020||Goa||New Covid hospital has first death||Margao: The South Goa district hospital reported its first Covid death after a 65-year-old person from Raia succumbed on Wednesday evening. Sources in the district hospital said the man came in gasping for breath but died soon in the casualty ward. He died even before being admitted in the hospital for treatment. The cause of death of the patient has been recorded as Covid-19 with pneumonia. The funeral was conducted on Thursday keeping all Covid death SOPs in place, it was informed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-covid-hospital-has-first-death/articleshow/78305492.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: BJP in a quagmire over Periyar politics||Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP seems to be in a dilemma over E V Ramasamy. The question seems to be — whether to openly accept some of the principles for which Periyar, as he is popularly known, stood for — even while vehemently opposing his stand on God. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-periyar-is-changing-bjps-politics-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78309664.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-in-a-quagmire-over-periyar-politics/articleshow/78306302.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Company ordered to refund price of wobbling car||AHMEDABAD: Thirteen years after Murubha Jadeja left his wobbling car in a workshop for repairs, he will get the car price back along with 9% interest as consumer courts have ruled that there was a major defect that the company-authorized workshop could not remove. In this case, Jadeja had bought a Tata Indica car in February 2007 in Bhuj town of Kutch district. Within a month, he found the car was wobbling and sent it for repair twice, but the problem was not fixed. After he sent the car for repairs on a third occasion, he refused to pick up his car even after the workshop told him that the fault was removed. Instead he sued the company and local dealer for selling him a vehicle with a major fault. In 2009, the Kutch District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum ordered the company to replace the car with a new one, or in lieu of that the owner should be paid the full price of the car, Rs 3.4 lakh, with interest. This order was confirmed by the Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission in 2013. The company moved the National Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission (NCDRC), which on Wednesday ordered the car company and its dealer to pay Rs 2.75 lakh to Jadeja with interest. It deducted money considering that Jadeja had driven the vehicle for more than 24,000km. To the company’s argument that Jadeja had not turn up to pick up the repaired car, NCDRC said that he could not be expected to keep visiting the workshop even after wobbling problem persisted despite repeated repairs. “The inability of the workshop to remove the aforesaid defect even in four months is a clear indicator that the defect was of a major nature and that was the reason the workshop was unable to remove it,” NCDRC observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/company-ordered-to-refund-price-of-wobbling-car/articleshow/78304376.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: 30-year-old killed in road accident||DEHRADUN: A 30-year-old man was killed in an accident after his scooter collided head-on with another two-wheeler in front of a private college in Selaqui area of Dehradun on late Wednesday. The deceased, identified as Ujjwal Yadav, was a resident of Haripur in Selaqui. According to police, both riders sustained injuries in the accident and were admitted to a hospital where Ujjwal succumbed to his injuries on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/30-year-old-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/78302829.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Surat||200th blood donation by 52-year-old tutor in Gujarat||SURAT: A 52-year-old coaching class owner will donate blood for 200th time on Sunday. Yogesh Dhimar, a resident Jivan Vihar Society on Rander Road, will complete 31 years of blood donation on October 2. A mega blood donation camp has been planned at Kayastha Vadi in Gopipura area 200 people, most of them Dhimar’s friends, will donate blood. “Despite stiff resistance from my mother, I had donated blood in a camp on October 2, 1989. I had learnt that blood donation saves lives and since then I have continued donation,” he told TOI. “During donation, I always pray that the patient who receives my blood recovers as fast as possible,” he said. Even Dhimar’s 20-year-old son Dhruv has donated blood 12 times which include four SDPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/200th-blood-donation-by-52-yr-old-tutor/articleshow/78302230.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Senior cop to probe episode of videos filmed inside jail||PANAJI: The home department on Thursday ordered an independent inquiry through the superintendent of police (crime) into the incident of a filming device that was carried into Colvale Central jail breaching three layers of security. The superintendent of police has been asked to submit his report in 60 days. Two videos – 30 and 20 seconds each – showing an accused taking a stroll in the central jail and threatening a Nigerian accused – had gone viral in August even as use of mobile phones is banned in the jail premises. The incident raised questions about the efficacy of jail security. The home department felt that the inquiry had to be through an officer who is not associated with the security arrangement of the jail. Shortly after the incident, inspector general of prisons (IGP) Gurudas Pilarnkar had written to the home department requesting for an inquiry to ascertain who facilitated the transfer of the filming device into the jail despite security presence and the person responsible for security breach. The home department in its order stated that the incident has brought to light a blatant breach of security cordon and lapses on the part of both the jail officials and Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) force posted for frisking visitors and security purposes. “The matter needs to be inquired in detail,” said Pritidas Gaonkar, under secretary, home in the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/senior-cop-to-probe-episode-of-videos-filmed-inside-jail/articleshow/78305501.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||684 new Covid positive cases in Uttarakhand as tally crosses 44k mark||DEHRADUN: The Covid-19 tally inched towards the 45,000 mark in Uttarakhand on Thursday to reach 44,404 cases while the number of those recovered is 32,154. The death toll meanwhile has touched 542. On Thursday, deaths of 13 people — 12 men and a woman — were reported due to the Covid-19 infection. Six people succumbed while being treated at AIIMS-Rishikesh, five died at Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital and one death was recorded at HNB Base Hospital Srinagar. The state reported 684 fresh cases on the day with the maximum number recorded from Dehradun (161) followed by US Nagar (131), Almroa (114), Haridwar (80), Nainital (58), Uttarkashi (42) and Pauri (32). Currently, there are 11,507 active cases while results of 11,421 samples are still awaited. Overall, 7.1% samples of all the tests have been found positive in the state. Meanwhile, a few locals claimed that the toilet facility at a leading private hospital for corona patients is "pathetic and needs urgent intervention from the authorities".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/684-new-covid-positive-cases-in-ukhand-as-tally-crosses-44k-mark/articleshow/78302836.cms||Shivani Azad
September 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Complaint over nude pics in virtual class||PONDA: A virtual class of a Ponda-based higher secondary school caused quite a buzz on Saturday after an ‘unknown student’ displayed nude pictures to the teacher during the online session. According to the school principal, the student posted nude pictures of a foreign model through a chat comment during a Class XII commerce session. DySP Nelson Albuquerque said the principal has filed a complaint against the unknown youth. He said the police are verifying whether the youth was an actual student of the class or he has misused the passcode and session ID meant for a genuine student to join the virtual class. Ponda PI Harishchandra Madkaikar said they have booked the offence under the Information Technology Act and are investigating the phone details by which the youth had joined the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plaint-over-nude-pics-in-virtual-class/articleshow/78305497.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||ED carries out searches at six places||AHMEDABAD: A team of Gujarat Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday carried out search operations at five to six locations in connection with a case filed against Ashish Patel, a builder associated with Radhe Developers, under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. Sources in the ED said that Patel was facing more than 10 FIRs in cases of different natures and was also charge-sheeted. “The case currently under probe is that of Shantinagar Cooperative Housing Society that Patel had launched and allegedly cheated investors. The reported value of the project is about Rs 200 crore. Along with Patel, the name of one Uday Bhatt had also surfaced in the case,” said a source. The ED team with local police carried out search operations at five to six locations in city including offices and residences. “Documents, digital records and other valuables including more than Rs 15 lakh cash have been seized from the spots. Neither Patel nor Bhatt were found as further probe is on,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ed-carries-out-searches-at-six-places/articleshow/78304396.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kanpur||Campaign against communicable diseases from Oct 1||Times News Network Kanpur: The health department will launch a month-long special communicable disease control campaign in the city from October 1. District magistrate Alok Tiwari convened a meeting of officials on Thursday for chalking out a plan for the success of the campaign and sought full cooperation from all departments. Addressing officials, Tewari said even as corona pandemic is still on, other diseases like malaria, dengue, chikungunya were also dangerous. “If we are alert and take necessary protections against these diseases then we can save ourselves. Under the campaign, stress should be given to sanitation, garbage disposal, check on waterlogging, and availability of potable water,” the DM said. Asha and Anganwadi workers, village pradhans and teachers should organize programmes to spread awareness at ground level. The DM asked the officials to prepare a work plan and execute it with proper coordination so that communicable diseases and brain fever can be controlled. He advised officials and workers to take utmost care of themselves during the Corona crisis. Tiwari told chief medical officer, DPRO, Basic Shiksha Adhikari, Jal Nigam officials that they have to play an important role in making this campaign a success. CMO Dr Anil Kumar Mishra said the objective of the campaign is to create awareness among people about communicable diseases. UNICEF representative Devkant presented the report on the campaign held last year. The district magistrate took cognizance of the report and directed officials to prevent the flaws in the previous campaign. District malaria officer, additional chief medical officer, and other district level officials were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/campaign-against-communicable-diseases-from-oct-1/articleshow/78303566.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Tourism body urges Goa CM to keep fee hike in abeyance||PANAJI: The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) on Thursday requested the state government to keep in abeyance the proposed increase in licence fees of various tourism trades. On Thursday, TTAG members met chief minister Pramod Sawant and highlighted various other issues plaguing the industry. “Our thrust is on ease of doing business, and the government has assured us to do away with the hurdles facing the hospitality industry,” TTAG president Nilesh Shah told TOI after the meeting. Shah said the chief minister gave a sympathetic ear to their problems and assured to sort them out at the earliest. “We have been told that the excise department is in the process of issuing an order wherein licences given to various entities will have a validity of five years, instead of one year. We also requested the government to do away with police clearance required every time a liquor licence is renewed,” Shah said. TTAG also requested that the closure timing for liquor licensees be extended till 12am as against the present 11pm. The association has sought a concession from the electricity department to extend payment of power bills for hotels till April next year as many are unable to pay their dues owing to losses suffered due to the pandemic. Shah said that the government has promised strong action against illegal hotel operators, and a task force will be constituted to deal with those who do not fall in line. With regards to their demand for having an air bubble arrangement with UK, Russia, Poland and Kazakhstan, Shah said the chief minister has written to the home ministry in this regard. “The CM assured us that the matter is being pursued,” he said. TTAG wants an air bubble arrangement with the four countries so that international tourists can visit Goa. The request to start river cruises was also placed before the chief minister. The government is waiting for Lockdown 5 guidelines, he said. “The chief minister has said an order allowing river cruises to start operations will be issued shortly,” the TTAG president said. It also urged the government to implement meters for tourist taxis without further delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-body-urges-cm-to-keep-fee-hike-in-abeyance/articleshow/78305507.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||Monsoon enters the last leg in U’khand; 10 districts receive less than normal showers||Dehradun: With four-month long monsoon season entering the last leg in Uttarakhand, the hill state is staring at a below normal rainfall this year with almost 10 districts receiving deficient rainfall. According to the regional meteorological centre, between June 1 and September 23, the state has received 931.8mm rainfall against the normal 1,154.4mm, registering -19% as rain deficit. Champawat has been the driest district with -51% rain deficit, followed by Uttarkashi (-47%), Pauri Garhwal (-47%), Nainital (-35%), Rudraprayag (-34%), Tehri Garhwal (-27%), Almora (-27%), Dehradun (-26%), Haridwar (-17%) and Udham Singh Nagar (-1%). Regional meteorological centre’s director Bikram Singh told TOI, "The distribution of rainfall has been uneven this monsoon season with Bageshwar district receiving almost 140% surplus rains while Champawat recorded -51% rain deficiency." According to the Met officials, the current rain deficit of 19% might go up by a couple of notches more by the end of the monsoon season as no significant rainfall is likely to occur in Uttarakhand from now onwards. Moreover, the current rain deficit of -19% is the highest in the last four years as per the Met data. In 2019, the Himalayan state recorded -18% shortfall in rains, -3% in 2018, -2% in 2017 and -10% in 2016. Notably, according to Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) definition up to 19% deficit or similar amount of surplus is considered “normal”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monsoon-enters-the-last-leg-in-ukhand-10-districts-receive-less-than-normal-showers/articleshow/78302845.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||DM orders sealing of 2 pvt hospitals||Kanpur: Even at a time when there is a massive health crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, some private hospitals are still blatantly violating rules and are busy in maximizing profits callously while putting lives at risk. The district administration sealed two private hospitals — one running without a licence and the other whose licence had expired — and initiated legal proceedings against the owners of both. CMO Dr Anil Kumar Mishra had been receiving complaints about one Mahaveer hospital in Panki. Dr Mishra sent a team of additional chief medical officer and superintendent, Kalyanpur community health centre, for an inquiry. On confirmation that the complaints were correct, DM Alok Tewari and CMO raided the hospital on Wednesday late evening. The two officers found that as many as 35 patients were admitted in the two-room hospital and not a single doctor was there in the facility at the time. Besides, even though 15 of the 35 patients had symptoms of Covid and dengue, none of them had been tested for Covid-19. There were some patients who had been operated without the proper requisite investigations. The hospital owners failed to show the registration. The officers summoned the magistrate and SO of Panki police station and directed them to lodge an FIR against the owner. The DM directed health officials to collect samples of all patients and shift them to other hospitals within three days. The DM and CMO then raided Vedanta hospital in Kalyanpur and found it had not renewed its registration. The hospital had, however, admitted 12 patients and all had tested Covid-19 positive. There were no doctors in the hospital. The DM ordered sealing of the hospital and initiation of legal action against the owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dm-orders-sealing-of-2-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/78303419.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 25, 2020||Kanpur||Pvt pathology Covid reports found wrong in cross checking||Kanpur: Cross checking samples of several patients who had been declared Covid positive in reports issued by private lab Gyan Pathology, revealed major discrepancies as many of them were found negative. The district administration has asked the CMO to lodge an FIR against the owner of the pathology. Kanpur Nagar district magistrate Alok Tewari said as many as 30 samples declared positive by Gyan Pathology were found negative in cross-checking at GSVM Medical College Covid lab. Reports of around one dozen samples were awaited. The DM told CMO Anil Kumar Mishra to lodge an FIR against the lab owner besides taking departmental action against them. The administration had been receiving complaints against the pathology of wrong and fabricated reports, uploading wrong information on portal and over charging. The DM and CMO had raided the lab on Sunday morning and found the complaints to be true. The DM had ordered sealing of the lab and set up a three-member committee of ADM City Atul Kumar, ACMO Dr A P Mishra and Dr S K Singh to hold an inquiry. The committee submitted its report to the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pvt-pathology-covid-reports-found-wrong-in-cross-checking/articleshow/78303482.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||A day after birthday video, Margao officer shunted out||PANAJI: Chief officer of Margao Municipal council (MMC) Ajit Panchwadkar was transferred on Thursday for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols. Biju Naik, who was posted as director (administration), public works department, has been named as his replacement. The development comes after a video was recently circulated on social media, in which Panchwadkar is seen cutting his birthday cake without following social distancing norms. MMC chairperson Pooja Naik welcomed Panchwadkar’s transfer, terming it as a “blessing” for the people of Margao. “Flouting of Covid guidelines by Panchwadkar on his birthday has done great harm to the council’s image,” Naik said. Panchwadkar has been posted as director (administration), public works department. He was posted in MMC eight months ago after Siddhivinayak Naik was transferred after he came under criticism for his alleged inept handling of the council, said a person privy to matters of the municipality. Officers often try to avoid the MMC posting which is considered difficult due to frequent political interferences, the source said. Meghana Shetgaonkar, director, department of information and publicity, has also been transferred. She will be replaced by Sudhir Kerkar, director of handicrafts, textile and coir, who will hold additional charge. Shetgaonkar has been directed to report to the personnel department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-day-after-bday-video-margao-officer-shunted-out/articleshow/78305529.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Killer lawyer led life of a homeless worker||CHENNAI: From being a car-owning and argumentative trial court lawyer to an absconding double murder suspect, lawyer K Ravi did it all during the five years of his underground living. Within a few months after killing his two children aged 13 and 11, and fleeing Chennai, Ravi sold his car in Odisha, stopped using his mobile phone to call anyone or ATM to withdraw money, worked as a construction labourer and slept at under-construction sites, and lifted gunny bags to earn a living. His caution did slip twice – once in Odisha and then in Delhi – but before police could nab him, he managed to escape. The cat-and-mouse game involving Ravi and the Maduravoyal police finally ended due to the pandemic-induced lockdown which immobilised Ravi and left him stuck at a nondescript lodge in Periyamet near Chennai Central railway station. Ravi shot to infamy on June 3, 2015, when his neighbours at CMDA Colony in Maduravoyal woke up to a foul smell emanating from his flat. It was only after the flat was broken into that the decomposing bodies of his children -- Aishwarya Priyadarshini and Jayakrishna Prabhu – were found. Investigation revealed that Ravi had struck his daughter with a sharp object and then strangulated his son and left their bodies on the bed. He had lit a candle under the cot and spread old clothes all around before opening the gas cylinder. “He had to fake a fire accident, but there was not enough gas in the cylinder,” an official said. Long before the murders, Ravi had stopped sending the children to school for a year. When the murder came to light, apart from his absence, Ravi’s brusque manner with the neighbours made him the prime suspect. CCTV footage showed that Ravi exited the apartments on May 28, a week before his children’s bodies were found. Three inspectors took over the case and several special teams searched for him, but to no avail. “This was a challenging case and the special teams were following it up,” said additional commissioner of police, A Arun. Ravi left the city in his sedan and toll records showed him crossing Andhra Pradesh border on May 30. Once police got wind of his presence in Bhubaneswar railway station, but they could not nab him. Ravi assumed a new identity and worked as a construction labourer and took up other menial jobs all these years in Odisha and Telengana. A special team led by Maduravoyal inspector Ravindran and sub inspector Chelladurai went to his native village near Madurai and decided to plant laundryman and petty shops owners in the locality as decoys. In August, police received a tip-off from a person at Ravi’s daughter’s school saying someone had approached them for the child’s transfer certificate. Police did track the person and his contact list showed a call from a mobile number belonging to Ravi. It is not clear as to why he was trying to retrieve the transfer certificate of his children, but that proved to be vital move that landed Ravi back on police radar. Then it was a matter of time before the long arm of law finally caught up with Ravi. Investigators are surprised Ravi never attempted to change his appearance, though he did try a beard for a while. He, however, diligently avoided contacting any of his acquaintances even once for at least for two years after he fled. Investigators say Ravi came to Chennai in January seeking monetary help from a friend. The unexpected lockdown in March, halted his escape plan. He then decided to stay put at the lodge as he thought police would be busy in pandemic-related work. This one time his calculations failed, and he got arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/killer-lawyer-led-life-of-a-homeless-worker/articleshow/78304423.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||400 girl students have never been to school: Survey||DEHRADUN: In a recent survey conducted by the district administration, it has been found that nearly 400 girl students have never been to school. The study found that most of the parents of these girls don’t find it feasible to send their girl child to schools and some are even held back by conservative societal norms. The survey was done with the help of Anganwadi workers who interacted with several households in Dehradun district. The survey focussed on girls aged 11 to 14 years. Now, the startling revelations have raised eyebrows of the district administration which has decided to gradually get these girls enrolled in a government school. The first set of 64 girls will be enrolled next month in schools located at Vikasnagar block. A district administration official said, “Today, girls are excelling in almost every field. At the school level, we are noticing that girls outperform boys every year in the board exams. “The talent of these 400 girls should not go to waste at all and they also have a right to get education. Therefore, we will get these girls enrolled in a state school soon,” the official added. Notably, the district administration has also assured to provide these girls with stationery items and other school-related materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/400-girl-students-have-never-been-to-school-survey/articleshow/78302857.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 25, 2020||Goa||Manipal starts pulmonary rehab||Panaji: Manipal Hospital, Goa, has launched Manipal pulmonary rehabilitation centre to take care of out-patients (OP) and internal-patients (IP) recovering from Covid-19. Dr Prabhu Prasad N C, head of pulmonology at Manipal Hospital, said, “Patients may experience various complications such as fibrosis and it’s even more problematic if one is suffering from other chronic diseases such as asthma, diabetes.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/manipal-starts-pulmonary-rehab/articleshow/78305517.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||System upgrade is under way, Delhi Police say after CAG flak||NEW DELHI: A day after facing flak from Comptroller and Auditor General of India over several shortcomings in the department between 2013 and 2019, Delhi Police on Thursday claimed efforts were under way to upgrade the system and improve the service delivery mechanism. Responding to the failure in filling 3,139 sanctioned posts, creation of two new districts and 15 police stations, police said, “Out of 3,139 posts, 1,240 were of promotions, which have been filled. Another 1,899 posts were for direct recruitment, of which 1,707 were being processed. The remaining 192 posts of different cadres will be advertised shortly.” “Of the 10,170 vacancies to be filled through direct recruitment, 8,620 have been notified and the recruitment process is under way. The remaining 1,550 vacancies will be notified shortly,” said an officer. Reacting to lack of accommodation, police said the current housing rate was 19.5% with the availability of 15,957 staff quarters. The construction work for 684 quarters was under way, while approval had been received for purchase of 501 MIG flats at Narela from DDA. “While 92 MIG flats have been handed over by DDA to Delhi Police, 36 MIG Flats at Narela are in the process. After completion of these quarters, the housing rate will increase to 21%,” the officer said, adding that seven new housing projects were also being finalised. Delhi Police would be adding 124 vehicles to its existing fleet of 726 PCR vans, while 341 vehicles would be added in the next financial year. The process to procure DMR wireless sets was also in the final stage. Regarding cyber crime, officers said that 50 personnel with qualifications in computer science, computer application and IT, had been posted in the Cyber Crime Unit. Also, 18 cyber forensic experts in specialised domains like crypto-analytics, cloud analytics, malware and network forensics, advanced mobile and memory forensics had been hired on contract. “In all, 112 personnel in Cyber Crime Unit have been trained through external domain experts in the field of cryptocurrency analytics and blockchain forensics, Darknet, advanced cyber security, open-source analytics and investigation aides, new laws affecting IT Act, etc,” a senior officer said, adding that 12 policemen had undertaken advanced certificate training in memory and mobile forensics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/system-upgrade-is-under-way-police-say-after-cag-flak/articleshow/78305537.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||14 teams formed to inspect identified pvt forest areas||Panaji: Fourteen teams have been constituted by the state government for inspection of properties provisionally identified as private forests by the V T Thomas and Araujo committees A notification issued on Thursday stated that the panels are mandated to carry out site inspection of the properties to ascertain whether the properties meet the private forest criteria of canopy density and area. The land owners will be given an opportunity to be present during the enumeration, Shaila Bhosle, under secretary (forest), said. The terms of reference also includes “to delineate the private forest boundary on ground and survey the area inside the delineated forest boundary”. The teams will collect data on percentage of forestry species “by total enumeration”, the notification stated. The teams are asked to prepare geo-referenced survey plans of areas qualifying under the third criteria of private forests – 75% of tree species of forestry type - and submit the field data and survey plan to the territorial deputy conservator of forests. The teams – six for North Goa and eight for South Goa – will undertake the work under the supervision of the respective territorial deputy conservator of forest, while the range forest officer (RFO) will be the member secretary. The sub-committee will consist of inspector of survey and land records, RFO and talathi of the respective village panchayat. The teams—six for North Goa and eight for South Goa—will undertake the work under the supervision of the respective territorial deputy conservator of forest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/14-teams-formed-to-inspect-identified-pvt-forest-areas/articleshow/78305546.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Assam man’s opium trip ends at mental hospital, reunited with kin||Nagpur: Najib (name changed) from Morigaon town in Assam had left for Chennai in search of work three years ago. This May, he landed up at the regional mental hospital here in a state of oblivion. He was caught by police creating ruckus in Chandrapur.Nearly four months down the line, a birth certificate that was found with him helped the cops and hospital staff track down his home 2,000 kms away. Najib spoke broken Hindi in heavy Assamese accent which was difficult to understand. After leaving home, he had got into the habit of consuming opium and ended up getting drug induced psychosis — a type of mental derangement. “From Chennai, his friends from our area took him to Hyderabad where he started taking opium and lost his mental balance. He cannot recall how he reached Chandrapur,” says his brother Mujib who took him back a couple of day ago.“It took a month for him to recover. In the meantime, it was difficult to get his whereabouts. Initially, he was unable to speak but as he recovered he was able to give details about his family,” said Kewal Shende, a social worker engaged in rehabilitation of patients. Najib and his brother are illiterate and cannot even sign. He could not reach city soon after being contacted as no direct trains are running. Finally, he booked a ticket to Mumbai thinking that anywhere in Maharashtra would be close to Mumbai. The train that started from Guwahati passed through Itarsi entering Maharashtra through Khandwa route. Since Itarsi is closer, he was asked to get down there and reach Nagpur by bus. The hospital superintendent Dr Madhuri Thorat said they have been trying to reunite patients from far off areas, as soon as they are fit to be discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/assam-mans-opium-trip-ends-at-mental-hospital-reunited-with-kin/articleshow/78302917.cms||Shishir Arya
September 25, 2020||Goa||Third round of admissions for KA theatre college||PANAJI: A third round of admissions may be opened very soon for a few vacant seats for the first-year course at the Kala Academy College of Theatre. In the first two round of admissions, 28 seats have already been filled up, officials said. This third round will be conducted without the involvement of the directorate of higher education (DHE). “We are planning to go ahead on our own because we need to start online classes immediately. It takes about 10-15 days for the admission process through DHE. We are waiting for students to get admitted,” principal of the college, Ramrao Wagh. The college annually starts classes from June 15 – the start of the academic year. So far, the college has been carrying out online classes for the second and third year students only. “If things go well, we can start the classes for the first year from Monday onwards,” he added. Owing to the pandemic, the college of theatre arts had taken its enrolment online through the directorate of higher education (DHE) for its first-year students from July 15 onwards. First-year students had to therefore apply on the DHE website and the list was shared with the college. Following which, an written test was held for the students to select the candidates eligible for the course. A total of 19 students were selected in round one, while eight were selected in the second. Two seats are vacant. Payment of fees for the academic year is ongoing for the seats taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/third-round-of-admissions-for-ka-theatre-college/articleshow/78305536.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Surat||Massive fire, explosions at ONGC’s Hazira gas terminal||Surat: Several Surat residents woke up to the sound of multiple blasts, which was followed by a massive fire in the gas terminal of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation’s (ONGC) Hazira plant on Thursday. The company said the fire broke out in the 36-inch gas pipeline which is part of the 240-km long pipeline network from Bombay High. There was no casualty or injury to any person, the company said. The blaze could be seen from several kilometres away and people came out of the houses to record videos that became viral on social media. Three blasts happened at around 3 am. Hazira facility receives gas from ONGC's Bassein field off the west coast as well as from Panna/Mukta and Tapti fields. It was handling some 32-33 million standard cubic meters of gas per day. It is India's largest gas-processing facility and a critical supplier of the fuel to domestic industries that receive gas from the Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur (HVJ) trunkline. The HVJ trunkline is the country's largest and runs from Hazira in the west to Jagdishpur in northern India. Sources said that three fire tenders of the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department were rushed to the ONGC plant for bringing the blaze under control, even as the oil and gas major’s own fire fighting vehicles had already started the exercise to douse the fire. The gas leakage resulted in foul smell in about 15 sq km area, said fire officials. In some of the areas including Magdalla, Ichhapore, Hazira, Dumas, Piplod, Adajan, residents experienced tremors due to the multiple blasts. All the 24 terminals in the ONGC’s Hazira plant were immediately shut down. The supply of gas to the other industrial units in Hazira including Reliance, KRIBHCO, GAIL, Larsen & Toubro, GSPC, GSEB was suspended for few hours. In a statement, DM Roy, group general manager of ONGC Hazira Plant stated that small and moderate fire broke out in the 36-inch gas line coming from offshore at Hazira plant due to the leakage of gas from the pipeline. “This led to actuation of emergency alarm systems and shutdown of the plant,” he added. Sources said that the ONGC officials have submitted a report on the blast and fire to the district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/massive-fire-explosions-at-ongcs-hazira-gas-terminal/articleshow/78302161.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||2.70 lakh people availed Atal Ayushman Yojana benefits in past two years in U'khand: Govt||Dehradun: The state health department on Thursday announced that Uttarakhand has completed two successful years of running Atal Ayushman Yojana in the state. Officials said that the state will introduce a real-time system to take the feedback of beneficiaries of empanelled hospitals in a bid to improve the overall health services in the state. The patients will also get the details of their packages and the treatment cost availed. “Around 2.70 lakh beneficiaries have availed the benefits of the scheme while 39 lakh golden cards have been given out to the beneficiaries. ” said DK Kotia, project in-charge. Patients are also being given pan-India treatment through this card, informed officials. “We have 23,000 empanelled hospitals under this scheme where patients can get treatment,” added Arunendra Singh Chauhan, another senior official from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-70-lakh-people-availed-atal-ayushman-yojana-benefits-in-past-two-years-in-ukhand-govt/articleshow/78302934.cms||Shivani Azad
September 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: No Iffi this year, 51st edition postponed to January 2021||PANAJI: Amid rising cases of Covid-19, the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) scheduled to be held from November 20 to 28 has been postponed to January 16 to 24, 2021. The decision to postpone the film festival was taken after information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar discussed the modalities of hosting the event with chief minister Pramod Sawant. Times ViewAt a time when resumption of normalcy is being given primacy by the union government, organising the 51st edition of Iffi, even if it was in a virtual format, would have sent down a positive message. If Venice could do it this month, why couldn’t Goa two months later? If the idea behind shifting is to have a hybrid festival, one must know whether there will be two film festivals in 2021 to make up for the lost year. Or has 2020 become a zero year for the Goa film festival? We hope these queries are soon addressed.“It has been jointly decided to hold the festival as per the international film festival guidelines and protocols. The festival will be conducted in a hybrid format—virtual and physical. All Covid-related protocols will be strictly enforced as per the festivals convened recently in the international film festival circuit,” the PIB said in a statement. This isn’t the first time the nine-day festival has been postponed. “The first edition of Iffi was held in January 1952, however, the 50th edition of the festival was held only last year, in November 2019. In the previous years, the editions had to be postponed due to certain emergencies or wars. There have been many misses in between,” sources said. The Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) has been providing the infrastructure for the festival for the past 16 years after Goa was declared the permanent venue for the event. “Though the festival is not within the calendar year, it falls within the financial year 2020-21. The festival has been postponed by only two months, yet the edition is still the 51th. As a result, we might end up having two Iffis in one calendar year—if the festival’s 52nd edition is held in November 2021,” ESG vice chairman Subhash Phaldesai said. TOI had reported on September 20 that the second steering committee meeting to discuss the festival was yet to be held. The ESG had been awaiting orders from the directorate of film festivals to begin preparations for the event in November. In August, the festival had called for entries to the international films’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-iffi-this-year-51st-edition-postponed-to-january-2021/articleshow/78305558.cms||Nida Sayed
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man booked for sharing online photos of pharmacist, ex-wife||VADODARA: Pictures of private moments of a pharmacist from Dabhoi and his estranged wife were shared on social media using a fake profile. Police said they have booked a man for allegedly hacking into the duo’s mobile phones and stealing the pictures. The accused is native of Dabhoi and currently living in Ankleshwar town of Bharuch. The pharmacist has alleged in his complaint that on August 24 he learnt that a fake profile of his was created on Instagram by the accused Mehul Vasava and the latter had posted his and his former wife’s photos there. The complainant said that he had immediately alerted the cyber crime police station about it. On September 7, Vasava allegedly created a fake Facebook profile of the woman under the name of Priya Patel and messaged the pharmacist’s friend about his former wife. Police said that the accused wrote obscene messages about the pharmacist’s wife to his friend to defame her. Since the fake profile had a mobile number mentioned in it, the complainant called on the number and confirmed that it was Vasava who had created the fake profiles to defame the pharmacist and his estranged wife. “The accused used to live in the same residential society as the complainant’s former wife and used to like her. However, since the woman got married two years ago, Vasava got enraged,” said a police official. He added that it was because of Vasava that the complainant and his wife had developed differences and they parted ways. Based on the pharmacist’s complaint, an offence for cheating, defamation and under Information Technology Act was registered on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-booked-for-sharing-online-photos-of-pharmacist-ex-wife/articleshow/78301629.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||36 low-polling Trichy booths to be verified||Trichy: A special verification of the booths, which had low turnout during the last parliamentary elections, will be held in Trichy to include all eligible voters in the voters’ list in the district, said Trichy collector S Sivarasu on Thursday. Convening an all-party meeting with recognised political parties, collector Sivarasu said that some of the booths in Thiruverumbur taluk had recorded 60% turnout during the last assembly and parliamentary elections. As of now, the district had 2,531 polling booths. As per the electoral roll released on February 14, the nine assembly segments -- Manapparai, Srirangam, Trichy-West, Trichy-East, Thiruverumbur, Lalgudi, Mannachanallur, Musiri and Thuraiyur had a total of 22,97,106 voters including 11,18,900 men, 11,77,997 women and 209 others. The booths in BHEL and HAPP areas will be taken into consideration for the 100% verification process in order to delete the voters who were migrated to other areas and the residents who were not enrolled. The officials said that they identified 36 such booths in the areas where the voter turnout was 50% to 60% during the previous elections. The collector appealed to the representatives of the political parties to create awareness among people to ensure their cooperation to make the final electoral role fair. It will be released on January 20, 2021. The draft electoral roll will be released on November 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/36-low-polling-trichy-booths-to-be-verified/articleshow/78306098.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar joins global leaders in UN climate roundtable||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday spoke at a virtual roundtable of global leaders on 'Climate Ambition' convened by the United Nations highlighting his government's climate change mitigation initiatives in Bihar through water conservation and greening initiatives under the flagship Jal Jeevan Hariyali (JJH) mission. He committed to continue pursuing international efforts to bring down the global temperature by 1.5 degrees C (of pre-industrial level) by 2050. Other global leaders who spoke at the event included UK PM Boris Johnson, Canada PM Justin Trudeau, the PMs of Italy, Chile, Bangladesh and UN secretary-general, Antonio Guterres, among others. Speaking on the theme of long-term low-carbon emission and carbon reduction strategies, the Bihar CM began, “The UN secretary-general and other dignitaries, thank you for giving this opportunity at a global forum to an Indian state, which has 2% of the world population and thus is an important stakeholder in fulfilling the international commitment mentioned in the Paris Agreement (on Climate Change of 2016).” Highlighting the JJH initiative of the state government, Nitish said, “Considering the impact of climate change in Bihar, in the form of an erratic pattern of rainfall, extreme heat, falling groundwater level, drought and flash floods, we have developed our growth strategy around water conservation and greening initiatives under JJH .” He added, “Our firm belief is that any form of life is possible only when there are water and green cover. Our policy initiatives, including climate-resilient agriculture, conservation of surface, ground and rainwater, solar energy, clean fuel, and biodiversity conservation is leading our growth approach to sustainable development.” Nitish told the congregation that the approach of Bihar government to afforestation is community-driven to ensure green cover outside natural forests as well, despite having one of the highest population density in the world. “We are promoting food forestry to ensure food security along with an enhanced green cover. We have allocated an additional 3.5 billion dollars from the state budget for this cause. Work is being executed in mission mode,” the Bihar CM said. Deliberating upon community participation in forestry and climate protection activities in Bihar, Nitish said, “As part of a public awareness campaign, 51.6 million people of Bihar, almost half of the state’s population, formed more than 18,000km continuous human chain on January 19 this year, to express their commitment to environment protection. We look forward to supporting the international community to design and achieve a carbon-neutral future.” The CM concluded his speech by quoting Mahatma Gandhi, “Our Father of The Nation Mahatma Gandhi said, ‘The Earth has enough to satisfy everyone’s need but not everyone’s greed’. The global community should remember this while formulating any development strategy.” Principal secretary (forests) Dipak Kumar Singh told TOI that the Bihar government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) for conducting a two- year study to achieve carbon neutrality- carbon emission to be equal to carbon sequestration (making carbon emission zero)- target in Bihar by 2040.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-joins-global-leaders-in-un-climate-roundtable/articleshow/78302864.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Councillor suspended over ruckus in House||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party councillor Prem Chauhan was suspended for 15 days on Thursday by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Anamika Mithlesh for allegedly damaging the sticker placed in front of her seat while staging a protest in the well of the House. The mayor said that in spite of warnings in the past, the councillor’s behaviour was becoming intolerable. “In the last House meeting, he attempted to tear his own kurta. He was given a warning to maintain discipline considering there were women councillors present as well. There have been times where he climbed upon the table in the well of the House used by the secretary staff to record minutes of meetings,” she said. “We have no objections to councillors gathering in the well and raising slogans, but this behavior is not tolerable. He has been suspended for 15 days and if his behaviour continues, I will be forced to take this step again in the future.” Chauhan, however, claimed that he was “forced” to tear the sticker placed before the seat of mayor because of her “biased behaviour”. “The norms say that the LOP or the leader of House should initiate discussions in the meetings. But the mayor is biased and never lets the leader of Opposition (LOP) or councillors from the opposition (AAP) party raise their questions,” he said. “On Thursday, as soon as the house proceedings started, I expressed my desire to initiate discussion. I wanted to clarify if the SDMC was supposed to pay Rs 2,100 crore to North Delhi Municipal Corporation for using the Civic Centre. If yes, then the amount should be paid, so that their employees can get the salaries that are pending for five months.” However, Chauhan claimed that he was not allowed to speak. The mayor refuted all allegations of bias. “Being a mayor, I never support any party and give opportunity to everyone to speak,” said Mithlesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/councillor-suspended-over-ruckus-in-house/articleshow/78305580.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tamil Nadu CM comes to rescue of Tamil medium school in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The fate of a Tamil medium school in Ahmedabad, the only one in the state of Gujarat, is yet to be decided by the state government. This turn of events took place after the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, K Palaniswami on Thursday, urged Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to take steps for reopening the Ahmedabad Tamil Higher Secondary School in Maninagar, which was shut down recently due to low attendance. Palaniswami also stated that the Tamil Nadu government is willing to bear the entire expenditure for running this school in Ahmedabad. The Tamil Nadu CM said he was distressed to learn that a Tamil medium school in the Gujarat capital catering mainly to migrant labourers “has been closed suddenly.” These Tamil children were now left without any choice to continue their education. Tamil is an ancient language and Tamils living in Gujarat continued to contribute towards the development of the state, he noted. “I hope the government of Gujarat will protect the right to education of Tamil linguistic minorities. I would appreciate early action in this regard,’’ the chief minister wrote in his letter to the Gujarat CM. R C Patel, district education officer, Ahmedabad, said that the minimum required strength per class is 33 students. In comparison, the total strength of Ahmedabad Tamil Higher Secondary School was 31 students, making it unviable to run. The attendance in the school was as high as 82 a couple of years ago, but it has gone down drastically since then, he added. The state education department held a couple of meetings in the past few months, urging the school authorities to raise the attendance. After a few warnings, the authorities recently decided to order its closure. However, the students are yet to be handed over their school leaving certificates and the school’s affiliation to the state board remains to be cancelled. “The matter is with the state government and a final decision will be taken by the chief minister’s office,” said an official close to the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tn-cm-comes-to-rescue-of-tamil-medium-school-in-city/articleshow/78304502.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh sees record high of 45 deaths, Covid tally 1,15,361||BHOPAL: Twenty-five districts in Madhya Pradesh accounted for at least one COVID-19 death, as 45 people succumbed to the deadly infection across the state on Thursday. This is the highest single day death toll in MP. As for positive cases, MP recorded 2,304 new COVID-19 cases. The state corona tally rose to 1,15,361 cases. So far, 2,122 deaths have taken place in the state due to COVID-19, going by the MP health bulletin. For the first time, more than two deaths were reported in 11 districts. Nearly half of the districts reported at least one death due to Covid-19 in a single day. There are 52 districts in MP. Four districts — Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior — reported more than 100 cases. Indore led the tally with 414 cases in a single day. It was followed by Bhopal (267), Jabalpur (187) and Gwalior (129). Indore reported eight deaths and Gwalior five. Two deaths each were reported from Bhopal, Jabalpur, Shahdol, Damoh, Khandwa, Neemuch, Tikamgarh, Morena and Rajgarh. One death was reported from Ujjain, Dhar, Sagar, Khargone, Hoshangabad, Satna, Rewa, Ratlam, Barwani, Dewas, Sehore, Shajapur, Katni and Harda. The spread of COVID-19 is affecting all 52 districts. Forty-four districts reported more than double digit infection cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-witnesses-record-high-of-45-deaths-in-a-day-corona-case-tally-reaches-115361/articleshow/78304491.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy gets 3 more 108 ambulances||Trichy: Three ambulances including one equipped with advanced life support systems were added to the 108 ambulance fleet in Trichy on Thursday. Tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan and backward and minority welfare minister S Valarmathi flagged off the vehicles in the presence of Trichy collector S Sivarasu. With this there will be 34 108 ambulances in the district including two neo-natal ambulances. The new advanced life support ambulance will replace the existing 108 ambulance at Srirangam government hospital, while the current one will be shifted to Kattuputhur. The remaining two ambulances have been added to the government hospitals in Lalgudi and Thuvakudi which already have an ambulance each. Since the number of cases reported in the two areas was higher than other areas, the inclusion of each one vehicle was necessitated. Out of 31 108 ambulance, three were reserved for transporting Covid-19 patients to hospitals and covid care centres (CCCs). Karthik said that each vehicle got five trips everyday with a combination of rural and urban areas. Unlike initial months of Covid-19, some patients managed to visit the hospitals or CCC in their own vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-gets-3-more-108-ambulances/articleshow/78306100.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||29% of rear-side vehicle collisions in Ahmedabad on NHs||AHMEDABAD: The stretches of national highways criss-crossing Ahmedabad city are becoming more dangerous with each passing year as accident hotspots. Let alone pedestrians, safety for those in cars and SUVs too is questionable. We are referring to rear-side collisions on national highways. SG Highway and Cadila Bridge are emerging as critical accident prone spots for rear-side collisions among other locations in city. Road safety experts commissioned by the state government have found that collisions between vehicles moving ahead or waiting on national highways contributed to 29% of the total 1,375 accidents analysed in Ahmedabad in 2019. The report is an eye-opener and will help guide Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the city police to coordinate and work towards solving these issues. The report also points out that rear-side collisions mostly take place at turnings and crossroads and contribute to 16% of total accidents that take place on national highways. The report claims that 79% of total collisions between vehicles turning into another road or crossing a road on national highways occur due to intersection related road structure followed by non-interchange/non-junction related road structure which causes 8% of total pedestrian accidents. “The report also highlights Pakwan Junction, Cadila Bridge and Hotel Cozy among more accident prone spots,” said a senior AMC official. These findings were highlighted by the Road Accident Sampling System – India report. The top contributing factors affecting collisions between a vehicle moving ahead or waiting were largely related to driver behaviour and poor road marking or signage. The other issues were violation of Right of Way, gap in road medians and speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/29-of-rear-side-vehicle-collisions-in-city-on-nhs/articleshow/78284490.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bhopal||307 new cases take city corona count to 17,447||Bhopal: As many as 307 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the state capital on Thursday. With these new cases, the corona tally has now touched 17,447 while 364 people have died due to COVID-19. Over 20 people linked to security forces tested positive for COVID-19. Eight more people in the CRPF campus at Bagmugalia were diagnosed with the infection. On Wednesday, 15 others were diagnosed with COVID-19. The Collectorate office reported one positive case. 3 EME centre reported three new cases of the infection. PHQ, Thana Taliaya and Thana Ayodhya Nagar, SB PHQ and Police Colony reported new cases of the infection. Three family members, including a policeman, was diagnosed with the infection in Police Lines (Nehru Nagar). Six undertrials were diagnosed with the infection in Old Jain area in Jehangirabad. BMC fire station, Fategarh, reported one more positive case of the infection. The station is also the BMC’s emergency call centre. Six doctors were diagnosed with the infection on Thursday. It includes two from Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and one each from Jawaharlal Nehru Cancer hospital, JK hospital, AIIMS Bhopal and Sujyoti hospital (Gulmohar colony). Four positives were reported from 74-Bungalows. E-6 (Arera Colony) reported two positives. Professor’s Colony reported one positive case. Bairgarh reported five positives. Shivlok (Khajurikalan) reported three positives in the same family. Nehru Nagar reported three positives. Shukla Bhavan (Chandbadh) reported two positives in the same family. Raj Harsh Colony (Kolar) reported three positives. Silver Estate Vatika (Katara Hills) reported three positives. Indus Empire (Shahpura) reported four positives. Sagar Lake View (Ayodhya-bypass), Karamveer Colony,Laxman Nagar (Bairagarh), Danish Kunj, Prabhu Nagar (Idgah Hills) and Sarvadharma Colony (Kolar) also reported new cases of the infection. Sterling Green View (Chuna Bhatti) reported two positives in the same family. Indus Garden (Bawadiakalan) reported two positives in the same family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/307-new-cases-take-city-corona-count-to-17447/articleshow/78304509.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||Bengaluru team visits Doon to learn smart vending zone model||Dehradun: A team from Bangalore Municipal Corporation visited Dehradun on Thursday to check out the smart vending zone at Six Number Puliya near Ring Road. The team from Bangalore gathered technical and project implementation related details from the DMC officials for developing smart vending zones in Bangalore as well. In a meeting of officials from MDDA, police, municipal corporation, and representatives of street vendors association, a formal approval was given to smart vending zones at 21 places across the city. The officials at municipal corporation said that a survey of new street vendors is being conducted after which they will be given a loan of Rs 10,000 under Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi. The officials are also planning to increase the number of smart vending zones to 50 for accommodating new vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bengaluru-team-visits-doon-to-learn-smart-vending-zone-model/articleshow/78302948.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||DCP orders probe against PI||Ahmedabad: Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2, Vijay Patel on Thursday began an inquiry against the inspector of Chandkheda police as the latter allowed cremation of a suicide victim and closed the case on request of the deceased’s family members. Patel said that Chandkheda PI R L Kharadi took a statement on oath from a family member of the deceased, 60, who hanged himself to death at his house in Chandkheda, and allowed cremation without registering a case of accidental death. Kharadi should have conducted the procedure and as he did not follow legal protocol, he must face inquiry now, said Patel. Further legal action will be taken against Kharadi after the inquiry, he said. On April 20, a man, 75, was found dead at his flat in Gurukul in presence of his mentally unstable son. In that case too, then PI of Vastrapur, M M Jadeja, had allowed cremation by the family but no legal action was initiated against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dcp-orders-probe-against-pi/articleshow/78304510.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry reports 668 new Covid cases, six casualties||PUDUCHERRY: The Union territory of Puducherry registered 668 fresh Covid-19 cases, even as 418 patients recovered, taking the total number of active cases to 5,097. The positivity rate of the samples (5,945) tested on Thursday stood at 11.2%. Puducherry headquarters reported the maximum number of positive cases on Thursday with 533 followed by its enclaves Karaikal (99), Yanam (27) and Mahe (9). Six patients, including four women, died of the infection taking the death toll to 487. The fatality rate of the infection is 2%. Yanam has the highest fatality rate in the territory with 2.6% followed by Puducherry (2%) and Karaikal (1.5%). So far, the territory has reported 24,895 cases of which 19,311 patients have recovered. The recovery rate is 77.6%. Healthcare authorities have sent 1,55,025 swab samples of which 1,25,215 samples have tested negative. The government has commenced Truenat testing in Karaikal after the enclave reported an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few days. Experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will interact with the territorial officials periodically and guide them in containing the spread of the infection in the territory, officials said. The district rural development agency has started a social survey on the incidence of the infection in urban regions. All the ANMs and Asha workers have been provided with oximeters and thermal scanners to screen and identify suspected Covid cases. The government has proposed to depute mobile testing units (rapid antigen testing) to cover all parts of the territory to test more people. It has proposed to run more ambulances to transport positive cases to exclusive Covid hospital, private medical college hospitals and Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-reports-668-new-covid-casessix-casualties/articleshow/78304503.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman raped in Ahmedabad's Navrangpura hotel||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 25, from Vejalpur, filed a complaint with police on Thursday alleging that she was raped by a man from Paldi at a hotel on CG Road on Wednesday, who had promised to arrange her passport and visa for Canada for her and her daughter and get her a job there. In her FIR, the woman, who had divorced her husband and is the mother of a three-year-old girl, stated that about 10 days ago, she met the accused Akash Hiloria, 24, resident of Paldi, who was introduced by a common friend. Hiloria convinced the woman that he could provide her passport and visa at a nominal charge. On Wednesday afternoon, Hiloria called the woman to Hotel Sarvagya near Girish Cold Drinks Crossroads on CG Road for some procedure regarding her passport. The accused told her to come with some passport-sized photographs for paperwork to allay any doubts, said a police officer. Following his instruction, the woman went to a hotel room where she was allegedly raped by Hiloria. Inspector L D Odedara of Vejalpur police said the accused has been detained and the woman will be taken to the hotel to verify the details of the FIR. He said that the accused has been charged with IPC Section 376 for rape and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-raped-in-navrangpura-hotel/articleshow/78304521.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||Residents protest against Shishambara waste treatment plant||Dehradun: The residents of Vikas Nagar area staged a protest for the removal of Shishambara waste treatment plant and the growing heaps of garbage that has been a concern for the locals. The residents claim that although Selaqui was declared a nagar panchayat by the state government in 2016, soon after that, the Uttarakhand high court cancelled the government order. As a result, the locals cannot even get their birth certificates made. Rajendra Baluni, a resident and member of Nagar Panchayat Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The area completes all the parameters of being declared a nagar panchayat, but the matter has been pending for long keeping away the development work. With a population of over 40,000, people are living without basic infrastructure here like garbage disposal, streetlights and issuing of birth and death certificates.” The residents claimed that Shishambara waste treatment plant has been opposed by the people for a long time but nothing has happened. Another resident Surveer Singh said, “The waste treatment plant has affected the health of a number of residents in the area. If Selaqui is declared a nagar panchayat, it will clear the way for development work.” “The area has over 350 small and medium size factories, 11 banks, several schools, but the residents have to suffer for even basic work. One we have a dedicated nagar panchayat our lives will become easy,” said a resident, who was part of the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-protest-against-shishambara-waste-treatment-plant/articleshow/78302977.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bhopal||Rs 10,000 loan, IDs for rural street vendors: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that a scheme to provide an interest-free loan of Rs 10,000 to rural street vendors of Madhya Pradesh has been implemented, in order to give a strong foundation to their business. All vendors will be provided with identity cards, so that they can do their work in a respectable manner. Chouhan said that big companies will not be allowed to snatch away the business of small businessmen. Addressing the street vendors, Chouhan said on Thursday that “I have faith in your hardwork, therefore I am taking the guarantee of your loan and the government will also repay the interest of this loan”. Chouhan was addressing a programme organised for loan distribution to small businessmen of rural areas at Minto Hall, Bhopal. Lakhs of people joined the event live through various social media platforms. Chouhan also interacted with the beneficiaries. Chouhan said that vegetable and fruit sellers, those running chaat shops, paan shops, small cosmetic shops, cobblers, barbers, laundryman and other small businessmen doing similar work are facing financial crisis due to Covid-19. Madhya Pradesh government drafted a plan in the month of July to redress their grievances through this scheme. In just a period of two and a half months, loan amount is being given to 20 thousand rural street vendors of the state. Chouhan said that with this scheme, street vendors of MP are becoming self-reliant. Programmes are being organized under the Gharib Kalyan Saptah for the welfare of people of different classes from September 16 in the state. Today street vendors are being benefitted with this gift. As many as 20 thousand beneficiaries of the state are availing benefits of this scheme which provides interest-free loans of Rs 10 thousand to each beneficiary. Informing about the scheme, Chouhan said that under this scheme, there is a provision to give double amount as loan next year on repayment of loan of Rs 10,000 by the beneficiary. Chouhan told rural street vendors that “Aapki Zindagi Badalna hi Hamari Zindagi ka Maqsad Hai” (The aim of our life is to change your life). Referring to the PM Swanidhi Yojana, which provides loans to street vendors in urban areas, Chouhan said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lauded the achievements of MP under this scheme. Out of the total number of beneficiaries of the country, 66 percent are from Madhya Pradesh. Chouhan said that taking into account the success of the scheme in urban areas, street vendors in rural areas should also be considered to be benefitted in the same manner. Nearly 8.52 lakh people have been registered through the Kamgar Setu portal in the state. The goal is to benefit all street vendors. Chouhan said in addition not to remove the small traders from their places, the civic bodies will be directed to take care of their means of livelihood. These hard-working vendors will not be removed from their workplaces in the name of beautification. In order to keep the streets clean and beautiful we must also consider cooperative street management in association with the street vendors in which they will have the right to sell their goods and their participation in solid waste management in the streets will also be decided. Chouhan said that identity cards will also be issued to the street vendors by Janpad Panchayat, who will get loans under the scheme. Chouhan interacted with the street vendors of Indore, Shahdol and Guna via video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-rs-10000-loan-ids-for-rural-street-vendors/articleshow/78304523.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Containment zone in Trichy Big Bazaar street after 2 months||Trichy: After a gap of two months, a containment zone has been established at Chinnasetti street in Big bazaar street vicinity, bringing the severely congested locality under Covid-19 radar again. This has been blamed on the vanishing fear of the coronavirus and preventive measures taking a back seat in the locality that has an equal mix of residential and commercial settlements.The locality had remained fairly free of bulk infection after the city corporation made relaxations in the massive containment zone established covering wards 16, 17 and 18 encompassing Big Bazaar street on June 25. However, authorities acknowledged that more relaxations led to more compromises by the people in observing social distancing and use of facemasks. Chinnasetti street had recorded six Covid-19 positive cases recently, inviting the containment zone. The locality was contained twice previously, yet cases recur. Big Bazaar street that had multiple containment zones in the past months has reported 16 fresh cases since September 16. Periya Sowrashtra street, Chinna Kammala street, Nadu tailor street and Soundarapandian Pillai street were the other closely-packed areas that reported cases recently after a respite.“Overcrowding continues in the commercial area of Big Bazaar street which goes unnoticed. A comprehensive plan is needed as people have started lowering their guard against Covid-19,” K P Rangaprasad, a resident of Chinnasetti street, said. Coordinated enforcement involving city police is lacking in the vicinity. Corporation officials said that a majority of the recent cases from Big Bazaar street were identified in fever camps. However, the actual cause for the fresh cases is yet to be ascertained. Officials feel that travel history was not the reason. “Officials were told to take a stock of the situation in Big Bazaar street and establish containment zones if needed. Public cooperation is lacking,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. In July, Big Bazaar street vicinity had reported 123 cases including those caused by an engagement cluster. To prevent similar outbreaks, residents have sought special focus on the locality comprising narrow streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/containment-zone-in-trichy-big-bazaar-street-after-2-months/articleshow/78306103.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Six cafes and eateries sealed||AHMEDABAD: A day after a senior officer pointed out how youths were hanging around in the western parts of the city, the solid waste department on Wednesday night sealed six major coffee shops and eating joints on SG Road. On Wednesday, ACS Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who is in charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad had called upon youths to follow social distancing norms and wear masks. Gupta had named Sindhu Bhavan area, Prahladnagar and SG Road as the areas where big groups flouting Covid protocol were seen hanging out frequently. Harshad Solanki, director of AMC’s solid waste management department, said that the teams found large groups of people standing close to each other without masks. “We found large groups at Shambhu’s Coffee Bar, Kitchen Engineers, Ratlam Café House and Don Ka Adda. These units were sealed and the raids continued,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-cafes-and-eateries-sealed/articleshow/78304584.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||Wife spends night at crematorium with husband's body after landlord stops her from performing ritual at home||Roorkee: A family from Banaras, Uttar Pradesh, had to spend the entire night at a crematorium in Roorkee with a corpse as the landlord of their house did not allow them to perform the last rites at the Uttarakhand home before cremation. Mahender Singh, 55, and his wife used to work as a factory labourer near Roorkee and lived in a rental house at Salempur locality. On Tuesday night, Singh was rushed to a city-based hospital after a chest pain. He succumbed. Though, his landlord took him to the hospital for treatment, after his death he refused to bring back the body home. Mahender's wife with the help of a few locals then took the body to Solani-Nadi crematorium and kept waiting the whole night for her relatives. On arrival of her relatives, on Thursday morning, she left for Haridwar in an ambulance for cremation. "We took the body of Mahender Singh from hospital to a local crematorium on Wednesday when the landlord refused to entertain them, giving Covid pandemic as an excuse," Sanjeev Rai, a councillor at Roorkee Municipal Corporation, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wife-spends-night-at-crematorium-with-husbands-body-after-landlord-stops-her-from-performing-ritual-at-home/articleshow/78303000.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Dengue cases put Trichy corpn officials on toes||Trichy: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Trichy city has started reporting multiple dengue fever cases, with four reported in September. In the latest case, a 12-year-old boy hailing from Nelpettai road near Gandhi market has contracted dengue, corporation officials said. The city has reported seven dengue cases in the last three months. Citing that dengue fever cases surfacing amid Covid-19 will be a double whammy, residents have sought the civic body to pursue fogging and other anti-dengue measures. Health officials said that empty containers and abandoned tyres were major breeding sources for dengue mosquitoes. Overhead water tanks not being properly covered and maintained were other reasons for dengue outbreak, officials added. “The building adjacent to the boy’s house had a lot of abandoned tyres. Water had leaked from an overhead tank and mosquitoes laid larvae in the water accumulated in the tyres,” a corporation official said. The building owner was penalised Rs 5,000 for accommodating dengue source objects on the terrace. The recent dengue fever cases have also exposed the lack of awareness among the public. The dedicated fogging drives in all the 65 wards is yet to be intensified. Since the city has received ample rainfall in recent weeks and with the possibility of further showers, the civic body was urged to carry out ward-level inspections. “Cases are low compared to last year. Yet, we are carrying out anti-larval operations such as penalising owners of erring construction sites,” M Yazhini, city health officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dengue-cases-put-trichy-corpn-officials-on-toes/articleshow/78306104.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gym owner applies for pre-arrest bail||Vadodara: Kailash Jadhav, owner of Alivez Gym and Fitness Centre, who has been absconding since he was booked for cheating a city-based gastroenterologist and endoscopist, filed for anticipatory bail on Wednesday. Jadhav in his bail plea has refuted all allegations made against him by the complainant Dr Devang Shah. His plea will be heard by the court of additional sessions judge H I Bhatt on Friday. The investigating officer in the case is likely to file an affidavit opposing Jadhav’s application during the hearing. The gym owner, who is on run since September 1, is accused of duping Shah by taking loans amounting to Rs 60 lakh by forging Shah’s signatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gym-owner-applies-for-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/78301643.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||4,657 recoveries dropped, 2,819 cases added as CS corrects data||Nagpur: Correcting district’s Covid-19 data, district civil surgeon (CS) Dr VD Paturkar added 2,819 positive cases to total number of cases a day after reducing number of recoveries by 4,657. CS is reportedly reconciling the daily data so there is no discrepancy with those being released by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).TOI on August 26 was the first to report the discrepancies between the data being released by the CS, NMC, Zilla Parishad, state government and deputy director (information). The same was highlighted again on September 21.Taking note, Guardian minister Nitin Raut asked divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to end the discrepancies. CS is nodal officer who sends daily data to the government. NMC is local authority for city and ZP for Nagpur Rural.The number of recoveries was 55,212 on Tuesday. As per CS’s daily press release, number of recoveries on Wednesday was 1,357. Total recoveries should have been 56,569. But CS gave figure of 51,912 or 4,657 less.NMC was releasing daily data of city since the beginning of epidemic. It stopped on Wednesday saying from now onwards only CS will give official data. On Tuesday, difference in figure of recoveries in NMC and CS data was 4,657. CS reduced it in his records.Similarly, there was a difference of 2,012 positive cases between data of CS and NMC on Tuesday. CS on Thursday did reconciliation of 2,819 cases bringing both at par.As per CS, new cases of the district were 1,126 on Thursday. Thus, 3,945 were added into district’s total cases taking the tally to 71,616.CS on Thursday added 10 deaths to city’s total. The difference in deaths between data of CS and NMC was 297 on Tuesday. Dr Paturkar did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages.Sources told TOI, “CS cannot add all 297 cases in total number of fatalities in one go as it will shoot up district’s case fatality rate (CFR). Already, the district’s CFR is higher than average of state, India and World. Therefore, CS will verify and add deaths daily.” Kumar told TOI, “I asked CS, officials of NMC and ZP to sit together and remove the discrepancies. Accordingly, all are correcting the data.”Asked whether reconciliation of deaths’ figure will also be done, Kumar said all data will be verified and corrected. ZP has continued to release daily data of Nagpur Rural. Total number of positive cases and recoveries of CS and ZP are same. There is slight difference between total number of deaths in data of CS (375) and ZP (388). CS is also doing reconciliation in deaths of Rural as ZP stated deaths on Thursday were 4 whereas they were 12 as per CS data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4657-recoveries-dropped-2819-cases-added-as-cs-corrects-data/articleshow/78303003.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Lecturer, 36, dies in road accident in Perambalur||Trichy: A 36-year-old lecturer from Palayam in Perambalur district who was riding a two-wheeler died in a road accident on Wednesday night. The victim has been identified as K Nithya, a lecturer at a private college in Perambalur. The woman was coming from Perambalur to Palayam village. While nearing Palayam bus stop she lost control of the vehicle after jumping a speed breaker, sources said. Police said the woman sustained severe head injuries. Though she was admitted to Perambalur GH, she succumbed to the injuries in the night. She was not wearing a helmet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lecturer-36-dies-in-road-accident-in-perambalur/articleshow/78306108.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, new 50m-long design for Jodhpur cycle track||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) created a 50 metre long new design for the cycle track in Jodhpur area where the dividers with paver blocks have been done away with, so that the cycle track can also be used for parking when there is a rush. Area corporator Rashmikant Shah, who is also the chairman of the water supply committee, said: “After the locals made a hue and cry pointing out flaws in design, the AMC decided to effect the changes It was also decided that first, a small patch would be made, and then the officials would show it to the elected representatives.” On Thursday, the new design was made for a 50-meter stretch. It was shown to the local corporators who approved the same for the remaining stretch where the construction is planned. Shah said there would be a different pave colour for the cycle and different for the walk way. “These will be at the road level so that the shop keepers can easily take their vehicles inside the parking area adjacent to their shops,” he said. The shopkeepers had last week protested the construction of the cycle track stating that it was hardly leaving any space for them to take their vehicles inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-new-50m-long-design-for-jodhpur-cycle-track/articleshow/78304607.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Survey on in Trichy to streamline dairy farms and cow shelters||Trichy: Trichy corporation has started a survey to identify dairies and cattle shelters within the city’s jurisdiction based on a set of directives from the central pollution control board (CPCB). While the civic body plans to develop the livelihood of cattle owners by implementing the guidelines, locals want the corporation to streamline the presence of stray cattle on roads simultaneously.As dairy farms are discharging cattle dung along with waste water, complaints were raised about clogging of drainage lines. Similarly, waste water discharged by cow shelters has to be handled properly to avoid ground pollution, according to the “guidelines for environmental management of dairy farms and gaushalas’. To implement certain suggestions such as the possibility of producing biogas from cattle dung and promoting better housekeeping, the local bodies were told by CPCB to survey dairy farms and cattle shelters in their jurisdiction. The civic body here has already launched the survey as part of which an application form will be filled in the presence of owners with questions such as the number of animals reared, floor area and wastewater management. “The primary objective is to streamline the functioning of dairy farms and cow shelters. Provisions to improve the livelihood of dairy farms will also be discussed,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. The guidelines also instruct civic bodies to inspect the dairy farms periodically to ensure hygiene. While welcoming the move, locals said stray cattle menace must also be included in the ongoing exercise. “Stray cattle occupying arterial roads is a menace. It is better if the local body focuses on those who rear a small number of cattle too so that the menace can come to an end,” S Saravanan, a resident of Mahalakshmi Nagar said. The survey will be carried out under five categories based on the number of cattle reared, officials added. The survey will be compiled and submitted to CPCB for another round of auditing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/survey-on-in-trichy-to-streamline-dairy-farms-and-cow-shelters/articleshow/78306111.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanitation staff can’t be sacked: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: A division bench of Telangana high court on Thursday told the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to regularise jobs of thousands of sanitation workers, who are made to work for a pittance through deceptive methods like outsourcing and contract modes. The HC made it clear that the civic body has to pay them minimum time scale wages and cannot remove them arbitrarily. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told this to GHMC commissioner, who filed an appeal against an order of a single judge that asked GHMC to regularise services of all sanitation and entomology workers, including supervisors, who have been working with the corporation on outsourcing mode for years together. Though the corporation sought a stay on the single-judge order, the bench refused it. “You need not pay the arrears as was directed by the single judge. But you have to keep on paying them the minimum pay scale they are entitled to. More importantly, you should not remove any of them in the meantime,” the bench said. Appearing for GHMC, senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy said the regular staff working with GHMC is only 5,000, but the number of outsourcing and contract staff would be over 30,000. “If we were to regularise the services of all these employees, then it would be a huge and unbearable burden on the corporation. There are no sanctioned posts in the GHMC to accommodate such a huge number of people,” he said. Wondering how such a big civic body was running the show without sufficient posts earmarked for running essential services, the bench asked GHMC to furnish the number of posts for various positions, and also the number of workers under outsource and contract mode. “This is the rule of law. We are not under the Nizam rule. An officer sitting in GHMC cannot employ people and spend public money at will. There are rules and regulations. He has to follow it,” the bench said. “Merely because you have intermediaries in between, you can’t distance yourself from an employee,” the bench said, citing contents from the single-judge order. The bench also told the senior counsel that GHMC cannot take the ruse of financial burden. The GHMC counsel said he will file a clear affidavit by Saturday and the case was posted to Tuesday next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-staff-cant-be-sacked-hc/articleshow/78304622.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Body exhumed over organ trafficking plaint||Thanjavur: Following a complaint that organs of a 42-year-old man, who allegedly died of Covid-19, were illegally harvested, doctors performed a post-mortem after exhuming his body here on Thursday. The body of Saleem, a resident of Nehru Nagar in Pattukottai in the district, was exhumed from a graveyard of Mohideen Andavar mosque in Pattukottai on Thursday in the presence of Pattukottai tahsildar Daranika and revenue officials. Autopsy was performed by a team of doctors headed by government medical college medical officer Saravanan. Relatives of the deceased were also present. Health officials said the post mortem report would be submitted to the district administration and action would be taken based on the report. Saleem was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur after he developed breathing complications on July 20 and died on July 29. Hospital authorities had informed relatives that he died of Covid-19. The body was handed over to the relatives on the same day and buried. Saleem's wife S Sharmila and her two children submitted a petition to district collector M Govinda Rao, along with relatives, raising doubts that Saleem’s organs might have been harvested without their knowledge by the private hospital authorities. As Saleem’s name was not in the list of Covid-19 patients who died in the district, they raised suspicion that he must have been diagnosed wrongly. Based on the petition, the collector ordered an inquiry and autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/body-exhumed-over-organ-trafficking-plaint/articleshow/78306115.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Dealers won’t buy petrol on Sept 29||AHMEDABAD: Petroleum dealers across Gujarat will not buy fuel from oil marketing companies on Tuesday, September 29. According to an announcement by the Federation of Gujarat Petroleum Dealers’ Association (FGPDA) on Thursday, the decision was taken to protest towards the alleged inaction of oil companies over the illegal sale of spurious biodiesel across the state. “Sale of spurious biodiesel is illegal and despite us repeatedly raising the issue with oil companies over the past year and a half, no action has been taken. What is sold in the name of biodiesel is cheaper than diesel cost and causes damage to vehicles. Despite a slew of representations no action was taken. On September 29, petroleum dealers across the state will not buy petrol or diesel from these companies as a mark of protest,” said Arvind Thakkar, president, FGPDA. Thakkar clarified that sale of petrol and diesel at all dealerships will continue as usual across the state. Concerns have been raised over a possible shortage of fuel at petroleum dealerships in Gujarat due to no procurement for a day. However, senior FGPDA officials said all dealerships will procure more fuel a day or two in advance to meet demand. The association put its average monthly pre-Covid sales at 23 crore litres of petrol and 55 crore litres of diesel across Gujarat. Consumption levels are now much lower due to the pandemic. FGPDA members also warned that if no action is taken by oil companies or the state government against the alleged illegal sale of biodiesel, the petroleum dealers will continue to boycott purchases twice a week i.e. on Tuesdays and Fridays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dealers-wont-buy-petrol-on-sept-29/articleshow/78304617.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||88 officials begin pre-audit of bills at 44 private hosps||Nagpur: In a much-needed step, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has appointed pre-audit committee members to vet the bills of private hospitals being given to Covid patients.In all, 88 staffers from accounts division of different departments in the city have been assigned to 44 private Covid-19 hospitals across the city. “A two-member team is appointed at each big hospital since almost a week. They will play an important role two times- during admission and discharge. While admitting a patient, they will ensure that first priority is given to 80% of the beds reserved for Covid-19. During discharge, they will audit the entire bill,” said additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma.As per government rules, 80% beds reserved for Covid-19 at private hospitals have regulated rates.In case the patient’s kin have any doubts or complaints regarding the bill, they can contact the auditors appointed by the civic body. “Two government doctors are supervising the team. As the auditors are not medical experts, they are seeking the doctors’ help in clarifying any medical terminology or other doubts,” added Sharma.As reported by TOI, NMC has also banned direct walk-in admissions unless the patient is serious and requires urgent medical attention. “This is being done to ensure transparency and avoid mismatch of data regarding bed availability,” said Sharma.Sharma added that strict action will be taken against hospitals found charging more than the prescribed rates.The members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) had recently opposed the constitution of pre-auditing team, stating that it would divert the hospitals’ attention from their main work.The senior official added NMC was also working towards improving the dashboard that displays information regarding vacant beds in different hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/88-officials-begin-pre-audit-of-bills-at-44-private-hosps/articleshow/78303037.cms||Manka Behl
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||181 unites woman with baby||Ahmedabad: Relatives of a woman living near Ahmedabad city called up Abhayam 181 on Wednesday to complain about her forceful separation from her child, one and a half years old, for past four months. The team counselled the family and got her child back. They also agreed to provide her all papers required for custody, added 181 counsellors. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/181-unites-woman-with-baby/articleshow/78304638.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops, Google executives discuss online frauds||HYDERABAD: Owing to an increase in cyber cheating cases such as fake customer care frauds through online search platforms, a coordination meeting was organised online by Cyberabad Police and Google officials on Thursday. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar, product and litigation counsel Gitanjali Duggal, nodal officer from Google Rohini Priyadarshini, as well as DCP crimes, and other senior officials, participated in the meeting. Cyberabad officials explained fraudsters post fake customer care numbers on various Google platforms. The cops discussed issues faced by investigating officers to get user registration details and IP logs of Gmail and YouTube channels and Google Pay transaction details. Sajjanar suggested appointing a nodal officer 24X7 on call to respond to law enforcement agencies. “The Google team responded positively and gave assurance for providing the information needed for the investigation. They also proactively came up with suggestions and solutions,” said Cyberabad cybercrime cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-google-execs-discuss-online-frauds/articleshow/78304634.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanitation work is permanent: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Citing judgements delivered by the Supreme Court in Umadevi and Jagjit Singh cases, the Telangana high court said the state or its instruments cannot continue the outsource practice. “If the work is temporary like census, which comes once in ten years, you are justified in taking people on temporary basis through an outside agency. But the work being rendered by sanitation staff is a permanent one and all the workers are rendering their services for decades together. In such cases you need not use intermediaries like contractors. If that veil is removed, then a clear picture would emerge showing GHMC as the employer and all the workers as its employees,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-work-is-permanent-hc/articleshow/78304628.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man elopes with cousin’s daughter||AHMEDABAD: A school principal, 46, from Vatva lodged a police complaint stating that his 25-year-old cousin had eloped with his 17-year-old daughter on Tuesday evening. According to the complaint, the girl, who is doing a diploma in computer engineering, was last seen outside their house in Vatva on Tuesday evening. Senior Vatva police officials said they have lodged a case under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC and are searching the accused. According to the FIR, the complainant had gone to Danilimda to buy a window glass for his car, when his cousin had eloped with his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-elopes-with-cousins-daughter/articleshow/78304630.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Fine hospitals 5 times the overcharged amount: Tope||Nagpur: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday called on city administration to cancel registration of hospitals over-charging the Covid-19 patients.Directing officials to levy as much as five times the overcharged amount as fine, he informed that pricing of treatment and medicines were capped by the government under ‘Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Scheme’.Speaking to the media at city airport, the minister pulled up collector and municipal commissioner for not using their powers to act against erring hospitals. “They must regularly visit hospitals to check malpractices. Both are empowered for taking such actions. If they’re not using their powers, government will compel them to do so,” he said.Accompanied by medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, Tope is visiting Nagpur, Chandrapur, Amravati and Bhandara to review the pandemic situation. On Thursday, he visited Bhandara and Gondia. On Friday, he will review Nagpur situation and then proceed to Amravati.Flanked by home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP MP Praful Patel and others, Tope expressed concern over alarming increase in Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha. “There’s need to take measures to control its spread. During video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers on Wednesday, stress was given on contact tracing and testing. We need to increase RT-PCR test in the state,” he said.He said the patients should be convinced to go for home quarantine and there was no need for everyone to get admitted. “We will be reviewing the situation in these districts regarding resources, medicines, injections, beds, oxygen,” he said.He said state’s average per million testing is 40,000, which should be maintained. “Districts where testing is less should work on at least maintaining the state average. At many places tracing of suspicious contacts of positive patients is not done, which needs to be looked into,” he said.Rejecting opposition’s charge of Vidarbha being neglected, the minister said government was taking weekly review of Nagpur and other places. “Both CM and I regularly interact with collectors, commissioners and police chiefs for their feedback of the situation in Vidarbha,” he said.RT-PCR lab in Bhandara ayedTope granted green signal for setting up an RT-PCR laboratory for testing Covid-19 samples and directed authorities to start its operations within a week.Calling on authorities to make ventilators and oxygenated beds available for the patients, he told them to increase contact tracing and testing aggressively. “Since swab samples of suspected patients would be tested in the district, they would get quick medication and treatment,” he said.The minister directed Bhandara collector to immediately fill up posts required for operating RT-PCR machine and send staff to Nagpur for training. He also granted temporary powers to collector to appoint wardboys, nurses and doctors in the government run hospitals for treating patients. Assuring there will be no shortage of Remdesivir medicine, he said it would be made available free to poor patients. He also directed collector to take action against those involved in black-marketing of this life saving drug. Earlier, Tope inaugurated a Tru-Nat testing machine at the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fine-hospitals-5-times-the-overcharged-amount-tope/articleshow/78303031.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 25, 2020||Trichy||MCH docs reconstruct face of man disfigured in accident||Trichy: A 55-year-old Pudukottai man, whose face got disfigured after suffering multiple fractures on his facial bones in a road accident, has got a new lease of life thanks to doctors at Pudukottai government medical college hospital.Paramasivam of Vandanviduthi village in Gandharvakottai block met with an accident on September 13 and was admitted to government hospital with multiple fractures of facial bones and rib cage. While doctors saved his life, he could not drink or eat due to the facial bone fractures and misplaced teeth. After carrying out several rounds of tests, doctors decided to carry out the surgeries in two phases after bringing down this uncontrolled diabetes.“In the first phase, the upper jaw which broke into three pieces were consolidated with metallic wires and joined to the cheek bone. In the second phase, the front part of upper jaw was fixed with the bottom of the nose bone. This has now ensured that he can drink and take food,” said M Poovathi, dean, Pudukottai government medical college hospital. A daily wager, Paramasivam was worried after seeing his disfigured face. Since he could not access advanced treatment in a private hospital, he felt that he can never get back his shape. However, he is thankful to the team of doctors who could efficiently carry out the operation and restore his face without any cost. Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari said that even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government medical college hospital has been treating all kinds of patients. This could be ensured only because of the new facilities installed in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mch-docs-reconstruct-face-of-man-disfigured-in-accident/articleshow/78306122.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway thief pleads guilty, repents||MUMBAI: A 41-year-old man caught stealing Rs 41,000 from a local train commuter in 2018 pleaded guilty and told the court he repented his action. Despite being granted bail earlier, Karim Raini stayed in jail as he could not furnish Rs 15,000 as surety. While the maximum sentence was 10 years’ imprisonment, the magistrate court sentenced him to the period he spent in jail. The court observed that a lenient view would have to be taken while imposing the sentence. “He submitted he feels repentance for his act and he is poor. He also submitted he was the only earning member of his family,” the court said. The victim told police that on June 13, 2018, at 9.47pm, when the train was at Dadar railway station, a person put his hand in his pocket and took out the money. The victim said by the time he caught the robber’s hand, he passed the money on to another person. The victim also told police that both assaulted him. Raini was caught but the other accused fled. An FIR was registered against Raini under section 392 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and section 150(e) (maliciously wrecking or attempting to wreck a train) of Railway Act. The maximum sentence under the latter section is life imprisonment. After the charge-sheet was submitted, the case came to be tried by the sessions court. Last year, Raini sought discharge from the case. In January, the sessions court observed that a more serious charge of maliciously wrecking or attempting to wreck a train, was not applicable. “Admittedly, there is no allegation against the accused that he maliciously wrecked or attempted to wreck a train,” the court said. But the court said the charge relating to “endangering safety of persons travelling by railway by wilful act or omission” under section 153 of Railways Act was made out. With the remaining charges attracting a lesser sentence, the case was sent to the lower court for trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/train-thief-pleads-guilty-repents/articleshow/78304157.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||After Covid, shock of inflated bills awaits patients at top hosps||Nagpur: After shortage of beds, Covid-19 patients and their families seem to be struggling with problem of inflated bills being demanded by private hospitals in the city.Since last some days, TOI has been receiving complaints regarding hefty amounts being charged by hospitals at the time of discharge. In some cases, Rs 2-3 lakh were demanded at the time of admission itself.In one case, the family members did not have such large amount and were forced to take the patient to a smaller hospital in Kamptee. “We requested the hospital to start treatment and assured we will arrange the money. Though the patient was serious, the hospital refused and asked us to deposit the amount first,” said a relative of the patient.Taking serious note of these rising cases, NGO Together We Can has started a helpline forum ‘Humari Pukaar’ to ensure such complaints reach the top administrative officials. The forum was launched on social media a week back, and since then the NGO has received around 15 such complaints.In a few bills, it was mentioned that the 80% beds reserved for Covid-19 were full and hence the patient had to be admitted in the remaining 20%. As per government rules, 80% reserved beds have regulated rates. “What is the evidence that these 80% beds are actually full and that is why patient is being admitted at the remaining beds which have unregulated rates? Hospitals should provide real-time data of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment,” said Anasuya Kale Chhabrani, secretary of the NGO.Some bills had “unbelievably high” charges for different facilities – doctors’ special visit worth Rs 6,000, pharmacy bills crossing Rs 2-3 lakh, high CT scan charges and others.Pointing out that the protocol and line of treatment is more or less the same for Covid-19 patients, Chhabrani added, “These figures are absolutely unrealistic. Medicines cost the same everywhere. Such inflated bills are mostly coming from top private hospitals of the city. We are not even sure if these bills are being uploaded in the hospital’s system as some of them seem fishy.”On Thursday evening, NGO submitted all such bills to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, who has reportedly assured to look into the matter.Senior NMC officials told TOI strict action will be taken against such hospitals. “The additional amount should be immediately refunded,” the NGO demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-covid-shock-of-inflated-bills-awaits-patients-at-top-hosps/articleshow/78303057.cms||Manka Behl
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Delta farmers protest, burn farm bill copies||Trichy: Police arrested farmers and leaders of farmers’ associations across the delta districts including Trichy as they burned the copy of the farm bill passed in the Parliament recently in protest. They have demanded withdrawal of the bills as they include anti-farmer and anti-labour laws. Around hundred protesters from the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee and Tamilaga Farmers’ Association headed by its MP Chinnadurai gathered in front of the EVR statue at Central Bus stand raising slogans to withdraw the farm bills alleging that the bills will ruin the life of the farming community in the country. During the demonstration, the protesters attempted to burn the copy of the bill. Police averted their attempts and arrested them. In Tiruvarur, members of the committee staged a protest in Mannargudi opposing the farm bill alleging that the law was nothing but a corporatization of farming sector. Demanding to withdraw the bill, the protesters burnt the copy of bill. Police arrested the protestors. In Thanjavur, farmers affiliated to the Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association broke 38 coconuts in front of the Vinayaka temple in Kumbakonam and prayed to Lord Vinayaka to give knowledge and courage to all the 38 Union ministers to work for the betterment of the farming community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delta-farmers-protest-burn-farm-bill-copies/articleshow/78306124.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||One detained under PD Act||Mohd. Mahamood, 19, a rowdy-sheeter of Bahadurpura was detained under Preventive Detention Act in two murder cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-detained-under-pd-act/articleshow/78304647.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Organiser of cricket betting racket arrested in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old betting organiser was nabbed by task force, West Zone, on Wednesday for betting on ongoing IPL-2020 Cricket match. The accused was identified as Vijay Kumar from Chudi bazaar, Begum Bazar. Cops recovered a TV, set-top box, and cash of Rs 32,500 from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/organiser-of-cricket-betting-racket-arrested/articleshow/78304642.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Pact to enable IIM students do live projects in Trichy-based industries||Trichy: The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Young Indians (Yi) Trichy to enable its students to do live projects for the industries based out of Trichy. The aim is to create a bridge and offer a platform to the students to work in cross-functional teams with a broad objective of enhancing their leadership skills.Yi Trichy is an integral part of the confederation of Indian industry (CII), a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization.Through this MoU, it is proposed that various short-term leadership workshops and other allied activities would be conducted for the entrepreneurs in and around Trichy. Director of IIM Trichy, Bhimaraya Metri, said that Yi and IIM-Trichy will work together to help startups, young entrepreneurs and also build brand for Trichy through ‘Discovering Trichy’ activities. Saying that MoU will serve mutual interests, Ketan J Vora, Yi chairperson said that IIM students will be able to interact with young entrepreneurs based in Trichy. This will help students learn about the obstacles they may face during their quest for entrepreneurship, he added.The MoU was signed by Bhimaraya Metri, director, IIM Trichy, and Ketan J Vora, Yi chairperson, Yi Trichy chapter, C Pradeep, Yuva (youth wing og Yi) chairperson, Yi Trichy chapter in the presence of P Saravanan, chairperson, student affairs, IIM-Trichy, Kaveri Annamalai, Yi co-chairperson, Trichy, Kishore, Yuva co-chairperson, Trichy and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pact-to-enable-iim-students-do-live-projects-in-trichy-based-industries/articleshow/78306125.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Pharma export growth estimated at 11-12%’||AHMEDABAD: The pharmaceutical sector in the country is set to emerge more or less unscathed from the Covid-19 pandemic this fiscal. The sector is expected to post 8-9% growth in fiscal 2021 on the back of higher exports, states a report by the rating agency Crisil. The size of the Indian pharmaceutical market is close to Rs 3 lakh crore with export and domestic sales having equal share. Gujarat accounts for almost one third of the total pharma production in India. According to the report, the export growth is estimated at 11-12% this fiscal as against 10% last year. The exports will outpace domestic market growth, which is expected to be 5-6% as compared to 10% in financial year 2020. As a result, overall growth of the pharmaceutical sector in India is likely to be 8-9%, which will be 1.5% lower than the previous year. “Higher exports should offset some of the reduction in domestic formulation sales because of pandemic-led disruptions, especially in the acute therapies segment,” said Tanvi Shah, associate director, CRISIL Ratings. The report further added that the operating profitability for 350 CRISIL-rated pharmaceutical companies, representing 70% of sector revenue, would soften a bit but remain healthy at 19% despite higher input prices. Credit profiles will continue to be supported by healthy balance sheets. The export pie is divided into regulated markets such as the US and Europe (45% share in exports), rest of world (ROW) markets (35%) and bulk drugs (20%). “Exports growth is expected to remain strong at 10% and above in each of the segments,” the agency added. Stating that India accounted for almost half of the new drug applications approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) since 2019, Isha Chaudhary, director, Crisil Research, added, “This strong pipeline, coupled with lower import alerts and warning letters in recent months, should ensure a steady pace of new launches, which will help sustain export momentum to regulated markets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pharma-export-growth-estimated-at-11-12/articleshow/78304691.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rape victim not sane, DNA test ordered||AHMEDABAD: After a 14-year-old mother, who has learning difficulties, could not tell police who her rapist was, the court ordered the investigator to trace the culprit using medical evidence after getting DNA samples of the newborn analysed at the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). Not only could the girl not help investigators in tracing her rapist, her mother and two siblings were also helpless because they also suffer from learning difficulties. The case is from Gandhinagar district. The rape survivor is mentally unsound. When her health deteriorated in May, her father took her to the Civil Hospital, where she was found to be seven months pregnant. The administration got into action and the Child Welfare Committee ordered to immediately send her to a women protection home in Rajkot and her medical treatment began. A criminal investigation was also launched with the registration of an FIR at Mansa police station under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) against an unknown person. Two months passed and the investigation to find the rapist did not yield results. The survivor is in no position to communicate anything. Psychiatrists said she is unable to understand language and also language. The family were of little help because her mother and two brothers also suffer from mental disability and were in no position to communicate with the cops in this regard. The victim’s father did not name a suspect. The police also inquired with relatives living in the neighbourhood, but they were also ignorant of the offence. Finally, two months later, the police inspector approached the special Pocso court requesting it to accept an ‘A summary’ in the case because the investigation made no headway. Meanwhile, the victim delivered a baby girl on August 4. The investigator told the court that DNA samples of the victim and the baby girl were collected and sent to the FSL. Last week, special Pocso judge K M Sojitra accepted the summary but directed the officer to carry out an effective scientific investigation using DNA samples to find the accused person. The court also ordered the police officer and the Gandhinagar superintendent of police to submit monthly probe reports in court. The court considered the unfortunate condition of the rape survivor and ordered the District Legal Services Authority to give her interim compensation within two months under the Victim Compensation Scheme. The court said the maximum amount of compensation should be awarded to the girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rape-victim-not-sane-dna-test-ordered/articleshow/78304706.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Cycling uses tech for contactless racing||Bengaluru: No race organisers at the start point, no race marshals on the route, and none to record your time at the finish point. This may seem bizarre but that’s the new normal for competitive cycling in the Garden City amid the Covid-19 pandemic. With the emphasis on contactless racing, cycling has relied on technology, the Strava app to be precise, to get racing going again. Four races, all time trials (race against the clock), have been held so far with the help of the app. Taking a cue from an event held by Madras Racing Circuit, national champion Naveen John conducted the first competitive race last month in Bengaluru, considered the hub of cycling in the country now. He aptly named it the ISO TT (self-ISOlated TT), a 24-km race on Kolar highway. “I had the sense that everyone was itching to do something (racing) and I thought let me do it in a responsible way. It worked out positively and got the ball rolling,” John told TOI. He organised another race over the same distance at the end of the month that had the cream of the city’s talent participating. “We had about 45 showing up for the first event and 55 for the second. It was on a small scale, but I think it is the best way to start things off,” added the five-time National champion. It was not long before BBCh (Bangalore Bicycle Championship), one of the biggest and popular racing platforms in the country, conducted an MTB race with about 25 competitors. “We wanted to check how non-contact racing works with proper Covid-19 protocols in place. We were able to pull it off,” said Khuram Pasha, a BBCh council member. Now, Pasha and team are keen on an ITT for road cyclists next month. “Our committee decided to start with an ITT, which we were supposed to do in March before the lockdown kicked in. We’re planning to resume and are in the process of getting the permission,” he added. Last Sunday, Bangalore Amateur Racing’s (BAR) Venkateswara Rao Navanasi conducted a two-man team time trial event over the regular 33.3-km route on the Chennai highway. “I don’t think we are in a safe zone yet, but ITT is the safe bet right now,” said Navanasi, who plans to organise BAR’s usual race on the first Sunday of every month. With cycling getting into competitive mode and leading the way in restarting sport, it won’t be long before other disciplines follow suit. AS BOX HOW STRAVA WORKS Strava allows users to record a host of activities, including cycling, running and swimming, and upload them to be viewed and analysed. The app records GPS data in real time and tracks a number of metrics. Strava segments are defined sections where athletes can compete against one another. One needs to download the app and start racing from a given point. The competitor starts before the segment and ends after the segment. Once the participants upload the ride, Strava will calculate the segment time to determine the placings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cycling-uses-tech-for-contactless-racing/articleshow/78304713.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||Chhota Rajan aide tests Covid +ve, shifted to makeshift jail in Rudrapur amid security||Rudrapur : Prakash Pandey, an aide of underworld don Chhota Rajan, currently serving life sentence in Sitarganj jail, has been shifted to a makeshift jail in Rudrapur, after he was tested positive for Covid-19 along with 34 other jail inmates. Police officials said that the security at the makeshift jail, located at Kashipur road, was beefed up after the Covid-positive inmates were shifted there. Superintendent of Police (SP) City, Devendra Peecha, told TOI that a total of 95 inmates were tested of which 35 tested positive for the disease including Pandey. He added that police is “taking no chances with the security of the makeshift jail which has been created at a banquet hall and armed guards have been deployed round-the-clock.” Notably, a few years ago, Pandey had escaped police custody while he was being taken to appear before the court in Nainital. A native of Almora, Pandey was working with Chhota Rajan and was involved in cases of murder, extortions and kidnappings. He was arrested in 2010 from Vietnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chhota-rajan-aide-tests-covid-ve-shifted-to-makeshift-jail-in-rudrapur-amid-security/articleshow/78301756.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: School for Class X, XI & XII students from October 1||CHENNAI: Amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, the state government on Thursday allowed students of Class X to Class XII of all schools to go to their institutions on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers from October 1, subject to written consent of parents or guardians. Schools in containment zones, however, will remain shut. As per the order issued by chief secretary K Shanmugam on Thursday, classes will be split into two batches, and students from each batch will be permitted to visit schools on alternate days. “The first batch shall come on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while the second shall come on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,” the order said. Online and distance mode of learning will continue, it said. The school education department has sent a proposal to partially open government, government-aided and private schools from October 1. The department has also sought the state’s nod to invite 50% teachers to provide guidance, counselling and other related work to students. The government has also come up with a set of standard operating procedures to be followed by schools.R Srinivasa Raghavan, principal, Bala Vidyamandir Senior Secondary School in Adyar, said schools will open gradually adhering to the standard operating procedures. “We will continue with online classes for students in Class X and Class XII. It will be additional workload for teachers. But schools are ready to spend extra to maintain hygiene,” he said. N Vijayan, senior principal, Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram, said it’s essential for schools to reopen to complete the syllabus for board exams. The state board has reduced the syllabus by up to 40% for students. “With only online classes, we cannot cover the updated syllabus before the board exams. Students will write board exams confidently if we complete the portions,” he said. After the Centre issued SOPs for partial reopening of schools for students of Class IX to Class XII from September 21, seven states —including Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh — allowed schools to reopen for Classes IX and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/school-for-class-x-xi-xii-students-from-oct-1/articleshow/78304709.cms||A Ragu Raman
September 25, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Nerul man held in fake multi-crore railway job scam||THANE: City crime branch arrested from Sangli district an absconding accused who was wanted by Gwalior police for allegedly cheating many people of crores by promising railway jobs. Nitin Patil aka Akaram Barpate (34), from Nerul, Navi Mumbai, was one of three accused in the fake recruitment scam. A senior officer said MP police searched for him and later announced a reward. They also sought Thane police help. When crime branch sleuths got a tip-off that he was at his home town in Sangli, a team was sent there. He was arrested him from his village, Kameri, police said, adding that Sangli police helped. A magistrate remanded him to police custody till October 5. Assistant inspector Sandeep Bagul said he would be handed over to Gwalior police. City police had earlier arrested Tufel Ahmed Jan Mohammad and Suleman Bashir Shaikh, both from Mumbra. An officer from Gwalior said the trio promised jobs as ticket-checkers and fabricated documents, including a letter purportedly issued by railway board, letter for a medical test to be done by Railway Hospital and a training letter at Udaipur. The accused took Rs6-7 lakh from each victim, added the officer. The officer said a complaint was lodged with crime branch of Gwalior police in October 2019, which was being investigated, and the first two accused were arrested in October/November from Mumbra. Police had also filed a charge-sheet in a Gwalior court and the accused was shown as absconding. Gwalior police are carrying out a further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/nerul-man-held-in-fake-multi-crore-rly-job-scam/articleshow/78304161.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Haridevpur ASI dies, coronavirus claims 11th cop life in Kolkata||Kolkata: An assistant sub inspector posted with Haridevpur police station, Tushar Kanti Koley (53), became the eleventh cop in Kolkata Police to lose his life after battling Covid. Koley became the first officer in the southwest (Behala) division to have lost his life due to Covid-19. He worked at the ‘seresta’ or the duty officer’s cabin, usually the first point of contact of cops with visitors. Haridevpur has reported multiple Covid zones in the past and at present, the police station has seven other positive cases. The cop, who hails from Nodakhali and was known to be an avid social worker, though, had recently been very active in his native area, bringing relief for Amphan-hit people. It is not clear how he contracted the virus, his colleagues said. According to Lalbazar, Koley was detected with Covid on September 5. He had initially opted for home isolation but had to be admitted to MR Bangur Hospital with major breathing trouble on September 6. “We had to shift him to a private hospital at Ruby Crossing on September 11 as his condition deteriorated. He had been on oxygen support since then. But unfortunately, he could not be saved. With his death, we have lost a colleague after a gap of almost two weeks,” said an officer at Lalbazar. At a programme later at Netaji Indoor Stadium, chief minister Mamata Banerjee remembered the cop in her speech. Koley had been on active Covid duty till the first three days of September, his colleagues said. While he didn’t have any known serious medical history, doctors at the hospital claimed the condition of a couple of vital organs deteriorated, thus requiring advanced medical intervention. More than 6,000 police personnel have been infected across the state, including as many as 2,300 from Kolkata Police unit alone. A total of 2,150 have recovered, too, with about 150-200 active cases in the past two weeks. Before mid-September, active cases had gone down to 130. Out of all the previous ten death cases from Kolkata Police, including that of an ACP and an inspector, none had any major co-morbidity and all were aged between 45 and 55. The average daily new cases that went down below 10 in August is now back between 15 and 20. While police commissioner Anuj Sharma is still in home isolation and working from home, at least three other IPS officers are recovering from Covid. Kolkata Police took to its social media handles to pay their last respect. “We deeply mourn the untimely demise of Assistant Sub Inspector Tushar Kanti Koley, who was posted in Haridevpur PS. He was affected with #COVID19 and was at the forefront of our #FightAgainstCorona,” the cops tweeted on their official page. The Lalbazar top brass has now instructed all senior officers to use the app ‘Niramoy’ to keep track of the health condition of its personnel and religiously follow the standard operating procedure prepared to tackle Covid. The SOP has asked all officers to wear three-layered masks and face shields while out on duty. In addition, all police officers, who go to a spot for an investigation, will have to wear gloves before touching anything. Cops on duty on roads need to maintain distance for checking cars. Barracks that are located next to the police stations are being given extra care. Besides sanitization, it has been ordered that no non-resident cops should not enter the barracks unless absolutely necessary. Among the ideas that have been propagated for safety are simple ones like sanitizing entry and exit gates with bleaching powder, sodium hypochlorite and phenyl. The reception has been asked to stock extra face masks for guests. The SOP says that visitors cannot be allowed to touch any sliding doors (it is to be kept open), all visitors with cough and fever are to be removed to safe homes and the police vehicles have to be segregated and parked away from those belonging to the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/haridevpur-asi-dies-coronavirus-claims-11th-cop-life-in-kolkata/articleshow/78304723.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Abducted ayurveda doctor found after 15 hours||SURAT: A 40-year-old Ayurveda doctor was allegedly kidnapped by some unidentified persons in a car from Bhagod village in Valsad on Wednesday night. The doctor Janak Vairagi, a resident of Haria village, was found on Thursday afternoon from a farm near Chinchai village, 22 km from the spot where he was kidnapped. He had bare minimum clothes on the body when found nearly 15 hours after the incident. Apart from the phone call for ransom, police did not get any other clue and they are investigating the case from multiple angles. Vairagi was returning home after visiting a nearby village for medical consultation when some people came in a car and kidnapped him. His wife Jigna alleged in her complaint that she tried calling Vairagi as he did not return home till late, but both his numbers were switched off. After sometime, she received a call and a person demanded Rs one crore ransom for the doctor’s life. She said in her complaint that he was kidnapped around 8:15pm. The family then went in search of him and found his moped on a road near a bridge close to an old age home at Bhagod village. They contacted police and lodged a complaint. After being rescued, Vairagi revealed that the kidnappers kept him in a house with eyes blindfolded and hands and legs tied. After keeping him confined till Thursday morning, they released him into a farm near Chinchai on Dharampur Road. The kidnappers had torn his clothes. He then walked to a nearby house and asked for help. The locals then called Vairagi’s wife after which police reached the spot and shifted him for medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abducted-ayurveda-doc-found-after-15-hrs/articleshow/78302483.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Land grab: Court issues arrest warrant against Sasi’s brother||Thanjavur: A judicial magistrate court in Thiruvaiyaru has issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against 11 people, including jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala’s brother T V Sundaravathanam, in a land grab case.The warrant was originally issued on August 3, ordering the accused to appear before the court on September 7. However, police informed the court on that day that all the 11 were absconding. Recording the statement, the court adjourned the hearing to October 10. The development was brought to light by the anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam on Wednesday.The issue relates to a complaint lodged by M Valarmathi, wife of Manoharan, stating that their family members, including two children, had been kidnapped and threatened by a gang that forced her to sign a document to sell their 4.8-acre farm land in Arcot village near Ammanpettai to Sundharavathanam on August 4, 2008. Manoharan and their family had signed the documents at the sub-registrar office in Karanthai as they had been threatened by the 11 people, Crime Branch police sources said in Thanjavur.As police did not file any case against Sundaravathanam and his men, Manoharan filed a petition before Madurai bench of Madras high court on October 6, 2015. Based on an order of the high court, the district crime branch registered a land grab case against the 11 and the Thiruvaiyaru judicial magistrate court began to hear the case. The Crime Branch filed a chargesheet before the magistrate court on February 1, 2019. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/land-grab-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-sasis-brother/articleshow/78306127.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lawyer smokes during virtual court, fined Rs 10,000||AHMEDABAD: Furious with a lawyer for his smoking during virtual court proceedings, the Gujarat high court on Thursday imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on him and deprecated his “irresponsible conduct”. The case involved advocate J V Ajmera, who was attending the court proceeding in a bail matter from inside his car. During the hearing that was taking place through video conference, advocate Ajmera was seen smoking. This upset Justice A S Supehia, who said, “It was not expected from an advocate to be smoking in the car during the court proceedings. Such behaviour of the advocate is required to be strictly condemned. The advocates appearing through video conference are required to maintain minimum dignified decorum so that the majesty and dignity of the proceedings as well as the Institution are maintained.” The high court has said that henceforth the lawyers should stay either at their residences or at their offices while addressing the court on video conference, and they should sit properly. The HC has also directed the Bar Council of Gujarat and the Bar Association of high court to instruct all lawyers for this and also to order them to behave in a dignified manner. The high court has ordered the registrar (judicial) to initiate proceedings against advocate Ajmera and sought a report within 10 days. The court has further ordered the registry to send the report to the Bar Council. Justice Supehia asked the council and the association to maintain decorum before court during video conferencing.  “They shall be informed/instructed that the proceedings conducted through video conferencing shall be either from their respective residences or any office space, barring any vehicle or any open ground. While attending the proceedings from their respective residences/offices, they shall also maintain appropriate sitting posture while addressing the court,” the court order reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyer-smokes-during-virtual-court-fined-rs-10k/articleshow/78304732.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Remark on sword aimed at Ganesh Naik: BJP||NAVI MUMBAI: A BJP Navi Mumbai unit team urged Navi Mumbai police chief Bipin Kumar Singh to tighten security for Airoli MLA and former minister Ganesh Naik after a controversial statement allegedly made by NCP leader Prashant Patil at a party function in Digha on September 19. Patil allegedly asked if the sword gifted to housing minister Jitendra Awhad at the function was meant for Ganesh. BJP leaders interpreted it as a threat to their leader and sought to case against Patil. Former Navi Mumbai mayor and BJP leader Jaywant Sutar said, “Their plan against our leader has come out in the open. It is a serious issue. Former Airoli MLA Sandeep Naik was attacked at Airoli few months back.” Patil refuted the charges, while Singh said he sent the memorandum to his officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/bjp-seeks-action-against-ncp-leader-for-remark-on-sword/articleshow/78304164.cms||B B Nayak
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Drama production house owner arrested for raping young woman in Gujarat||VADODARA: The owner of a drama production house was arrested by police for allegedly raping a young woman in the city on Thursday. Deep Patel, who runs a firm located on the Rajmahal Road, has been accused of rape by a woman he had hired in August this year. According to police, Patel had hired the woman on August 4. He then called her to a hotel in Sayajigunj to discuss her salary and even promised to give her a raise. The woman told the cops that Patel raped her on the night of September 3. “We have arrested Patel who is a resident of Kalali area,” said an investigating official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/drama-production-house-owner-arrested-for-raping-young-woman/articleshow/78301717.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||FIR against paddy seed company, 13 others for selling poor quality paddy seeds||BAREILLY: An FIR has been registered in Shahjahanpur against a private company and 13 others for allegedly selling substandard paddy seeds following a probe by agriculture officer Satish Chandra Pathak. The probe was ordered by the DM after a group of 177 farmers filed a complaint against the Maharashtra-based company. It has also come to light that some 24 farmers in Budaun district who had cultivated the same variety of paddy seeds sold by the company had also complained to the district agriculture officer there. The company, it turned out, had not renewed its licence since 2012 and had been selling seeds illegally. Pathak said, “We are expecting to receive more complaints of faulty seeds and will take appropriate action against the company as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fir-against-paddy-seed-company-13-others-for-selling-poor-quality-paddy-seeds/articleshow/78301823.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata adds 60 more hospital beds in virus season||KOLKATA: Even as access to treatment facilities remains restricted in the city amid the pandemic, Kolkata is set to have 60 more beds, including a new hospital. While Techno Global Hospital — a multispecialty centre — was launched last week at Salt Lake with 40 beds, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Hospital (NSCBCH) flagged off a 20-bedded haemato-oncology centre on the occasion of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) day on Tuesday, that will offer treatment and procedures for blood cancer at an affordable cost. While Techno Global Hospital’s first phase was inaugurated on September 17, the hospital will be extended once the second phase is completed within a year. It will have 50 more beds armed with state-of-the-art equipment. Techno Global, too, promises to keep treatment cost affordable for most. NSCBCH, on the other hand, plans to launch a bone marrow transplant unit soon. “Blood cancer treatment is specialized and expensive. We, at NSCBCH, have been offering it at a reasonable cost and will continue to do so. While bone marrow transplant costs Rs 6-8 lakh in most private hospitals, we will do the procedure at Rs 4 lakh,” said NSCBCH managing trustee Soma Mukhopadhyay. Techno Global will run under the guidance and mentorship of eminent physician Sukumar Mukherjee. It has a team of doctors, a well-equipped outpatient department apart from inpatient facilities. “Affordable healthcare is the need of the hour in this pandemic. Our goal is to cater to patients, helping them access the best treatment at an affordable cost,” said a Techno Global spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-adds-60-more-hosp-beds-in-virus-season/articleshow/78304730.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Use RAT, produce accused in 24 hours’||AHMEDABAD: State police chief Ashish Bhatia has issued a circular mandating Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for anyone sent to judicial custody rather than RT-PCR test. Bhatia said the circular has been issued following the directions of the Gujarat high court given in criminal aplication No: 4023/2020 on August 29, 2020. The circular was issued on September 23. Bhatia said the RT-PCR test takes a longer time and for that period the accused has to be kept at the police station. “The law says that the accused should be produced in court within 24 hours of being held. That is why we have opted for Rapid Antigen Tests. It gives instant results and so the accused can be produced before the court in time. The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) Covid-19 testing protocol also approves Rapid Antigen Test,” Bhatia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/use-rat-produce-accused-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78304734.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Trichy||Panchayat middle school in Trichy to establish street libraries for children||Trichy: To enable schoolchildren improve their reading habit, the panchayat union middle school (PUMS) at Pirattiyur in Trichy is establishing street libraries with the help of their students. These libraries will be set up in the houses of a few children with help from parents so that they can be utilized by children in the respective locality. The school believes that children developing a fascination for reading will eventually help them concentrate on classroom learning. It has started collecting books from various sources and also urged people to donate. The concept was to develop a simple library with no rules so that children don’t hesitate to use the collections of books. Anyone can walk into the library to get books and return them after reading. They can also contribute to the library. Initially, 10 students residing around Pirattiyur school have been identified and given the responsibility of maintaining the library. Over the last five months, since there has not been much interaction with students, those in elementary classes may have forgotten Tamil and English alphabets. “It is very vital to make reading a habit for children since it is only when they read interesting stuff that they develop a habit of learning, which will eventually help them develop interest towards text books,” said K Asha Devi, headmistress of PUMS Pirattiyur. There are 50 villages in Manikandam block and it is planned to have at least six street libraries in each village with 500 books each. These libraries can exchange books among themselves once they feel that all books have been utilised by students in the street, he said. “Since the lockdown has got students glued to gadgets and television, we are attempting to get their attention back to books. For this, we are planning to start a programme to reward students by conducting quiz competitions,” added Marudhanayagam.S Siva Kumar, 61, retired principal of District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Kancheepuram, who conceptualised the idea of street library, said there is less scope for learning stories in school as the focus is on text book learning. Not many homes provide conducive environment for learning because of socioeconomic issues. While peer group learning is proven effective, this facility will help children of same age enjoy reading near their homes, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panchayat-middle-school-in-trichy-to-establish-street-libraries-for-children/articleshow/78306128.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMA asks Gujarat CM to reserve beds for locals||AHMEDABAD: One day after TOI reported that 443 patients from outside the city — 145 from other states and 298 from other districts — were being getting treated at AMC-designated Covid-19 hospitals, the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) wrote to Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani saying local patients should be given precedence at city hospitals given the current circumstances. The doctors’ body also requested the state government to strengthen Covid-19 treatment in other districts. ‘On a daily basis for the last three weeks around 200-250 patients from states like Rajasthan, MP, etc. are being admitted to private designated Covid hospitals in Ahmedabad. This results in restricting access for residents of Ahmedabad due to non-availability of beds,’ read the letter. AMA also raised the issue of ‘more than 400 patients’ from other districts of Gujarat being treated at city hospitals. ‘It would be advisable in the first phase to restrict admissions of out of state patients in Ahmedabad private hospitals for Covid treatment. A suitable decision for other district patients of Gujarat can be taken at the appropriate time,’ said the letter. Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, told TOI that they do not intend to create us-vs-they scenario. “The idea is to strengthen infrastructure for Covid-19 elsewhere so the burden on the city is reduced. City hospitals treat patients from across the globe – but for past fortnight, we have been seeing a shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients and thought of raising the issue,” she said. Several hospitals in the city in the past week recorded over 75% occupancy in beds with oxygen dependency and ICUs. “In absolute numbers, there is no scarcity of beds – but when patients need a hospital near home or a specific hospitals, availability could be an issue,” said a hospital administrator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ama-asks-cm-to-reserve-beds-for-locals/articleshow/78304727.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two held for cheating developer of Rs 125 crore||MUMBAI: The city economic offences wing (EOW) arrested two persons for breach of trust causing a loss of Rs 125 crore to a developer. Rajesh Chhabria (51) and Praful Chheda (60), shopkeepers from Malad, were arrested and EOW is on the lookout for another accused. Bhavesh Sheth, a developer, had lodged a complaint with EOW this year, stating that he entered into an agreement with a trust to redevelop a 9,500 sq ft space with 14 commercial shops in Malad. Sheth told police the trust gave him redevelopment rights and power of attorney between 2005-10. He said sometime back he learnt that some of the trust’s office bearers had entered into another agreement with the accused without his knowledge and gave them development rights. When the other developer started construction Sheth learnt about the rights being given to another party, said a police officer. Inspector Pradip Kerkar is probing the case. Police suspect the 14 shopkeepers had given Rs 1 crore each to the trust office-bearers. Sheth said he had paid Rs 15 crore to the trust. When police asked about the delay in starting the redevelopment project, they said a portion of the site came under the heritage category and hence took time for completing formalities and taking permission. “The victim said he suffered a loss of Rs125 crore, which was the project cost,” added the officer. The two have been remanded to police custody till September 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-shopkeepers-held-for-cheating-developer-of-rs125cr/articleshow/78304168.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 25, 2020||India||Mini Lok Sabha session saw record productivity||NEW DELHI: Adjourned sine die eight days ahead of its scheduled duration, the curtailed monsoon session of Lok Sabha witnessed a record 167% productivity with several key bills passed although the opposition walked out of the proceedings on the last day in protest against the fracas that took place in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. Read AlsoLok Sabha passes three labour codes amid boycott by oppositionThe Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed three labour codes amid boycott of the House proceedings by several opposition parties, including the Congress, in protest against the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members.Lok Sabha passed 25 bills and 16 were reintroduced as the government had laid out its agenda of getting the bills cleared, many of them ordinances. While 37 hours were scheduled in the 10 sittings that took place in 10 days without a single break, the House worked for over 60 hours, including weekends. While 68% of the time was for legislative business, the remaining was used for Zero Hour and debates. Speaker O P Birla said, “This session was being held under unprecedented times, am glad that all members rose to the occasion and placed their duties as public representatives on their topmost priority.” Read AlsoOpposition walkout in Rajya Sabha gives govt walkover on 7 billsWith opposition benches in the Rajya Sabha empty — their occupants walked out on Tuesday saying they would boycott proceedings until the suspension of eight MPs was revoked — the House passed seven bills, including one for return to the Lok Sabha, in a record time of three and a half hours. ApartIn Zero Hour, 370 MPs raised issues, including 88 who spoke on September 20 when the House went past midnight. As many as 181 issues of public importance were raised via Rule 377 and 855 papers tabled by ministers. Out of 78 women MPs, 60 spoke during the 10 day proceedings. Besides, 2,300 unstarred questions were answered by the government. “You have become the hero of the Zero Hour", parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told Birla while appreciating him for conducting proceedings of the House during the challenging time of Covid-19 pandemic. As the session was shortened due to the pandemic, private member business was skipped. Therefore, no private member bill was introduced or discussed. Several important bills were passed in the monsoon of the parliament this year. Some of them include the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment And Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and the Amendment to 1955 Essential Commodities Bill, The FCRA Amendment Bill, Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, and three labour code bills—The Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, The Code On Social Security, and The Industrial Relations Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mini-lok-sabha-session-saw-record-productivity/articleshow/78306586.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Puducherry||74 antique TN temple idols seized from house in Pondy||Puducherry: An idol wing team of the Tamil Nadu police on Thursday raided a house on Roman Rolland Street in the former French quarters in Puducherry town and seized 74 antique idols.The house belongs to Jean-Paul Rajarathinam. Of the 60 metal and 14 stone idols seized, Lord Nataraja and Goddess Ambal idols were about three-foot-tall, while others were between one and three feet in height. The artefacts may be more than 100 years old, said inspector general of police (idol wing CID) T S Anbu. They may have been stolen from various TN temples over the years, he said.The officer said the team had seized documents dated 1976 claiming ownership of the idols, and the records will be checked for their genuineness. The seized items included deities of Ardhanarishara, Shiva and Parvathi and Alingana Pradosa Murthy, among others. Acting on a tip-off, the team, led by Superintendent of Police (Idol Wing CID) R Sakthivel, searched the house of Jean-Paul Rajarathinam for four hours based on a warrant issued by a special court. The SP said steps were on to identify the temples from where these idols could have been stolen.The idols would be returned to these temples, the SP said.India Pride project cofounder S Vijaykumar said stolen temple idols were being smuggled out of the country through Puducherry since 1920s. There are many temples that belong to Chola and Pallava periods unknown to the public in Puducherry and Karaikal. Like Tamil Nadu, several deities have been stolen from Puducherry and Karaikal temples, too, he said.“Puducherry needs a special unit like TN idol wing to undertake an audit to trace stolen idols. As per the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, anyone possessing any antique item that’s more than 100 years old must get a certificate from the ASI after producing valid proof for the source of the item. ASI will conduct an inquiry, check and ascertain the antiquity and issue a certificate. It gives ownership of the item and the owner can sell the item within India but cannot export it,” he said.The operation is a follow-up to a similar raid at the house of Rajarathinam’s sister Mary Teresa in 2016 in which 11 antique idols were seized. The seized artifacts included dancing god Nataraja, idols of Shiva and Parvathi, Somaskanda (Shiva with his consort Uma and Skanda as a child), Mahishasura Mardini and Amman, among others. The idols were worth several crores of rupees. The value of the three-and-a-half-ft Nataraja idol alone was estimated at 31 crore. Pushparajan, an art gallery proprietor, and Ranjith Kumar, a carpenter, were arrested for their involvement in idol theft and smuggling. The brother-sister duo claimed that the idols were the properties inherited from their ancestors.In February 2017, the idol wing CID team nabbed five people on charges of stealing idols from temples and attempting to smuggle the priceless antique pieces to foreign countries. The team also seized a one-and-a-half-ft idol of Lord Vinayaga reportedly stolen from a temple in Mayiladuthurai in Nagapattinam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/74-antique-tn-temple-idols-seized-from-house-in-pondy/articleshow/78304739.cms||Bosco Dominique
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||‘Every 3rd diesel loco failed in 180 days of overhauling’||Lucknow: In its latest audit report, the comptroller and auditor general of India has found that within 180 days of periodic overhauling (POH), every third diesel and every sixth electric locomotive engine failed to perform during train operations. The audit was conducted for the period between 2012 and 2017, and it revealed that defective material, faulty equipment and poor inspection were the main reasons for the failure of locomotives. In six diesel loco workshops (DLWS), 37% (641 of 1,715) engines failed within 180 days of their POH. In six electric loco workshops (ELWS), 18% (293 of 1,647) locos failed within 180 days of their POH. The rate of failure was more than 50% for diesel locomotives overhauled in Eastern Railway (ER), North Western Railway (NWR) and South Eastern Railway (SER). For instance, ER Jamalpur DLWS reported 57% loco failure, while SER Kharagpur DLWS reported 52% loco failure in 180 days. For electric locos, ER Kanchrapara workshop reported 37% and Northern Railway Lucknow workshop reported 35% failure. CAG claimed that defective material, faulty equipment and poor inspection were the main reasons for failure as cited by the railway zones. The audit further observed that of the total 10,391 diesel and 6,190 electric loco failures during the review period, 5,363 and 2,800 failures (52% 45%) respectively, were after their scheduled maintenance by loco sheds. More than 60% failures were in just 10 loco sheds. “These were on account of defective material. High value items such as crankshafts, engine blocks, power assembly, traction motors, alternators, under gears, transformers and turbo super chargers failed within warranty period. The rate of such failure increased by 62% and 58% for diesel and electric locos respectively in 2016-17 as compared to 2012-13. This indicated poor material management,” said CAG. In its review of records of unscheduled repairs at the selected 16 diesel loco sheds and 12 electric loco sheds, CAG noticed that 17,530 such repairs for diesel and 22,078 for electric were undertaken during 2012-17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/every-3rd-diesel-loco-failed-in-180-days-of-overhauling/articleshow/78305660.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 25, 2020||Dehradun||CM orders probe into allegations levelled by min against IAS officer||Dehradun: Taking a serious note of the matter where state minister Rekha Arya wrote a letter to Dehradun DIG Arun Mohan Joshi a few days ago claiming that IAS officer V Shanmugam had not been responding to her calls and messages and she feared he had “either been kidnapped or gone underground”, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday ordered a high-level probe by a senior IAS officer. The CM has given directions to chief secretary Om Prakash in this regard. Rekha Arya is the state minister for women welfare and child development and V Shanmugam is a director in the department. In her letter to the DIG on September 22, Arya wrote that she had last communicated with the IAS officer on September 19 and he had been "missing" since. The minister claimed that she suspected that the officer may have been "kidnapped or gone underground". After her complaint, the Dehradun police found that the officer was in self-isolation due to Covid-19. Notably, the minister had earlier said, "Even if the IAS officer is unwell, he needs to inform the department and the seniors. He is violating the service manuals by not caring to respond to the calls or turning up to discuss important issues pertaining to the department and the assembly session."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-probe-into-allegations-levelled-by-min-against-ias-officer/articleshow/78301851.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||New Town cycle-sharing app to be back next week||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is scheduled to relaunch the much anticipated app-based public bicycle sharing scheme on September 29. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the scheme would be re-launched with 100 app-based bicycles that will hit the streets of the township. “Another 400 e-bicycles will be introduced in the township by the end of this year,” he added. According to officials, five docking stations will also be launched on September 29. “There will be total 21 docking stations in several places, where the dedicated cycle tracks are being laid. All the docking stations are expected to come up by Durga Puja,” said an official. The NKDA signed an agreement with a firm this month for the relaunch of the scheme. Earlier, it had to be discontinued due to financial and other issues. The bicycles procured by the NKDA for the relaunch of the scheme have three gear settings. People can ride the bicycles by installing the app and linking it with the digital wallet. The fare of the ride is likely to be Rs 5 for 30 minutes, Rs 10 for an hour and Rs 15 for every half an hour thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-cycle-sharing-app-to-be-back-next-week/articleshow/78304746.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat reports 1,408 new Covid cases, 14 deaths||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday recorded 1,408 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 1.28 lakh. After a day’s break, the daily cases in state again reached above 1,400. The new cases in Gujarat included 278 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 147 from Rajkot, 133 from Vadodara, and 98 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 35,757, 27,307, 11,280 and 8,317 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 14 positive patients, taking the total to 3,384. The deaths in Gujarat included five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two from Vadodara and one from Gandhinagar. The deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 1,794, 745, 174 and 132 respectively. A total of 1,510 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1,09,211. It was the second highest number of daily discharges in the state. The discharges include 311 from Rajkot, 276 from Surat, 123 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Jamnagar, and 105 from Vadodara. There are now 16,354 active cases in the state, which is 12.7% of total cases. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 2.6% and 84.7% now. Gujarat in these 24 hours carried out 61,904 tests, taking the total to 40.48 lakh. The state health department officials said that the figure is 952 tests per day per million population. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.98 lakh persons under quarantine - out of total, 384 were under institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-reports-1408-cases-14-deaths-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/78304755.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bhopal||Mandi will remain closed today as farmers plan protests in Mandsaur||Bhopal: Throwing their weight behind various farmers’ organisations in the state, which have been gearing up for widespread agitation on September 25, the Mandsaur farmers have said that mandi there will remain closed today.The new Farm Bills brought by Modi government have caused a nationwide farmers’ stir. The farmers’ organisations in the state have pledged support to the September 25 nationwide agitation, cutting across party lines.Criticising the centre, farmers said the NDA was acting under the pressure exerted by America and the Bills would benefit “some business houses” in the country. Unaware of the din created over the issue, the ordinary farmer of the state, however, is still busy dealing with the issues affecting his livelihood, including crop damage. “Most of us don’t understand these political issues till some leaders come and explain them to us”, said Beni Prasad a marginal farmer in a remote village of Chhatarpur district in Bundelkhand region of MP.Farmers’ organisations are busy preparing for agitations in the coming days, said a prominent farmers’ leader of Madhya Pradesh, Shivkmar Sharma alias Kakkaji. He said, “Mandsaur goli kand of 2017 is now a symbol of injustice not only to the farmers of the state but for the whole country. At that time, farmers were not getting good price for their produce. As a result they protested against the government, which resulted in killing of six of them in Mandsaur protest. But sad part is that farmers are still not getting proper price.” Triveni Dutt Tripathi, general secretary of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh said, “We will start rallies from September 30 across the state to create awareness among the farmers over the issue of these bills.”Anil Yadav, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union added, “We will hold protest on September 25 against the bills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mandi-will-remain-closed-today-as-farmers-plan-protests-in-mandsaur/articleshow/78304738.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Toll rates to rise from October 1; Rs 40 for cars, Rs 130 for trucks, buses||MUMBAI: Toll rates at Mumbai entry point booths at Vashi, Mulund, LBS Marg, Airoli and Dahisar will go up from October 1. The one-way toll for a passenger car, which was Rs35, will now be Rs40. A state government notification said for toll recovery against cost of flyovers, bridges, subways and road development besides maintenance, the increase of roughly 18% in rates is made effective every three years. The toll of Rs35 has been constant for six years. The new rates will be applicable till September 30, 2023. For light commercial vehicles (LCVs), the toll has been increased by Rs10 one-way to Rs65, and for trucks and buses by Rs25 each way to Rs130. For multi-axle vehicles (MAVs), the increase is of Rs25, to Rs160. In September 2002, a toll was introduced at Vashi, Mulund, LBS, Airoli and Dahisar, and it was extended in 2010 on the pretext of maintenance. The collection contract will continue till September 2027. Mumbai Entry Point Toll Ltd (MEPL) is expected to generate a cash flow of over Rs11,500 crore by 2027. MEP had paid Rs 2,100 crore upfront in 2010 to the state as part of the contract. If one considers the bank loan interest, maintenance cost and other charges over 17 years, Mumbaikars paid more than 10 times the initial cost of Rs 2,100 crore by 2017. The expansion of Vashi bridge lanes to 12 may add the toll period there till 2039.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/toll-rates-to-rise-from-oct-1-rs40-for-cars-rs130-for-trucks-buses/articleshow/78304169.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Fire dept launches spl equipment||Kolkata: The Bengal fire services department on Thursday introduced a few equipment to fight devastating incidents in areas where fire officials or fire tenders cannot reach. The equipment include four robotic fire-fighters, five multipurpose foam tenders, 100 motorcycle fire tenders and 10 mini water tenders. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in presence of fire services minister Sujit Bose, director general of fire service, Jag Mohan, inaugurated the equipment. “These are special equipment to battle with special cases. There are several alleys and congested areas in the city, where fire-fighting becomes a challenge,” said an official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-dept-launches-spl-equipment/articleshow/78304777.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||One KYC crook held in Ahmedabad, 3 from Jamtara, Giridih||AHMEDABAD: In a daring operation, two teams of the city cyber cell entered Naxal affected areas in Jharkhand dressed as tourists and held three persons on Tuesday, one from Giridh and two from Jamtara. The accused ran a racket of cheating people by scaring them over phone and convincing them to part with credit card details to purportedly update their e-wallet ‘know your customer’ (KYC) data. After learning details, they used to steal money from the credit cards or e-wallet linked bank accounts. In connection with the racket, one Gausulvara Ansari was also arrested from Maninagar, Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Ansari hails from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Investigators said the operations in Jharkhand and Ahmedabad were carried out on the same day so the crooks didn’t have time to warn each other. With the help of local police in Jharkhand, city cybercrime officials arrested Shivkumar Anandprasad Gupta from Giridih and Ajay and Kundan Mandal from Jamtara. The mastermind of the racket, Govind Mandal, is still at large. Cybercrime officials said Ansari and Gupta are currently in their custody, while Ajay and Kundan Mandal are being interrogated in Jamtara by their team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-kyc-crook-held-in-city-3-from-jamtara-giridih/articleshow/78304908.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Seventh Pune cop succumbs to infection||Pune: A 56-year-old assistant sub-inspector of the Pune police succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday morning, taking the toll of uniformed personnel to seven in the city, so far. The deceased was posted with the Chatushrungi police station. According to the police, he tested positive for the virus on August 24 and was admitted to the Command Hospital on August 25. He passed away in the hospital on Thursday morning. The man is survived by his wife, son and daughter, police said In another incident, a retired assistant sub-inspector (58) died on Thursday morning in a private hospital. He had opted for voluntary retirement and retired on August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seventh-pune-cop-succumbs-to-infection/articleshow/78305678.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Govt deploys drug controllers to monitor oxygen plants||Jaipur: Since the last seven days, more Covid-19 patients are getting admitted to ICUs and are being put on ventilators increasing the load on oxygen requirement for treatment. As on Tuesday, there were 394 patients in ICUs and 153 on ventilators in the city. Amid increasing need for oxygen, drug controllers are keeping an eye on private oxygen generation plants on a daily basis. On September 17, 268 patients were in ICUs and 85 on ventilators. Patients admitted to ICUs nearly got doubled from September 17 to September 22. During the same period, patient occupancy in ICUs has increased significantly from 268 to 394. Patients on oxygen beds were more or less the same as on September 17. Viewing increasing demand of oxygen for medical purposes, health minister Raghu Sharma has appointed drug controller (state) to keep a watch on oxygen manufacturing firms and companies in Jaipur district to ensure adequate supply to corona patients in the state. In Jaipur, 20KL oxygen is being supplied daily from a private firm in Bhiwadi as the demand is continuously increasing for Covid patients. Sharma said serious patients need more medical oxygen gas. Currently, looking at the increasing requirement of medical oxygen gas at all hospitals in the city, the need for medical oxygen gas has increased. He said there is sufficient arrangement of medical oxygen gas in hospitals and Covid centres. Drug controller (state) Rajaram Sharma said officers have been appointed at medical gas manufacturing units in Jaipur district. He said they have been directed to be present at the manufacturing units daily and monitor production, sale and all other activities till further orders besides sending reports to Mahendra Singh Shekhawat, assistant drug controller (nodal officer), Jaipur, daily. Former health minister and BJP leader Kalicharan Saraf alleged that the government failed to ensure availability of oxygen for Covid patients and also ICUs and ventilators were not sufficient. He said, “The state government should immediately convert SMS Hospital into Covid hospital so that patients get proper treatment,” said Saraf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-deploys-drug-controllers-to-monitor-oxygen-plants/articleshow/78304750.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC quashes FIR in Bhuj college stripping controversy||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court quashed an FIR against four persons including the principal of Bhuj college after they struck a compromise with the students in the matter of the stripping of 66 girl students to check if they were menstruating. Besides the compromise between the accused and students, the HC also said that the offences alleged were not so serious that the HC may not use its discretion to quash the FIR. The incident had taken place at the Shree Sahajanand Girls Institute in Bhuj and police arrested four persons – the college principal Rita Raninga, institute coordinator Anita Chauhan, the girls’ hostel supervisor Ramila Hirani and a peon, Naina Gorasia. The arrests took place after a furore when news of the undressing of the girls came into the public domain. Members of the National Commission of Women came down and an SIT was formed to investigate the issue. However, six months later, the student who had taken the initiative to lodge an FIR against the four for discrimination against menstruating girls and for making them take off their clothes, settled the dispute with them and filed an affidavit in the high court to support the quashing petition filed by the four accused. The student partly blamed the media for the registration of the FIR. She stated, “...the dispute cropped up owing to heated media intervention and also chaos created in the campus. The quarrel between the complainant and the present applicants has been resolved amicably with the intervention of the family members of the students and after being given the complete understanding of the set of facts, the informant and other girls understood the entire incident in its proper sense and hence the applicants have no protest if the impugned FIR is quashed.” Justice A C Joshi quashed the FIR observing, “It would be a futile exercise if the trial shall take place and the purpose of the same would not be served and therefore in humble view of this court, it would be just and proper to quash the aforesaid FIR.” In quashing the FIR, the court said, “The offences are not so grave which invite the latest law of the land that whenever there is serious offence, in that case, the high court may not exercise discretion under Section 482 of the CrPC, but in the present case, the offences are less serious in nature.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-fir-in-bhuj-college-stripping-controversy/articleshow/78304757.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt’s deal with Sprinklr ends||Thiruvananthapuram: As the agreement with Sprinklr Inc, that was hired to collect Covid-19 data from citizens and analyze them, expires on Thursday, all eyes are on the two-member committee constituted by the government to examine if the firm had breached data protection and if proper procedure was followed while hiring the firm. The two-member committee was constituted by the government on April 20 to examine mainly three aspects: whether privacy of citizens have been adequately protected under the arrangement with Sprinklr Inc, whether adequate procedures have been followed while finalizing the agreement with the firm and whether deviations, if any, were fair, justified and reasonable considering the extraordinary and critical situation that the state was facing. The committee consisted of former civil aviation secretary M Madhavan Nambiar and former health secretary of state Rajeev Sadanandan. When the government appointed Sadanandan as adviser to the chief minister on health-related affairs in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the committee was reconstituted by replacing him by cyber security expert Gulshan Rai. The fresh committee, with the same terms of reference as the previous one, has been given time till October 10 to submit the report. The committee is presently awaiting data from the server for finalizing its report. “We are hoping to submit the report within the stipulated time. We are examining all the aspects that have been mandated to us in the terms of reference and the observations made by the high court in this regard,” said Nambiar. The government had roped in Sprinklr Inc for Covid-19 data collection and analysis on March 25, with an agreement that the pact will be for either six months or till Covid-19 outbreak is under control. However, after the first month, the matter ran into controversy when it came out that the government had engaged the firm without following necessary procedure, including going for a bid. In an unprecedented step, the then IT secretary M Sivasankar reached out the media and coalition partner CPI explaining why the company’s services were availed. However, the controversies never ceased to exist. The government disclosed documents of the agreement with Sprinklr, and data was transferred to C-DIT for maintenance. The agreement between the firm and the government had also said that, if required, both parties can extend the services after the contract period is over. However, in the wake of the controversies, the government has decided not to extend Sprinklr’s services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govts-deal-with-sprinklr-ends/articleshow/78303188.cms||KP Saikiran
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Water works dept seeks nod to chop 50 trees for pipeline in Bharat Van area||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s water works department has sought permission to chop 50 big trees between Telangkhedi and Ravi Nagar to lay a pipeline. This is almost along the route of the proposed Bharat Van road, which was dropped after TOI’s continuous campaign and tremendous people’s support, saving hundreds of trees. A senior official from NMC’s garden department confirmed that an application from the water works department has been submitted to their office. The proposal stated that it needed permission to cut the trees along the alignment of pipeline to be laid from Seminary Hills to Ram Nagar. “The water pipeline laying work is part of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) to strengthen the city’s water supply network in unauthorized layouts and slums. Subsequently, the department has entrusted a central government agency WAPCOS to lay pipeline from Seminary Hills water reservoir to Ram Nagar,” said an official from the water works department. “All the 47 trees need to be chopped in phase-wise manner to ensure piped water in west Nagpur,” said an official from the water works department. NMC’s garden department official said the department’s permission to cut trees of different species — including neem, amaltas, chichbilai, timber, peltrafarm, cashea, karanji and sessu — will be based on their survey. “We will jointly carry out re-survey along the alignment and our intention would be to save as many trees as we can,” the official said. He added that since it was a drinking water supply project it could not be rejected directly. Green activists questioned the alignment submitted by the water works department. Instead of the short route from Seminary Hills to Ram Nagar, which would be along the roads from PWD shopping complex, the department has chosen the longest route to lay the pipeline via Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research — Telangkhedi — Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran — Prahar School (water tank) — Ravi Nagar to Ambazari. The shorter route will require land of many bungalows allotted to senior officials and judges, said activists. Green activist Shrikant Deshpande expressed anguish over the water works department’s move and said, “It seems that all government agencies like state PWD, NMC, MahaMetro etc have taken an oath to damage city’s lung space — Civil Lines and Telangkhedi area.” He further pointed out that NMC’s water works department should have worked in coordination with state PWD, which had widened the existing road where it intends to lay pipelines. “Had there been better coordination, the PWD road work could have left space for laying the water pipeline,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/water-works-dept-seeks-nod-to-chop-50-trees-for-pipeline-in-bharat-van-area/articleshow/78304799.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||‘46% new locomotive engines broke down within 100 days’||LUCKNOW: Indian Railway recently claimed breaking record of producing maximum locomotives in a year, but the CAG has raised questions over the quality of the engines manufactured between 2012 and 2017. The audit revealed that 46% of locomotive engines produced in the period failed within 100 days of their commissioning. CAG report mentions that 696 new diesel locomotives were commissioned from 2012-17, but 232 (33%) failed within 50 days, and 94 (14%) within 100 days. Similarly, out of 330 electric locomotives, 77 (23%) broke down within 50 days and 68 (21%) in 100 days of commissioning. Audit was conducted at 15 diesel loco sheds at Kalyan, Andal, Samastipur, Visakhapatnam, Lucknow, Jhansi, Gonda, New Guwahati, Abu Road, Erode, Gooty, Kharagpur, Krishnarajapuram, New Katni Jn and Sabarmati. Among the electric loco sheds, those at Bhusawal, Asansol, Mugalsarai, Angul, Ludhiana, Kanpur, Erode, Vijayawada, Itarsi and Valsad were audited. The CAG report further specifies that 648 new diesel and 417 new electric locos failed on 1,315 and 459 occasions respectively within the warranty period. Following these failures, 2,595 claims for repair or replacement were lodged for diesel and 552 for electric locos by the zonal railways with the production units. The claims of each failed part took an average of 37 days for diesel and 26 days for electric locos. CAG report says the use of defective material in manufacturing and bad workmanship in handling were the main causes of failure of the locos. The production units could not monitor the quality of material supplied for manufacturing by various firms and the failure of components adversely impacted the quality of in-house production. Further, failure within the warranty period resulted in additional expenditure and wastage of loco working days. Commenting on the CAG findings, the railway board stated that large numbers of defaulting vendors were black listed to ensure no more defective material is used in manufacturing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/46-new-locomotive-engines-broke-down-within-100-days/articleshow/78305680.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Gangs extending operations beyond Delhi to dodge police||NEW DELHI: Gangs involved in non-heinous crimes are now including two-three states in an operation to avoid detection. For example, a crime like theft from a car or an ATM is being committed in Delhi while the booty is swiftly despatched to states like Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh for safe-keeping and eventual disposal. Gang members themselves go to a third state to hide till the police pressure becomes less. Recently, several gangs involved in cyber frauds, thefts and carjacking were busted in south Delhi. Investigations in a recent case have revealed gang members seldom spoke on phone and used apps to avoid detection. The gangs even collaborated with groups in other states, the probe shows. Such a modus operandi was earlier used by criminals involved in heinous crimes. Following a recent crackdown on receivers of stolen properties, police have found that these were often sold to several criminals in Jhinjhana, Uttar Pradesh. “Several gangs busted in Maidangarhi were traced to Jamtara in Rajasthan and several districts in Uttar Pradesh. These criminals also hire same lawyers to apply for bail,” said an officer. “We have also noticed that many Delhi-based criminals are leaving their own space for those from other states. Recently, a Scorpio car was stolen from Chhatarpur and the accused was traced in Bihar’s Buxar, who told us that a criminal in Delhi had sent him pictures of various cars. The south Delhi-based criminal became a watchdog during the theft,” he added. In some cases, criminals would pass on stolen mobile phones to third parties through latters’ relatives. “In such cases, an entire UP village would sometimes turn up to protest when we raided it to arrest the accused and even attack police personnel,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (South). Various gangs in south Delhi are working on a partnership basis with gangs in Haryana, too, police said. The catapult gang, which used to target cars to steal laptops and bags, was busted recently and four people were arrested who revealed that they had tied up with a receiver in Haryana for selling stolen goods. “In many cases, gang members used voice over internet protocol and apps for communication to avoid detection,” said Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gangs-extending-ops-beyond-city-to-dodge-police/articleshow/78305689.cms||Sakshi Chand
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||PHED: Potable water supplied to 85% of fluoride-hit areas||Jaipur: The PHED claimed that out of 6,849 habitations affected by fluoride in the state, 85% target have been achieved to provide safe drinking water in these areas. Drinking water supply has been achieved in 5,815 habitations, while work is in progress in this direction in the remaining 1,034 habitations. Principal secretary (PHED) Rajesh Yadav on Thursday reviewed the works under the ‘National Water Quality Sub Mission’ (NWQSM) in the state and directed the officials to complete the work in remaining 15% fluoride affected habitations with safe drinking water in a phased manner by December. He said the additional chief engineer should give top priority to this work by continuous monitoring and send progress reports regularly. He directed all the additional chief engineers and superintendent engineers to take seriously the task of collecting and examining samples of drinking water in the areas under them. Assistant engineers and junior engineers in the districts should also focus equally on the task of ‘sample-collection’ whenever they go on field visits. Engineers should also take the chemist with them during the tour to ensure timely collection of water samples from urban and rural areas as per the target, he said. It was informed in the meeting that 15,321 samples of drinking water have been tested in the state in the current financial year till the end of August, of which 5,718 have been entered online. In the meeting, department officials were also instructed to coordinate with all district collectors and local representatives for utilizing the amount of DMFT funds in districts for water-to-house works under Jal Mission project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-potable-water-supplied-to-85-of-fluoride-hit-areas/articleshow/78304829.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Vadodara||Lost woman and four kids rescued, all test Covid +ve||Vadodara: Seeing a woman accompanied by four small children roaming on the streets of Dahod would not strike anything amiss at first glance. However, their aimless venturing caught an individual’s attention who brought it to the notice of Abhayam helpline service. What the helpline found out was indeed horrifying. Not only was this mother and four children lost, but to make matters worst, were Covid infected too. However, taken care of by the ‘Sakhi – One Stop Centre’ at Dahod, the story ended on a happy note with the reunion with their family. Spotting the woman with three girls and a boy on the streets seemingly lost and nowhere to go, the citizen called on Abhayam helpline on September. They were taken to the Sakhi centre and counselled where it came to light that the woman seemed incoherent and mentally unstable. Also, she was speaking in Kashmiri, making conversations difficult for the officials. “One of her daughters could speak Hindi and told us that they had left from Uttar Pradesh (UP) to go to Mumbai. However, realising they boarded a wrong train, the five got down in Dahod. The woman was from Kashmir and was married to a man from Uttar Pradesh who works in Mumbai and she wanted to go and stay with him,” said coordinator of the Sakhi centre, Sandhya Dindor. Further conversations revealed that owing to her mental condition, her family decided to wed her younger sister to her husband to take care of her children and the household. “This was done to ensure that children did not suffer,” said Dindor, adding that this led to frequent fights and the woman would leave home time and again. This time around she took her children along in an attempt to go to Mumbai to her husband, Dindor added. The woman also did not have any correct address in Mumbai and left the village in UP in a huff. The counsellors could manage to ascertain her residential address and other details in two days, while their samples were also collected for Covid-19 testing. The woman, two daughters and the son tested positive and were taken to the Covid-19 hospital for treatment where they stayed till September 18 till full recovery. In the meantime, with the help of the daughter who was able to communicate with the counsellors and officials, the husband was identified who reached Dahod a day before the woman was discharged from the hospital. The counsellors at the centre also counselled him along with the woman was later allowed her to leave with him along with their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lost-woman-and-four-kids-rescued-all-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78301594.cms||Sachin Sharma
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow boy’s education software bags Finland prize||LUCKNOW: A software to make learning science fun and easy has won an international award for innovation in Finland. The educational software has been developed by a startup founded by 21-year-old Lucknow boy Ahmad Faraaz and two of his friends. The competition was organized by Finland trade union Akava, a government body in Finland. Developed by Faraaz, Harshit Awasthi of Kanpur and Sashakt Tripathi from Kota, Rajasthan, the tool is called ‘Kalam’s Lab’. It is based on ‘augmented reality’ a technology that helps bring science to life by giving a visual representation of scientific concepts in the form of 3D images and illustrations, making science easy for 8 to 15-year-old students. The project by the three computer engineering students at Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, was the only Indian innovation at the international competition named ‘Hacking Higher Education Finland 2020’, where around 1,400 participants from across the globe presented education tools. The software was made in a span of six months from March to August during the lockdown. Kalam’s Lab won in the category ‘higher education developer of the year’, defeating innovations from UK, Finland, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Spain and others. The finale was held live on various social media platforms from Helsinki National Studio. “The three of us had launched our startup last year to make science tools that not only inculcate scientific temper but give practical knowledge, promote easy ways to memorise and help understand concepts from any branch of science through a virtual science tour. We made Kalam’s Lab during the lockdown in six months,” said Faraaz. Augmented reality, he said, can be defined as next-generation virtual reality (VR) and enables one to visualize the reality of an object better. Augmented reality includes systems and applications supporting such an environment and for enhancing user experience, he added. Using the software on a smartphone or laptop, students will be able to project concepts into physical surroundings and learn by experimenting. Concepts from electricity and optics to animal cell and distillation and many more are explained using the software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-boys-edu-software-bags-finland-prize/articleshow/78305694.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||TRAI’s fake BPO plaint||Kolkata: Telecom Regulatory Authority of India has lodged an FIR alleging that a fake BPO was issuing forged permission letters to set up cellphone towers. Debjit Saha, senior research officer at TRAI’s Kolkata regional unit, has complained that some unidentified people entered into criminal conspiracy and created a fake website with URL — www.traiindia.in — to issue forged no objection certificates for mobile tower installation. They charged even Rs 12,560 for this. In another case, Alok Jain, a Bally resident and dealer of a laptop company, alleged that he sold 25 laptops to a fake BPO only to find that it was shut down a day after the delivery. The accused promised full payment worth around Rs 15 lakh to the dealer but the latter not receive it. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trais-fake-bpo-plaint/articleshow/78304811.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 25, 2020||Surat||‘Key accused sexually exploited addicted girls’||SURAT: Salman alias Aman Mohammed Hanif Zaveri, the prime accused in the massive mephedrone trafficking racket busted in the city, also allegedly sexually exploited young girls after getting them addicted to the party drug. Police investigation revealed that Salman was keeping relationships with young girls after making them drug addicts. Police found two such girls, who are around 20 years old. They were in regular touch with Salman and used to spend long hours with him. Police suspect that Salman befriended these girls with fake names and got them into consuming drug by initially supplying them for free. “Later, he started charging money from them. When they were not able to pay, he started sexually exploiting them,” said a police officer close to investigations. It has also come to light that Salman had kept several houses in the city to run his drug racket where he also exploited these young girls. Police have started tracing details of the residences used by him and recovered five out of the several mobile phones that he was using. Police found at least 11 phones from Salman’s younger brother, a minor, who is suspected to be knowing about the racket. Cops are investigating his background as well. Salman had rented an apartment near Dumas beach to store the contraband and supply it to nearby hotels, weekend homes and farm houses. The properties around Dumas road are popular party destinations for the city's youngsters and therefore he created a set-up in the area. Police had recovered 1011.82 gram mephedrone worth Rs one crore from Salman when he was going in his car on Dumas Road on Tuesday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/key-accused-sexually-exploited-addicted-girls/articleshow/78302662.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 25, 2020||Bhopal||Mask remark was wrong, against PM feelings: MP home minister Narottam Mishra||INDORE: A day after he shot back at a reporter that he “does not wear masks”, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday apologised for it, twice. In his first tweet of the day, at 8.45am, he said: “I felt that my statement seemed to violate the law. It was not in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s feelings. I accept my mistake and express regret.” He promised that he would wear masks and appealed to people to do the same and follow social distancing. Then, at 10.28am, he followed it up with a video apology and tweeted: “Whatever I said about masks the other day was completely wrong and against the feelings of the PM. I was anguished by my own words.” In the video statement, he added: “Sometimes, we say something that is against what our heart says… I admit my mistake. I appeal to everyone to follow all Covid precautions.” Better late than never, says CongressTaking a dig over Mishra’s apology, Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja tweeted, “Morning – I don’t wear mask…. Evening – I have a problem related to breathing (polyps)…. Very Next Day – I accept the mistake and express regret. My statement was not in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s feelings. Now, I will wear mask….. Whatever the truth is but ‘griha mantri Ji’ (home minister), it’s always better late than never.” On Wednesday, Mishra was seen without a mask at both the public events he attended in Indore. When reporters asked him about it, he shot back: “I don’t wear (masks). I do not wear a mask at any event. So what?” Later in the evening, the home minister sought to explain by saying that he has been suffering from nasal polyps and felt ‘suffocated’ if he wore a mask for a long period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mask-remark-was-wrong-against-pm-feelings-narottam/articleshow/78304842.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Indore||Mask remark was wrong, against PM feelings: MP home minister Narottam Mishra||INDORE: A day after he shot back at a reporter that he “does not wear masks”, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday apologised for it, twice. In his first tweet of the day, at 8.45am, he said: “I felt that my statement seemed to violate the law. It was not in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s feelings. I accept my mistake and express regret.” He promised that he would wear masks and appealed to people to do the same and follow social distancing. Then, at 10.28am, he followed it up with a video apology and tweeted: “Whatever I said about masks the other day was completely wrong and against the feelings of the PM. I was anguished by my own words.” In the video statement, he added: “Sometimes, we say something that is against what our heart says… I admit my mistake. I appeal to everyone to follow all Covid precautions.” Better late than never, says CongressTaking a dig over Mishra’s apology, Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja tweeted, “Morning – I don’t wear mask…. Evening – I have a problem related to breathing (polyps)…. Very Next Day – I accept the mistake and express regret. My statement was not in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s feelings. Now, I will wear mask….. Whatever the truth is but ‘griha mantri Ji’ (home minister), it’s always better late than never.” On Wednesday, Mishra was seen without a mask at both the public events he attended in Indore. When reporters asked him about it, he shot back: “I don’t wear (masks). I do not wear a mask at any event. So what?” Later in the evening, the home minister sought to explain by saying that he has been suffering from nasal polyps and felt ‘suffocated’ if he wore a mask for a long period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mask-remark-was-wrong-against-pm-feelings-narottam/articleshow/78307417.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Power employees booked for misbehaving, snapping electricity on a whim in Aashiana||LUCKNOW: Power department employees first allegedly misbehaved with a resident at Aashiana electricity sub-station and when police intervened, they snapped the electric supply of the police station and nearby localities including hospitals. As a result police lodged an FIR against the sub-station officer and six others. The sub-station officer (SSO) was also arrested and suspended. The sequence of events began on Wednesday night when a resident went to the power sub-station with a complaint stating that cable connecting the power meter at his house with the supply from the pole had caught fire demanding the supply to his house be snapped to avert any major mishap. The SSO, Anil Chaudhary, however, asked the local resident to provide with account number details of the power connection and refused to attend to the complaint till the details were not provided to him. The local resident informed him that his aged mother was alone at home and the matter needed immediate intervention but he refused to pay heed and allegedly started misbehaving with him. When the local resident tried to capture his unruly behaviour on video, Chaudhary and his associate started to throw punches as him and tried to snatch away his mobile phone and threatened him of dire consequences. Thereafter, the locals called the police and Sub Inspector (SI) Dalbir Singh reached the spot. When the police tried to initiate action against the accused, employees of the sub-station, including Prashant Tewari, Ali Ahmed, Dharmendra, Braj Kumar and Deepak, resorted to arm-twisting tactics and snapped the power supply to the police station, residential localities including some hospitals in the area. This triggered panic as locals started gathering at the sub-station. In the meantime police got calls from hospitals stating that the unexpected power cut has come as a serious threat to the life of critical patients on life support as ventilators were not functioning properly. The mob that had gathered at sub-station also got restless leading to a situation which could have led to mob fury. Police, however, swung into action and lodged an FIR against all seven employees of the power house that the power supply was restored. Later, the SSO was suspended by senior officials of the power department and was also arrested by the police. The complainant praised the police, especially ACP Beenu Singh and her team, for the prompt action which prevented any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-employees-booked-for-misbehaving-snapping-electricity-on-a-whim-in-aashiana/articleshow/78305699.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||In a record of sorts, govt to launch 17 new industrial areas across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In a record of sorts, RIICO is set to launch 17 new industrial areas across Rajasthan which will be inaugurated by chief minister any time soon. Despite the pandemic casting a shadow over the investment scenario, RIICO said there is a demand for industrial plots which has been increasing.In any given year, the average number of new industrial areas opened is around three to four. “In 2019-20, RIICO sold 1,242 plots, registering a growth of over 325% compared to the previous year. After the lockdown, in July, August and September, we have been able to allocate 632 plots, which is more than half of the plots auctioned in the whole of 2019-20. It shows there is strong investor appetite,” said Ashutosh Pednekar, managing director of RIICO. Now, all the allotments are done through e-auctions as strategy to bring in higher levels of transparency to the process. Even though RIICO has been able to sell a large number of plots, so far they have not translated into projects on the ground. Industry bodies in the state said that a similar focus needs to be given to attract companies to the state. Pednekar said there is far larger number of people who participated in the e-auctions but could not get plots. “The new industrial areas will give more options to the investors who had missed out on previous e-auctions. So the demand is there,” added RIICO MD. The state government has recently reduced rates of land in new industrial areas between 35-40% which could be an attractive factor. Industry bodies, who preferred anonymity, said that there will be few takers for new industrial areas in far flung areas like Banswara where basic infrastructure is not available. The government wants to spread industrialization across the state which is now concentrated in a few districts. If you leave out Jaipur, Alwar and Jodhpur, the number of industrial units in other districts are very low. Of course some districts like Barmer and Udaipur are home to one or two big companies like Cairn and Hindustan Zinc. But in terms of number of units, they have vast untapped potential. Additionally, many of the industrial areas are aligned to the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC). The DMIC project has remained a non-starter in the state is another matter. However, there is a criticism that new land acquisition has suffered in the past couple of years. “Land acquisition should have the same focus as selling the plots,” said an industry member. Recently, RIICO is more inclined to acquire government land which is cheaper instead of costly private land. But the industry source said that location and infrastructure of government land is not very industry friendly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-record-of-sorts-govt-to-launch-17-new-industrial-areas-across-state/articleshow/78304831.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Google remembers Arati Saha with a doodle||Kolkata: It was a momentous occasion for women in sports when on Thursday Google paid tribute to Indian swimmer Arati Saha on her 80th birth anniversary with a doodle by Kolkata’s illustrator/animator Lavanya Naidu. On September 29, 1959, Saha had covered 42 miles by swimming for 16 hours and 20 minutes from Cape Gris Nez, France to Sandgate, England (a route depicted in the doodle), to become the first Asian woman to swim across the English Channel. In 1960, Saha became the first sportswoman to receive the Padma Shri. Saha was born on September 24, 1940, in Kolkata. Between 1945 and 1951 she won 22 state-level competitions in West Bengal. Arati’s speciality were 100m freestyle, 100m breast stroke and 200m breast stroke. She dominated the nationals in 1948 and at the 1951 West Bengal state meet, she clocked 1 minute 37.6 seconds in 100m breast stroke to set an all-India record. She became the youngest member (and one of only four women) on the first team to represent India in the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, Finland. The Google doodle in memory of Arati SahaAccording to Saha’s daughter Archana Gupta, Google officials had sought her permission in July and asked for her photographs. “She is documented in the English Channel archives. I am happy with the doodle,” Gupta said. Saha hailed from a lower middle class family. “There were financial constraints and Dr Bidhan Chandra Ray had sanctioned Rs 11,000 to help her during her first attempt. When she didn’t succeed in the first trial, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had organized for funds so that she could stay on in England and make another attempt. She also knew Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. But she never had a political colour. Maa didn’t take any favour. That’s perhaps why her achievements have never been propagated. On our personal capacity, we got her bust erected,” she said. Last year, Gupta had gone to Delhi to receive the First Ladies Award that was awarded posthumously to Saha by Maneka Gandhi. “She told me that she had heard stories about my mother from her mother-in-law (Indira Gandhi).” Padma Shri recipient Bula Choudhury, who first crossed the English Channel 30 years after Saha in 1989 and then again in 1999, considers Saha her idol. “It was huge for a woman to dream of crossing the English Channel in 1959. Her life’s story is one of endurance, courage and perseverance. Arati Saha is a brand by herself. As a Bengali, I am proud of her achievement. I would interact with her at the national meets where she was an official. This google doodle has got the whole of India talking about her achievements,” Choudhury said. Choudhury’s swimmer husband Sanjib Chakraborty worked with Saha in the same office headquartered in Garden Reach for South Eastern Railways. “Before Bula crossed the English Channel, Aratidi had told me that I must tell her that the water will be ‘very cold’,” Chakraborty said. He now works as a sports officer — a post that Saha used held once. Saha passed away in 1994. In 1999, Indian Postal Department commemorated her with a postage stamp. Naidu, an avid philatelist, was very excited when Saha’s stamp was issued in Kolkata. While doing the doodle, she tried a few variations before narrowing down on the map concept. According to her, the doodle is a “celebration of female figures in our country’s history and of human resilience”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/google-remembers-arati-saha-with-a-doodle/articleshow/78304843.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||‘Can add name in voters’ list if you turn 18 by Jan 1’||Jaipur: If you are going to complete 18 years of age by January 1 and your name is not in the electoral rolls, then you could add your name to the voters’ list from November 20 under the special brief revision programme announced by the election department. Chief electoral officer (CEO) Praveen Gupta informed that between November 20 and December 21, any eligible person could apply in the prescribed format to the booth level officer at the polling station near his place of residence to get his name added, removed and amended in the voter list. Applications could also be made in the office of electoral registration officer and assistant electoral registration officer. Applications could be submitted by filling the online documents on the Election Commission of India Voter Service Portal (NVSP Portal) and mobile app. He informed that the Election Commission has issued a revised programme for special brief revision of voter lists of all 200 assembly constituencies of the state. Accordingly, the publication of voters list has been extended from November 20, 2020 (Friday) to January 18, 2021 (Monday). On November 29 and December 6, booth level officers will be present at all polling stations in the state between 9am and 6pm and will receive applications for claims and objections. He said during this period booth level agents of recognized national political parties will also be present. The format voter list will be available for common citizens at polling stations. Apart from this, the draft voter list will also be available on the Election Department website ceorajasthan.nic.in. All types of applications will be available with the BLO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/can-add-name-in-voters-list-if-you-turn-18-by-jan-1/articleshow/78304832.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||Carcass of adult male tiger found floating in Pilibhit canal||Pilibhit: A carcass of an adult male tiger was fished out from Hardoi feeder canal near Dandaul bridge by a joint team of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and the forest and wildlife division on Wednesday evening. It has been sent for autopsy to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly to ascertain the exact cause of death.The carcass was spotted around 300 m from the core area of PTR in Deuria forest range. Range officer of Puranpur forest division, Ayyub Hassan, said that he received news of the tiger's carcass in the canal at 7.30pm. The tiger’s age would have been between six and eight years according to its canine teeth, PTR's deputy director Naveen Khandelwal said, adding that the condition of the fur shows that the carcass had remained in water for not more than 10 to 12 hours.Initial autopsy findings, according to sources, suggest that the tiger had a fracture and injuries in its right foreleg while certain abdominal injuries were also present which may indicate that the big cat was hit by a speeding vehicle.“We will send the photographs of the tiger's carcass to the Wildlife Institute of India to find out precisely as to which forest region it actually belonged to. The carcass has drifted a long way by the heavy discharge of the canal," the PTR's deputy director said.This is the fifth such case of tiger carcass found in the canal since 2015. Several tigers and leopards have been found poisoned and ensnared in the area in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/carcass-of-adult-male-tiger-found-floating-in-pilibhit-canal/articleshow/78299754.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid helpline flooded with calls||Helpline 181 is getting flooded with calls related to Covid-19 and other queries. It is proving beneficial for patients who require immediate attention. Most of the calls are received from asymptomatic patients under home isolation requesting for different facilities such as medicines, beds, and ambulance service and also seeking guidance on different issues. “We have received calls from 57 Covid patients seeking help to arrange a bed in hospitals. We immediately arranged beds for all of them and there is no pending demands,” said a state government official. The officials manning the helpline also arranged medicines for for 118 patients who are currently under home isolation. Officials said the main focus of the helpline is to provide aid to patients under home isolation and to arrange beds for patients who are finding it difficult to get admission to hospitals. Some patients under home isolation also complained of worsening of symptoms and arrangements were made to get them admitted to hospitals with cooperation from local health authorities of respective districts. Majority of the calls have been received from Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, the districts which are witnessing the worst Covid outbreak currently. “A lot of calls have been received regarding Covid testing. A lot of people sought information on where to get tests done. We provide them necessary information. Some demand for ambulance and since 108 is for ambulance service, we coordinate and help them getting an ambulance, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-helpline-flooded-with-calls/articleshow/78304845.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan DGP applies for VRS; 4 DG-rank officers in race||JAIPUR: DGP Bhupendra Singh Yadav, a 1986-batch IPS officer who was given an extension of two years by the state government, has applied for a voluntary retirement through the Voluntary Retirement Scheme. He has sent his resignation to the department of personnel and has wished to be relieved by November. According to sources, Yadav resignation has urged the state government to make a panel of IPS officers whose name could be sent to the department of personnel, government of India. Sources claimed that they have already made a panel of 10 names which would be sent to the DOPT out of which three names would be given to the state government. “Out of these three names, one of the officers would be selected to become the successor of Yadav,” said a senior officer. His retirement has also made many to believe that Yadav may replace Deepak Upreti as the chairperson of Rajasthan Public Service Commission or may be made the new vice chancellor of MDS in Ajmer. Upreti is due for retirement next week. The officers who could replace Yadav are Rajiv Dasot, DG, home guards, DG (crime) ML Lathar DG(prisons) BL Soni and DG (planning and modernization) Utkal Ranjan Sahoo. “It is too early to comment. The state government will send a panel of officers after which three names would be sent to us. Out of these three, we would have to select one,” said an officer with the DOP, Rajasthan. Lathar said, “Nothing has been decided as the government will take the final call.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dgp-applies-for-vrs-4-dg-rank-officers-in-race/articleshow/78304847.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kozhikode||Six booked for alleged bid to assault Koz DFO||KOZHIKODE: Thamarassery police have registered cases against six persons for allegedly trying to assault Kozhikode divisional forest officer (DFO) M Rajeevan after protests over notifying land of Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary as ecologically sensitive zone (ESZ) took a violent turn on Thursday. The protesters, who allegedly waylaid the DFO and made a bid to assault the official, were also charged under sections involving deterring a public servant from discharge of duty. The incident took place when the DFO emerged from the Thamarassery range forest office. The DFO had gone to assuage the concerns of the residents of Kattippara and Puthuppadi panchayat over the draft notification to declare ESZ. Police said that cases have been registered against Biju Kannanthara, who is a leader of the Karshaka Congress, and Ashraf Korangad along with four others. “I told them that I can show the exact boundaries of the ESZ in the area through a presentation at the panchayat office, and accordingly a meeting was scheduled at Puthuppadi panchayat office. On reaching Thamarassery I was told that protesters have assembled at the panchayat office and were planning to block me, following which I went to Thamarassery forest range office,” he added. When the DFO came out of the range office, a group of protesters allegedly tried to barge in and block the official. “Actually, there is no ESZ in the residential area in Puthuppadi and Kattippara, and only seven acres of a rubber plantation of Puthuppadi fell under ESZ. Some vested interests are trying to inflame public sentiments over the issue,” he added. The notification issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change on August 5 had notified an area of upto 1km around the border of the sanctuary as ESZ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/six-booked-for-alleged-bid-to-assault-koz-dfo/articleshow/78303242.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Govt brings in tourism under thrust sector, offers RIPS-19 benefits||Jaipur: State finance department has brought in tourism industry under the Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme-2019 extending the benefits offered under the scheme. While it will bring some relief, the main issue of waiving the fixed electric tariffs has not been addressed. Tourism projects having an investment of Rs 5 crore or above will be granted benefits like capital subsidy equivalent to 20% of investment made in plant, machinery and equipment, subject to maximum Rs 25 lakh or 5% interest subsidy on term loan taken by enterprise from financial institutions for a period of five years subject to a maximum of Rs 25 lakh annually. Apurv Kumar, former CII-Rajasthan chairman said, “Tourism industry is going through the toughest time ever. It is encouraging to know of the subsidy and benefits for investment in the sector being given by the state government. The MSME single window registration scheme for new projects, the interest subsidy for MSMEs in tourism sector and the new amendments will bring in some relief to the sector.” However, hoteliers said that the Rs 25 lakh upper limit should have been increased to at least Rs 50 lakh given that the hotels require large investments and long duration to come on stream. Surendra Singh Shahpura, who runs a group of hotels, said, “The capital subsidy benefit should have been increased to Rs 50 lakh. Hotels require large investments and also the gestation period for them is more compared to other industries.” Others said what is hurting the tourism industry today is the fixed electricity tariffs which should be exempted if the government really wants to help the industry in a meaningful way. “Charge for the power we pay. There is no logic for asking us to pay for what we have not consumed. Additionally, in this pandemic times, tourism is one sector that has suffered the most. It is an important industry for a state like Rajasthan. That’s why the government has to come to the rescue of the industry and save thousands of jobs that have been lost due to the pandemic,” said a tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-brings-in-tourism-under-thrust-sector-offers-rips-19-benefits/articleshow/78304838.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Principal in ACB net for accepting Rs 15k bribe in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The ACB on Thursday arrested a principal of Navodaya Vidhyalaya at Pavta on the outskirts of the city for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. The teacher had demanded money from a contractor in lieu of clearing his outstanding bills. MN Dinesh, IG, ACB said a complainant approached the headquarters and said principal Ashok Kumar Verma was demanding a bribe of Rs 15,000 to clear some of his bills. After verification of the complaint, a trap was laid in which the accused was caught red handed with the bribe money from his quarters situated on Navodaya campus at Pavta. “The school administration had given a contract for maintenance of the school to a private contractor. As work got completed a bill of Rs 4.70 lakh was generated by the contractor, he visited the principal to get his bill cleared. However, he was asked to pay some money as commission for it. Our team laid the trap and we caught him red handed with the bribe money of Rs 15,000,” said Neeraj Bhardwaj, inspector, ACB (Jaipur rural), who led the operation. Sleuths of ACB said that search at the quarter and other houses of the principal were on. “We have registered a case under appropriate sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and further investigations were on,” the inspector added. In an another case, a team of ACB arrested senior ayurveda medical officer posted at Government Ayurvedic Hospital at Sadulshahar in Sriganganagar for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. The accused identified as Pawan Kumar Sharma (53) had demanded the money from an employee to get his assured career progression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/principal-in-acb-net-for-accepting-rs-15k-bribe-in-city/articleshow/78304840.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||12-year-old among three killed as Cluster Scheme bus runs amok in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Three people, including a 12-year-old boy, were killed and three others injured after a speeding Cluster Scheme bus lost control on a flyover in northeast Delhi’s Nand Nagri late on Thursday night. The bus rammed into several vehicles and street vendors before coming to a stop. Angry local residents pelted stones at the bus and broke its windows. Police received a call about the accident around 10pm on Thursday. Eyewitnesses told the cops that the Cluster bus was coming down the ITI flyover near Nand Nagri when it seemed to careen out of control. “The bus was moving at a high speed and first rammed into a truck, after which it mowed down pedestrians and hit the street vendors before stopping. The deceased were walking on the road when they were mowed down. The driver of the bus fled from the site, leaving the bus there,” said Ved Prakash Surya, DCP (Northeast). Two of the three men who died in the accident have been identified as Ravinder (22) and Karan (12). The identity of the third, aged around 40, is yet to be established. The injured include a teenager, Sujeet (16) and the husband-wife duo of Satish (45) and Kanchan (35). The three were taken to Swami Dayanand Hospital in the area for treatment. “A case of rash and negligent driving causing death has been registered,” said DCP Surya. “The situation in the area is under control.” Several police teams have been formed to track the missing bus driver. Soon after the accident, several local residents gathered at the junction near Nand Nagri. Police sources revealed that some people had spread rumours about the death of 5-6 people, leading to the locals getting agitated and damaging the bus. In a video of the incident shot by a local, several people can be seen pelting stones at the Cluster bus which stands by the roadside. The video also shows young boys later kicking a PCR van that was trying to make its way out of the area. A crowd can be seen building up on the road even as police officials make attempts to disperse the people. Watch DTC bus loses control, 3 killed as Cluster Scheme vehicle runs amok in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-year-old-among-three-killed-as-cluster-scheme-bus-runs-amok/articleshow/78305708.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Few takers for Jaipur Metro on Day 2 but people hail move to resume ops||JAIPUR: A day after chief minister Ashok Gehlot flagged off Jaipur Metro Phase-1B, the underground metro train, only a handful of passengers travelled in it on Thursday. The authorities followed all the guidelines strictly. Most of the passengers preferred long distance as it was very convenient for them. Vivek Saini, a businessman from Badi Chaupar, said that now it has become convenient for him to travel to Shyam Nagar without any break. “It is a positive step for the people of the city. Earlier, I used to travel till Chandpol and take a rickshaw to Badi Chaupar. Now, I can take a direct metro. But people are more interested to travel long distance as for short distance they can easily take a e-rickshaw instead of waiting 10 minutes for metro,” said Vivek. Sushma Solanki, another passenger to Mansarovar, said, “My in-laws live in Walled City and due to their old age, my husband or I have to travel every day to the city. Now, for us, metro is very convenient and cheap.” All the security guards and metro personnel were in masks. A hand sanitizer bottle was installed at every entry point. Temperature of the passengers was checked at the entry gate. Inside the coaches, a sticker is pasted on every second seats prohibiting people not to sit on the seat to maintain social distancing. President of Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh Subhash Goyal said, now customers will be able to visit Walled City from far off areas. “It will be really positive for the people especially during festival season. Walled City has been a shopping hub for people. Due to coronavirus, this year no festival will be celebrated to the fullest, but I hope next year, things will be back to normal,” said Goyal. To avoid people getting in contact, at present only smart card travel is allowed which requires Rs 100 to purchase. Not everyone is able to pay such money at one go. Ramesh Meena, a student, has to cancel his plans to travel by metro. “I cannot pay Rs 100 at a time. It would have been better if there were just tokens but due to pandemic that is difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/few-takers-for-metro-on-day-2-but-people-hail-move-to-resume-ops/articleshow/78304848.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||BCom students strive to finish syllabus in lockdown||Kolkata: Terminal-semester commerce students at Calcutta University-affiliated colleges seem to struggle with studies as parts of their syllabus were far from being completed when their institutes shut for the pandemic. Over a month of their classes were still left when the lockdown was declared as a result of which, many of them had to study a considerable portion on their own, especially those who did not have internet access and could not attend online lectures. The final-semester/year exams at various universities in the state have been slated for October. Final-year arts and science students at CU colleges are, however, relieved that their class work was completed before the lockdown, which will give them an edge over their commerce batchmates. Anjali Das, a student of commerce at a reputable south Kolkata college near Golpark pointed out that almost 30% of their syllabus was yet to be taught when their institute closed on March 21 to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. “We have to heavily rely on tuition. But our teachers told us that we should have question options from the portions of the syllabus that was completed before the closure,” she said. Usually, the final-semester commerce exams—CU has already started semester exams for commerce—are conducted in the end of April or mid-May. A teacher at a CU-affiliated commerce college at Madhabpur in South 24 Parganas said the problems faced by commerce students were genuine, especially at institutes located in remote places. “While the commerce final-semester classes started in February, they were suspended in mid-March. We had started classes on Google Duo, we also had a WhatsApp group for all students. But, after Amphan, internet could not be accessed in most parts of the district for almost two months. It was a setback. What followed next was the reluctance among candidates to attend lectures after they initially thought exams would not be held. But when the court stated the terminal-semester exams would be held, as instructed by the UGC, we tried to resume online classes from August and complete the syllabi as much as possible,” he said. “We did lose a considerable amount of time.” A commerce student preparing for the final-semester exam said, “Teachers mostly tried to complete project work and ensure that we secure good marks in viva voce. Though a certain portion of the syllabus was yet to be taught, we were confident that it would be completed by another month. Now, we have to depend on our own learning as most of the remaining lectures could not be held over the virtual medium owing to non-accessibility of steady internet connections. Occasionally, we were sent study materials but that was not sufficient and could not replace class lectures.” Her friend, Partha Bhattacharyya, also a final-semester commerce student, pointed out that they were now left with no option but to depend heavily on “suggestions” from tutors as they could not be sure that the questions would be similar to that last year. “Our question papers, unlike in CU arts and science, were not set earlier. Now, we can expect any surprise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bcom-students-strive-to-finish-syllabus-in-lockdown/articleshow/78304854.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||Amin among two arrested for taking Rs 5,000 bribe||Pilibhit: An anti-corruption team from Bareilly on Thursday afternoon arrested collection amin (revenue inspector) Nitish Singh posted at Puranpur tehsil and one of his colleagues Ram Kishor on the charges of taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a resident of Puranpur city for allegedly offering a deal to delay the recovery of a loan to a borrower by three months. Both were booked at the Puranpur kotwali under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, following a written complaint lodged by anti-corruption team in-charge Suresh Dutt Mishra, said SHO SK Singh. According to Vivek Kumar Trivedi, tehsildar, Puranpur tehsil, a recovery letter for Rs 5.38 lakh was issued by the tehsil office against Ram Kumar Mishra of Pankaj Colony in Puranpur city. Mishra had borrowed the money from the Punjab and Sind Bank, but failed to repay it. Trivedi said another amin Mohammad Zafar had the authority to recover the money from the borrower, but Nitish Singh offered a deal to delay the recovery for three months. Mishra alleged that Nitish Singh had demanded Rs 5,000 for delaying the delivery of the recovery letter to him for three months. “I, then, approached the anti-corruption department, which caught Nitish Singh and his accomplice red-handed while accepting the bribe,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/amin-among-two-arrested-for-taking-rs-5000-bribe/articleshow/78299787.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three Telangana and Andhra Pradesh districts among top 10 testers||HYDERABAD: Three districts from the two Telugu states were in the top ten list in the country with regard to daily average Covid-19 tests in August. Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district with 8,562 tests was at fifth spot, while Hyderabad (8,091) was at sixth and Krishna (6,864), also in the neighbouring state, was at seventh place. The Union health and family welfare ministry, which submitted a report as part of its reply to a query in Parliament recently, stated that Bengaluru Urban district had the highest daily average, 18,523 tests, among 734 districts across the country in August. Karnataka‘s capital was followed by Pune, Chennai and Ahmedabad. Interestingly, Guntur and Krishna districts were the only districts which were not as urbanised as other districts in the top ten. Guntur was a step ahead of Hyderabad, taking fifth place and had an average of 8,562 people undergoing tests daily. Hyderabad at sixth place had logged better test rate over urban districts in Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata. The capital had an average of 8,091 Covid-19 tests per day in August. The remaining districts in the top 10 list included Assam’s Kamrup Metro, Mumbai and Lucknow at eight, ninth and tenth place respectively. Incidentally, all the districts with high test rate are either current state capitals or had been capitals except Kamrup Metro in Assam In August, the country had conducted 2,39,66,859 tests across the country, while districts conducted an average of 1,053 tests per day. The country had done 875 tests per million and below one test for every 1,000 persons. Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director Centre for Healthcare Management of Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) said : “Understandably, urban areas had more tests with more population. The district numbers should also improve proportionately as part of the test, trace, treatment policy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-t-ap-dists-among-top-10-testers/articleshow/78307555.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Three Telangana and Andhra Pradesh districts among top 10 testers||HYDERABAD: Three districts from the two Telugu states were in the top ten list in the country with regard to daily average Covid-19 tests in August. Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district with 8,562 tests was at fifth spot, while Hyderabad (8,091) was at sixth and Krishna (6,864), also in the neighbouring state, was at seventh place. The Union health and family welfare ministry, which submitted a report as part of its reply to a query in Parliament recently, stated that Bengaluru Urban district had the highest daily average, 18,523 tests, among 734 districts across the country in August. Karnataka‘s capital was followed by Pune, Chennai and Ahmedabad. Interestingly, Guntur and Krishna districts were the only districts which were not as urbanised as other districts in the top ten. Guntur was a step ahead of Hyderabad, taking fifth place and had an average of 8,562 people undergoing tests daily. Hyderabad at sixth place had logged better test rate over urban districts in Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata. The capital had an average of 8,091 Covid-19 tests per day in August. The remaining districts in the top 10 list included Assam’s Kamrup Metro, Mumbai and Lucknow at eight, ninth and tenth place respectively. Incidentally, all the districts with high test rate are either current state capitals or had been capitals except Kamrup Metro in Assam In August, the country had conducted 2,39,66,859 tests across the country, while districts conducted an average of 1,053 tests per day. The country had done 875 tests per million and below one test for every 1,000 persons. Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director Centre for Healthcare Management of Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) said : “Understandably, urban areas had more tests with more population. The district numbers should also improve proportionately as part of the test, trace, treatment policy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-t-ap-dists-among-top-10-testers/articleshow/78304860.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Good monsoon fails to fill most of the dams in Rajasthan||Jaipur: Despite the fact that the four spells of monsoon were good for the state, some of the dams were unable to reach at a good water level which is above 70% or more. Except a few dams which are filed up to 95% or above, the dams like Bisalpur till Thursday has been able to reach 64% of its full capacity. TOI on Thursday spoke to the engineers of the dams and of the officials of the water resources department to know the status of the dams and their filling in this monsoon season so far. Bisalpur dam that caters to the drinking water needs of the districts, including Jaipur, Tonk and Ajmer, is 63.56% full. Since there is no major rainfall forecast, the factors like evaporation and others will further deplete its water level. “Even last year, the dam had reached to full capacity on August 18 as we had to open six of its gates to release excess water. This year the water in its catchment areas was less as districts like Rajsamand did not get a good rainfall. I think Bisalpur at below 70% is a big concern as it can only cater to the drinking water needs till next summers. It desperately needs good monsoon season next year,” said a senior officer of water resources department on Thursday. Bisalpur which has a full capacity of 1095.840 cusec metre has attained up to 696.465 cusec metre which is merely 63.56% of the full capacity. Likewise, Paravati Dam of Dholpur which has a full capacity of 120.880 cusec metre has reached at 91.730 which is 75.89% of the full capacity. Similarly, Jawai Dam of Pali has attained 151.830 cusec metre of water against its full filling capacity of 207.510 cusec metre. Meanwhile, dams in Kota, Udaipur and Chittorgarh districts have attained their water levels on or above 95%. For these regions there is ample water in the dams as these regions have also witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall in this season so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/good-monsoon-fails-to-fill-most-of-the-dams-in-state/articleshow/78304865.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Celebrate festivals at home, avoid gatherings: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Worried about the rise in Covid-19 cases during the upcoming festival season, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that people should celebrate at home and avoid public gatherings. The government has identified 16 districts which have been reporting more than 100 cases a day for the past one week and Yogi said a special strategy should be made for these districts to control the spread of the virus. The districts include Lucknow, where 800-1,200 cases have been reported each day over the past several days, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Saharanpur, Meerut, and Noida. He has also asked for a micro containment strategy to be devised for other districts. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the CM has asked the chief secretary and ACS home, medical education and health to prepare a strategy for containment. “A nodal officer and a special secretary level officer will be deputed to all 16 districts to keep a watch on the situation. These districts require micro planning to keep the spread of the virus under control. UP has the lowest death rate per million in the country and among the lowest infection rates as well. However, the CM has said that even the 5,000 cases per day being reported should be controlled while deaths should be prevented through micro surveillance,” Awasthi said. The CM has also given directions to set up virtual ICUs in medical institutions so that help can be taken from senior and experienced specialists to provide treatment to serious patients. He said that ventilators and nasal flow cannula should be kept in working condition and used for patients who require oxygen. The police have been told to intensify action against people not following social distancing norms or wearing masks. With the festival season to start in October and continue till the end of the year, the CM said the police will have to sensitise people on following prevention norms and ensure that celebrations take place at home and not in public places. Currently, the state has 2,828 permanent public address systems across districts but Yogi has said that these have to be increased to at least 5,000. A committee of the home, transport, panchayati raj and urban development departments has been formed to make a plan for increasing the spread of the public address system where messages on prevention of corona and necessary dos and don’ts can be broadcast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/celebrate-festivals-at-home-avoid-gatherings/articleshow/78305711.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||School shaped like a train attracts students||Alwar: A school shaped like a train coach has been built on a piece of land donated by a farmer who himself lives in a hut. To spread education in Kali Khol, a remote village in the plains of Sariska in Alwar district, farmer Om Prasad Gurjar had purchased a plot of land and then donated it for the development of a school. The school has now become a point of attraction for people as hundreds from all around are coming to see it. Enrolment of students has also increased to more than 250 and is expected to increase after the opening of the school. Earlier, when there were just three rooms, children were forced to study in the open. Most of the people in the village are daily wagers, farmers and dependent on animal husbandry. The government school has now been given the look of a train and platform like an Education Express under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Omprasad Gurjar said, “With such a good response from people and students, the purpose for which I donated the land has been fulfilled.” The school was up to class VIII and earlier. Engineer Rajesh Lavania designed this school gave it a look of the train. Four walls of this school were made by the gram panchayat while ORG Foundation constructed the toilets. The school now employs 10 teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-shaped-like-a-train-attracts-students/articleshow/78304871.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bhopal||Promise delivered, RaGa tweets on agri loan waiver||Bhopal: The BJP government’s reply in assembly on implementation of the Kamal Nath government’s farm loan waiver scheme has come as a gift to Congress ahead of bypolls to 28 seats. Former AICC president Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Congress – what was promised, has been delivered. BJP – Only false promises.” He posted a news report on agriculture minister Kamal Patel’s response in the MP assembly that 26,95,381 farmers had benefitted from the loan waiver scheme. Urban development Bhupendra Singh, however, has claimed that incorrect data was given in assembly as government officials made a mistake. On Thursday, former CM Kamal Nath told TOI, “In the 2018 election manifesto, Congress promised to waive loans of farmers up to Rs 2 lakh. We started work on implementing Jai Kisan Fasal Wrin Maafi Yojana soon after the government was formed. The first phase was completed, the second phase was on and the third phase could not be started because the government was toppled in March.” “From day one, CM Shivraj Singh has been vehemently denying that farm loan waiver reached the accounts of farmers. We sent bundles of lists of beneficiary farmers with details of their bank accounts and addresses. But they still would not accept the truth. I issued a pen-drive with details of the 26.95 lakh farmers. I challenged him to a debate where I can present the truth but he continued to deny,” Nath said. “Finally, his government has admitted that the farm loans were waived. BJP’s lies have been exposed and people know the truth,” he added. Nath claimed that BJP has now started another round of denial saying that officials made a mistake with the data. “With every successive lie, BJP is losing trust of people,” Nath said. Patel’s written response in assembly on September 21, following a query by former minister Jaivardhan Singh, was that loan waiver scheme had benefitted 26,95,381 farmers in 51 districts and the amount sanctioned was Rs 11,64,698 lakh. The data gave district-wise break-ups. “I always maintained that I do not need Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s certificate, I need the certificate from people,” Nath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/promise-delivered-raga-tweets-on-agri-loan-waiver/articleshow/78304881.cms||Suchandana Gupta
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Villagers stop speeding trucks||Coimbatore: The residents of Thirumalayampalayam on Thursday stopped trucks carrying construction materials, which they said posed a serious threat to their lives.The villagers said they had warned truck drivers several times to slow down while crossing Thirumalayampalayam. However, the drivers continued to ignore the warnings.On Thursday, a group of BJP members took up the issue and joined hands with the villagers. They started blocking trucks carrying sand, gravel and cement to Kerala through the village. They refused to let the vehicles proceed and turned them away to take the arterial road to Walayar to enter Kerala. The villagers said that the truckers avoid the main road and take the Thirumalayampalayam route to enter Kerala through Velanthavalam. “This is because they violate several norms and want to avoid the tight vigil on the arterial road,” a villager told police personnel from K G Chavadi, who rushed to the spot. The speeding trucks caused accidents in the area, the villagers said.They withdrew the protest after cops promised to stop trucks from entering the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/villagers-stop-speeding-trucks/articleshow/78304904.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Cops seize 200kg poppy husk after chase in Jodhpur district||JODHPUR: Police have seized 200 kilogram of poppy husk from two vehicles which were abandoned after a long chase during patrolling by Jhanwar police on Wednesday night here. Both the vehicles have been seized, however, no one has been arrested. Police said that drivers of both the vehicles fled taking advantage of night leaving their vehicles behind. Though, the police chased both the vehicles, but could not nab anyone. According to information, police first spotted a car during patrolling on Wednesday night with a person’s legs hanging out. “We asked the driver to stop, but he sped away. We chased the vehicle, but after some distance, the driver left the car and fled taking advantage of the night,” said the police. During same time, police spotted another vehicle, an SUV, and asked to stop. But this vehicle also sped away. “We chased the vehicle for about an hour. But the driver of this vehicle also stopped the vehicle near Dhawa and fled,” police said. Police seized both the vehicles and recovered 200 kilogram of poppy husk from both the vehicles. Two separate cases have been registered against unidentified persons. “Both the vehicles are believed to be stolen. We have begun investigation to identify the accused and arrest them,” said an officer adding that one of the vehicle was not bearing any registration number. This is second huge seizure of poppy husk by Jodhpur police. Last week also, police had seized 250 kg poppy husk from a hamlet in Jhalamand area and had arrested a person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cops-seize-200kg-poppy-husk-after-chase-in-jodhpur-district/articleshow/78313570.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Two more special trains to begin ops from Sunday||Thiruvananthapuram: Railway board approved the introduction of two reserved daily special trains. Train no. 02623/02624 Dr MGR Chennai Central - Thiruvananthapuram up & down superfast special (daily) and train no. 02601/02602 Dr MGR Chennai Central - Mangalore up & down superfast special (daily) will start operations from Sunday. Train No 02623 will leave Dr MGR Chennai Central at 7:45pm to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 11:45am the next day. On return journey, train no. 02624 will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 3pm and reach Dr MGR Chennai Central at 7:40am the next day. Train no. 02601 will leave Dr MGR Chennai Central at 8:10pm and reach Mangalore Central at 12:10pm the next day. On return journey, train no. 02602 will leave Mangalore Central at 1:30pm to reach Dr MGR Chennai Central at 5:35am next day. The reservation of the trains will open from 8am on Friday. Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter the railway station. All passengers should wear face covers or masks at the entry and during travel. The passengers should reach the station atleast 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station. All passengers must download and use Aarogya Setu application. No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the train.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/two-more-special-trains-to-begin-ops-from-sunday/articleshow/78303264.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||BJP to hold ‘kisan chaupal’ to create awareness on farm bills||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Thursday said the party will organise a ‘kisan chaupal’ across the state soon and five lakh leaflets will be distributed to farmers to make them aware of the agriculture bills. Poonia said the farm bills is the beginning of a new era towards agricultural reforms, which will prove to be revolutionary for farmers across the country. He said reforms would usher in financially strong and prosperous farmers. He said from the beginning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government had been taking many historic decisions for welfare of farmers, including PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, soil testing, neem coated urea, pension to farmers above 60 years of age and many other initiatives to make them prosperous. The BJP chief said farmers would be free from shackles and would be able to sell crop anywhere by the price fixed by them. Poonia said farmer could now fix the price of crops himself and sell it anywhere, anytime. He said the move would increase employment opportunities across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-hold-kisan-chaupal-to-create-awareness-on-farm-bills/articleshow/78304890.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||No ID proof: Gadia Luhar kids denied school admission||Jaipur: When Santosh Gadiya Luhar and her sister Biriya approached a nearby government school to get their children admitted, they were rejected for not having Aadhaar card or any address proof. “Both of us are widows and barely makes end meet. I have two children while my sister has three and none of them goes to school. The principal asked for identity proof but we live by the roadside in Ramganj and do not have any address proof,” said Biriya. This is the situation of most of the members of the Gadia Luhar community, that comes under nomadic community who avoid living in a house due to historical significance. Due to illiteracy and lack of government support, most of the community members do not have basic education. Hiralal Luhar, a leader of the community said, “There is no restriction under Right to Education Act to enroll students without identity proof. However, principal and school authorities make it difficult for these children to get education.” The effective literacy rate of India in 2011 census works out to be 74.04%, but in Rajasthan the literacy rate of the de-notified, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes surveyed under report ‘National Study on Educational Challenges and Attainment of De-Notified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic tribes in India,’ is only 34.07%. Sourabh Swami, director of secondary education, Bikaner, said there is no such criteria to present Aadhaar Card to enroll in government schools. “We will look into this issue and will take necessary action,” said Swami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-id-proof-gadia-luhar-kids-denied-school-admission/articleshow/78304879.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Like Gomti, Kanpur to have a Ganga riverfront project: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Like the Gomti in Lucknow and the Sabarmati in Ahmedabad, the Ganga in Kanpur is set to witness a huge makeover. On Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced riverfront development in the city and dedicated the project to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who during his previous visit to the city had praised the river’s water quality. “Kanpur will soon have a magnificent riverfront along the Ganga river. During his previous visit, Modi ji was all praise for the clean water of the Ganga so we will give him the gift of a riverfront,” the CM said. Directing officials to immediately prepare a plan for the riverfront development, the CM also said that projects under Namami Gange under each district should also be implemented at the earliest. On Thursday, while reviewing development projects being implemented in the Kanpur division, comprising Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Kannauj, Farrukhabad, Auraiya and Etawah, the CM emphasised that public representatives should be consulted for all development projects and if they were ignored, action would be taken against officials. He also warned them of action if calls made by public representatives were not received. The direction came after a couple of MLAs reportedly complained that senior officials in the health department had been ignoring their calls. “Disrespect towards an MP or an MLA is disrespecting the public and will not be tolerated,” the CM said. The CM also said that projects should only be inaugurated by public representatives. At present, there are 30 mega projects with cost of over Rs 50 crore each that are being implemented in the division. Upset at the delay in construction of a level-2 Covid hospital in Farrukhabad, the CM said that facilities should in place at the earliest and directed officials to reduce the death rate in the district. He also said that all Covid bed in the district should have access to oxygen supply. The CM also red-flagged the Covid situation in Kanpur, saying that the city was a hotspot and that the next six months were crucial. “One-third of the total Covid tests per day should be conducted through RTPCR and the rest by rapid antigen method. Enforcement of social distancing and use of masks should be done more strictly. Micro-containment zones should be created as and where required. Work should also start on the construction of Kanpur Dehat Medical College,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/like-gomti-kanpur-to-have-a-ganga-riverfront-project-yogi/articleshow/78305720.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Cops seize 200kg poppy husk after chase in Jodhpur district||JODHPUR: Police have seized 200 kilogram of poppy husk from two vehicles which were abandoned after a long chase during patrolling by Jhanwar police on Wednesday night here. Both the vehicles have been seized, however, no one has been arrested. Police said that drivers of both the vehicles fled taking advantage of night leaving their vehicles behind. Though, the police chased both the vehicles, but could not nab anyone. According to information, police first spotted a car during patrolling on Wednesday night with a person’s legs hanging out. “We asked the driver to stop, but he sped away. We chased the vehicle, but after some distance, the driver left the car and fled taking advantage of the night,” said the police. During same time, police spotted another vehicle, an SUV, and asked to stop. But this vehicle also sped away. “We chased the vehicle for about an hour. But the driver of this vehicle also stopped the vehicle near Dhawa and fled,” police said. Police seized both the vehicles and recovered 200 kilogram of poppy husk from both the vehicles. Two separate cases have been registered against unidentified persons. “Both the vehicles are believed to be stolen. We have begun investigation to identify the accused and arrest them,” said an officer adding that one of the vehicle was not bearing any registration number. This is second huge seizure of poppy husk by Jodhpur police. Last week also, police had seized 250 kg poppy husk from a hamlet in Jhalamand area and had arrested a person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-seize-200kg-poppy-husk-after-chase-in-jodhpur-district/articleshow/78304905.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Efforts begin to get international tag for yellow stone of Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Efforts have begun on various levels to get international recognition for the famous yellow stone of Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer district industry centre general manager has written a letter to the state government demanding for national promotion of yellow stone. Apart from this, many geologists are researching on the stone and making efforts to get it recognized as Unesco heritage resource. The peculiar yellow stone found in Jaisalmer is world famous for its art, cultural and historical heritage. The stone is available only in Jaisalmer in the entire world and has been used in the Sonar fort and many other historical monuments. This yellow stone is related to 160-million-year-old marine rock. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi said that the stone is world famous and the carvings on it enthrall foreigners. The stone is being considered for international recognition and we are making efforts for its national promotion, he said. Industry department GM of Jaisalmer has also written a letter to the state government for publicity of the stone at the world level and for its national promotion. It is being discussed as to what steps have to be taken at the level of state government to promote the stone. Meanwhile, former principal of Maharaja College and former professor university of Rajasthan and geologist MK Pandit’s team has done research in this regard and have gotten approval in union of geological science journal. After the publication, the process has started to get it included in Unesco’s global heritage resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/efforts-begin-to-get-intl-tag-for-yellow-stone-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/78304895.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Quality-control motive behind lens on tests||Kolkata: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) asking schools to submit question papers of all subjects for unit or half-yearly exams in classes X and XII by October 17 was aimed at ensuring that tests were being conducted properly, school principals said on Thursday. In a circular from CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon on Wednesday, the council praised all institutes for successfully holding online lessons for most classes, particularly board exam-level classes IX to XII. It also mentioned that the council sought complete sets of question papers in all subjects as they are keen to know the kind of tests the schools conducted, the standards maintained, the portions of the syllabus covered, patterns of question papers, the rubric followed while conducting tests and assessments. “The council wants to understand how much of the syllabus schools have taught. Since in the absence of face-to-face interaction, online teaching has emerged a major challenge for many teachers, there is always a possibility that the syllabus of classes X and XII might not be completed before the boards due to the digital divide. So, the council wants to know whether proper teaching-learning method is being followed even in the absence of classroom instructions,” said a school head. Also, CISCE has sought feedback from teachers on the curtailed syllabus—shortened in two phases till September 30—which will allow it to assess the situation and chalk out a future plan. “The feedback on syllabus is to understand if continuity is being maintained in next classes,” said another school principal. Teachers pointed out that complaints had been raised that some schools had started teaching classes X and XII syllabi in the prior classes, given that the council would not send question papers for annual exams in 2021. “This is one aspect that warrants attention from the council,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/quality-control-motive-behind-lens-on-tests/articleshow/78304885.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Where are oxygen beds, HC to Telangana government||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday questioned the state government when it would implement its oft-repeated promise of turning every bed in the state-run hospitals into oxygen beds. It also sought to know as to why the government is not doing more Covid-19 tests. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked these queries to advocate general BS Prasad while hearing a batch of Covid-related PILs. “Why cannot the government keep doing more tests because that is the only way we can keep the pandemic under control?” They posted the case to October 8, while asking the registry to tag all the fresh Covid PILs to this batch of petitions. Citing a TOI report published in Thursday, the judges said: “Telangana is lagging behind most of the states. When Covid-19 is all about lungs getting adversely affected and the supply of oxygen is an essential aspect, why is the government unable to gear up its infrastructure in all hospitals?” The judges asked the government to file an affidavit on its plans to shore up the oxygen bed strength in the state. “WHO has recommended that we must have five oxygen beds for every 1,000 population. We do not have even one such bed for a 1,000 people. At least three beds for a 1,000 people would be ideal in our conditions,” the judges said. The judges also referred to reports on how the government had suddenly reduced the number of Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-lags-behind-others-in-oxygen-beds-says-hc/articleshow/78304910.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||NCW gets 134 complaints by women in Telangana amid lockdown||HYDERABAD: As many as 134 complaints of violence against women in Telangana were received by the National Commission of Women (NCW) during lockdown. During the same period, 107 complaints came from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Starting March to September 20th, the NCW has received a total of 13,410 complaints, said Union minister for women and child development in a written reply in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. Irani was responding to a question on atrocities committed women during the lockdown. “The National Commission for Women, in addition to handling complaints through regular modes, also helps women in distress through a dedicate Whatsapp number at 7217735372 for reporting cases of domestic violence. Since the launch of this service on April 10, around 1,443 cases of domestic violence have been reported on the number. Further, NCW also taken cognizance of grievances related to domestic violence reported on social media,” said Irani. “The complaints received by NCW are acted upon in coordination with the victims, police and other authorities for providing immediate assistance,” she added. Telangana reported the maximum number of cases, between 22 and 23 per month in May, June and July. The trend saw a decline in the later months. Likewise in Andhra Pradesh, most cases were reported during June and July. Uttar Pradesh topped the country with 5,470 complaints, followed by Delhi (1,697). Gujarat saw 731 complaints, Bihar had 659 cases whereas Rajasthan had 772. When compared to the northern states, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh seem to have fared better in cases of violence. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka also reported more cases than Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Kerala reported the lowest number of cases in south India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ncw-gets-134-plaints-by-women-amid-lockdown/articleshow/78304900.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt to hear IAS probationer||Thiruvananthapuram: As a prelude to declaring the probation period of IAS officer, who furnished non-creamy layer certificate with manipulated income details, as non-satisfactory and declaring him unfit to continue in service, the government has offered to hear the officer. Government appointed additional chief secretary (personnel and administrative reforms department) Asha Thomas as hearing officer on the request of Asif K Yousuf, a 2016-batch IAS officer facing action from the Centre for providing manipulated income figures while joining the service. On May 11 this year, the department of personnel and training had written to the state chief secretary asking the government to take action against Yousuf under the Rule 12 of the All India Services (Probation) Rules, 1954, and rule 6 of All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969. As per Rule 12 of the probation rules, “A probationer shall be discharged from the service if the central government, is satisfied that the probationer was ineligible for recruitment to the service or is unsuitable for being a member of the service”. The Centre asked the state to initiate action against the officer based on the chief secretary’s report, finalized on January 8, 2020, informing the Centre that OBC certificate and income certificate issued by tahsildar, Kanayannur taluk, Kochi, were erroneous and incorrect. After the Centre’s direction, Yousuf requested the state government on July 9 to give him an opportunity to hear once again. While joining the service, the officer had given an undertaking to the Centre that his family income was not within the income tax limit and annual income of his parents were Rs 1,80,000 in last three years and hence had not filed income tax, for obtaining the benefits of OBC reservation. However, it was found that income in the three years in question was more than Rs 20 lakh. Having a gross annual income of Rs 6 lakh or above for three consecutive years, would fall within the creamy layer and the candidate would not be entitled to benefits of reservation available to the OBC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-hear-ias-probationer/articleshow/78303292.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers gear up for stir today, say beginning of civil disobedience||Kota: Over a dozen farmers’ organisations of Hadauti region burnt copies of agriculture bill on the eve of nationwide Bharat bandh call on Friday. The organisations were united under the aegis of Kisan Sangarsh Samnavaya Samiti. The farmer leaders called upon to make Bharat Bandh a success on Friday by extending favours to the farmers. It is the beginning of civil disobedience movement against the bill and if it is not revoked, the farmers would protest more aggressively.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-gear-up-for-stir-today-say-beginning-of-civil-disobedience/articleshow/78304909.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Violent protest by tribal youths leaves many cops hurt on NH-8||UDAIPUR: Hundreds of tribal youths, who were protesting for government jobs atop a hill in Dungarpur, flocked to National Highway 8 and blocked traffic on Udaipur-Ahmedabad road for several hours on Thursday. They pelted stones at policemen, damaged vehicles and also set a car on fire. Many cops, including Bichhiwada SHO and the driver of SDM sustained injuries. Police had to fire tear gas shells to control the mob. Additional police forces were sent to control the situation and teams cleared the blockade from the road later in the afternoon. Traffic routes were diverted through interior village roads for the buses and cars to move on. The youths had been camping atop Kakri Doongri hill in Bichhiwada of Dungarpur district for a fortnight and have been mainly demanding the vacant 1,167 seats of REET to be filled by ST candidates. They have 31 other demands too, including a separate state. On Thursday noon, the protesters came down and blocked the roads with huge stones near Bhuwali. They held sticks and stones in their hands. Additional forces were sent from Dungarpur headquarters. Meanwhile, the policemen diverted traffic to prevent any untoward incident. Vehicles from Udaipur were diverted towards Motli turn to Dungarpur city and further towards Bichhiwada, while vehicles from Ahmedabad side too were diverted through different roads towards Udaipur. Officials were trying to hold mediation talks with the tribal leaders to resolve the issue till late evening. According to police, the tribal youths carried stones wrapped in clothes and hurled at the police teams which tried to move them away from the road. Additional SP Ganpat Mahawar sustained head injury who was rushed to the nearby hospital, while more than a dozen cops too were said to have been injured. Dungarpur collector Kanaram and superintendent of police Jai Yadav too reached the area and took charge of the situation. The authorities kept apprising situation to higher officials while they tried to speak to the tribal leaders to pacify the protestors and deal with the situation amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/violent-protest-by-tribal-youths-leaves-many-cops-hurt-on-nh-8/articleshow/78304912.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||No immediate CLAT date for Covid students||Kolkata: The Consortium of National Law Universities told West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) on Thursday that it would not take an immediate decision on whether a later date for a special CLAT could be slotted or not for candidates who had tested positive for Covid-19 or were still in isolation on medical advice. The consortium said it would wait for the law entrance test to get over and then, take stock of the number of applicants who could not appear for the exam owing to Covid infection. CLAT 2020 has been slated for Monday after being postponed five times this year. The consortium on Tuesday had announced that those affected with Covid or still in isolation would not be allowed to sit for the exam. NUJS is the nodal body of the consortium in Bengal for the exam. Vice-chancellor of NUJS Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty had appealed to the consortium on Wednesday, requesting whether they could consider to conduct a special exam later for the candidates who might be forced to give the entrance test a miss for being affected by the novel coronavirus. Many applicants have also started appealing to law schools across the country for intervention, citing the example of a special NEET examination that the National Testing Agency has announced for affected candidates. “I have communicated with the consortium, asking if a special exam can be held for Covid-affected candidates. The consortium said it would take a call after the exams—and not immediately—after looking at the number of students would would not be able to take the test,” Chakraborty said. On Monday, 3,000 candidates are scheduled to take the entrance exam at nine centres. Kolkata will have only one centre—TCS Gitobitan at Sector V, Salt Lake—from where 2,000 applicants are supposed to write the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-immediate-clat-date-for-covid-students/articleshow/78304919.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||112kg doda choora, chemical seized in Chittor, 2 arrested||Udaipur: The Chittorgarh police have intensified drive against narcotics. On the third consecutive day, cops seized 112 kilograms of doda choora, 1.8 kilograms of chemical (precursor) and arrested two persons, including a woman, from Segwa village under Mandphiya police station limits on Thursday. SP Deepak Bhargava said that the action was taken jointly by a special force and Mandphiya police which raided one Shanti Bai's house. The cops were tipped about Shanti and her aide Bhagwati Lal who were partners and involved in drug trafficking. Team under the supervision of ASP Sarita Singh, led by Bhadesar DSP Aditi Chowdhary, raided the house and found nine plastic bags hidden in a room that was filled with poppy husk. Also was found two plastic bags that contained black chemical which is used to mix in opium to increase the dose quantity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/112kg-doda-choora-chemical-seized-in-chittor-2-arrested/articleshow/78304907.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Subedari: SI booked for cheating 23-year-old girl||WARANGAL: Subedari Police on Thursday registered a case against a sub-inspector working at Manchiryala under Ramagundam police commissionerate (VR), after a 23-year-old lodged a complaint against him for cheating her. According to Hanamkonda ACP M Jitender Reddy, the woman who was residing in a private hostel in Ramnagar area of Hanamkonda approached Subedari police sub inspector Durgam Mahender over some trouble in 2018. He called her to the police station several times on the pretext of looking into her case and developed a close friendship with her over time. The two later got into a relationship and started living together. He was transferred to Ramagundam commissionerate and posted in Manchiryal under (VR). After being transferred, he stopped answering the girl's calls and never met her. She told her village elders about it, after which they called him up and asked him to marry her. He agreed to it and fixed a muhurtham for marriage, but did not show up. The girl then lodged a police complaint and investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-booked-for-cheating-23-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78304920.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||Body of 5-year-old boy, killed for ‘ransom’, recovered from cane field||BAREILLY: Body of a five-year-old boy, allegedly abducted by his ‘missing’ uncle, was recovered from a cane field on the UP-Uttarakhand border in Bahedi area. The boy was killed after the family “failed to pay the ransom”. The boy, with his throat slit, was found at a cane field in Nazarganj village. He belonged to Bhillaur village and was kidnapped by his uncle on Wednesday night while he had gone out for a car ride with the latter. Police are investigating the case and have arrested three persons, including a woman. They are still trying to trace the uncle. Meanwhile in Faridpur, a half burnt body of an unidentified man was recovered from a crop field on Bisalpur road. Additional SP (rural), along with circle officer, forensic experts and local police, rushed to the spot. The body has been sent for autopsy to confirm the reason of death. SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “Both the cases are undergoing investigation and the accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-5-year-old-boy-killed-for-ransom-recovered-from-cane-field/articleshow/78300829.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 25, 2020||Udaipur||Violent protest by tribal youths leaves many cops hurt on NH-8||UDAIPUR: Hundreds of tribal youths, who were protesting for government jobs atop a hill in Dungarpur, flocked to National Highway 8 and blocked traffic on Udaipur-Ahmedabad road for several hours on Thursday. They pelted stones at policemen, damaged vehicles and also set a car on fire. Many cops, including Bichhiwada SHO and the driver of SDM sustained injuries. Police had to fire tear gas shells to control the mob. Additional police forces were sent to control the situation and teams cleared the blockade from the road later in the afternoon. Traffic routes were diverted through interior village roads for the buses and cars to move on. The youths had been camping atop Kakri Doongri hill in Bichhiwada of Dungarpur district for a fortnight and have been mainly demanding the vacant 1,167 seats of REET to be filled by ST candidates. They have 31 other demands too, including a separate state. On Thursday noon, the protesters came down and blocked the roads with huge stones near Bhuwali. They held sticks and stones in their hands. Additional forces were sent from Dungarpur headquarters. Meanwhile, the policemen diverted traffic to prevent any untoward incident. Vehicles from Udaipur were diverted towards Motli turn to Dungarpur city and further towards Bichhiwada, while vehicles from Ahmedabad side too were diverted through different roads towards Udaipur. Officials were trying to hold mediation talks with the tribal leaders to resolve the issue till late evening. According to police, the tribal youths carried stones wrapped in clothes and hurled at the police teams which tried to move them away from the road. Additional SP Ganpat Mahawar sustained head injury who was rushed to the nearby hospital, while more than a dozen cops too were said to have been injured. Dungarpur collector Kanaram and superintendent of police Jai Yadav too reached the area and took charge of the situation. The authorities kept apprising situation to higher officials while they tried to speak to the tribal leaders to pacify the protestors and deal with the situation amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/violent-protest-by-tribal-youths-leaves-many-cops-hurt-on-nh-8/articleshow/78313518.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Traders hold sit-in protest for reopening Anna Market||Coimbatore: A group of traders held a sit-in on the premises of Anna daily vegetable market on Mettupalayam Road at Saibaba Colony on Thursday, demanding the city municipal corporation to reopen the market. The market was shut after many traders and buyers tested positive and shifted to a private school ground. Due to heavy rain, the traders were not able to sell vegetables as the ground became slushy. Immediately, the market was shifted to the Government College of Technology (GCT) ground on Thadagam Road.Meanwhile, a section of traders entered the premises of the market and staged a sit-in. The protesters claimed that the temporary market at GCT ground was slushy too, affecting customers and traders. The city corporation should take steps to reopen the market and maintain social distancing, a trader said.Protesters withdrew their sit-in after corporation officials and Saibaba Colony police held talks with them. Treasurer of Mettupalayam Road daily market all traders’ welfare association Shanmugaraj said the protesters were not members of the association. “Already we met the district collector and corporation officials and requested them to reopen the Anna vegetable market. They have promised us to reopen the market soon,” Shanmugaraj said.He said, “During the rainy season, the vendors are not able to sell vegetables in the GCT ground. We told corporation officials that we would install temporary structures with metal sheets. However, the college authorities denied permission to install the structures,” Shanmugaraj said.Anna Market has 369 vegetable shops and 50 small shops selling lemon and spinach. The market was functioning from 4am to noon every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traders-hold-sit-in-protest-for-reopening-anna-market/articleshow/78304906.cms||---
September 25, 2020||India||Now in SC: Plea on postponing of civil services prelims exam||NEW DELHI: During the pandemic, all roads for candidates seeking postponement of examinations leads to the Supreme Court, which on Thursday scheduled hearing on a PIL seeking deferment of Civil Services (Prelim) examination to be held on October 4. The SC has already dealt with similar pleas seeking postponement of various examinations — National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (UG), JEE (Main), final year college, CBSE board and chartered accountants — in the past few months. In all cases, the SC had satisfied itself about safety measures taken to minimise spread of Covid-19 among candidates and had allowed the examinations to go on. “Civil services exam, being a recruitment examination, is different from an academic examination and, thus, in the event of its postponement, there would not be any question of delay or loss of any academic session,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-in-sc-plea-on-postponing-of-civil-services-prelims-exam/articleshow/78306615.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Main accused reveals more details of HM sympathiser’s murder||Coimbatore: A day after the city police were granted three-day custody of the main accused in the Hindu Munnani sympathiser’s murder, he was produced before the judicial magistrate court-II on Thursday evening after interrogation.The court subsequently remanded Arumugam, of Narasimmanaickenpalayam, the mastermind behind the murder of C Biju, 40, of Dhanalakshmi Nagar near Avarampalayam, in judicial custody. He was later lodged in Pollachi sub-jail.A police officer said, “Arumugam said he had previous enmity with Biju. He has revealed the involvement of a few more people in the murder. We have collected enough information from him. The interrogation was over on Thursday evening. Hence, we produced him before the judicial magistrate.” The officer said three more people will be arrested in the case for their involvement in the conspiracy to murder the victim.Biju was hacked to death with sickles by a six-member gang on Gokhale Street at Ram Nagar on September 13. The gang then sped away on three motorcycles.The Kattoor police arrested Karthi, Raja, Praveen alias Kili, Aravindh, Ilaiyaraja alias Raja and Vivek Prabhu in the case, while Arumugam surrendered before a judicial magistrate court in Sivaganga district.The Kattoor police then obtained prisoner transit) warrant from the city JM-II court and produced him before it on Tuesday, seeking his custody for four days. When the e petition came up for hearing on Wednesday, and the court sent Arumugam in police custody for three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/main-accused-reveals-more-details-of-hm-sympathisers-murder/articleshow/78304922.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 2,100 positive cases, eight deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 2,176 new Covid-19 positive cases and eight deaths, taking the total number of cases to 1,79,246. The overall death toll has touched 1,070, while 1,48,139 patients have recovered from coronavirus so far across the state. Authorities said the number of active cases in the state increased slightly to 30,037 on Thursday from 29,873 a day earlier. The case fatality rate in the state is now at 0.59% and the current recovery rate is 81.42%. With 55,318 Covid-19 tests conducted in the state on Wednesday, the total number of tests conducted crossed 26,84,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-2100-ve-cases-eight-deaths/articleshow/78304927.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||24 micro-containment zones declared in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday declared 24 new micro-containment zones in the city.  To contain the spread of coronavirus, the adviser has ordered restrictions in parts of sectors 7, 15, 19, 20, 24, 27, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 44, 46, Mauli Complex, Ram Darbar Phase II, Indira Colony and Pipli Wala town, Manimajra. The zones were declared following the recommendations of the affected area committee, comprising municipal commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director, health services, sub-divisional magistrate (east), state surveillance officer and superintendent of police.  The recommendations were placed before the UT adviser, who discussed the issue with the UT administrator to reach a final decision.  Earlier on September 16, the administration had declared 27 micro-containment zones in the city in parts of sectors 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 29, 32, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 46, 47, 52, 63, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran. Besides, the UT had modified four earlier notified micro-containment zones in parts of sectors 15, 21, 42 and Manimajra.  Meanwhile, during the review meeting on Thursday, Dr G Dewan, director, health services, stated that 2,000 persons are in home quarantine in Chandigarh and are being regularly monitored through the control room.  UT administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed his satisfaction over coordination among the three government medical institutions for providing facilities to Covid patients, who needed regular maintenance dialysis.  He further directed Principal Secretary Health to devise a method, so that a Committee of doctors could screen all the cases and decide allotment of beds in a centralized fashion in all the three government medical institutions. This will help in eliminating patients running from one hospital to the other in search of beds, he said.  The Administrator also directed municipal and health authorities to ensure that there is no outbreak of vector and water borne diseases especially during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/24-micro-containment-zones-declared-in-city/articleshow/78303288.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker tramples man to death||Coimbatore: A wild elephant trampled a 31-year-old man to death in the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range on Wednesday night.The victim, R Gnanaprakash, a resident of Mattathukad village at Mannarkad in Palakkad district of Kerala, was a tractor driver. He was on the way home with his friend Arunkumar on a motorcycle when the incident happened, forest department sources said. “The duo was returning from an agricultural field at Moonukuttai village near Gopanari. A tusker attacked them when they were 1.5km away from the Kerala border. Arunkumar managed to escape,” an official said.The body was handed over to Gnanaprakash’s family after postmortem on Thursday afternoon. The department handed over Rs 50,000 to the family as immediate relief. This is the fourth fatal elephant attack in the district this month.The department has been monitoring movement of an elephant herd at Pethikuttai beat of Sirumugai forest range to carry out a comprehensive study on causes of man-elephant conflict. Pethikuttai was selected for the study as most of the elephant deaths were reported from the area.Elephant herds visit the 2,080-hectare Pethikuttai reserve forest between March and June, said district forest officer D Venkatesh. “Some of them stay back even after the grazing season. During the rainy season, when water level in the Bhavanisagar Dam reaches 105 feet, the width of water spread area increases, cutting off their migratory routes. As of now, 30 elephants are camping at Pethikuttai forest,” he said.Twenty elephant deaths have been reported from the Coimbatore forest division this year. Seven of them were from Pethikuttai. “The department has taken steps to study why elephants are staying in Pethikuttai even though they can swim over to the lower slopes of Nilgiris and follow their regular migration paths. We are surveying the forest area and conducting vegetation and habitat assessments, assessing health of elephants, paths in the reserve forest, water level assessment and water sample analysis,” Venkatesh said.As many as 30 camera traps have been installed at Pethikuttai to monitor the elephants. The department has also deployed elephant trackers from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-tramples-man-to-death/articleshow/78304924.cms||A Subburaj
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Airport expansion: Dist admin to move SC against HC order||Coimbatore: More than a month after the Madras high court ordered Coimbatore collector K Rajamani to complete acquisition of 25 acres, marked for expansion of the airport, at a cost of Rs 98 crore, the revenue department and district administration are yet to complete the acquisition. Instead, they are now planning to appeal in the Supreme Court against the Madras high court order. They plan to move the apex court despite the high court order clearly stating that the transaction should be completed within 30 days. Leased landholders say the nine-year long battle seems to have no end.On April 19, the Madras high court ordered the collector to pay the compensation fixed for the land and pay an interest of 9% of the land cost from 2011. This was applicable for 25 acres belonging to 13 families at Singanallur and Kalapatti, which had been taken on lease by the airport authorities since World War II. However, the airport authorities had stopped paying lease for the land since 2013, claiming that it was anyway marked for acquisition.While the court did not order the state government to pay the pending lease amount, it ordered the state government to instead pay an interest of 9% on the land cost since 2013. “However, since the order was passed, the revenue department is trying to buy the land from us without paying 9% interest. That 9% increased our compensation of Rs 900 per sq ft to almost Rs 1,300 per sq ft,” Jagannathan said. “They want to acquire the land at the lowest cost. The appeal in the Supreme Court will just drag the process for a few more years,” said Krishnakumar from Kalapatti. The lands marked for acquisition since 2013 have already lost all real estate value.Sources in the district administration confirmed that they would be filing an appeal in the Supreme Court against the high court order. “Our aim is not to harass the landowners, but to only follow due process recommended to us by the land administration department in Chennai. Tomorrow, we may get questioned for paying such a premium price for the land without exhausting all other options,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/airport-expansion-dist-admin-to-move-sc-against-hc-order/articleshow/78304926.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Each UP district to get export devpt centre||LUCKNOW: To develop every district as an export hub, work has started to appoint a district level export promotion committee and prepare a district export scheme, said additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal Sehgal said that an export development centre is being established in every district. The centres will contact local artisans, industrialists and make them aware about e-marketing and help organise them into associations.  They will also help in taking local products onto e-market places and branding by assisting with documentation, shipment and sorting local logistical issues. Other assistance that these centres will provide include online publicity, coordination with courier companies and postal department, creation of brochures, conducting training programmes for local industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/each-up-dist-to-get-export-devpt-centre/articleshow/78305779.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Chargesheets filed within 72 hours of rape cases in Alwar||JAIPUR: Coming down heavily on rape cases, the Alwar police have filed chargesheets within 72 hours of incidents. Police have also decided to pursue the cases in day-to-day hearing to ensure strict and prompt conviction of culprits. The two rape cases are of a 14-month-old infant and a three-year-old girl. Senior police officers stated that in both the cases, arrests were made and early filling of chargesheet will give message to the culprits that no such heinous crime would be tolerated. According to police, on September 21, a 14-month-old girl was raped in which police have filed chargesheet in the court on Thursday. In the second case, police filed chargesheet on Wednesday. “As per the case, a six-year-old girl was raped by 17-year-old minor. In both cases, it was clear in our mind that we have to file the chargesheet on time and we will see to it that the accused get conviction and strict punishment through the court,” said Tejaswini Gautam, superintendent of police, Alwar. Senior police officers stated that in these two heinous crimes against the girls, police will ensure strict punishment and will plead the court to have day-to-day hearings. Seeing the seriousness of the case, Gautam went to the child’s house and took information about the entire incident. In both the cases, police had registered a case and filed chargesheet under appropriate Sections of the POCSO Act. In the case of 14-month-old infant, the 50-year-old accused Puran Khati has been charged of rape, kidnap, voluntarily causing hurt and assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chargesheets-filed-within-72-hours-of-rape-cases-in-alwar/articleshow/78304918.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Two transgender groups clash over offerings in Ajmer||Ajmer: Two groups from the transgender community came out fighting on the road over the issue of collecting offerings in Ajmer on Thursday. The two groups allegedly broke into a fist fight over the matter, while one of the groups approached the police accusing another group of stealing. One of the transgender groups, the Ashwariya group, on Thursday approached the clock tower police station and gave a complaint against the other group, Saraswati group, for beating them up, stealing chains and extorting from people. Ajmer is known among the community as ‘Iilaichi Bai ki Gaddhi’ and during the yearly Urs of the sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty, the Supreme Court of transgenders who ask for offerings throughout the country, gathers here and decides on their issues. The Ashwariya group gave a complaint to the police that Shamura, Saraswati, Renu and Joya from Ahmedabad are ‘fake transgenders’ and are collecting offerings from people. Janvi of Ashwariya group said that when they objected to them collecting offerings, they started beating them up and also snatched a chain from them. They are now terrorising them, the group alleged. Moreover, with the festive season approaching, the Ashwariya group said they are wary of the Saraswati group siphoning off the offerings from people and that would deprive them of their share. Janvi added that if the police won’t be able to help them on the matter, they shall take it up with higher officials. Police said that they are investigating the matter. During the annual Urs, transgenders from across the country gather in Ajmer and offer chadar here, as most of the transgenders follow the sufi cult of life as harmony and brotherhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-transgender-groups-clash-over-offerings-in-ajmer/articleshow/78304921.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid norms go for a toss during Gujjar leaders’ meet||Alwar: Despite Section 144 which bans assembling of 5 people at a place, members of the Gujjar community held a meeting in Bhiwadi allegedly without permission on Thursday. Without social distancing, members of the community were seen sitting at the event including Shisharam Gurjar, chairman of Bhiwadi Municipal Council, deputy chairman Baljeet Dayma and former chairman Sandeep Dayma. On Monday, a large number of Gujjar leaders had assembled at a guest house at Kali Kholi Dham, Baba Mohan Ram Temple in Bhiwadi. At the meeting, the head of the reservation struggle committee, Colonel Kirori Lal Baisla’s son and Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla discussed the outline of the movement with the representatives of the Gujjar community. When asked on the violation of Covid guidelines, Bainsla said, “Gehlot government is also doing it. I would say if the state government does not want the Sangharsh Samiti to organise such social meets, I would urge them to implement reservation. We have already given them an ultimatum till the September 30.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-during-gujjar-leaders-meet/articleshow/78304925.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 642 fresh cases, tally past 28,000-mark||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore district recorded more than 600 fresh cases of Covid-19 for the second time on Thursday, after September 21. It recorded 642 fresh cases taking the tally to 28,388 cases. The day also saw 613 people getting discharged, leaving the active cases at 4,655. The district also recorded six new deaths taking the toll to 402.The district administration also announced that it would be implementing the recent GO, where they will fine people Rs 200 for not wearing masks, Rs 500 for coming out and moving around within a containment zone, not maintaining social distancing and spitting in public. All establishments where the above rules are not followed will be fined Rs 5,000. Any official in the police sub-inspector cadre or revenue assistance office cadre and above can levy these fines.Meanwhile, director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam has ordered Coimbatore Medical College Hospital to increase the number of beds with high flow oxygen support by at least 200 in the next fortnight. Though CMCH has 550 beds for Covid-19 patients, only 200 of them have high flow oxygen facilities. “I have asked them to increase the bed strength by another 200 and equip them with all the infrastructure that Covid-19 patients required,” Dr Selvavinayagam said.In a bid to address the growing number of active cases remaining in home isolation, the DPH has now made it mandatory for all patients testing positive to first report to a screening centre—either government hospitals or primary health centres or the corporation’s triage centres. “There the patient’s X-ray and physical condition will be diagnosed and based on that will be recommended hospitalization or home isolation,” the director said. “If a patient opts for home isolation, then we have asked for any official to check the house for required facilities like a separate toilet and a caretaker who can take responsibility for them,” he added.The director and his team also visited a few fever clinics being conducted in areas and told them to be more focused in choosing locations. “I have ordered that all private hospitals and clinics report every SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) and flu like illness case, which should be further investigated by the local body. As part of investigations, the local body should conduct a fever camp and find ILI cases or suspected Covid-19 cases from the area, test them and isolate them to control the spread,” Dr Selvavinayagam said. “This is especially applicable in streets with more than five cases,” he added. Currently, streets with more than five cases must be contained using barricades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-642-fresh-cases-tally-past-28000-mark/articleshow/78304877.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 4 lives, infects 253 in city||TNNChandigarh: Four patients succumbed to Covid-19 and 253 tested positivein Chandigarh on Thursday. The city toll tally has now increased to 144 and the case count to 10,968.The day also saw 293 recoveries.Those who died are a 42-year-old woman of Kishangarh with diabetes and hypertension; a 72-year-old diabetic man of Sector 32; a 76-year-old man of Sector 25; and a 41-year-old man of Burail with pneumonia.Of 253 positive cases, 27 are from Manimajra, 11 from Sector 9, and 10 each from Dhanas, sectors 20, 23 and 27. To date, 8,342 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virus-claims-4-lives-infects-253-in-city/articleshow/78303293.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Kidnapping of minister’s PA: 2 suspects picked up||Udumalpet: Police have picked up two men on Thursday for questioning in connection with the kidnapping of state animal husbandry minister’s personal assistant (PA) in Tirupur.Police said they were being questioned and hopeful of making a breakthrough in the case in a day. Both the suspects are from Udumalpet itself.West zone inspector general of police K Periaiah, range DIG Narendran Nair and Tirupur superintendent of police Disha Mittal, meanwhile, camped at Udumalpet for the second day to probe the case. They conducted inquiries with M Karnan, political PA of minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan, to gather more information about the assailants.Karnan was at the MLA’s office at Udumalpet when four men barged into the office and kidnapped him in a car. The masked men dropped Karnan near Dhali, about 15km away from the place of kidnap, two hours later. Soon after his release, Karnan had said he was kidnapped for political reasons.He said the gang had tied his eyes while travelling in the car. Later, when they stopped the car and untied the eyes, he found it was godown in a mulberry farm. After some time, the gang bundled him again into the car, drove out from the place and abandoned him at Vazhavadi near Dhali. Since the gang had taken away his mobile phone, Karnan said he hitchhiked on a motorcycle and reached an AIADMK worker’s house in the locality, from where he alerted police.Based on the information, police zeroed in on the godown in the mulberry farm in the region and picked up the owners. “We are interrogating the two,” said a police officer. However, police said the two were not part of the five-member gang that kidnapped Karnan. The interrogation is focussed on if the two were the mastermind and whether they had sent the gang.According to the first information report, the gang members were aged 25 to 30 years. They were booked under sections 447 (criminal trespass), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 365 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.The complainant, D KArpagam, a typist at the MLA’s office who was present when Karnan was kidnapped, had said she could identify the four men of the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kidnapping-of-ministers-pa-2-suspects-picked-up/articleshow/78304931.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Microbiological labs’s Covid-19 testing centre at Vadavalli sealed||Coimbatore: The city corporation sealed Microbiological labs’s Covid-19 testing centre at Vadavalli on Thursday, stating it was inquiring into the reliability of the lab’s testing ability and RT-PCR kits. Corporation commissioner Kumaravel Pandian said they did not want the public to get tested in the laboratory until the inquiry was over. The move comes after a 27-year-old man, who is an AIADMK sympathiser, questioned the credibility of the lab, which declared him positive for the virus, after he was found to negative in a test at another private lab.He along with 40 people had gheraoed the Micro labs collection centre at Vadavalli and forced them to close it. “Based on public complaints that the lab is falsely declaring people positive for the virus, the medical services department is inquiring into their testing protocols. Until the inquiry is complete, we will keep the centre sealed,” Pandian said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/microbiological-labss-covid-19-testing-centre-at-vadavalli-sealed/articleshow/78304933.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Panel to form guidelines for Covid-19 testing||Coimbatore: The director of public health has ordered top officials of city corporation, public health department and medical services department to form a committee to come up with a guideline on the right cycle threshold (Ct) value of real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to declare a person positive for Covid-19.The committee has also been tasked to study different brands of PCR antigen kits available in the market and their cutoff Ct value for declaring one positive for the virus.The move comes in the wake of people complaining about entirely different Covid-19 testing results from different laboratories. On Wednesday afternoon, a group of men had stormed into Microlabs at Vadavalli, complaining its Covid-19 testing system was wrong after it declared a man with a Ct value of 30-31 positive, while test results from another lab, Orbito Asia, showed him negative.Similarly, a family from Ramanujam Nagar was found positive after the city corporation collected samples from them for testing. But five days later, test results from a private lab showed them negative for the infection.In yet another case, a DMK member, who tested positive at Microlabs, was found negative in a test at the PSG Hospitals. This happened back in April.The Ct value refers to the number of cycles in an RT-PCR assay that is needed to amplify the viral RNA to reach a detectable level. In other words, it is the number of cycles required in a RT-PCR test for the viral RNA to be amplified enough to be detected. Most labs run 35-40 cycles on a sample and a set Ct value is considered positive and anything above that negative. “We use the kit from Trivitron. We run a sample for 35 cycles and if the Ct value is 1 to 19 the person is considered highly infected. If the Ct value is 19 to 28, the infection rate is considered moderate to low, and one would be declared positive even if it is 29 to 33,” says a senior microbiologist with the Microbiological laboratory.However, health department officials say other private laboratories such as Bioline and Orbito Asia have set a Ct value of 32 for declaring a person positive. The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and the ESI Hospital have, however, set a Ct value of 30 and below as positive.CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas says, “Our Ct value cutoff differs from kit to kit, which is supplied by various companies and it is anywhere between 28 to 30 based on the kit’s recommendation.”Dr Selvavinayagam, director of public health, said they have asked all the labs to follow instructions on the kits. “We have asked the committee to compare the procedure followed in other districts while forming the guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/panel-to-form-guidelines-for-covid-19-testing/articleshow/78304929.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Getting bodies of Maoists dangerous for cops: Telangana police||HYDERABAD: Following the high court directive on re-postmortem examination (PME) of three CPI (Maoist) cadres, the Telangana police are caught in a catch-22 situation. While the court has directed the government to conduct the PME of the deceased — including two women who were killed in exchange of fire on Wednesday night at Bhadradri-Kothegudem district police fear that any attempt by them to go into the interiors of the forest to retrieve the bodies might result in them falling prey to an ambush or landmines. The three Maoists were identified as Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) commander Sodi Jogaiah, 25, Dalam member Mandakam Malli, 22, and LGS member Mandakam Mangi, 24. The bodies were handed over to the respective families after the first PME. While the director general of police M Mahendar Reddy held a review meeting with Kothegudem police late on Thursday evening regarding this, sources said that cops are now relying on their sources and local political leaders where the three lived, to send information about the court order. Also, till the last reports came in, police were still verifying if Mangi was already cremated by her family members. “It is extremely risky for the police to personally go into the interior forest areas like Krishnarampadu village and Chennapuram village, which has Maoist influence. Apart from that, there might be backlash from some sections of those villages, following the killing of people belonging to their village,” said a source from Telangana police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/getting-bodies-of-maoists-dangerous-for-cops-officials/articleshow/78304949.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Four dead in Derabassi building collapse, magisterial probe on||MOHALI: Four persons were killed after a double-storey under-construction commercial building collapsed in Meera Milli Mohalla near Ramlila Ground of Derabassi sub-division around 9.30am on Thursday. Four labourers, one of whom sustained minor injuries, had a narrow escape, as they had left the building seconds before the structure came crashing down. The dead have been identified as Gopi Chand (60), Raju (46), Ramesh (45), all migrant labourers, and Haridev Singh (72), the building owner. Three were extracted dead from under the debris, while one with multiple injuries was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where he succumbed. Civil defence, police, medical, fire and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams were requisitioned and the rescue operation went on for four hours. Two cranes and one JCB machine were also pressed into service. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan rushed to the spot, where Derabassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa, DSP Gurbakshish Singh and SHO inspector Satinder Singh were already supervising the rescue operation. Dayalan said, “We have marked a magisterial probe to SDM Bawa and sought a report within 10 days. The SDM will look into the causes of collapse. The on-the-spot report of Derabassi municipal council building inspector blamed poor sanitary fittings. Action will be taken after the magisterial inquiry report is received.” Around 9.30am, seven labourers were working at the site, three inside the building and four outside. They saw the structure caving in. Three labourers and the owner who were inside got trapped. The owner was constructing a commercial complex after demolishing residential structures that were around 50 years old, said neighbours. He had converted the residential complex into a commercial one and constructed two buildings opposite each other with 10 shops in each. One of the buildings collapsed. In the four-hour rescue operation, two persons were brought out in less than an hour by the civil administration and police teams with the help of the residents, while it took two more hours for the NDRF team to find others caught in the debris. Phone call was hoax: NDRF officialNDRF rescue work was completed in two hours, but it took another two hours as the team was informed that two more labourers made a phone call from inside the debris, saying they were trapped. NDRF immediately passed on oxygen pipes under the debris. An NDRF senior officer said, “We have also used a cross-bore mitigation CCTV camera to find if anyone else is trapped under the debris. After thorough inspection, we concluded that the phone call made from under the debris was a hoax. And after getting permission from the SDM, we called off the search and rescue operation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/four-dead-in-derabassi-building-collapse-magisterial-probe-on/articleshow/78303298.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Mettur dam level inching towards 100-foot mark as inflow goes up||Salem: The Stanley Reservoir’s water level may cross the 100ft mark by Thursday night, public works department officials said.“Currently, the level stands at 98.2ft against its full capacity of 120ft,” an official told TOI. “The inflow was 49,000 cusecs while the discharge was maintained at 18,000 cusecs. We increased the discharge volume in the dam’s east and west bank canals to 850 cusecs from 700 cusecs on Thursday morning.”Karnataka had discharged surplus water into river Cauvery after Kabini and Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dams reached full capacity. The government released nearly 72,000 cusecs from both the dams on September 20. It reached Stanley Reservoir through Biligundlu, the entry point of Tamil Nadu in Krishnagiri district and Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district the next day. Mettur dam’s water level, which stood at 89.77ft on that day, went up to 91.47ft the next morning.Karnataka PWD officials reduced water discharge on Wednesday after catchment areas received no rain. Subsequently, inflow in river Cauvery was gradually reduced. The inflow was maintained at 71,000 cusecs on Tuesday night, reduced to 61,000 cusecs on Wednesday night and 49,000 cusecs on Thursday morning. “Though the inflow is gradually decreasing, it’s still higher than the outflow. Chances for water level increasing in the dam is high,” the official said.Fishermen in Mettur, Pannavadi and surrounding villages have refrained from fishing as Cauvery is in spate. “We usually drop nets in the night. But we could not do so due to strong water flow,” said V Tamilselvan, a fisherman from Pannavadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mettur-dam-level-inching-towards-100-foot-mark-as-inflow-goes-up/articleshow/78304962.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Kodanad case adjourned to Tuesday||Udhagamandalam: After examining the 23rd witness in the Kodanad murder and burglary case on Thursday, the district magistrate court here adjourned the case to September 29.Police produced all the 10 accused before the court. After the hearing, six accused were sent to the Coimbatore Central Jail. The rest are on bail.According to public prosecutor Bala Nandhakumar, 35 more witnesses are to be examined in connection with the case. As many as 23 witnesses were examined by the court. Three witnesses were examined on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Madras high court has given direction to the magistrate court to complete hearings before December 15. On August 21, police produced only two accused who were in the Coimbatore Central Jail. The remaining eight accused were absconding and the court issued arrest warrants against them. Police arrested four accused and the rest surrendered before the court in the last two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kodanad-case-adjourned-to-tuesday/articleshow/78304940.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||4 die, 101 test positive in Pkl||tnn Panchkula: Four Covid-19 patients lost their lives and 101 tested positive in Panchkula on Thursday.With this, the case count has mounted to 5,429, including 1,160 active ones, and the toll tally to 76.Chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the casualties included a 60-year-old man of Tipra village; two men of Kalka aged 65 and 64; and a 45-year-old woman of Sector 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-die-101-test-positive-in-pkl/articleshow/78303310.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||NMC caps HRCT scan prices after state issues order||Nagpur: In a big relief for Covid-19 patients, the civic body has capped the rate for High Resolution CT scan. Following notification issued by the public health department of state government on Friday, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) issued an order on Friday, bringing down the CT scan rates to almost half. Till now, different hospitals and radiology centres were charging varied amount for HRCT scan of lungs, which is required while treating a large number of Covid-19 patients. From the existing Rs4,000 to Rs7,000, the government has brought down the rate to Rs2,000 to Rs3,000. As per NMC’s order issued by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, action will be taken against organizations if they charge more than the new prescribed rates. If any hospital has been charging less than these rates for CT scan, it should continue to do so. As the new rates depend on the type of machine being used, it is now mandatory for all the labs to indicate it to the patient and his kin. “No lab should do a CT scan of a patient without prescription from a doctor. Also, it is mandatory for radiologists to give complete test report to the patients,” the order stated. These rates will not be applicable for patients who have health insurance and the lab has a tie-up with the insurance company. “These rates include CT film, PPE kits, disinfectant, sanitization charges and GST,” the order added. Till now, many people would complain about high CT scan charges as they were not affordable for all. After learning about the state government’s order on Friday morning, some patients in the city approached different radiology centres, demanding HRCT scan to be done at the prescribed rates. As per the call recordings between them, some centres denied that rates were reduced and demanded Rs6,000. Based on such complaints, NGO Together We Can raised the issue with senior NMC officials, who have assured to look into the matter. As per officials, hospitals and radiology centres cannot deny the prescribed rates. “They can’t charge anything extra and these rates include everything,” they added. As reported by TOI, NMC has constituted a pre-audit team to vet the bills of private hospitals. TOI has been receiving complaints about inflated bills at various city hospitals. Officials hope the situation will improve now as every bill will be audited by the designated team members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-caps-hrct-scan-prices-after-state-issues-order/articleshow/78323977.cms||Manka Behl
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Chit fund organiser held in Hyderabad for cheating||HYDERABAD: CCS police have arrested a chit fund organiser, who allegedly duped several people to the tune of Rs 76 lakh, in Bengaluru. He was brought to the city on Thursday. The accused, Kacham Kiran Kumar (41), was operating a chit fund business. According to police, Kiran lured three victims to deposit Rs 76 lakh. He was sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chit-fund-organiser-held-for-cheating/articleshow/78304937.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Organic farmers welcome new agri bill||Jaipur: The new farm bill — Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 — has brought cheers to farmers growing crops organically. Organic farming (without the use of chemicals) costs almost twice or thrice the usual farming that makes extensive use of pesticides. The licenced organic farmers find it difficult to look for a buyer under the mandi system where they must compete with the usual types of farm produce. Organic farmers say that under the new system, they will have the advantage of selling directly without any mandi tax to buyers that are very limited and spread across the country. Rameshwar Jat, a farmer who has leased his 16 bighas of land to a producer-cum-agent for growing organic strawberry in Hamirgarh tehsil of Bhilwara, is set for revising the price of his produce. Once the bill becomes law, the producer based in Pune wouldn’t have to pay the mandi fees of 2%. “The buyers are very selective for the produce as it is more costly than the usual strawberries. We grow here for a juice company which sells it abroad. Since the new bill gives us that liberty to reach out to the buyers, we will contact the company directly or the manufacturer abroad. I am sure it would fetch us more profit,” said Jat. For organic farming, farmers have to take license from the agriculture department. They have given the undertaking that they cannot add any chemicals and only natural elements like seeds, manure and water are to be used. The bill gives them the freedom to sell the produce without the mandi and the fee it collects. For organic farmers, it is not the mandi fee which bothers them, but the new system will give them the wings to sell their produce according to their terms and price. Badrilal Gujjar, who owns 4 hectare of land in Hattipura village in Bundi, produces a small portion of corn and wheat in organic form. His WhatsApp is flooded with messages that farmers can sell their produce anywhere to anyone, which has raised his hope of expanding the organic farming on his farmland. “If this is true, I would love to grow millets, corn and wheat in a huge quantity as I know buyers in Maharashtra who always insist on organic crops,” said Gujjar. Similarly, farmers in Udaipur and Kota division who grow organic produce are expecting more profits with the coming of the new bill. There are companies that deal with organic farming to tap the growing business in this field, due to the growing awareness. Since it is at a nascent stage in Rajasthan, the organic farmers don’t have an association or a body to raise their concerns or problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/organic-farmers-welcome-new-agri-bill/articleshow/78304936.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Govt appeals against Delhi HC stay on Covid bed cap||NEW DELHI: The AAP government on Thursday filed an appeal against the September 22 order of Delhi High Court staying its decision to reserve 80% beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals. In its plea seeking to vacate the stay, the government has claimed the high court order has left hundreds of corona patients needing urgent medical treatment at the “mercy” of private hospitals and has “strengthened the hands” of such hospitals that charge “exorbitantly high fee/treatment costs from such patients.” The government also questioned the antecedents of an association whose petition resulted in the stay, arguing that none of the affected 33 hospitals had challenged its directive, since they had agreed to it at the meeting held with all stakeholders earlier. It said the petition by the association was filed “primarily for monetary reasons, as the rate that private hospitals can charge in respect of Covid-19 patients has been capped... in the interest of public at large, and therefore, an added obligation to induct Covid patients in the ICU of private hospitals would reduce their ability to charge such patients arbitrary and exorbitant treatment and other fees, entirely according to their whims and fancies.” Urging a bigger bench to set aside the single judge order, the appeal says that the move by the association (on behalf of private hospitals) has been masked as a petition that is seeking to secure the interest of non-Covid patients, “whereas in reality, the same has been preferred on behalf of private nursing homes and hospitals solely to look out for and secure their own financial interests, and be able to levy arbitrary and exorbitant medical treatment fee and other such charges from critical Covid-19 patients.” It maintained that the government order does not in any manner take away any patient’s right to be treated for any disease/ailment other than Covid-19 and has been issued in public interest, “keeping in view the dynamic changes resulting from the unprecedented rise of the Covid-19 pandemic in the NCT of Delhi.” It submits that “on account of the unprecedented surge in the number of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 recently, since the first week of September, 2020 when it was found that majority of the ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were occupied and therefore, beyond the access of critical Covid-19 patients, who are in need of urgent and immediate medical attention and treatment,” the state government decided to augment the ICU beds capacity for corona patients. “In this regard, it is also pertinent to mention that the 80% increased ICU bed capacity excludes paediatric ICU and neonatal ICU beds. Further, 20% of total ICU beds were left for non-Covid patients,” the plea says, adding that due to the intervention, “almost 500 patients have been able to secure admission in ICU beds of these private nursing homes and hospitals.” The plea underlines that the government order only directs 33 private nursing homes and hospitals (out of a total of almost 1,170 private nursing homes and 36 hospitals across Delhi) to reserve/earmark 80% of their ICU beds. “More than 1,100 private nursing homes/ private hospitals are providing super specialty treatment; multispecialty treatment; single specialty treatment ; emergency medical treatment including treatment of victims of road accident, acid attack, burn injury & crimes; outdoor treatment; and vector-borne disease treatment to non-Covid patients,” the plea adds. Justice Navin Chawla had questioned the government over discriminating between patients in emergency while staying the Delhi government’s September 13 order on a plea by “Association of Healthcare Providers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-appeals-against-hc-stay-on-covid-bed-cap/articleshow/78305728.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid norm violations to cost you dear||Coimbatore: Jostling with people in front of Tasmac outlets, crowding in front of meat shops or getting too close to anyone in other public places has just turned out to be a costly affair in the district. District collector K Rajamani warned on Thursday that people failing to follow social distancing in public would be slapped with a penalty of Rs 500. The district administration has also decided to crack whip on other Covid norm violations too. Spitting in public places would attract a penalty of Rs 500 and those not wearing masks would be fined Rs 200.“The penalties are enforced based on a government order issued on September 4 for violations of standard operating procedures (SOPs) that are laid down for various entities like beauty parlours, gyms, shopping complexes and places of worship,’’ said Rajamani in a statement.He said shopping complexes, parlours and gyms that are found to violate the SOPs would be penalised Rs 5,000, while individuals in containment zones who ignore the Covid rules would be fined Rs 500. “Commercial establishments in containment zones would attract a penalty of Rs 5,000 for violations.”The collector said health inspectors from public health department, sanitary inspectors from civic bodies, sub-inspectors of police and those above SI rank in police department, and revenue inspectors and their superiors could levy the penalty and collect the same.Seeking the cooperation of the public in the fight against Covid, he said the penalties would be enforced with immediate effect. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-norm-violations-to-cost-you-dear/articleshow/78304935.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||2 die, 169 contract Covid-19 in Mohali||Mohali: Two Covid-19 patients died, 169 tested positive and 349 recovered from the disease in Mohali on Thursday.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the casualties included a 77-year-old man of Industrial Area, Phase 1, Mohali, and a 45-year-old woman of Mullanpur Garibdas. The 169 positive cases included 96 from Mohali urban, 27 from Kharar, six from Gharuan, 18 from Dhakoli, 16 from Derabassi, one from Boothgarh and five from Lalru. The Mohali case count now stands at 9,135, including 2,637 active cases, and the toll tally at 173.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-die-169-contract-covid-19-in-mohali/articleshow/78303307.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||92-yr-old with renal failure & Covid pneumonia recovers||Nagpur: Advanced age and comorbidities are indicators of bad prognosis in Covid-19, but there are several examples of elderly people recovering in the state. Recently, a 92-year-old woman, who was critically ill due to Covid-19, fought against it and won the battle after 16 days of hospital stay in city.The woman had acute renal failure, severe pneumonia, and her lungs required 100% oxygen pressure externally. Dr Sameer Arbat, who treated the woman at KRIMS Hospital, told TOI that willpower of the patient and expertise of doctors saved her from the critical condition. Till now, there have been reports of patients aged 106, 100 and 95 years of age defeating Covid-19. But most of them were having mild symptoms and were admitted with only oxygen requirement. “This patient was critically affected by Covid-19 with severe pneumonia and was requiring 100% oxygen pressure on Venti- BiPAP. The patient was treated with IV antibiotics, antivirals, multivitamins, anti-platelets and other supportive care. We are very happy that the patient has recovered from a very critical stage and is now being sent home on 1-2L/m oxygen,” said Dr Arbat, interventional pulmonologist at KRIMS Hospital.Apart from Dr Arbat, Dr Parimal Deshpande, Dr Swapnil Bakamwar and supportive staff treated the woman. “It was a team effort of all the doctors and nursing staff as the old lady was very fragile and required a thorough clinical and nursing care,” said Dr Arbat. The recovery of a senior citizen from a critical stage of disease sends a ray of hope to thousands of people who fear the worst outcome when they are tested positive for Covid-19. “Until now, there is no definite cure for Covid-19 and a few anti-viral drugs have been approved by World Health Organization for treatment. Timely treatment and effective clinical care can help in good outcome for critically ill patients,” he said. “We are thankful to the team of KRIMS for their efforts to save my mother’s life and letting her come back home safely,” commented the patient’s daughter.For better chances of recovery from Covid-19Don’t ignore mildest of symptomsEarly identification of symptoms like fever, fall in oxygen, breathing difficultyTimely hospitalizationInitiation of oxygen therapyJudicious use of antivirals and antibioticsAdequate hygiene and nursing care Who requires hospitalization...Fall in Sp02 below 94%Persistent feverMental confusion or irritabilitySeizuresBluish discoloration of face, lips||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/92-yr-old-with-renal-failure-covid-pneumonia-recovers/articleshow/78303361.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Price of sago dips in co-operative society as merchants from north head to Andhra||Salem: The price of sago has dipped nearly by Rs 405 per 90kg bag in Salem and Namakkal districts after merchants from northern states started procuring from Andhra Pradesh.“One bag (90kg) of sago was sold for Rs 4,310 till August 31 and it was now available for Rs 3,905,” M Srinivasan, one of the sago merchants, said. He said nearly 8,000 sago bags will be sold every day in the Sagoserve – the co-operative society for sago and starch manufacturers in the state.Nowadays, only 2,000 bags are sold.Sago, which is being produced across Salem and surrounding districts including Namakkal, will be sold to Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Merchants from these states usually come to Sago-Serve in Salem to buy sago bags. “These merchants now had gone to Andhra Pradesh as they were giving competitive prices for sago,” Srinivasan added.Like sago manufacturers, tapioca farmers are also facing tough times. The dip in sago sales has affected tapioca sales too. “One tonne of tapioca was sold for Rs 10,000 till August 31. Currently, it is available for Rs 7,000 in the retail market,” K Sundaram, a tapioca farmer, said. He added that tapioca farmers in Salem, Namakkal, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai districts will be affected largely as this is the right time for tapioca cultivation.Salem district is famous for tapioca and its related products. The district has been contributing nearly 40% of the total tapioca production in the state. In Tamil Nadu, tapioca is being cultivated over an area of about 82,000 hectares. The industry alone has provided employment for more than 10 lakh people directly and indirectly. Salem district alone has 34,000 hectares of land under tapioca cultivation and there are 650 units directly engaged in tapioca processing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/price-of-sago-dips-in-co-operative-society-as-merchants-from-north-head-to-andhra/articleshow/78304965.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Upside of lockdown: Unlucky 13 see reduction in pollution levels||NEW DELHI: An analysis by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has shown a significant reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels at Delhi’s 13 hotspots during the first two phases of the lockdown between March 25 and May 3 compared with the same period last year. The reduction was a result of restriction on operation of industrial and commercial activities and vehicular movement. A major reduction in particulate matter levels was seen at Dwarka, Anand Vihar and Okhla. The decrease in PM2.5 levels varied from 54% in Jahangirpuri to 26% in Punjabi Bagh. Restriction on the operation of industries in Mundka led to 38% reduction in PM2.5 levels during the first phase of the lockdown. While there were data gaps for Anand Vihar and Narela, a considerable decrease in PM2.5 levels was observed on the days when pollution was measured. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile CPCB found a decrease in PM10 levels at all hotspots, some areas reported a higher fall in pollution levels compared with the same period in 2019. Over 60% reduction in PM10 levels was observed at Dwarka, Mundka, Wazirpur and RK Puram. This could be attributed to reduced road dust re-suspension due to minimal vehicular movement and restriction on construction and demolition activities, said the report by CPCB. A sizeable improvement in NO2 levels was observed across the hotspots, except Jahangirpuri. This could be a result of Jahangirpuri being located near a major interstate traffic junction where there was a huge movement of essential goods. Rohini, Ashok Vihar and RK Puram witnessed over 70% reduction in NO2 levels, primarily due to reduced vehicular activity. Dipankar Saha, former head at CPCB’s air laboratory, said, “The favourable weather conditions coincided with the lockdown when all major activities were controlled. This helped reduce the concentration of pollutants.” The 13 pollution hotspots were identified by CPCB and Delhi Pollution Control Committee based on the average PM2.5 and PM10 levels recorded throughout 2019. These include Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/upside-of-lockdown-unlucky-13-see-reduction-in-pollution-levels/articleshow/78305760.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid warrior lawyer no more||HYDERABAD: On Thursday, P Nagesh’s latest public interest litigation plea was listed before a bench headed by CJ Raghvendra Singh Chauhan of the high court. But he had succumbed to a massive heart attack three weeks ago. Nagesh’s legal battles during the pandemic brought relief to lakhs of SSC students. A PIL of his resulted in an order that directed the state to keep hearse vehicles at government hospitals to carry dead bodies from hospitals to homes. He was one of the first lawyers that drove everyone towards oxygen management in state-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-warrior-lawyer-no-more/articleshow/78304966.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM’s Puja dole, other sops soothe organizers’ nerves||KOLKATA: Months of anxiety and worry came to an end on Thursday evening when CM Mamata Banerjee announced a grant of Rs 50,000 to each registered Durga Puja organizer. For 2,000-odd para Pujas that operate on a shoe-string budget, organizing this year’s Puja was proving a major challenge in the absence of advertisements and difficulties in collecting subscriptions from households struggling with reduced income. “A burden has been lifted off our shoulders. We were really worried about managing the finances this year,” said Tarun Shaw, secretary of Hindustan Boys Sporting Club in Talatala that was struggling to cobble together Rs 1 lakh needed for the Puja till the grant came to its rescue. Similar emotions were expressed in neighbourhoods across the city, from members of Raj Ballav Para Samity in Bagbazar to Bengal Boys Training Association (BBTA) in Kalighat. “We weren’t expecting such largesse this year. It means the world to us,” said BBTA secretary Rakesh Matija. The 500-odd Pujas that have big budgets resolved to utilize the additional money in safety and sanitization measures. “We had decided to make provisions for hand sanitizers, sanitization of the pandal and stock masks for those without them. Now, the money that the CM has announced will fund these measures. It will also be used in creating awareness about Covid SOPs,” said Forum for Durgotsav president Kajal Sarkar. Rajat Sengupta, general secretary of 66 Pally in south Kolkata, said the additional sops by way of fire fee waiver, KMC tax relief and CESC bill discount could potentially lead to an additional saving of Rs 25,000-50,000. Beyond the monetary issues, Puja organizers were hoping their doubts on issues like pandals and various rituals would be clarified at the meeting. And they weren’t disappointed. “There are no hurdles any longer. We can now get into the business of organizing this year’s Puja with added care and caution to prevent crowding and maintain physical distance,” said former forum president Partha Ghosh. While most of the proposals went down well with Puja organizers, the only one that some felt would be difficult to implement was the proposal on distance marking near the pandals. “The CM did not enforce anything. She only made a plea that we prevent crowding at all costs. We will sit down tomorrow and discuss how to best ensure that,” said Kumartuli Sarbojanin Durgotsav convenor Debasis Bhattacharya. College Square Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee general secretary Bikash Mazumdar said: “It is incumbent upon organizers to ensure that the pandemic does not cast its shadow on the celebration or after it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cms-puja-dole-other-sops-soothe-organizers-nerves/articleshow/78303371.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: More evidence against G Nagesh piles with ACB||HYDERABAD: Following four days of custodial interrogation of additional collector G Nagesh and four other accused, ACB has gathered more evidence against him. Nagesh’s benami, Jeevan Goud, and junior assistant in the revenue department Mohammed Waseem confessed about the involvement of the other accused in the case. ACB investigators said Nagesh did not cooperate with them during the interrogation. He did not provide any details about what he has done with Rs 40 lakh bribe collected in the form of cash from the complainant. Nagesh also kept saying, “I have no idea and I do not know,” about the copy of agreement of five acres land sale and eight cheques issued by the complainant, which were seized from his house in Medak. However, Jeevan Goud told the ACB sleuths that the additional collector informed him about registering five acres of land in Chippalaturthi village of Medak district in his name and asked him to send photos of cheque (for bank account details) and Aadhaar card. ACB found the photos of the documents in the phones of both Jeevan and Nagesh. While Narsapur RDO Aruna Reddy, also an accused, told ACB sleuths that the Rs 28 lakh found in her house belongs to her husband who dabbles in real estate business, both she and the other accused, Abdul Sattar, Chilipiched tahsildar, denied to have accepted bribe from the complainant. However, Waseem told the officials that from the Rs 5 lakh bribe collected, he had given Rs 1 lakh each to both the senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-evidence-against-nagesh-piles-with-acb/articleshow/78304986.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||Minor girl harassment: Found guilty of ‘inaction’,SI suspended, six others attached to Police Lines||BAREILLY: The in-charge of the Karanpur police post in Moradabad district was on Thursday suspended and six other policemen were attached to Police Lines after a departmental probe indicted them for “inaction” in a harassment case wherein a 45-year-old man, Hariom, who had gone to confront the accused allegedly harassing her 14-year-old daughter, died on Tuesday after being “attacked” by them. An inquiry is, meanwhile, underway against Mundha Pandey SHO Nawab Singh as well. Moradabad senior superintendent of police (SSP) Prabhakar Chaudhari said a probe was ordered against the police personnel after the family of the victim, Hariom, a resident of a village under Mundha Pandey police station, had accused police of inaction. The SSP said the probe report indicted the police officers for negligence as they did not take action against the accused and his family, even as the girl’s father and family members had lodged a written complaint against them. Karanpur outpost in-charge Virendra Kumar was suspended, while two sub-inspectors — Ashwini Kumar and Parmanand — and four constables —Sukhnandan, Dhirendra, Manoj Kumar and Atul Kumar — were attached to Police Lines. Circle officer Ram Sagar is, meanwhile, conducting an inquiry against Mundha Pandey SHO. Two days before Hariom’s death, his family had complained Mundha Pandey police about the harassment of the minor girl. However, police took no action against the accused who beat Hariom to death after he confronted them, alleged the victim’s family. Moradabad police later arrested four accused, while three others were still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-harassment-found-guilty-of-inactionsi-suspended-six-others-attached-to-police-lines/articleshow/78300870.cms||Maria Khan
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Experience helps Hyderabad doctors tackle Covid in a better manner||HYDERABAD: With a change in treatment protocol since the onset of the pandemic, identification of severe cases and treatment has become streamlined now as doctors are backed by experience in treating Covid-19 cases. “The behaviour of the Covid-19 virus has changed since March. It has undergone several mutations since it was discovered. Different targets have been identified for drugs to act on the virus. Many anti-viral drugs have been developed and more are in the pipeline. Role of steroids and anticoagulants have been clearly identified,” said Dr Pradyut Waghray, pulmonologist and MD, Kunal Institute of Medical Specialties Hyderabad adding how many existing drugs like Ivermectin, Doxycycline, Hydroxychloroquine, Pidotimod, Curcumin etc, have been identified for treatment of Covid-19. Compared to states where more tests are being done, the mortality in Telangana remains low. “Our treatment strategy has been good right from the beginning. We have been using Remdesivir, Faviparavir and plasma therapy right from the start,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. Explaining how the mortality rate can be kept low he said: “In the first week every patient is asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and can be in home quarantine. Usually the second and third week is crucial and 15% to 20% end up with a cytokine storm. At this stage if the patient is hospitalised and proper care is given, deaths will be less than 1% to 2%. While our strategy is good, also luckily the virulence of the virus is less,” he said. The fact that Telangana ramped up testing in mid-June has paid off as well. “It has ensured early detection which in turn makes identification of the severity easier. We can segregate severe patients,” said Dr Kiran Madala, incharge HOD of critical care at Nizamabad Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experience-helps-docs-tackle-covid-in-a-better-manner/articleshow/78304978.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||BRSP seeks reservation for Marathas, Muslims||Aurangabad: The Bahujan Republican Socialist Party on Thursday staged demonstrations in front of the divisional commissionerate to press for their demands including reservations for Marathas and Muslims. Founder president Suresh Mane said the party has been making representations to various authorities drawing their attention to their demands. He also said the party workers maintained social distance and sported masks while protesting. The party has also demanded construction of hostels for students from the backward classes and regularization of services of all contract workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/brsp-seeks-reservation-for-marathas-muslims/articleshow/78304975.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||No child will suffer for delayed fee payment: Schools to Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: Several city schools on Thursday told the Calcutta High Court that they were willing to introduce several measures to ease financial burden on parents. These measures include delayed payment of fees in instalments, reducing several fee components and doing away with late payment penalties. Many schools also said that no child will be barred from appearing in the board exams for non-payment of fees during the pandemic. An HC division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya, hearing a PIL filed by Vineet Ruia, had on September 21 said they hoped that students appearing for board examinations would not have to lose a year merely because their parents could not afford to pay the fees due to the economic situation during the pandemic. The HC is likely to hear the case again on Monday. BP Tiwary, the lawyer who represented CNI schools and the other minority institutions’ group, said on Thursday, “We said that no child will be barred from board exams, no one will be debarred from online classes now and physical classes later, and we shall give an easy instalment facility to pay the dues after the pandemic.” Paritosh Sinha, who appeared with Tiwary for CNI schools, said that care has been taken in the template to see that no one is harmed. “We will ensure that not a single child’s education or future suffers,” he asserted. Lawyer Shyam Diwan, too, represented CNI schools. The HC had also urged guardians who can afford the original fees not to take advantage of the waivers proposed by the school committees so that the relief can be passed on to parents who need it more. The 11 CNI schools, which include La Martiniere Schools, Pratt Memorial, St James, St John’s Diocesan School and St Thomas Boys and Girls School, Kidderpore, also said that they had not discontinued the services of any staffer and there had been no disruption in teaching-learning process. The HC received a similar fee-concession proposal from another group of minority schools that has both religious and linguistic minorities, and a third proposal from Modern High School.  However, the third proposal filed by advocate Ranjan Bachawat and Sanjay Ginodia also stressed that parents not affected by the pandemic will not avail this reduction. A total of 145 schools have filed affidavits and the hearing will continue on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-child-will-suffer-for-delayed-fee-payment-schools-to-hc/articleshow/78303407.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Oxygen shortage impacts life-saving Covid procedure||PUNE: A highly beneficial Covid treatment procedure, known as the high-flow nasal oxygen method (HFNO), has now taken a hit because of the erratic supply of medical oxygen in the region. The procedure has had substantial success in the treatment of patients with respiratory distress. “There has been an 80% dip in HFNO use in Pune due to oxygen supply shortage,” said Mukund Penurkar, secretary of the Association of Physicians of India, Pune branch. “This has led to the increased use of non-invasive ventilator support for seriously ill patients.” There are four ways to send oxygen into a patient: via the normal oxygen mask, HFN0, non-invasive ventilator support and invasive or mechanical ventilation. The HFNO, which is easy to use, is the perfect bridge between the regular mask and the full-fledged ventilator. But it's also the method that needs the most oxygen. A patient on a regular oxygen mask requires two to 10 litres of oxygen per minute. Non-invasive ventilator support needs at least 30 litres of oxygen per minute and the HFNO method can need up to 60 litres per minute. Subhal Dixit, chief intensivist of Sanjeevan hospital said, “HFNO is excellent for seriously ill Covid patients. But many hospitals have reduced its use as oxygen supply has gone haywire.” Ruby Hall Clinic's chief intensivist Kapil Zirpe helped explain the choices doctors now have. “A single patient on HFNO takes up as much oxygen as 10 patients on the oxygen mask. Very few critically ill patients actually need ventilators. And among them, a tiny number can be treated with HFNO instead of placing them on ventilators right away,” he said. Urvi Shukla, head of the ICU at Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre in Lavale, said, “Hospitals that rely on oxygen cylinders find HFNO use very difficult as cost of oxygen procurement have escalated.” But HFNO plays a vital role when patients cannot just do with a normal oxygen mask. Approximately 20% of those with Covid-19 have reported hypoxia (breathlessness). The condition is usually cured via the mask. “But in some cases, oxygenation via regular cannula (tube) is not enough to maintain blood oxygen levels. For such patients, the HFNO has proven to be a very beneficial remedy. However, this method has now taken a backseat in Pune,” Penurkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/erratic-oxygen-supply-impacts-critical-treatment-method/articleshow/78305753.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: London flight business class going full but empty economy seats a worry||KOLKATA: Even as poor loads continue to plague the Air India London-Kolkata flights that were introduced last week, the high occupancy in the business class has surpassed the airline’s expectations. In all three flights that have operated so far, 90% business-class seats that sell for Rs 92,000-Rs 1,60,000 have been occupied. In contrast, in the economy class, where the seats are on offer for as low as Rs 27,000, the occupancy has been less than 30%. The Dreamliner flight that departed on Thursday morning had only 40 economy-class passengers on board with 189 seats vacant. In the business class, 15 of the 16 seats were occupied. The high business-class occupancy has confounded many in the travel trade community as flyers from the city have always been categorised as price-sensitive. Both British Airways (BA) and Lufthansa had cited poor occupancy in business class despite high loads in the economy class for withdrawing the service from Kolkata. “We were expecting a much higher load in the economy class that forms the bedrock of a flight and much lower occupancy in the business class that offers greater yield. But in this unusual climate, it has been the reverse. That is primarily because two categories of people are travelling — the affluent who have family and friends living abroad; and students who have to join their institutions in the UK or elsewhere in Europe. Though UK is offering visa for all categories, including tourist, leisure travel is yet to take off,” an airline official reasoned. In the next flight due to depart on Sunday, all business class seats are sold out. The economy class figures too show an improvement with sale of 80 out of 229 seats. On Thursday’s Kolkata-London flight that was the first one to travel direct from Kolkata to Heathrow airport, 60 people were booked to travel originally. But the plane took off with only 55 persons as five were not allowed to board by immigration authorities. Of them, three were seamen who did not have the valid visa. Two others did not fill up a form that is required to be submitted within 48 hours of the journey. The count of arriving passengers is also a worry. On Thursday, the flight that arrived carried only 35 passengers. “Unless the passenger load is at least 50%, the flight is unviable. Ideally, the fight should do capacity loads in the current scenario. But the problem is that most of the people who have had to travel urgently have already done so via Delhi or Mumbai,” an airline official pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/london-flight-biz-class-going-full-but-empty-economy-seats-a-worry/articleshow/78303428.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Water discharge from Radhanagari, Koyna begins||Kolhapur: Authorities of the irrigation department have released water from Koyna and Radhanagari dams after heavy rainfall lashed the catchment areas in Satara and Kolhapur districts. People residing on the banks of Krishna and Panchganga rivers have been alerted about the situation. Koyna dam in Satara district is filled up to 100% capacity. The dam had water storage of more than 100 TMC as against its capacity of 105 TMC. Last week, the region witnessed heavy rainfall, adding to the water storage in the dam. It resulted in further discharge of water. Irrigation officials have confirmed that around 9,000 cusec water was being discharged from Koyna dam. The officials have alerted citizens of Satara and Sangli districts to refrain from going near the rivers as the water level is likely to increase. According to officials, minor water discharge is taking place from Dhom and Kanher dams, both of which are in Satara district. Meanwhile, two gates of Radhanagari dam in Kolhapur district were opened on Tuesday night with 4,000 cusec of water being discharged. The catchment area of the dam has been receiving intermittent rainfall over a brief period of time. People residing on the banks of Panchganga and other rivers have been alerted and advise to relocate to safe locations. This is for the fourth time during the current monsoon that gates of Radhanagari dam have been opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-discharge-from-radhanagari-koyna-begins/articleshow/78304990.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Schools in a dilemma over conducting practical classes||HYDERABAD: While online teaching of theory subjects is underway, schools are worried about practicals, as these classes cannot be conducted virtually. A few principals said that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or other boards concerned should do away with the practical exams for this year, while others want to conduct practical classes at least for class 12 students. “I don’t think it will make much of a difference if practical exams are cancelled for this academic year. It’s not worth taking the risk. Instead, they can have objective type exams to assess the understanding of students,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School, adding that conducting practical classes will be a problem as they are taught in a group, where maintaining social distance will not be possible. Principals said that even if they can ensure students follow all the norms on the school campus, it will be hard to monitor them while travelling to school and home as they tend to socialise with their friends. Few, however, said that it would be better to carry on with precautions in place as we have to learn to live with the virus. “Doing away with practical examinations is not a solution. No student should be given class 12 certificates without clearing their practicals. The best thing to do is to start conducting practical classes by dividing students into batches and following all the Covid-19 protocols,” said S Narasimha Reddy, chairman, Hyderabad Sahodaya Schools Complex and principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramantapur. Reddy said that he is planning to conduct practical classes once a week for class 12 students from next Monday. “We will call all students and have practicals of all subjects. In each lab, there will only be 12-13 students and they will get to complete three subjects in one day,” he added. Seconding with Reddy, Anjali Razdan, former principal of Obul Reddy School, said that even though not many are coming to school now, attendance should pick up in November. “Currently, everyone is in wait and watch mode. But, in the next month or so, they will most likely be confident enough to send children for practical classes,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-in-a-dilemma-over-conducting-practical-classes/articleshow/78303453.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad researchers use AI to detect mobile use by drivers||HYDERABAD: Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad are using artificial intelligence (AI) based algorithms to detect mobile phone usage among drivers. Distraction caused due to usage of mobile phones during driving is one of the major factors behind the increasing number of road accidents. Researchers have used algorithms based on deep-learning to detect mobile-phone usage on a dataset. The algorithm runs at nearly 27 frames-per second on a high end graphics processing unit (GPU), which means it can process a video in real-time. Dr Sparsh Mittal, the lead researcher, said, “We believe that our technique has immense potential. It can help in avoiding accidents due to distraction during driving. It can help improve productivity by preventing excess or untimely usage of the mobile phone.” The algorithm can also help track mobiles being used at restricted places or lost phones. Explaining, Mittal said mobile phones are prohibited in many places such as petrol pumps, exam halls, embassies, military bases, and courts of law, and their tool can be used to find whether the mobile phone is being used in such areas. “Many financial transactions now happen on mobile phones, and hence, the loss of mobile phones can have severe consequences. By allowing tracking of mobile phone, our technique can help in detecting loss or theft of the mobile phone,” said Mittal. Elaborating on this research, Poonam Rajput, research scholar at IITH, said, “ We have used algorithms based on deep-learning to detect mobile-phone usage. Our fastest algorithm runs at nearly 27 frames-per-second on a high-end GPU, which means it can process a video in real-time. Our algorithms achieve nearly 99% accuracy on the Kaggle Driver dataset and 96% accuracy on the IITH-DMU dataset. Our work is the first to detect mobile phones’ usage in both indoor and outdoor environments with a lot of clutter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-hyd-researchers-use-ai-to-detect-mobile-use-by-drivers/articleshow/78305004.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara admin asks private hospitals to return Rs 33 lakh to Covid patient||KOLHAPUR: Satara district administration has identified 122 cases where private hospitals have charged higher rates than the ones government has set for Covid treatment. The administration has asked the hospitals to return around Rs 33 lakh to the Covid patients.  Acting on complaints by the patients and their families about exorbitant rates being charged by the private hospitals, district collector Shekhar Singh had ordered scrutiny of around 1,112 bills. The initial scrutiny showed that exorbitant rates were charged in 122 cases. Officials said in the 122 cases, the total amount charged was around Rs 96 lakh. After the scrutiny, it was found that Rs 33,94, 856 was charged extra. The administration has scrutinised all the 122 bills and asked the hospitals concerned to return the additional amount to the patients. Teams of auditors have already been deputed in all the private hospitals to check the bills given to the patients at the time of discharge. The hospitals are prohibited to charge anything additional than the rates finalised by the government All the bills are currently issued only after the approval of the auditors but the administration is still getting complaints. Collector Shehar Singh said the exercise will continue and people may contact the officials concerned in case of a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-admin-asks-pvt-hosps-to-return-rs-33l-to-covid-patient/articleshow/78305005.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||PMC allows restaurants to operate till 10pm for parcel services||PUNE: The civic body on Thursday extended the business hours of restaurants till 10pm for takeaway and home delivery services. The Pune municipal commissioner, Vikram Kumar, issued an order in this regard on Thursday following a meeting with the representatives of the Pune Restaurants and Hotels Association (PRAHA), the day TOI highlighted the issue in its edition. Confirming the development, Kumar said, “The city mayor had taken up this issue on Thursday.” Madhav Jagtap, the head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s anti-encroachment department, told TOI, “As per orders from the municipal commissioner, restaurants can now stay open for parcel services like home delivery and takeaways till 10pm, instead of the earlier 7pm deadline.” Ganesh Shetty, the president of PRAHA, said, “We met the municipal commissioner for the extension of timings for takeaways. He told us that he would instruct the department concerned not to take coercive action with immediate effect.” Vikram Shetty, the vice-president of PRAHA, said, “With the IPL on, about 90% of the home delivery and takeaway orders come after 7pm. The early deadline was causing huge losses to restaurants, especially because dine-in services are still not allowed in the city.” Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole also took up the issue with the municipal commissioner on Thursday. He said, “The municipal commissioner told me that he would instruct all ward offices to allow restaurants to remain open after 7pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-restaurants-to-operate-till-10pm-for-parcel-services/articleshow/78305768.cms||Neha Madaan
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Kidney donor gets right to insurance after PMO prod||Nagpur: In 2009, Dr Ravi Wankhede, a well-known activist in the field of organ donation and former general secretary of Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) in Nagpur, had donated one of his kidneys to his friend Dr Salim Chimthanwala. This altruistic kidney donation had won accolades for him then as Dr Wankhede had saved a life. In 2020, no company was ready to give him health insurance cover for not having two kidneys. Finally, he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi a month ago, and on September 24, the same insurance company, which had earlier denied him cover, called him and offered policy. “I got two calls from the company that it has received a communication from the PMO. The company said it would insure me if my kidney function test (KFT) reports are good. For me, it’s a big success for organ donors in the country,” said Dr Wankhede. When Dr Wankhede turned 65 two years ago, the insurance company told him that his policy could not be renewed as it does not offer cover to people above 65. Dr Wankhede approached another private company, which specifically offers health insurance for elderly people. To his dismay, this company also rejected his request. “I had disclosed in my application that I was a kidney donor, which worked against me,” said Dr Wankhede. After three companies denied him insurance cover, Dr Wankhede lodged a complaint with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDA). “As nothing happened even after repeated follow-up, I finally wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with all details,” he said. Within a month, he got a call from the company. After facing rejections from multiple companies, Dr Wankhede, who has been working for the cause of organ donation throughout his life, feared that people may be discouraged from donating organs, if they find out that insurance companies are not going to provide them with health coverage after donating organs. “Insurance cover for me was not a big deal, but all live donors must be given this protection was the issue. As per IRDA rules, no company can deny insurance to live donors and there has been no exception to this,” said Dr Wankhede. A senior official from National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization told TOI that number of live donors for kidney and liver is increasing and they must get health insurance cover. “Companies have to understand that an organ donor is a healthy individual and there is no literature to suggest that organ donors are at higher risk of any medical complication as a result of donating the organ. They must get insurance cover,” he said. For Donors’ Dignity Dr Ravi Wankhede had donated kidney to his friend in 2009 He was then covered under health insurance, which was not renewed by company after he turned 65 He approached three companies offering health insurance to elderly people All three rejected his application for he was not having two kidneys, post donation Dr Wankhede lodged complaints with insurance companies and IRDA, but nothing happened He wrote to PM Narendra Modi a month ago, and got calls from the same companies now After PMO’s intervention, companies are ready to give him insurance if his KFT is good||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kidney-donor-gets-right-to-insurance-after-pmo-prod/articleshow/78314811.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to back ryots’ protests today: TPCC chief||HYDERABAD: TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Thursday said Congress will support Friday’s protests taken up by farmers and left parties against the farm bills. Addressing mediapersons in Delhi, he said the party rank and file in Telangana will actively take part in the protests. He said that during the just-concluded parliament session he had raised two important issues, including building a railway line along with Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway which will be economically viable. Another issue he raised was not to convert 41 ordnance factories into PSUs across the country, including the one in Medak. He said TPCC will hold a brainstorming session on September 26 on Dubbaka bypoll. Meanwhile, TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy has criticised CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for not including treatment of Covid-19 under Aarogyasri scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-back-ryots-protests-today-uttam/articleshow/78305009.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Truck owner accuses MC men of stealing Rs 1.35L||Ludhiana: High-level drama was witnessed during an anti-encroachment drive of the MC when a food truck owner accused the Tehbazaari officials of stealing Rs 1.35 lakh from his food truck. On Wednesday evening, some civic body officials conducted an anti-encroachment drive on Tajpur road and impounded a food truck for selling goods illegally. Later, the owner of the truck accused the officials that they stole money from his truck. The truck owner also approached the police department in this regard following which and cops also reached the spot. But MC officials took away the truck and also a penalty of Rs 20,000 was also imposed on the truck owner. The inspector, Tehbazaari, Naresh Bobby, said the MC team had gone to remove the temporary encroachments from roadside but when this owner of a food truck did not move his truck from road they had to impound it. He said the owner in a bid to pressurise the teams raised these allegations. He said they took away the truck and also told mayor Balkar Sandhu and zonal commissioner Swati Tiwana about the incident. He said the owner would have to produce the documents and pay penalty and then they would release his truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truck-owner-accuses-mc-men-of-stealing-rs-1-35l/articleshow/78303491.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Anti-land grabbing bill passed||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat assembly on Thursday passed the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Bill, 2020 to control growing instances of land grabbing of people by land mafia. The bill proposes imprisonment of up to 14 years and not less than 10 years for those found guilty and convicted of land-grabbing. In addition, those found guilty will have to pay fine which can extend up to the ‘jantri’ value of such properties. Kaushik Patel, revenue minister, tabled the bill in the house. In his statement, Patel said that it has come to the notice of the government that there are attempts on the part of certain persons operating individually or in groups to grab either by force, or by deceit or otherwise lands belonging to religious or charitable institutions or private individuals. “The land grabbers are setting up fictitious claims and indulging in large scale and fraudulent sales of land through unscrupulous real estate dealers. Hence, the government, with a view to prohibiting the activities of land grabbing, has proposed to bring the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act into force,” the minister said. Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, commenting on the bill said, “The bill does not have any provision of providing justice to the land fraud victims by restoring their rights. Government has accepted that the land mafia is rampant and I hope that it will now act tough against land mafia.”Jignesh Mevani, independent MLA, said, “It is good that the state government has brought the bill, but land mafia have already taken away over 20,000 acres of lands of dalits, tribals and other poor communities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anti-land-grabbing-bill-passed/articleshow/78305023.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||AAP activists stir against Centre’s farm bills||Aurangabad: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday took to streets demanding the union government to withdraw farm-related bills, terming them to be anti-farmer and intended at benefiting industrialists. As part of the agitation, they staged demonstrations in front of the district collectorate office to press for their demands. Led by AAP Marathwada president Subhash Mane, the activists alleged that the government should withdraw bills that have been approved by arm twisting the opposition. But, the government could not suppress the voice of farmers who have resorted to agitation. Mane also alleged that by chanting the essentials commodities act, the government has paved way for black marketing by traders. This would, in turn, create problems for people belonging to the middle class category as they will have to face inflation. The government has allowed private companies to carry out farming activities and eventually exploit the farming community, the activists have alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aap-activists-stir-against-centres-farm-bills/articleshow/78305016.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Corruption on rise, CM failed to keep his word: Goa industry body||PANAJI: In a strong indictment of the state government and chief minister Pramod Sawant, the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) on Thursday said Sawant has failed to keep his promise of improving ease of doing business in the state and the government was making “life more miserable” for entrepreneurs. After Goa’s rankings in the ease of doing business slipped to 24 from 21 earlier, Sawant had promised to improve the business environment in the state. The association also made a scathing attack on the functioning of the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) and said “corruption has scaled new heights” in the corporation. “Under the table rates are being fixed for every routine service. They (GIDC) have even fixed their commission for allotment of new plots in various industrial estates,” association president Damodar Kochkar said. “What happened to the chief minister’s promise about a meeting to improve ease of doing business in Goa. Like all other political assurances, this also seems to have been forgotten. It looks like the industry is also at the bottom of his priority list,” he said. Goa’s manufacturing sector is struggling to survive during the pandemic with demand down and a shortage of manpower and raw materials. With turnover minimal, industrial units are struggling to pay salaries and loan premiums. “Last September at the launch of Vibrant Goa, the chief minister had announced that anyone who wants to start a business in Goa will get all required permissions and approvals immediately and they can start their businesses within 30 days. He had also spoken about sharpening powers of Goa Investment Promotion Board to make it more effective and deliver what it was supposed to do, but unfortunately it has turned out to be one more hurdle,” Kochkar said. With the mining sector shut and tourism bleak, Goa’s manufacturing sector is the only functioning sector, said Kochkar, as he warned the state that if there was no course correction, manufacturing units would shut down too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/corruption-on-rise-cm-failed-to-keep-his-word-goa-industry-body/articleshow/78305803.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Increasing international students in India must be a priority, say experts in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As the National Education Policy (NEP) facilitates setting up campuses of foreign universities in India, experts suggest that increasing the number of international students in the country must also be a priority. “The classroom accounts for 10-12 hours a day of a student’s education, a lot of other education comes through interacting with international students, learning new cuisines, sports and culture,” said professor Uday B Desai, founding director, IIT-H and chancellor, Anurag University. He said that the while the NEP prioritises internationalistion it must also ensure that ecosystem and infrastructure- is in place to allow inflow of international students. Stating that the draw would be high quality education at relatively low cost, Desai said, “We have the wherewithal and faculty to provide a great education. At the same time, our top institutes can set up campuses abroad, even near the Silicon Valley, where an American kid can get an education at half the cost.” Desai was speaking at a webinar on ‘International dialogues on India’s National Education Policy’ organised by US Consulate General, Hyderabad and ISB. The focus of the inaugural session was NEP and the road ahead for internationalisation of higher education. Anju Sharma, IAS, principal secretary, higher education, Government of Gujarat said an effort was being made to attract foreign students. “When on tour for the ‘Study in Gujarat’ programme, most students from Africa and Middle East expressed interest because of low cost and high quality of education.” She said dual degree programme and blended learning can foster internationalisation. Speaking of branding, BVR Mohan Reddy, chairman of Cyient and chairman of CII National Committee on Education said it is not just about IITs and IIMs, but the focus must be on improving quality of education across institutes. Pushing for educational cooperation, US Consul General in Hyderabad Joel Reifman said: “In, 2019 we welcomed 200,000 Indian students for higher studies in US and look forward to do the same in 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increasing-intl-students-in-india-must-be-a-priority-say-experts/articleshow/78303480.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board plugs sewage overflow in Tarnaka after report on TOI app||HYDERABAD: The muddle of sewage overflow for the residents of Vijaypuri Colony in Tarnaka was cleared after the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) on Thursday stepped in to plug the problem which was reported in TOI’s Citizen Journalist column on Tuesday. Residents of the colony have been fuming over the offical apathy and feared a rise in vector-borne diseases. The problem had been persisting for the past one week. On September 17, Prashanta Das, a resident of Vijaypuri Colony, reported the issue to TOI. There are around 160 families living in and around the colony. The overflowing sewage was emanating foul smell and causing a lot of inconvenience to residents of the area. “Families living in four apartments and the government quarters were the most affected. Residents feared getting hospitalised due to vector-borne diseases as the sewage water was constantly overflowing,” said Prashanta Das. Another resident of the colony said that the water board turned a deaf ear everytime the problem was brought to their notice. “On Thursday, officials visited the spot and resolved the issue,” he said. Hanumanth Reddy, a resident of Divya Enclave Apartment, Vijaypuri Colony, recalled that they were once forced to wade through the sewage pool. “We were forced to wade through a pool of sewage, walking on the road was also a challenge. Finally, the issue has been resolved,” he said. Meanwhile, the HMWS&SB said that the onus of keeping the area clean also lies with the people. “The manholes get chocked due to the garbage being dumped into water channels. People’s participation is required to maintain good sanitation,” said Ramana Reddy, general manager, HMWS&SB, Marredpally division. Denying that the issue was ignored by the board, he said, “Even if a complaint is not received, our staffers on ground fix the leakage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-plugs-sewage-overflow-in-tarnaka-after-report-on-toi-app/articleshow/78303471.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Rachakonda cops nab four burglars, seize 224g gold, 1kg silver||HYDERABAD: Four house burglars who were allegedly involved in several burglary cases were arrested by Rachakonda police who nabbed them in Jawahar Nagar on Thursday. Police said that they have recovered 224 grams of gold ornaments, 1.1kg of silver, 1 DVR, four CCTVs and other gadgets from the accused. Police said that the accused, identified as S Mahesh, V Devender, J Sailu, Shaik Jisriya, committed thefts in Alwal, Jawahar Nagar, Keesara and Kushaiguda. The prime accused, Mahesh, has a criminal history since 2016 and has been arrested multiple times. PD Act was also invoked against him. Till now, Mahesh has been allegedly involved in 20 burglary cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-four-burglars-seize-224g-gold-1kg-silver/articleshow/78305017.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Covid ward, OPD at Delhi govt’s hospital in Dwarka to open soon||NEW DELHI: Residents of Dwarka will soon have a government Covid health care facility available in their neighbourhood. Indira Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital of Delhi government, construction of which started in 2014, is now nearly complete and it is likely to soon house a Covid-19 ward. “The hospital complex was earlier planned over an area of 15 acre but the premises would now be spread over 24 acres. Most of the construction work is completed but full-fledged operations will take about another six months to start,” an official said. “However, there are plans to start a Covid-19 ward soon. A separate general outpatient department may also be opened soon,” he added. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the health and family welfare department of Delhi government has said that the department’s hospitals at Burari and Ambedkar Nagar have been made functional and the hospital at Dwarka is in process of being made functional very soon to provide healthcare facilities to public. At present, the department has deputed doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in the Burari and Ambedkar Nagar hospitals on diverted capacity from other government hospitals. In the circular, the department has stated that it intends to post willing staff in these hospitals and requests are invited from doctors, nurses and paramedics for their posting in the Burari, Ambedkar Nagar and Dwarka hospitals. “All medical superintendents, medical directors and directors of Delhi government hospitals have to circulate the information and send requests of willing staff within two weeks.” Sources said that Delhi government had also planned to convert the super specialty hospital into a quarantine facility earlier. In his last budget speech, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had mentioned that work on Dwarka’s Indira Gandhi Super Specialty hospital is at an advanced stage. The hospital has been in the pipeline for more than two decades as the land for its construction was allotted in 1997 and Rs 350 crore was allocated for the project in 2007. The construction work, however, could only start in 2014. While the super specialty hospital was planned as a 750-bedded hospital initially, the Aam Aadmi Party government decided to increase its capacity to a 1,225-bedded one, which also resulted in more time being taken to open the hospital for public. “The hospital complex is divided in three different sections – emergency, outpatient department and hospital wards, which include intensive care units and operation theatres,” he said. “There are also plans to open a medical college in this complex,” he added. In the last two months, Delhi government has opened a 700-bed hospital in Burari, with 450 dedicated Covid-19 beds and a 600-bedded hospital in Ambedkar Nagar, with 200 dedicated Covid-19 beds. The hospital in Dwarka will be the third in a row to be opened and will not only cater to residents of the sub-city, which doesn’t have any government hospital, but also many areas of southwest Delhi. Similarly, the already operational hospitals at Burari and Ambedkar Nagar cater to the demand for government healthcare facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-ward-opd-at-delhi-govts-hospital-in-dwarka-to-open-soon/articleshow/78305825.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Rowdy sheeter hacked to death||Mangaluru: A rowdy-sheeter was hacked to death in broad day light in Hiriyadka Pete, Udupi district on Thursday. The victim, identified as Kishan Hegde, a resident of Padubidri was a rowdy-sheeter and realtor. He was booked for a murder and two other cases in Udupi police limits. According to police, unidentified miscreants, who came in two cars, chased him in the street. Later, hacked him to death using lethal weapons and fled the spot. According to police, the murder was committed by persons known to the victim. A case has been registered at Hiriyadka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rowdy-sheeter-hacked-to-death/articleshow/78302307.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||PMR records 3,521 new Covid cases and 78 deaths||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 3,521 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, pushing its total caseload above 2.65 lakh. Besides, as many as 3,402 recoveries were recorded in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking its cured count above 2.17 lakh. A report released by the district health office stated that PMR’s death tally surged beyond 6,000 on Thursday, with 78 more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. Among the total 6,032 deaths, over 50% (3,406) have been recorded in the PMC limits. In PCMC, as many as 1,206 patients have succumbed to the infection so far. The tally of active patients in the region reached 42,114 on Thursday night, including 23,604 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 18,510 in home isolation. The report stated that the region’s sample testing reached 10.92 lakh, after 13,609 people were tested on Thursday. As per a PMC report, as many as 3,515 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits on Thursday. As many as 957 patients were at critical stage, of whom 499 patients were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-3521-cases-78-deaths/articleshow/78305775.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC set to sterilise stray dogs in Secunderabad zone||SECUNDERABAD: In a much-needed relief to residents of Secunderabad from stray dogs, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has planned to launch a sterilisation drive to neutralise the stray dogs and has made arrangements to deploy dog catchers in order to curb the spread of rabies. As per the schedule, the civic body catches stray dogs twice a year and once in six months, and move the dogs caught in Secunderabad to an animal shelter at Mahadevpur. The GHMC-North Zone (Secunderabad) wing traps stray dogs in five circles, including Secunderabad, Malkajgiri, Amberpet, Begumpet and Musheerabad. “In each circle, we have a five-member dog catching squad. The team catches an average of 30 stray dogs every day as per the norms prescribed by the Animal Welfare Board of India and shifts the stray dogs to Animal Care Centre in Mahadevpur,” GHMC deputy director, veterinary wing, Dr L Goverdhan Reddy told TOI. “After completing the sterilisation programme and administering the rabies vaccine, we keep these dogs at the shelter for five to six days and then release them in the same area,” he said. Of all circles in Secunderabad zone, Malkajgiri circle has the highest number of stray dogs. “Malkajgiri circle is large and has more garbage dumping points, as a result of which the dog population is increasing,” said Reddy. The official also said that the dog population has been stabilising incredibly when compared to the past four years due to regular sterilisation programmes conducted by the GHMC. Locals can register complaints regarding stray dogs by contacting the GHMC call centre on 100 or 21111111. Meanwhile, the GHMC has acquired 16 new customised dog catching vehicles to replace the old ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-set-to-sterilise-stray-dogs-in-secunderabad-zone/articleshow/78303537.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Auto hits 75-year-old at PVNR expressway||HYDERABAD: A 75-year-old man suffered injuries after being hit by an auto travelling from Aramgarh to Mehdipatnam near pillar number 307 of PVNR expressway on Wednesday night. The victim was admitted at Osmania General Hospital for treatment and police arrested the auto driver, Shiva, 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-hits-75-yr-old-at-pvnr-expressway/articleshow/78305047.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to start acquiring encroached land in villages||Ludhiana: In order to get hold of prime lands under encroachments the civic officials are going to zero in on villages within MC limits one by one. First of all, Gehlewal village on Rahon Road has been selected for the purpose. The officials claimed that they would get hold of prime common land in these villages. The civic body officials said that they had land record of at least 22 villages in MC limits. In the meeting of a sub-committee formed for taking a decision over the revision of change of land use and external development charges this issue was also discussed. Akali Dal councillor Sarabjit Singh Laddi took up the matter of prime land in Gehlewal under encroachment. He said in the meeting that at least 3,600 sq yd of common land and one large chunk for green belt was under encroachment in that village, so they should take possession of the same. He said on this common land the civic body could construct anything or develop these open areas for the welfare of people. He said nobody paid attention but these were actually prime lands and the MC should take possession as soon as possible. The municipal town planner, SS Bindra, while giving the information claimed that there were many villages which came within MC limits and every village had some common land but the civic body never took possession of the same. He said they would match the land records and suitable action would be taken up in all villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-start-acquiring-encroached-land-in-villages/articleshow/78303533.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Woman vanishes from CoEP Covid care hub||Pune: Mystery shrouds the disappearance of a Covid-19 patient from the jumbo hospital on the CoEP grounds, prompting her family to file a missing complaint with police and members of a political party to stage a fast on Thursday demanding a probe. Ragini Gamare said her daughter was admitted to the facility on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP grounds with Covid-19 infection on August 29. “We were in touch with the doctors till September 13, when she was scheduled to be discharged. But when we approached the hospital, we were told that she was discharged on September 5. We have not been able to trace her till now,” Gamare said. Republican Yuva Morcha Maharashtra workers, along with members of the missing woman’s family, staged a fast outside the care hub on Thursday and raised pitch for a police probe into the case. A Republican Yuva Morcha Maharashtra delegation subsequently met the civic authorities at the facility, after which party leader Rajul Dambale announced suspension of the fast. “The civic authoritiesassured full cooperation in the investigation. We want the police to find the woman at the earliest,” Dambale said, adding that his party was planning to move the Bombay high court in connection with the matter. Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner at PMC and coordinator at CoEP facility said, “As per the records, the woman was discharged on September 5. We will hand over all relevant documents to the police for investigation. The medical records reveal that the woman was stable when she was discharged on September 5. According to the preliminary checks, no calls were made by the doctors to the patient’s family about the discharge being scheduled on September 13. But we will recheck the status”, he said. Inspector Manisha Zende from the Shivajinagar police said, “We have registered a missing person’s complaint in this regard. We are investigating the case and have obtained some clues. We are yet to receive the CCTV footage and other details from the CoEP Covid care centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-vanishes-from-coep-covid-care-hub/articleshow/78305801.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||3 bike theft offences registered in a day||Aurangabad: The incidents of two-wheeler thefts are on the rise in Aurangabad city with three such cases getting registered with different police stations in the last 24 hours. In the first incident, police said that a complaint was filed by 30-year-old Sharad Rathod of Bharat Nagar stating that his bike was stolen from near his shop in broad daylight on September 21. As the bike could not get traced after a frantic search, the owner lodged a complaint with Pundalik Nagar police. In another such incident, Waluj police on Wednesday registered an offence of bike-theft incident. The complainant Dwaraku Dohale (45) told police that his missing vehicle has current market valuation of Rs 40,000. In the third incident, a bike owned by Shaikh Habib Shaikh Ahmed , 35, a resident of Hina Nagar, was stolen from outside his house during late evening on September 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-bike-theft-offences-registered-in-a-day/articleshow/78305034.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||781mm rain this monsoon is Pune’s second best in 10 years||PUNE: The four-month rain quantum for Pune for the season has already surpassed the rainfall figures recorded during most years in the last decade. Pune city’s (Shivajinagar) total rainfall so far this monsoon has touched 781mm, which is among the two highest decadal quantum of monsoon rain so far. Lohegaon and Pashan too have recorded similar quantum, at 786 mm and 750 mm till now. There are six days before the monsoon season ends. Last year’s monsoon rainfall till September was 1,071.9mm, the highest in the last decade. The intense rain spells and thundershowers, prompted by time to time rising day temperatures during the monsoon have been one of the reasons for the seasonal rain quantum to cross 500mm during the last two monsoons in Pune. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune told TOI that June this year recorded some good rainfall spells, starting from cyclone Nisarga, and later, strong westerly winds component and packed isobars over the Arabian Sea. “July ended on a weak note, but the rains during August more than made up for July’s below normal rain. A couple of low pressure systems formed over the Bay of Bengal in August, which pushed up rainfall figures in Pune city and district significantly,” he added. By August 21, over 162.4mm and 262.1mm excess rain (over and above the normal quantum till that period) was recorded in two Pune locations, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon from June 1 till August 21 respectively, with Pune already receiving its entire monsoon quota for 2020 till August 21. Kashyapi said that September saw some intense rain spells accompanied with thunder in addition to a few low pressure areas/trough/ upper air cyclonic circulations. The intense spells were sometimes convective in nature and dumped a good amount of rainfall in double digits at times in parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/781mm-rain-this-monsoon-is-decades-second-best-for-pune/articleshow/78305818.cms||Neha Madaan
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||NMC not to take over railway hospital for Covid-19 patients||NAGPUR: Despite alarming spread of Covid in city, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has no plans to take over Central Railway Hospital at Nagpur as decided earlier. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “Though we had planned but I have issued order not to take it over due to lack of facilities required to treat Covid-19 patients. The hospital doesn’t have piped oxygen lines for beds and sufficient ventilators.” “Instead, we have deployed their 10 doctors and 20 nursing staff at our facilities where railway employee-patients will also be treated,” he said. However, shifting of hospital staff has not gone down well with the railway unions. In their representation to Radhakrishnan, National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) working president Habib Khan urged the commissioner to review the decision. The hospital staff is needed to treat its own employees and their kin, he said. Top NRMU leaders SK Jha, Debashish Bhattarcharya and Manoj Chauthani were present. Khan blamed the railway administration. “Coronavirus is going to stay for long. Instead of developing own infrastructure despite having space and funds, Central Railway is dependent on others for medicare to its employees. Central Railway was granted Rs 9 crore to fight Covid-19. Yet, it is not appointing contractual paramedical staff despite Railway Board orders. At least 1.75 lakh employees, their families, and retired employees from both SECR & Central Railway avail services of the railway hospital.” Khan said over 650 patients also availed OPD services for heart diseases, asthma, and other diseases. The hospital handles over 35 delivery cases each month. In such a situation taking away hospital staff is not acceptable. “With Covid-19, there is increase number of positive patients among railway staff. Over 120 have tested positive, most of them are trackmen. Though having own hospital, these employees are being sent to government hospitals where getting a bed is difficult. Railway hospital has kept 40 beds (20 each for men and women) for Covid but these are just showpieces due to lack of staff and facilities,” alleged Khan. Railway officials, who did not wish to be named, said, “It is true some funds have been received but they have been used for sanitizers, PPE kits, ventilators etc. Our staff has been diverted to NMC Covid-19 care centres and hospitals. We have beds but piped oxygen facility needed for each bed is not there. The administration is working on developing these and increase medical staff. There is no neglect as employees are getting treatment at private hospitals with whom railway have tie-ups.” In another development, Swatantra Railway Bahujan Karmachari Union (SRBKU) staged protests at RBI Square on Friday to demand Covid-19 testing facilities at railway hospital and offices. General secretary Vikas Gaur alleged private hospitals were turning away employees citing lack of availability of beds. Most of the employees are going to IGGMCH & GMC. “The railway hospital is not even isolating its employees who tested positive. We want railways to start dedicated ward for Covid-19 employees-patients. The administration should also start camps for employees for testing at its facilities. We also want that beds be reserved for railway employees at private hospitals on the panel of railways,” said Gaur. SRBKU also demanded Rs 50 lakh Covid insurance cover for railway employees under National Medical Insurance Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-not-to-take-over-railway-hospital-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78324259.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Central govt wants industrialists to control farming’||AHMEDABAD: All India Congress Committee Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav alleged in Ahmedabad on Thursday that the central government wants a handful of industrialists to enjoy control over farming in the country. Speaking to the media at the state Congress headquarters, Satav said that by introducing three laws related to farming, the central government has caused huge damage to farmers’ interests in the country. Satav said that the new bill introduced by the central government has no mention of minimum support price and farmers are being misled by the BJP that they will get better prices for their produce. “Like airports and ports, the government is handing over farming to industrialists. Farmers will suffer because of the new farming laws and that is why the Congress and 12 other parties are opposing the law,” Satav said. GPCC president Amit Chavda said that a series of protest programmes will be organized across the state against the new laws. “Farmers’ organizations and Congress workers will launch the `Speak Up for Farmers’ campaign in social media on September 26. On September 28, Congress workers and leaders will march to the governor’s house to submit a memorandum opposing the new farm laws,” Chavda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/central-govt-wants-industrialists-to-control-farming/articleshow/78305041.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Only 66% of registered candidates take UoH entrance examination||HYDERABAD: Despite strong opposition from students, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) conducted its entrance exam on Thursday in which 66% of the registered candidates appeared on the first day. The UoH held the entrance exam for all candidates seeking admission to 2,456 seats in 132 postgraduate and research programmes at the university. In Hyderabad, 7,077 students appeared for the examination at the College for Integrated Studies of the university. The exam was held with all Covid-19 precautions. “Two Covid-19 infected students also gave the exam in a separate isolated exam hall arranged by the university. More than 34 students with disabilities also wrote the exam on the first day with the help of scribes at various centres,” read a press release issued by the UoH. The examination will be held at 37 centres across the country till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/66-take-uoh-entrance-examination/articleshow/78303494.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad traffic cops use IPL memes to educate motorists on rules||HYDERABAD: To improve road safety, Cyberabad traffic police took to social media to educate citizens on traffic rules, the IPL way. In a series of tweets on social media titled ‘Road safety lessons from IPL 2020’, Cyberabad traffic cops used quirky IPL memes to spread traffic awareness. Mohammed Khaja, traffic constable, Cyberabad social media team, a sports enthusiast, is the brain behind the memes. “We earlier tried to post traffic rules on Twitter but it hardly got noticed. So, on seeing the trend of memes, I used it as an opportunity to make people discuss traffic rules in a more engaging way,” said Khaja. On September 21, day after Delhi Capitals won the super over following a tie with Kings XI Punjab in IPL, Khaja posted a meme: “There is no Super Over in our Life to get another chance. Follow Traffic Rules. Save Lives”. “After we started sharing more IPL- related road safety lessons, the engagement on social media has increased ,” added the cop. Reiterating it, Vijay Kumar, DCP traffic Cyberabad said the memes have caught the attention of citizens. “After lockdown was lifted, we utilised the platform to educate people about traffic rules by sharing memes, quizzes and accident footages. Our social media team consists of three officers who have been working on memes...it’s drawn a lot of traction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-cops-use-ipl-memes-to-educate-motorists-on-rules/articleshow/78305055.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||New farm bills will end exploitation of farmers: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday hailed the farmers Bills as part of the Centre’s strategy to implement PM Narendra Modi’s idea of doubling income of farmers by 2022. Yogi said that the Bills would not only guarantee minimum support price (MSP) but also allow the farmers to get a share in the profit dividends. “MSP will not be affected. It will be implemented along with other provisions of the Bill.” Yogi said. The CM said that farmers have been demanding agriculture reformist provisions. Even the MS Swaminathan committee report (of 2004) has been suggesting such reforms, he said. “Progressive farmers have been demanding these reforms for decades. The previous government used to make promises but could never take bold decisions in favour of the farmers,” he said, while thanking PM Modi and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar for bringing in farm Bills in the Parliament. The CM said that the clause of doing away with taxes being imposed whether a farmer takes his farm produce to the mandi or not would bring in much needed happiness in the lives of farmers. “Farmers were earlier subjected to exploitation. There was no healthy competition. The Bills remove all such anomalies,” he said. Yogi said that the Bill frees farm produce from any kind of tax and provides freedom to farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. “The one nation, one market concept is being applied in agriculture as well,” the CM said, crediting the BJP government at the Centre of bringing in paradigm changes in the lives of farmers. “Be it farm insurance scheme, PM irrigation scheme envisaging taking water to every agricultural field, provisioning solar panels to energise agriculture, the Rs 1 lakh-crore package to boost agriculture or the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi provisioning Rs 6,000 annual grant to farmers...all these were welcome steps,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-new-bills-will-end-exploitation-of-farmers/articleshow/78305809.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Two families booked for dowry demand||AURANGABAD: The Begumpura police have booked two families in separate incidents for allegedly demanding money from two housewives and subjecting them to cruelty. In one incident, police have booked seven people, including three women, of a family for allegedly harassing a housewife and demanding Rs 5 lakh from her. In another case, police said that they have lodged a complaint against seven members of a family for allegedly harassing a woman member of their family and demanding dowry. Police said that the victim is being harassed for money since her marriage in December 2019. Her in-laws (seven suspects) often demanded Rs 4 lakh from her, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-families-booked-for-dowry-demand/articleshow/78305021.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Goa receives last season’s total rainfall week earlier||PANAJI: Rainfall in Goa has crossed last year’s seasonal total as of September 24. This is almost a week prior to the month-end. Last year, from June 1 to September 30, the state received 155.2 inches of rainfall. This year, the rainfall up to 8.30am on September 24 stood at 160.8 inches — an excess of 5.5 inches over last year’s rainfall so far. “The state has received an excess of 40% of the normal rainfall this season,” former NIO scientist M R Ramesh Kumar said. While almost all parts of the country have received good rainfall or higher than normal rainfall this season, there are several reasons for this increase of rainfall in Goa, he said. Cyclone Nisarga resulted in good rainfall over Goa in the first week of June. The position of the monsoon trough resulted in several cases of active monsoon conditions over Goa. The presence of an offshore trough from Mumbai to Thiruvananthapuram also resulted in vigorous monsoon conditions over Goa. In addition, the formation of convective systems such as low-pressure regions in both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal resulted in good rainfall over Goa. The atmospheric formations also resulted in active monsoon conditions over the state. “The La Nina conditions over the Pacific Ocean also favoured rainfall over most parts of India, including Goa,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-receives-last-seasons-total-rainfall-week-earlier/articleshow/78305837.cms||Nida Sayed
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Vikarabad: Man held for thrashing daughter||HYDERABAD: Vikarabad police on Thursday arrested an RTC bus conductor for beating up his two-and-a-half year old daughter and brandishing a knife at her. On Wednesday, the infant’s mother lodged a complaint with police claiming that her husband Azeemuddin had been frequently harassing her and their two daughters. To substantiate her claim, the complainant produced a video in which Azeemuddin was seen mercilessly thrashing the girl. The video has gone viral on social media. In the video, the baby was seen crying while sitting in front of her father on the floor. Azeemuddin was first seen spitting at her and later holding her hands tightly. Azeemuddin’s wife recorded his actions in the video. She also accused him of coming home in a drunken condition and harassing amily members. A case was booked against the accused under the charges of attempt to murder, domestic violence and assault under the Juvenile Justice Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-thrashing-daughter/articleshow/78303603.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mohansinh Rathwa, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama get ‘Best MLA’ awards||GANDHINAGAR: Mohansinh Rathwa of the Congress and state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama have been chosen for the ‘Best MLA’ award for 2019 and 2020, respectively. Speaker Rajendra Trivedi announced the names of the winners and gave them silver trophies in the assembly on Thursday. This is the first time the Gujarat assembly instituted the ‘Best MLA’ award. In February this year, the speaker had announced the setting up of a committee to select the best MLA based on 19 criteria. Rathwa, the MLA from Chhota Udepur, is the longest serving MLA in the Gujarat assembly. Since 1972, he has contested 11 assembly elections and won all of them except the one held in the backdrop of the 2002 communal riots in Gujarat. “Let us all strive and work together to serve people better,” Rathwa said while thanking the members for the award. Chudasama, the MLA from Dholka, said, “The RSS has played a major role in shaping my life, which began in 1967. This is a recognition of 53 years of work. I also want to thank everyone in the assembly for this award,” he said. The selection committee formed to choose the best MLA include the speaker as chairman, the CM, deputy CM, leader of opposition, parliamentary affairs ministers of both cabinet and MoS rank, chief whips of the ruling and opposition party and the deputy leader of opposition. The criteria for choosing the best MLA included knowledge of parliamentary laws and practices and obedience to them, awareness of issues of public interest, ability to effectively represent peoples’ issues, conduct in public life, assistance in smooth operations of the assembly, attendance in the assembly and meetings of its committees and the like.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rathwa-chudasama-get-best-mla-awards/articleshow/78305090.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Youth held on charge of sexually abusing boy||PUNE: A youth (27) — estranged boyfriend of a woman (40) — was arrested on Wednesday after the latter lodged an FIR with the Vishrantwadi police, accusing him of subjecting her 11-year-old son to repeated sexual abuse from December last year. Senior inspector Arun Avhad of the Vishrantwadi police said, “The arrested man and the woman — a divorcee — work in the same call centre in Yerawada. About two months ago, they broke up. The complainant has two children.” The woman stated in the FIR that her boyfriend would often visit her home when she would be away at work and physically abuse her son. She came to know about it after her son narrated his woes to her, police said. “The boy stayed aloof and looked depressed for the past few days. When the woman noticed her son’s behaviour, she decided to enquire about it. The boy opened up and told her about the horrifying sexual assault he was subjected to,” Avhad said. “The boy informed her that the arrested youth first sexually abused him in December and then kept on exploiting him. He sodomised the boy last time on September 6 this year,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-on-charge-of-sexually-abusing-estranged-girlfriends-son/articleshow/78305841.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ludhiana||60 notices sent to encroachers of dairy complex||Ludhiana: Following a survey the civic officials have started taking action against the encroachments in part A and B of the dairy complex on Hambran road. The civic officials had conducted the survey recently where they had come to know about the fact that the prime land kept reserved for developing public parks was under encroachment. However, now the officials will remove the encroachers as already around 60 notices have been served. During the checking, the officials found out that places designated for developing public parks had been encroached upon by some dairy owners. A city-based RTI activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had sat on one day hunger strike on June 10 for many issues in which encroachments in dairy complex was also included. He had submitted memorandum to the vigilance office from where the civic officials had received the directions to check the exact number of encroachments and what action had been taken by them. However, the officials claimed that one survey was carried out in 2017 as well and on the basis of that survey they checked the dairy complex. The officials claimed that at least 45 public parks were there in the layout plan of the dairy complex but when they checked the spot, they did not find a single park. At the place of these parks the dairy farmers have tied their cattle or they have constructed temporary sheds. Some other kind of encroachments are also there. After consulting mayor Balkar Sandhu, the municipal town planner Surinder Bindra had issued the letter to the building branch officials of zone D for taking action in this regard. The officials claimed that notices had already been served to encroachers for removing the illegal structures and if it was not done then they would start doing it on their level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/60-notices-sent-to-encroachers-of-dairy-complex/articleshow/78303578.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Flyers complain of vanishing quarantine stamp, crowd at airport||Pune: Poor social distancing norms followed at the Pune airport and the vanishing of the indelible ink used in home quarantine stamp after one wash has irked many flyers. Ramesh Mirakhur, who landed at the airport on Monday evening, posted on his social media account some pictures of long queues at the facility’s arrival as well as the stamp which disappeared after a wash. “The home quarantine stamp vanished after the first wash. I landed at the airport around 10.45pm and the queue at arrival was long with no social distancing in place,” Mirakhur said. On September 18, Avinash Patil, a flyer, had posted on Twitter, “If you do something, do it right. Holding lines and just wasting time. Nothing at all is visible in this quarantine stamp!” Replying to this, the airport authorities stated that they had notified the quarantine desk of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) about vanishing inedible ink used for stamping the back of the palm of those put under home quarantine. As per the state regulations, the domestic flyers arriving in Pune are required to fill up a self-declaration form, following which, they are stamped and subjected to 14-day home quarantine. A PMC official, who oversees the quarantine desk at the airport, said they had received a complaint from a flyer earlier this week about the disappearing ink. “We have inedible ink, used during elections, to stamp the arriving passengers. The complainant had washed his hand immediately after being stamped, therefore not giving the ink enough time to settle in. Since that complaint, however, we have brought in better quality indelible ink,” the official said. Since May, the airport has been witnessing an increase in passenger footfalls. The facility handled 17,285 passengers in May and 1.49 lakh in August. At present, the airport has 32 arrivals and 32 departures daily. On the issue of crowding, an airport official said, “There are markings at all points of the airport for flyers to stand. A little patience is the need of the hour, as the process of stamping and form collection takes a while.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-complain-of-vanishing-quarantine-stamp-crowd-at-airport/articleshow/78305832.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad Cantonment Board taking steps to step up stray dog sterilisation||SECUNDERABAD: As the neighbouring civic body is making arrangements to control the stray dog population, the health and sanitation wing of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) too is taking measures to sterilise the stray dogs in its jurisdiction. The SCB said that the dog population has already reduced and that it plans to reduce it further. “The SCB used to catch 40 to 60 dogs in a day and now, the number has gone down to 30 dogs per day,” said M Devender, SCB (SWM) senior superintendent. At present, we have only one veterinary doctor to sterilise the dogs, we are recruiting an assistant veterinary doctor, he added. The SCB official said that the board would depend on private individuals to catch dogs until last year, but now has its own team. “We use nets as per AWBI guidelines for the dogs’ safety and carefully shift them to the animal care centre for sterilization. The SCB has arranged 30 animal cages at Bollarum animal care centre,” S Vinod, a dog catching expert said.. The highest number of stray dogs are found in slum areas of Indiramma Nagar, Anna Nagar and adjoining areas and certain areas of Mahendra Hills, Trimulgherry and Bowenpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-board-taking-steps-to-step-up-stray-dog-sterilisation/articleshow/78303579.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress MLAs walk out over school fees issue||GANDHINAGAR: Congress MLAs staged a walkout from the Gujarat assembly on Thursday after the state government refused to have a discussion on the party’s demand to waive school fees of all students for the current academic year because of the Covid pandemic. Congress MLA Imran Khedawala moved a question, asking what steps the government had taken as of September 15 to reduce fees of students at private schools in the state. In his reply, education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that the matter was sub judice and he would not make a statement on it in the assembly. He said that a petition (MCA No. 01/2020) has been filed in the Gujarat high court on August 24 and as of September 15 the matter is sub judice. Congress MLAs then raised slogans demanding a waiver of fees and walked out of the assembly. “The parents of more than 1.5 crore students in the state are facing difficulties in paying fees because of the lockdown and subsequent economic slowdown. Private school managements are acting like a fee mafia. The government refused to answer questions in the assembly, so we had to stage a walkout,” leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-mlas-walk-out-over-school-fees-issue/articleshow/78305048.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Paddy sale at 3,000 govt feds, vigil on pvt players||LUCKNOW: Amid mounting Opposition criticism over farm bills, the UP government has been swift off the blocks to roll out the template for kharif crop procurement to allay farmers’ fears of a private stranglehold on their produce. The new policy envisages purchase of paddy through as many as 3,000 centres with a maximum of 1,250 centres to be opened by UP Cooperative Federation followed by 900 centres by marketing branches of food and supplies department. The draft policy document of September 23 states that procurement would begin from October 1. While common category paddy would be procured at Rs 1,868 per quintal, grade-A paddy would be purchased at Rs 1,888 per quintal. The procurement process in Hardoi, Sitapur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Bareilly, Moradabad, Meerut, Saharanpur, Agra, Aligarh and Jhansi districts would be launched between October 1 and January 31, 2021. Likewise, procurement of kharif crop in districts of Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Unnao and in administrative divisions of Chitrakoot, Kanpur, Ayodhya, Devipatan, Basti, Gorakhpur, Azamgarh, Varanasi, Mirzapur and Prayagraj, would start from November 1 till February 28, 2021. The draft policy states procurement centres would remain open between 9 am and 5 pm. However, the district administration will have the authority to extend or curtail timings. The centres would remain open throughout the procurement period, except on Sunday and gazetted public holidays. The state government has also allowed food and civil supplies department to add or remove any centre/agency from procuring paddy. Food produce organisations will also be able to get themselves associated with other procurement agencies and buy paddy. The state government has categorically laid down the condition that Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and Farmers’ Producer Companies (FPCs) engaged in procurement of kharif crop should be financially sound. The agencies which caused losses to state coffers or agency officials against whom FIRs have been lodged will not participate in the procurement process.  The state government has also decided to geo-tag paddy procurement centres to enable information flow on mobile purchase centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paddy-sale-at-3000-govt-feds-vigil-on-pvt-players/articleshow/78305847.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Kisan Morcha head says ordinances not anti-farmer||Ludhiana: Before farmers started agitating against the farm ordinances, SAD was preaching in favour of these and Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who recently resigned from the Union ministry, was even terming these Bills as good for farmers. This was stated by Bikramjit Singh Cheema, president, Punjab Kisan Morcha, on Thursday at a press conference for highlighting the features of these ordinances so that farmers’ misconception were removed. He said farmers were being misled over these bills and that was why they were protesting on roads. The BJP Punjab Kisan Morcha president on being asked about the protest by Akali Dal said, “Why Akali Dal is protesting against this Bill whereas around June 5 they were in its favour and Harsimrat explained it to many farmers.” He said even former CM Parkash Singh Badal praised this Bill. He said only Akali Dal can explain their reasons for opposing this bill at this stage. Attacking CM Amarinder Singh, he said before giving a final shape to this Bill CMs from major agricultural based states were made members of a high-power committee but CM of Punjab did not have time to even attend the meeting. He said FM Manpreet Badal had attended that meeting and he had also praised this ordinance. He said they even approached the farmer organisations about this Bill before its implementation, but instead of resolving their issues they came on streets. Cheema while addressing the mediapersons said, “The Bills cleared by the central government recentlyweare not against farmers, and rather farmers would get a platform to sell their crops at a better price and companies could purchase the crops directly from the fields of farmers.” He said as far as MSP or question of grain markets is concerned, nobody is ending the tradition and recent revision in MSP by Modi government is proof of that. Cheema also claimed that farmers had this misconception in mind that their fields would be grabbed by Ambani or Adanis, whereas there is clear mention in the Bill that an agreement between a farmer and any private company would be about crop only and there would be no mention of fields. He said earlier private firms used to breach the contract while declaring the crop not up to the mark and farmers were forced to knock at the doors of court but this bill gives power to farmers that company would have to lift crop because government had been included in the agreement. “Moreover, if any company refuses to lift crop a farmer can approach SDM and three members committee for decision within 30 days and if he is not satisfied with the decision then the DC can be approached. Even the DC will have to give a decision in 30 days. So, this ordinance also helps farmers to get rid of long court procedures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-kisan-morcha-head-says-ordinances-not-anti-farmer/articleshow/78303605.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: New technique may help fight stubborn stubble||NEW DELHI: After reviewing a bio-decomposer solution created by scientists at Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) at Pusa through which crop stubble could be converted into compost, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the technique could be used to fight stubble burning, which chokes Delhi-NCR during the winter months. Kejriwal is expected to meet the Union environment minister soon with a request to implement the technique in the neighbouring states so that people breathe well during winter. The decomposer capsules could be sprayed in the fields after farmers reap the crop, which would not only reinvigorate the soil but also reduce the need for fertilisers. Deemed a cost-effective way to deal with air pollution caused by stubble burning, the technique involves spraying of Pusa decomposer capsules along with a liquid formulation, which will help decompose stubble into compost. “North Indian states, including Delhi, get covered with smoke due to stubble burning during winter. Under the technique developed by IARI, 25 litres of the spray can be prepared with four capsules of the solution mixed with jaggery and chickpea flour, which will be sufficient to cover one hectare. The stubble will soften and melt into the soil within 20 days. The farmers can then start sowing. The soil loses its richness due to stubble burning, which also destroys useful bacteria and fungi, apart from causing harm to the environment,” Kejriwal said. The CM added, “The cost of the capsule is very less. We will soon be getting all important details, such as cost per acre. The scientists got the product validated after a year of pilot testing and projection. Their technique has been given a licence for commercial purposes.” Asked why no action had been taken on stubble burning throughout the year, Kejriwal said, “I agree that no major efforts have been made the entire year, but I don’t want to blame anyone. The Centre is also trying its best through new schemes, custom hiring centres and subsidies on new machinery.” The scientists had given a presentation about the product to Kejriwal on Wednesday. “It’s a very simple, doable and practical approach. If we look at the cost-benefit analysis, a farmer will get twice the profit of what he will spend. We must implement this as soon as possible,” the CM said. Later, he took to Twitter stating that farmers were also worried about air pollution caused due to stubble burning every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-technique-may-help-fight-stubborn-stubble/articleshow/78305878.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Govt set to roll out agri infrastructure fund benefits to boost farmers’ income||Lucknow: Amid brouhaha over passing of farm bills, the Yogi Adityanath government has geared up for the implementation of central government’s ambitious agricultural infrastructure fund (AIF) at the grassroots level to increase the income of farmers through creation of farm assets. Under the scheme, private, cooperative or government-aided development of farm infrastructure will be provided help by financial institutions at 3% rebate. At the same time, small and medium agri-units will be given credit guarantee. In an order issued to all district magistrates on September 18, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi has directed for setting up of project monitoring committees in districts which will be chaired by the respective DMs. There is a state-level monitoring committee which is being headed by the chief secretary. Chaturvedi said the district-level committees should convene a meeting at the earliest for swift implementation of AIF scheme which is proposed to support agri-entrepreneurs and farmer producer organizations (FPOs) in building community farming assets and post-harvest agriculture infrastructure. He said the district-level committees should meet regularly so that the progress of the scheme is monitored properly and problems are resolved quickly. The government has also pitched for public awareness about the fund and has roped in traders’ organisations and industrial bodies. In the order, Chaturvedi said the district monitoring committees should strive for more private participation in the scheme. For monitoring of the scheme at the end of the central government, the ministry of agriculture has developed a portal in which proposals sent to financial institutions would be uploaded. The disbursal of funds under the Rs 1 lakh crore scheme would spread over four years, starting with Rs 10,000 crore in the first year and Rs 30,000 crore each over the next three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-set-to-roll-out-agri-infrastructure-fund-benefits-to-boost-farmers-income/articleshow/78305867.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 25, 2020||Pune||Police recover 10 stolen bikes||Pune: The Wakad police recovered 10 stolen motorcycles, worth Rs3 lakh, on Thursday after detaining a 17-year-old youth and his 23-year-old accomplice. Vivek Mugalikar, senior inspector, Wakad police, told TOI that the minor was taken into custody from Thergaon on a tip-off received by constable Balasaheb Dhumal. “He admitted to his involvement in the theft of 10 motorcycles and a burglary with his accomplice Prakash Patil (23) of Pimpri,” Mugalikar said. He said the duo used to steal the bikes from parking lots. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-recover-10-stolen-bikes/articleshow/78305861.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Complaint lodged against former SCB vice-president||SECUNDERABAD: Seven elected representatives of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) lodged a complaint with the Tukaram Gate police against J Rama Krishna on Thursday. In their complaint, the members alleged that the former SCB vice-president had used unparliamentary language to abuse state labour minister Ch Malla Reddy and Malkajgiri TRS Lok Sabha in-charge Rajasekhara Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-lodged-against-former-scb-vice-prez/articleshow/78303612.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport: Domestic transit facility likely to start this weekend||KOLKATA: The city airport authorities brushed up some of the minor hitches that had come up during the trial runs of the new transfer facility for domestic to domestic transit passengers over the last few days and are all set for full-fledged commissioning of the facility by this weekend. Airport officials said minor issues like positioning of guards and installation of some basic safety items had to be touched upon and after a visit by senior airport officials along with representatives of airlines and CISF officials on Thursday evening. The issues were resolved and officials said the facility is likely to be functional from Friday afternoon. “It’s a big step forward towards modernization of the airport. We are taking all precautions and fine-tuned the safety measures and have plans to slowly open the facility in phases over the weekend,” said a senior airport official. Developed at a cost of Rs 6.5 crore, the 24,000-sq ft transfer facility will allow transit passengers on arrival at Kolkata airport to move directly into the departure security hold area after being frisked at a dedicated security check portal. This will save 50-60 minutes of transit time as passengers now require to exit the terminal at the arrival level, take elevators to the departure level, re-enter the terminal after necessary checks at the gate and then undergo security check. “A glass barricade between two door frame metal detectors had to be installed and block some other gaps in the security check zone through which people can slip in. An X-ray baggage screening machine has been kept as a standby in case the automatic tray retrieval system conks off. But the standby machine didn’t have a table where screeners can manually check the baggage. Some minor issues like these were pending, which were touched upon on Thursday,” said another airport official. The facility with a dedicated security check portal that has a capacity of clearing 300 passengers per hour is ready for commissioning. CISF officials said, once the system commissions, there will be permanent deployment of 9 additional personnel, who have already been requisitioned and kept ready at the job. Airport officials said, once the facility is commissioned, it will be easier for airport authorities to enforce social distancing protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/domestic-transit-facility-likely-to-start-this-weekend/articleshow/78303610.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 25, 2020||Pune||Police seize ganja of Rs 6.4L, one arrested||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested a 23-year-old man and seized 25kg ganja worth Rs6.4 lakh from him late on Saturday night. An anti-narcotics team led by inspector Shriram Paul laid a trap at Phase-II of the Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park in Hinjewadi and took suspect Yogeshwar Phate of Janata Vasahat into custody. Paul said constable Shakir Jinedi got a tip-off that a person would be coming to Hinjewadi to sell ganja. “The suspect changed his designated location of arrival three times until he finally reached Bodkewadi in Phase-II where we caught him with ganja worth Rs6.4 lakh,” Paul said. Police are probing from where Phate procured the ganja. “Ganja is mainly supplied to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha,” Paul said. He said Phate works at a departmental store in Pune. “We are also investigating whether he has been involved in smuggling ganja prior to this,” Paul said. Paul said the anti-narcotics cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police has seized contraband substances worth over Rs1 crore since January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-seize-ganja-of-rs-6-4l-one-arrested/articleshow/78305854.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: University exam plan to avoid UGC NET dates||PUNE: University Grants Commission National Eligibility Test (UGC NET) that started from Thursday will go on till November 13. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has scheduled its backlog exams between October 1 and 9 and the regular examinations are to be held between October 10 and 30. While the university has not declared the exact dates as yet, there is fear among students that the dates will clash with NET exams on October 1, 9 and 17. However, SPPU officials on Thursday, assured students that they will not let the exams overlap. UGC NET was initially scheduled in June, but due to the Covid 19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the exam was postponed. While the admit cards for exams prior to September 29 are already out, the hall tickets for exams scheduled on September 29, 30 and October, were to be available for download on September 24. Till June 2018, the CBSE conducted the NET in 84 subjects at 91 cities. Since December 2018, the UGC NET is being conducted by the National Testing Agency. A final year commerce student at the university said, “The NET for commerce students is on October 17. But the university has said that they would hold their final year exams in the same time period. Since they have not declared any schedule, we are scared that one of the papers may clash with the NET. All we want the university to do is to ensure there is no overlap. Ideally, the university should start the final year examinations after the NET or finish all papers before NET. ” Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation at Savitribai Phule Pune University said they had not decided on the time-table for the October exam as yet. “We will be doing so in the next two-three days as we want to be sure that it is not clashing with other examinations. Now that we know the NET dates, we will try to formulate the dates and session-time in such a way that students are not left to choose between which one to appear for. Students need not worry,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/varsity-exam-plan-to-avoid-ugc-net-dates/articleshow/78305101.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 25, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Peak is over, but need to take measures to prevent second wave’||Having witnessed the highest number of cases of Covid-19 as a district of the state, Ludhiana is showing some signs of recovery from the pandemic even as fatalities have been high here. The health department has been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic and continues to grapple with the challenge. Head of the district’s health department civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the prevailing situation and the strategy to check it. What is the current Covid-19 scenario in Ludhiana district? Various parameters suggest that Covid-19 is under control in the district and there is a decline. The number of cases has been decreasing day by day, fatalities are also showing a fall and even recovery rate is high. The bed occupancy has also fallen and the number of cases of the district has fallen while those being referred from other districts are increasing. Overall, I can say that te peak is over for Ludhiana district. What is the strategy ahead to ensure that cases don’t rise again? People in Delhi got careless and for that reason only there is a second peak. We will try that that doesn’t happen in Ludhiana. We will work to ensure that people follow the norms issued by the government. We do see change on the ground as more people are following norms. We have been focusing on creating awareness among the people to wear mask, maintain social distancing and hand hygiene. We also request them to go out only if it is very necessary. Apart from that we have been monitoring the availability of the health infrastructure and as of now two third beds are vacant in the government set up whereas there are vacant beds in private set up as well. You have decided to treat patients in selected hospitals only. Why so? Yes we have done so. In some hospitals there are two, five or seven Covid patients. Now, we are concentrating on few Covid-19 isolation facilities. For the city we have MCH Vardhman, which is a 100-bedded facility and civil hospital, Ludhiana, which has 160 beds. For other areas, we have Meritorous and Kular Nurisng College near Khanna. In Jagraon, we have 150-bedded set up, where Covid and non-Covid patients are being treated. This is being done to ensure better management. We are withdrawing manpower for these facilities. However, we haven’t closed centres and we can start those any time depending on the need. What is the present status of infection in Ludhiana district? Infection is showing a downward trend after the peak, which is evident from the decreasing hit rate as less number of persons are testing positive in the samples taken. Ludhiana had witnessed a peak first, so it is showing decline in infections on the same pattern. There are complaints of shortage of beds for level three patients? There are beds available for level three patients in private sector and one third of the beds are still vacant. Level three patients will continue to come to Ludhiana hospitals as the city has become a referral centre for most of the districts of Doaba and Malwa region. There is craze for a few private hospitals in Ludhiana as those are the leading multi-specialty hospitals and people prefer to get their patients treated over there. So, patients from at least five to six districts will continue to come to Ludhiana for such treatment. What is the present status of daily testing in Ludhiana district? Are people coming for testing as there were reports of many people not coming forward to get themselves tested? We have increased daily collection of samples to around 5,200 and sometimes the samples collected exceed this limit as well. Health department is focusing on increased sampling, contact tracing and treatment. There is a gradual change in the approach of people as they are becoming sensible and are following our instructions. Even rumor mongering has reduced and the government has changed strategy and are involving political parties, NGOs, prominent persons from society, etc. in motivating the people for early sampling and early referral to the hospitals. How affective are micro-containment zones in the war against Covid-19? We are getting cooperation from people in such zones even as it is not up to our expectations. We are doing 100% sampling in these zones. People do feel suffocated in containment zones and they do ask why they have been locked and they want liberty, which is why we have micro-containment zones. We are not sealing whole of the areas and have reduced the area of micro-containment zones to a lane or two so that minimum number of people are affected and their activities are not restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/peak-is-over-but-need-to-take-measures-to-prevent-second-wave/articleshow/78303615.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Five arrested for murder, rioting in outer Delhi||NEW DELHI: Ruckus prevailed in outer Delhi’s Khanjawala area after two groups fought with each other on Tuesday night. A 23-year-old man who intervened in their fight was hit with a stone, which led to his death. Angry over this, the locals staged a protest on Wednesday evening. Police have arrested five accused in this connection. Heavy police deployment was made in the area on Thursday as the two groups belong to different religions. An Aman committee meeting has been called on Friday. PK Mishra, DCP, Rohini, said: “Around 8.30pm, we were informed about a fight and stone pelting between two groups at O Block in Sawada village. When a police team reached the location, the injured had been shifted to a hospital by the PCR. The injured were later identified as Rehan (18) and Shaukat (23). Shaukat succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning. When his body was brought to the area, the family members refused to bury it and staged a protest. We spoke to them and the burial was then carried out.” “It appears that Rehan’s friend liked a girl who was earlier in a relationship with one of the accused, Ankit. We have arrested Ankit, Vishal, Harish, Ajay and Vikas on charges of murder and rioting,” the DCP added. Rehan told the cops that he was sitting outside his house when he was attacked by a group of boys. “My friend Saidar likes a girl who was also earlier friends with Ankit. The accused boys who were looking for Saidar caught hold of me and beat me up. The men were carrying baseball bats and pelting stones. Shaukat intervened to save me but the group attacked him also,” said Rehan. A case under sections of rioting, unlawful assembly, murder, rioting with deadly weapon was registered at the Khanjawala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/five-arrested-for-murder-rioting-in-outer-delhi/articleshow/78305913.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls: BJP eyeing win in 30 wards||HYDERABAD: Gearing up for the GHMC polls and eyeing to win more wards, BJP has coined a new slogan ‘TRS-AIMIM free Hyderabad, save Hyderabad.’ The saffron party won just four wards in the last election. The party is aiming to bag at least 30 wards out of 150 this time round. The party is working out a micro management election strategy and as part of this, the party leadership has named four presidents for Greater Hyderabad unlike previous instances when it had only one party chief for the entire GHMC. Sources said a high-level committee consisting of leaders like former party chief K Laxman and former MP AP Jithender Reddy is already doing a survey in the wards and taking opinions from the electorate on who to select as party candidates to give a tough fight to opposition. “Since we do not have an alliance with any party this time, we will be able to finalise the campaign strategy and list of candidates much earlier than others,” party MLC and former city BJP president N Ramchander Rao told TOI. Sources said the party is keeping its options open for new candidates and leaders from other parties. With so much at stake, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy is also taking a keen interest in this election since he represents Secunderabad in Lok Sabha. The party had won only Ramakrishnapuram, Gowlipura, Gandhi Bazar and Begum Bazar in the last election. It does not have a representation from Musheerabad, Goshamahal, Amberpet, Khairatabad and Uppal though it had MLAs representing the party in the assembly. A party leader agreed they were weighed down by infighting and not having enough rank and file to take on AIMIM in some wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-bjp-eyeing-win-in-30-wards/articleshow/78305096.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer, Kota districts on verge of reporting 100 Covid deaths each||JAIPUR: The state reported 1,981 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a single-day record for the seventh day in a row, taking the overall tally to 1,22,720. In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died, which took the casualty count to 1,397. After Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, two more districts — Ajmer and Kota — are inching close to breaching the 100 casualty mark. Ajmer’s toll rose to 99 after one more person succumbed to the virus while Kota’s toll stood at 95. A senior health department official said that they had managed to bring down the mortality rate to 1.1%. “We are conducting aggressive testing and providing treatment to ensure early detection of cases and early treatment to prevent mortalities,” said the official. The grim reality of Covid continued to batter Jaipur and Jodhpur, with both collectively reporting 689 cases, contributing largely to the record biggest single-day spike. Though the state is setting new highs in new infections for seven days, deaths have not increased in proportion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-kota-districts-on-verge-of-reporting-100-covid-deaths-each/articleshow/78305114.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Saffron party in favor of EVM use||HYDERABAD: Sources told TOI that BJP wants EVMs to be used in GHMC election in tune with the central party’s stand on EVMs. A formal letter will be given to the state election commissioner after a meeting within the party in next few days, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saffron-party-in-favor-of-evm-use/articleshow/78305115.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||MP hints at police-neta nexus||AHMEDABAD: Rajya Sabha MP and senior group president, Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), Parimal Nathwani, has hailed the appointment of IPS officer Deepan Bhadran as Jamnagar district superintendent of police (SP).  Terming Bhadran’s appointment as a “special mission to curb and control criminals and their political masters with firm hands,” Nathwani tweeted on Thursday saying, “Your posting here will give a great relief to the law abiding citizens, land owners, builders, businessmen, traders and factory owners of the area.” In a series of three tweets, Nathwani said, “I am sure the dynamic and bold SP @BhadranDeepan with a special mission will curb and control criminals & their political masters with firm hands.” He tagged PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, CMO, MOS home Pradipsinh Jadeja, and the DGP in his tweets. The Times of India had recently reported that Bhadran has been entrusted with the task of putting a leash to the growing notoriety of gangster Jayesh Patel who has unleashed a wave of terror in Jamnagar. “I was referring to Jayesh Patel in my tweets. Never before has Jamnagar witnessed this level of extortion and land-grabbing. Some politicians of the ruling party are also directly or indirectly involved,” Nathwani told TOI on Thursday. He added that the entire Jamnagar is under threat from the criminal. “No builder, contractor, businessman, nobody is safe. Anybody who is doing business gets a threat call from Jayesh Patel from abroad, seeking money. This is about extortion, black money and land-grabbing,” Nathwani said. In his tweets, Nathwani also hinted at suspicion over involvement of range IG Sandeep Singh in settling cases in favour of criminals. “While new #Jamnagar SP @BhadranDeepan will use his brilliance and firm hands on criminals, some people suspect, I don’t know true or false, that Range IG Sandip Singh in past settled some cases in favour of criminals in tune with some politicians," said Nathwani on twitter. When TOI contacted Rajkot range IG Sandeep Singh for his comment on Parimal Nathwani's tweets, he said: "I have no comment, I just want to say we are taking strict action against anti-social elements and we will continue to do so." Jayesh Patel, who is known to allegedly have the blessings of a turncoat minister in the Rupani cabinet, aims to become the next Vishal Goswami. Senior police officials say Patel is an accused in 41 criminal cases including murder, extortion and land-grabbing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mp-hints-at-police-neta-nexus/articleshow/78305121.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||New app to check spread of Covid-19 in Pune||PUNE: A cellphone application, Covid Kavach, has been developed under the aegis of the Ayush ministry and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to monitor and restrict the spread of the contagion in the city. The main objective of the app is to track the study participants for Covid-19 symptoms or side-effects of drugs, if any, daily. Centre for Rheumatic Diseases (CRD), Pune, director Arvind Chopra and his team, who conceptualized the app, said, “It can be used for surveillance of Covid-19 symptomatic people, leading to early diagnosis and any necessary treatment...The participant will be identified only by a unique code and no other personal details will be captured by the programme.” Dimakh Sahasrabuddhe, chairman and CEO of Dimakh Consultants and Associates, said, “We have now entered the Phase II trial of the app, where the predictive analysis will be conducted with the help of machine learning and artificial intelligence to trigger alerts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-app-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/78305869.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Schools warned against blocking of students from online classes over fees||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The education department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has received over 1,000 complaints from parents about their wards being blocked from online classes by private schools for non-payment of fees. According to the education department officials, schools blocked the online classes of the students who failed to pay the fees on time. Vilas Patil, grievance redressal officer of the PCMC, told TOI that after in-person verification, he found the complaints to be true. “After our visit, we found that the schools had indeed blocked the online access to the students, following which we told them to restore access. A few schools have complied with our message while a few are adamant so we are in the process of serving them notices. In fact, some of the schools have been sent several notices,” he said. Jyotsna Shinde, administrative officer at PCMC, said from the past few weeks the number of complaints from parents against schools have increased. “We have served notices to 22 schools in the matter and have told them to immediately restore access to online learning. Under the Right to Education, Act, 2009, no students can be deprived from education,” she said. Social activist Maruti Bhapkar said considering the rising number of complaints the state government needs to intervene. “Many parents have lost their jobs in the pandemic. Many are finding survival difficult. In such a situation schools too need to be flexible,” he said, adding that he will write to the education minister. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said that they will take action as per the RTE Act against such schools. The education department can be contacted via e-mail on schoolboard@pcmcindia.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-warned-against-blocking-of-pupils-from-online-classes-over-fees/articleshow/78305109.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 25, 2020||Pune||SPPU tells 20,000 students to pick their paper mode||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University has once again appealed to students to choose between online or offline mode of examination by logging in to their profiles. On September 15, the officials had said that of the 2.49 lakh eligible students, 2.23 lakh had filled the information. As many as 1.85 lakh students had applied for online mode and 37841 students had applied for offline mode. “The links were kept open for a longer time and at the moment we have about 20,000 students who have not applied for any of these modes of examinations. We have already sent about 60,000 SMSs to these students so that they choose a mode of examination. This will help the university plan better and will also be beneficial for the academic future of these students,” Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation at SPPU, said. He added that since the links opened on Thursday, by noon about 1,500 students newly applied and majority have chosen the online mode. According to the option form, students can appear online for the examination from any place of convenience however they need to have a working front camera, switched on, throughout the duration of the examination. In case they choose the offline mode, OMR (Optical Mark Recognition) sheets would be given to them for answering the multiple-choice questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-tells-20k-students-to-pick-their-paper-mode/articleshow/78305105.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Hooch to honey: Poison peddlers now brew nectar in UP||BARABANKI: Women of Chayanpurva village in Barabanki will no longer peddle poison, they will now distribute honey.  This village is among 12 hamlets in the hinterland of Ramnagar, 60km off the district headquarters, infamous for production and sale of killer hooch that decimated families and snuffed out lives. And the deadly concoction is brewed by women, who are caught in a vicious cycle with no other skill to keep kitchen fires burning though many lost their husbands to the spurious broth or in police crackdowns. And the women spent at least four months in prison for brewing the illicit liquor. Kanchana, 35, was widowed early in life after her husband consumed spurious liquor and died. But despite the tragedy, she has no other option but to sell hooch, which is ridiculously cheap, triggers an instant high and keeps the menfolk hooked. Another village woman, Sundara, 50, bears the burden of the family after her husband was disabled after gulping hooch. Sundara continues to be in the business to pay school fees of her two grandchildren, who study in Lucknow. Now, Barabanki police has adopted a humane approach to extricate these women from the inky abyss of crime and indignity. Though criminals in the eye of the law, these women will now harvest honey and lead respectable lives. Talking to TOI, Barabanki superintendent of police, Arvind Chaturvedi, said, “We have distributed honey boxes to select women of Chayanpurva. They will produce honey and earn Rs 5000-6000, which is more than what they made from hooch business. We have started this as a pilot project earlier this month. After two weeks, we will distribute honey-producing boxes to all women in the village. These women will be given training in production of honey by experts from Lucknow. I am sure this will help stamp out the social malaise.” At least 18 police stations in the rural swathes of Barabanki district have also been identified where honey boxes would be installed and miscellaneous expenses of police stations will be met by sale of honey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hooch-to-honey-poison-peddlers-now-brew-nectar/articleshow/78305876.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 25, 2020||Kolkata||Rs 50,000 stolen from central Kolkata shop||KOLKATA: Thieves broke into three shops on Lenin Sarani on Wednesday night and while they failed to steal anything significant from two shops, they decamped with Rs 50,000 kept in the cash box of a hardware goods shop. Cops have started a probe but none was arrested till late on Thursday. Police said thieves had climbed up to the vacant first floor of a building that once housed a nationalized bank by partly cutting a first-floor grille and partly through the unplugged gap of a window AC. Once inside a second-storey room, the thieves made holes on the floor at multiple places and dropped down into the ground-floor shops. “They stole Rs 50,000 from a shop, named Deluxe Hardware Mart. Attempt to steal was also made in other two shops, named Quick Photo Service and National Auto Accessories, but they could not succeed,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar Sudhir Neelakantam, deputy commissioner of Kolkata Police central division, said they suspected a particular gang was behind the heist. Members of the suspected gang had been arrested before and earlier this year, they had struck at a nationalised branch in New Market. “It looks like an old gang at work. We know their signature style and are trying to nab them at the earliest,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-50k-stolen-from-central-kol-shop/articleshow/78303622.cms||Amit Moulick
September 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Akademi winner turns farmhand as lockdown takes away lecturer job||KOLHAPUR: Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar winner Navnath Gore’s life changed swiftly when the coronavirus struck, and the lockdown in March temporarily closed the college in Ahmednagar district where he worked as a lecturer of Marathi on clocked hours. Gore, 32, who won the award for his debut novel ‘Fesati’, has been working as a farm labourer since April for Rs 400 a day to support his family when his income of a few thousands of rupees from teaching for the past two years dried up. His father passed away in February, and his responsibilities towards an aged mother and a physically challenged brother who live in Nigdi in Jat tehsil of Sangli district became stark. Gore said he had to return to his native village when it became tough to meet the expenses for food and their medicines. “My job in the college which I got after I won the Sahitya Akademi is not permanent. I earned about Rs 10,000 per month, but won’t get paid since it is on a clock-hour basis. The chances of earning something by taking up any work were brighter in Nigdi,” Gore told TOI. He travels in the periphery of 25km from his village for any agricultural work. “I get Rs 200 for half a day, and Rs 400 for a full day’s work,” he said. But work is not always available even though farm operations are at their peak in the monsoon. Gore is worried about getting any work once the agriculture operations are over. Sahitya Akademi winner works as farmhand after loss of jobBorn into a Dhangar (nomadic shepherding community) family, Gore has lived life only the hard way. Despite financial constraints, his mother insisted he complete his education. “I would run away to mind the flock instead of going to school,” he said. But he completed his post-graduation in Marathi from Shivaji University in Kolhapur. His novel reflects rural trials, one of the many he is going through himself. ‘Fesati’ is about the struggles of shepherds, landless labourers and marginal land holders in agrarian Maharashtra. Natha Gore, the main character, represents the plight of a large number of rural youths. ‘Fesati’ is a farm implement made from bamboo to drop seeds for sowing, ensuring zero wastage of the seeds. It also symbolises the struggle in rural parts. “I have seen tragedies strike farmers, I have experienced dreams getting shattered in rural areas. Still, the sheer will of ordinary people has inspired me at a personal level” he told TOI in an interview in June 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pen-to-plough-akademi-winner-turns-labourer-to-sustain-family/articleshow/78310333.cms||Satyajit Joshi
September 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Akademi winner turns farmhand as lockdown takes away lecturer job||KOLHAPUR: Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar winner Navnath Gore’s life changed swiftly when the coronavirus struck, and the lockdown in March temporarily closed the college in Ahmednagar district where he worked as a lecturer of Marathi on clocked hours. Gore, 32, who won the award for his debut novel ‘Fesati’, has been working as a farm labourer since April for Rs 400 a day to support his family when his income of a few thousands of rupees from teaching for the past two years dried up. His father passed away in February, and his responsibilities towards an aged mother and a physically challenged brother who live in Nigdi in Jat tehsil of Sangli district became stark. Gore said he had to return to his native village when it became tough to meet the expenses for food and their medicines. “My job in the college which I got after I won the Sahitya Akademi is not permanent. I earned about Rs 10,000 per month, but won’t get paid since it is on a clock-hour basis. The chances of earning something by taking up any work were brighter in Nigdi,” Gore told TOI. He travels in the periphery of 25km from his village for any agricultural work. “I get Rs 200 for half a day, and Rs 400 for a full day’s work,” he said. But work is not always available even though farm operations are at their peak in the monsoon. Gore is worried about getting any work once the agriculture operations are over. Sahitya Akademi winner works as farmhand after loss of jobBorn into a Dhangar (nomadic shepherding community) family, Gore has lived life only the hard way. Despite financial constraints, his mother insisted he complete his education. “I would run away to mind the flock instead of going to school,” he said. But he completed his post-graduation in Marathi from Shivaji University in Kolhapur. His novel reflects rural trials, one of the many he is going through himself. ‘Fesati’ is about the struggles of shepherds, landless labourers and marginal land holders in agrarian Maharashtra. Natha Gore, the main character, represents the plight of a large number of rural youths. ‘Fesati’ is a farm implement made from bamboo to drop seeds for sowing, ensuring zero wastage of the seeds. It also symbolises the struggle in rural parts. “I have seen tragedies strike farmers, I have experienced dreams getting shattered in rural areas. Still, the sheer will of ordinary people has inspired me at a personal level” he told TOI in an interview in June 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pen-to-plough-akademi-winner-turns-labourer-to-sustain-family/articleshow/78306636.cms||Satyajit Joshi
September 25, 2020||Jaipur||Migrants in Rajasthan not eligible for reservation: HC||JAIPUR: People who migrated from other states will not be entitled to the benefit of reservation in public service jobs and to contest elections from reserved seats, including panchayat elections, in Rajasthan, reports Joychen Joseph. The order was given by Rajasthan High Court Judge Satish Kumar Sharma while disposing several petitions challenging the denial of contesting panchayat elections from reserved seats. The court said persons from other states, who married from Rajasthan, cannot claim reserved government jobs. ‘Put a note on caste certificates’Jaipur: The court said persons from other states, who married from Rajasthan, cannot claim reserved government jobs or contest from reserved seats in elections even if they are included in the list of reserved categories in both the state and their parent state. The court also asked authorities to put a note in this regard on caste certificates issued to reserved class migrants, clearly mentioning that this certificate would not be valid for a government job or to contest elections. The petiton related to the issue of contesting from a reserved seat in panchayat elections. The petitioners argued that the migrant contestant's caste in Rajasthan also falls in the same category as his home state. After marriage, they have been residing in Rajasthan and cannot be denied the benefit of reservation. Additional advocate general Anil Mehta argued that a person can claim the benefit of reservation only if he/she is a native of the state and has not migrated from another state. He argued that the Supreme Court has consistently held that a person from another state cannot claim the benefits of reservation even though he/she be- longed to the SC/OBC category in both the home state and to the one he/ she has migrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrants-in-rajnot-eligible-forreservation-hc/articleshow/78305133.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 25, 2020||Pune||No ‘random decision’ on any further lockdown in Pune district: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the government would not take a “random decision” on any further lockdown in Pune district despite the surge in Covid-19 cases. He told TOI that any such decision would be taken only after consultation with the local elected representatives. Pawar’s comment comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with the chief ministers of seven states, including Maharashtra, and told them to review the efficacy of one- or two-day lockdowns and their impact on economic activities. Pawar, who is also guardian minister of Pune, said, “All major decisions will be taken only after discussions headed by the chief minister. As of now, the Maharashtra government is carrying out the ‘unlock’ programme because that is the way ahead. People across the world are now aware that they have to live with Covid-19 by strictly following the necessary health protocols.” Last week too, there were discussions on whether there was a need for a lockdown in Pune. “The local representatives did not agree to such an arrangement. I will allow the administration to discuss with the local representatives on the absolute need for a lockdown or not. A ‘janata’ curfew was allowed in Baramati and Kagal. But a decision for a lockdown in the district will be taken only in consultation with local representatives, and only if absolutely necessary,” Pawar said, ahead of his weekly review meeting on Friday. Referring to section 144 of the CrPC being extended in Mumbai till September 30, Pawar said, “In Pune, it will be decided only after discussion with the newly appointed police officers. However, the implementation of the existing government rules has to be strict,” Pawar said. The deputy chief minister said Covid-19 cases were expected to rise and then fall. “Pune district is leading the country in caseload. There will be a week with more cases followed by a week with few cases. This situation will continue until a vaccine is available. What is imperative is effective implementation of health guidelines, such as social distancing and effective contact tracing and testing. The house-to-house surveillance under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative is proving helpful,” he said. Pawar said the administration was readying the necessary infrastructure while jumbo hospitals and other health hubs have been directed to increase the number of beds. He said, “State health minister Rajesh Tope has reviewed the situation and issued necessary directions to hospitals. The testing rate in Pune is the highest in the country and we have to ensure that the district has vacant beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-no-random-decision-on-any-further-lockdown-in-district/articleshow/78305880.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 25, 2020||Agra||Two Covid-19 patients die in Agra, 97 new cases reported||AGRA: Two residents of Agra, who had tested Covid-19 positive, died during treatment at the SN Medical College on Thursday. The deceased were identified as a 56-year-old man from Bodla locality and a 64-year-old man from Tajganj locality. According to the health department, the two patients died due to co-morbid conditions. So far, 122 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Moreover, at least 97 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 5,326. Also, 76 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 5,326 cases reported in the district, 4,229 [79.4%] have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are now 81 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-covid-19-patients-die-in-agra-97-new-cases-reported/articleshow/78302424.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||FTII chairman nominated to ICCR general assembly||PUNE: BP Singh, filmmaker and television producer, as well the current chairman of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), has been nominated to the general assembly of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), the Centre’s main cultural outreach arm overseas. Singh’s tenure at ICCR will be for three years. His nomination was approved by ICCR president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe at a recent meeting of the governing council. His nomination was based on his “eminence in the field of culture and education”, a statement issued by ICCR said. Singh is known for creating and directing television dramas, both for public television, as well as for newer cable television outlets. He is the creator and director-producer of TV series C.I.D., which ran for 20 years. “For a filmmaker with nearly five decades of sterling contribution to the industry and decisive leadership of world’s leading and India’s premier film school, his nomination is richly deserving, the first for any FTII chairman,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, director, FTII, in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-chairman-nominated-to-iccr-general-assembly/articleshow/78305127.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||NU exams for 1st, 2nd year ATKT students in November||Nagpur: Clearing confusion of thousands of failure students, Nagpur University has declared that their inordinately delayed examinations would be conducted in November along with its regular winter papers. The university had been non-committal about their exams so far. “The government had directed all universities to conduct papers of ATKT students from first to fifth semesters within 120 days. Accordingly, we would be holding their papers in November. We will take care that no student will face loss of his/her academic year,” Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. Regarding final year failure students, the university had asked respective colleges to conduct their exams at college level, evaluate papers and send marks to NU Exam Section. This would be the first time that colleges would be conducting any important theory exams, whose results would be taken into account while preparing mark-sheets. “We had instructed colleges to start exams from September 15 and end by September 30. Accordingly, many of them have commenced their papers. They were granted liberty to hold papers in online, offline or blended mode as directed by University Grants Commission (UGC). Their results would be declared along with regular students,” the director said. NU has already instructed colleges to grant provisional admission to all failure students of the first five semesters till their exams are held and results are out. “We’ve told colleges to conduct online practical exams and send marks to NU by September 25. Accordingly, many of them have completed exams where students from far off states like Jammu and Kashmir and those in the North Eastern part participated successfully. They didn’t face any difficulty,” Sable said. NU launches Pariksha App on web The university on Thursday was forced to upload its ‘Pariksha App’ on its website in the evening, as Google Playstore failed to include it on its platform. “We had sent the app to Google yesterday, as it takes a minimum of 12 hours to upload it. Ideally, it should have been included by morning 10am. However, when it wasn’t seen in the Playstore till afternoon, we decided to post its link on NU website, so that students could download it and start accessing mock tests,” the BOEE director said. On Wednesday, NU had announced that once the App was uploaded on Playstore, students can download it and immediately access mock tests and other details. NU officials are making efforts to upload it on Playstore. “We downloaded it from NU website and it’s running well. The students too can download it from the website,” Sable said. Academic session from Nov 1: VC Vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari informed that NU’s new academic session would begin from November 1, as directed by UGC. The apex body in a circular to all universities had directed them to start their first year classes from November, which was reported in detail by TOI on Tuesday with entire timetable. The academic year is delayed by over four months this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. “We will start our regular classroom teaching from stipulated date. It wouldn’t include courses whose admissions would depend on competitive examinations, like MHT-CET and others,” the VC said. The apex body, however, allowed colleges to slightly defer their academic session till November 18 in case the results of qualifying examinations were delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-exams-for-1st-2nd-year-atkt-students-in-november/articleshow/78305125.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 25, 2020||Pune||Cargo operations at Pune airport revive after Covid outbreak lull||PUNE: The domestic cargo movement from the city airport has been improving gradually after the lull triggered by the Covid-19 lockdown. The latest statistics released by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) revealed an encouraging growth of domestic cargo movement in July as compared to May. But experts and representatives from the business community are of the opinion that the airport needs to push its cargo facility infrastructure to attract more traders. “It is expected that good rain this monsoon will yield a good output and help boost the cargo movement. As and when the vaccine for Covid-19 is ready and its dispatches increase, it could be a good opportunity for the Pune airport cargo facilities,” said Anant Sardeshmukh, former director-general of the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture. Sardeshmukh said the cargo facility needed a facelift. “A lot of goods from Pune get shipped from Mumbai. If the authorities can find out the reasons for such preferences and work on the shortcomings, it would help increase the cargo movement from Pune. The state government also needs to pay attention to the Pune facility, which can be developed as a support to the Mumbai cargo terminal,” he said. Both domestic and international cargo facilities were to be shifted but the plan has not moved forward since. According to an airport source, the land where it was to be shifted belongs to the Indian Air Force and has not been transferred to the AAI as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cargo-ops-at-airport-revive-after-covid-outbreak-lull/articleshow/78305112.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 25, 2020||Pune||Funds crunch hobbles car parking project of PCB||PUNE: Work on the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) Rs13.5 crore automated multi-level car parking project on the Lloyd Road near The Bishop’s School has come to a standstill in the last six months owing to funds crunch. The agency hired for setting up the project has completed the RCC work but has not been able to initiate the robotics system and related technical work due to funds crunch. Launched in October 2018, the 10-level parking project, with a capacity to park 183 four-wheelers, was set to become functional by December 2019, but has overshot the deadline by nine months. It was meant to resolve the parking issue faced by visitors to East Street and MG Road, besides, annually generating nearly Rs60lakh revenue from parking fees and advertisements. “So far, we have been able to pay only Rs1.5 crore to the agency and bills worth another Rs3 crore are pending clearance. We are now approaching the defence ministry for more funds,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI on Tuesday. The Ministry of Defence had declared it the model project and asked all 62 cantonments in the country to replicate the same. Similarly, the government-appointed Sumit Bose committee for resolving cantonment issues, too, had endorsed the project and recommended the ministry to resolve parking and traffic issues, said the defence estates sources. “At the time of the sanctioning the project, the board had decided to allocate funds from its budget only. But now it is not possible for us to continue the project until we receive funds from the ministry,” added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/funds-crunch-hobbles-car-parking-project-of-pcb/articleshow/78305132.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Banner renaming Lady Hill Circle removed||Mangaluru: Though the proposal to rename Lady Hill Circle after social reformer Sri Narayana Guru didn’t materialise, a banner naming the place ‘Brahmashri Narayanaguru Vrutha’ appeared at the place, stoking a fresh controversy. However, police removed the banner within hours of it being put up, putting an end to the controversy, late in the evening on Wednesday. It may be recalled the city had witnessed several protests and demonstrations in connection with the renaming of the road between Ambedkar Circle and Catholic Club after the former chairman of Vijaya Bank. The road was officially renamed as ‘Mulky Sunder Ram Shetty Road’ by mayor Diwakar on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a council meet held at the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) on Tuesday had resolved to refer a proposal to rename Lady Hill Circle in the city after philosopher Sri Narayana Guru to its standing committee on town planning. Following this, various organisations have been carrying out campaigns to rename the circle after Sri Narayana Guru. Similarly, campaigns are also being carried out by another section, urging the city corporation to retain the name of the circle as Lady Hill Circle. While a banner that renamed the circle unofficially after Sri Narayana Guru was removed by the police, stickers promoting the new name for the circle were spotted on the windshields of many city buses. Reacting to the issue of ‘renaming’ the circle without a government order, mayor Diwakar said, “The city corporation has no role in it.” He added that the proposal was yet to be discussed in the standing committee on town planning. “Renaming the circle is a long process that requires discussion in the standing committing. Publication of the proposal in two vernacular newspapers to invite suggestions and objections before it is sent to the government for approval, are required. The circle can be renamed only after a final resolution adopted by the council is approved by the government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/banner-renaming-lady-hill-circle-removed/articleshow/78302469.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||Two key underpasses open in Pimpri Chinchwad, but ride far from smooth||Pimpri Chinchwad: Smooth ride eludes commuters even though two key underpasses have opened in Pimple Gurav and Pimple Saudagar over the past three weeks because another arm of the underpass is still in the initial phase, and the authorities have barricaded more roads than necessary. A local representative said completion of the under-construction underpass would take time owing to difficulty in getting new funding. In Pimple Gurav, one arm of the underpass has been thrown open to the public, while digging is underway at the parallel arm. In Pimple Saudagar, opposite Spot 18 mall, the arm going towards Wakad has been made operational while digging work has just started on the return arm. Both the projects are slated to be completed by March 2021. “We will aim to finish work by March 2021, but it could get delayed by a couple of months because of the lockdown and supply constraints,” said Sanjay Kashid, deputy engineer, PCMC. Both the works are on the 8km-long Nashik Phata-Wakad bus rapid transit system route, whose first leg was opened only in November 2015. It is not clear why the underpasses were not planned then, but civic officials said the new underpasses had been planned to meet the development needs of the next 25 years. As digging continues relentlessly in different parts of the township, the ride is far from smooth for citizens. “Some of these projects really look good. However, since all projects are taken one after the other, it is like living in a constant excavation zone,” said Alok T, a resident of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-key-underpasses-open-in-pimpri-chinchwad-but-ride-far-from-smooth/articleshow/78305153.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Crime branch busts Irani gang, nabs 6 from Kolhapur||Nagpur: The crime branch sleuths arrested seven alleged tricksters, members of Kamptee’s dreaded Irani gang, who were behind robbing citizens at desolate places. The gang members would often pose as cops or good Samaritan to rob people. Sources said the cops were tracking the gang using its members’ mobile phone locations and had followed it till Maharashtra-Karnataka border. The cops, however, succeeded in nabbing six of the gangsters at Kolhapur this week. Their one accomplice was rounded up earlier by the crime branch. The gang had perpetrated several crimes in the city including one at Dahi Bazaar bridge and another at Sonegaon. Masterminds of the gang Haider Ali and Shabbir Ali are learnt to be behind several crimes in Nagpur and elsewhere in the state. The gang was also involved in several crimes in Kolhapur city. Following a tip off by Nagpur police, their Kolhapur counterparts had nabbed two of the gang members. The crime branch team, under supervision of CP Amitesh Kumar, joint CP Nilesh Bharne, DCP Gajanan Rajmane and ACP Sudhir Nandanwar, had detected crimes in city which were not even registered at police stations by the victims. The team of sub-inspector Hemant Thorat, comprising head constable Santosh Thakur, naik constable Daya Bisandre, constables Manjit Singh Thakur, Vikas Pathak and others had zeroed in on the gang after rounding up one Mohd Awesh, whose bike the gangsters had used to rob an elderly woman near Dahi Bazaar bridge posing as cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crime-branch-busts-irani-gang-nabs-6-from-kolhapur/articleshow/78305163.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on voter registration: KT Rama Rao to leaders||HYDERABAD: TRS working president KT Rama Rao has asked party leaders to give top priority for registration of voters (graduates) for the upcoming MLC polls. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has issued a schedule for registration of voters for the graduates’ constituencies of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda a couple of days ago. As the voters’ registration process will begin on October 1, KCR held a teleconference with the graduate MLC election in-charges of erstwhile Khammam, Warangal and Nalgonda districts. He asked them to work for the victory of the TRS party. He said the party has a strong network of 60 lakh cadres, leaders and workers and wanted ministers, MLAs and MLCs to ensure registration of all the eligible persons. He asked the public representatives to start voter registrations from their houses. Giving directions to the partymen, KTR said the TRS had won all the elections — from panchayat to assembly - in the state. He recalled that the party had registered a grand victory in the municipal and ZPTC elections and expressed confidence that the party would again record a big win in the MLC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-voter-registration-ktr-to-leaders/articleshow/78305134.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP: FIR against three Rae Bareli cops for Dalit teen’s custody death||LUCKNOW: Three weeks after a Dalit teen accused of bike theft died in police custody, three cops, including an inspector were booked for murder, wrongful confinement and under SC/ST Act by Rae Bareli police. While the cops were earlier suspended and a magisterial probe ordered, the FIR was lodged on Thursday.Mohit, 19, was detained by Lalganj police in Rae Bareli for more than 24 hours on suspicion of involvement in auto thefts and died in police custody on August 30. He had complained of vomiting and pain and was taken to a community health centre, where doctors referred him to district hospital on August 29. He died during treatment the next morning. Police kept the death under wraps till the victim’s family launched protests outside the police station. SP, Shlok Kumar, said after a preliminary inquiry, an FIR was lodged against then SHO, Lalganj, Harishankar Prajapati, and two sub-inspectors, Jai Prakash Yadav and Arvind Kumar Maurya. “We will probe into all allegations. The autopsy had showed no injuries on the body and Mohit’s viscera was preserved for further examination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-against-3-rae-bareli-cops-for-dalit-teens-custody-death/articleshow/78305889.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to hand over water, sewage lines to private companies||NEW DELHI: The operation, management and maintenance of water and sewage lines in Delhi will be handed over to private operators by Delhi Jal Board (DJB). Water procurement and supply will, however, continued to remain the responsibility of the water utility. In its board meet on Thursday, DJB approved the ‘One Zone, One Operator’ policy to enable private firms to take over the care and management of pipelines after the city is divided into 7-8 zones. These private firms will be appointed for 10 years. Bid for more accountability at DJBAnkit Srivastava, technical adviser to DJB, described the step as “not at all being akin to the privatisation of distribution of electricity in the power sector”. All work entrusted to the private companies will also remain under DJB’s supervision and no board employee will be laid off. Officials disclosed that notices calling for the new operators will be issued around October 1. The zones will be determined based on the hydraulics of the regions. After the meeting chaired by Delhi water minister and chairman of DJB Satyendar Jain on Thursday, Srivastava, explaining that the step was not a drastic change from the present setup, said, “To date, we issue many small tenders for repair and maintenance works by private contractors across the water supply network. Under the new model, these works will be consolidated among fewer companies. A defined area will be the responsibility of an operator with fixed deliverables for both water pipelines and sewerage.” Srivastava noted that the appointment of a single company in each defined zone will ensure accountability and guarantee quality work. “This is a precursor to 24x7 supply of water in the capital,” he added. A DJB official said that no board employee would be terminated in the process and no government post was being replaced by private players. “Also, DJB officials will continue to have supervisory roles. For example, even now the 200 sewer cleaning machines are managed by private players, but an DJB official always supervises the work.” The official added the new consultants would fix the nitty-gritty of works related to the water and sewer lines, including expansions of pipe size, repair, connections, etc. “Instead of dividing such work into hundreds of small packets, the whole can be entrusted to one company which will carry it out at one go,” the official argued. The only exceptions will be the three small areas where PPP projects on water supply improvement are being currently run. DJB manages around 14,500km of water pipelines and 9,000 km of sewer lines to ensure water supply and sewage services to 20 million people in Delhi. The board is responsible for the procurement of raw water, its treatment and the supply. “DJB currently takes wastewater from New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board areas, both of which are responsible for the provision of local sewer networks within their own territories,” the official said. The water utility said that extensive deliberations at various levels were held before it was decided to induct private operators for the operation, maintenance and management of the water and sewage networks. While studying the models in other cities, it was noticed that only a single operator had been appointed. “Delhi being a large metropolitan city will have to be divided in 7-8 zones,” one official said. “The zonation will be done through hydraulic studies of the region, underground reservoir areas and sewage outfall boundaries.” DJB has also approved of a simplified procedure for a new water and sewage connection. The online process will be paperless and integrated with the doorstep delivery of public services. The board has cleared the proposal to install 200 tubewells in the floodplain at Palla in a phased manner to extract raw water supply. An official added that the board also discussed the implementation of the polluter-pays principle as directed by National Green Tribunal. Watch Delhi Jal Board to hand over water, sewage lines to private companies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-jal-board-to-hand-over-water-sewage-lines-to-private-companies/articleshow/78306641.cms||Paras Singh
September 25, 2020||Pune||Civic body award for distinction show in SSC||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has earmarked around Rs 1 crore for giving cash awards to municipal school students who passed the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination earlier this year with distinction. Apart from regular students, Divyang students who cleared the exam from these schools would also receive cash awards. According to the education department, around 253 students have scored 80% and above in the SSC exams this year. Nine Divyang students would be awarded Rs50,000 each. This year, 18 municipal schools have recorded a pass percentage of 94. Maruti Bhapkar, social activist, said that students who study in corporation schools belong to economically weaker sections of the society. Rs 1 lakh would be awarded to students who have scored 90% and above, Rs 50,000 to students who have scored between 85% and 89%, and Rs 25,000 would be given to those who have scored between 80% and 84%. He said students who have scored 70% and above should also be awarded under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-award-for-distinction-show-in-ssc/articleshow/78305167.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Cop did not tell superiors about minors’ semi-nude parade||NAGPUR: Senior inspector Khushal Tijare is learnt to have not taken permission from any supervisory officer nor did he had informed them about the controversial semi-naked parade of the minors, held for armed dacoity at a bar, through a busy road in Jaripatka on Wednesday. The supervisory officers of Tijare, especially CP Amitesh Kumar, were left stunned after watching viral videos of the minors being paraded on the road with ropes tied around their arms on social media. Kumar, who had immediately instituted an inquiry by an officer of ACP rank, also had posted a strict message in the official group condemning the whole incident. He is also learnt to have issued instruction to officers to refrain from such legally disputable moves in future. Kumar said such action of parading, whether major or minor, is ‘indefensible’. “In couple of days, I shall get the inquiry report submitted following which commenting on the issue would be more appropriate,” he said. It’s learnt that ACP Parshuram Karyakarte of Koradi division recorded statements and conducted questioning of the personnel including Tijare on the first day. When TOI asked Karyakarte and Zonal DCP Vikram Sali, both the officers stated that PI Tijare had neither sought their approval before parading the accused on the road. Karyakarte said there is no question of permission of such activities. “My report would reflect the aspect that the PI had not consulted or asked any senior officers,” he said. The minors, along with 18-year-old Ashish Maseeha, were rounded up from a dabha at Patansawangi in the early hours of Wednesday following their armed ruckus at a bar near old Jaripatka bus stand a day ago. The minors and Maseeha had several serious offences against them in the past. There had been an incident of firing outside the bar last year as the place is learnt to remain abuzz with anti-social elements. Its learnt that some cops are trying to project the minors were rounded up in underwears from a place near Nara Ghat but it was not clear as to how the earlier CCTV footage of the accused being brought in proper clothes at the police station in the morning would be matched and justified. The panchnama was also conducted earlier in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-did-not-tell-superiors-about-minors-semi-nude-parade/articleshow/78305176.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Prohibited land not updated in Telangana government records||HYDERABAD: Telangana government, which has decided to update non-agriculture properties on Dharani web land portal, has not been updating prohibited properties for the last few years. Government lands such as barren, poramboke, waqf and endowments are placed in the prohibitory register under section 22-A of the Indian Registration Act. Which means, the properties cannot be sold, registered and transferred to third parties by way of registration. Officials of revenue and registration departments agree that there is a need to reverify and renotify properties that need to be prohibited from registration. They also agree that there are mistakes where both government and private parties are suffering from this. Some government land are being encroached upon and being sold by individuals as they did not figure in prohibitory properties’ lists and in some cases, revenue officers are using section 22-A as a tool to make money and harass people by incorporating private lands in 22-A and later release them by issuing NOCs. The latest example was Medak additional collector G Nagesh who was caught by ACB when he demanded Rs 1.10 crore to issue an NOC for releasing the land from the prohibitory list. When it comes to government lands, they were registered to third parties in Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts even as the government was fighting cases in various courts to claim the land. Former district registrar and practising advocate MA Rasheed told TOI that the state government had updated agriculture properties under the land records updation programme (LRUP) in 2017 and now has taken up non-agriculture properties’ updation. “But, it is ignoring verification and purification of properties under prohibitory register despite court orders,” he said. He said as of now the collectors have been sending letters either to incorporate or exclude properties under section 22-A. As per the procedures, the collectors have to issue a draft notification listing properties proposed to be prohibited from registration and invite objections from the public. “But, no collectors has followed this,” Rasheed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prohibited-land-not-updated-in-govt-records/articleshow/78305186.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 25, 2020||Bareilly||Eight months pregnant woman beaten to death for dowry in Moradabad||BAREILLY: An eight months pregnant woman was allegedly beaten to death by her husband and in-laws for dowry in Sarkhara Khas village under Mundha Pandey police station in Moradabad on Wednesday night. The deceased, identified as Neha Rani of Tanda Rampur, was married to Pramod Kumar of Sarkhara Khas, Moradabad two years ago. Her family alleged that from the very beginning of her marriage, Pramod and his family abused and assaulted her for more dowry. On Wednesday, they allegedly beat her up despite her pregnancy. When her condition deteriorated, they admitted her to a private hospital and fled. She died during treatment, they claimed. Police are yet to register an FIR and are awaiting the autopsy report. Inspector, crime, Mundha Pandey, SV Singh told TOI, “A formal case will be registered once the post-mortem report arrives. Action will be taken accordingly, and if the in-laws are found guilty, they shall be booked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-months-pregnant-woman-beaten-to-death-for-dowry-in-moradabad/articleshow/78301069.cms||Maria Khan
September 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Told to pay fine, maskless trio attack cop||PUNE: A businessman and his employee were arrested, and his brother-in-law was booked after a 28-year-old constable lodged an FIR accusing the trio of assaulting him when he fined them for not wearing face masks in a shop in Nana Peth on Wednesday evening. The Samarth police have identified the businessman as Ritesh Kasat (43) and his employee as Akshay Bengrut (27). “The constable, Vijay Bhosale, spotted the businessman and the two others selling packaged drinking water to customers without wearing masks and sought fine, following which the trio picked up an argument with the constable and assaulted him,” senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam of the Samarth police told TOI. The city police and PMC have launched a drive against people not wearing masks in the public in the wake of the Covid-19 spread. “Bhosale and his colleague were patrolling the area to nab the violators, when they saw the trio attending to some customers without wearing masks at Palki Vithoba Chowk,” assistant inspector Pervez Shikaljar said. The officer said after Bhosale issued a receipt and asked the trio to pay fine for flouting norms, they attacked him. “After Bhosale alerted his superiors, a police team reached the spot and took Kasat and Bengrut into custody. Kasat’s brother-in-law had fled the shop,” Shikaljar said. Kasat and Bengrut are lodged in temporary jail in Yerawada after a court on Thursday sent them in magisterial custody remand for a fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/told-to-pay-fine-maskless-trio-attack-cop/articleshow/78305175.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Data in disarray as health employees go on warpath||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s management of the pandemic ran into a fresh hurdle on thursday when 30,000 contractual staff working under National Health Mission (NMH) struck work, even as the government ordered district officials to crack down and take action against them. Karnataka state health and medical education department contractual employees’ forum includes doctors, nurses and data entry operators. While clinical staffers are working, data entry operators have struck work. These employees are tasked with sending reports to the state headquarters and play a prominent role in Covid-19 data management. They also run front offices in most hospitals, handle clerical work like admissions and OPD referrals and tabulate public health work. The employees held a token protest on Wednesday, sending state’s data into disarray. Only four districts reported fatalities, bringing the day’s toll down to 38 from 100-plus. Zero discharges were reported from 15 districts, inflating the tally of active cases. On Thursday, members of the forum submitted their memorandum to district authorities, seeking early settlement of their demands. Contract workers are demanding Covid-risk incentives which other doctors, nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians and pharmacists are drawing. “Job security, equal pay for equal work and insurance cover are some of our demands. Unless these long-pending demands are met, we will not return to work,” said forum president Vishwaradhya HY. The impact of the protest was acute. In Bengaluru, KC General hospital, the ART centre and the TB testing unit are likely to remain non-functional from Friday if the protest continues. “We have 15 contractual staffers under NHM. They worked till the afternoon and left. They informed us that they will not be working from tomorrow. We will have to make alternative arrangements,” said Dr BR Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent, KC General. Arundhati Chandrashekar, mission director, NMH, Karnataka, in a circular on Wednesday, came down hard on protesters saying their behavior was “inappropriate” given the pandemic scenario. She directed deputy commissioners to take strict action against staff who don’t cooperate. Arundhati told TOI several districts sent Covid reports on Thursday. “If the risk incentive is extended to all employees under NHM, there will be a similar demand from all state government employees,” she said. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said most of the demands of the staff were met including the hike in salary and Covid risk allowance for medical, paramedical staff. “A committee formed by the government has looked into their demands. Their salary has been increased. It's time all employees of the health department work together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-health-employees-on-war-path-disrupt-covid-19-data-work/articleshow/78302501.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 25, 2020||Pune||Duo distract bizman, pick Rs 23.5k from his pocket||Pune: Two men picked Rs23,500 ffrom a businessman’s pocket after touching his feet and asking for directions to the Dagaduseth Halwai Ganapati temple at Mandai on Wednesday. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Faraskhana police told TOI, “Annasaheb Patil (40), a businessman from Ambegaon Pathar, visited Mandai and also the market place on Shivaji Road to buy some electronic items for his shop,” he said. Two men, riding a scooter, stopped near Patil and sought directions to the Dagaduseth Halwai Ganapati temple on Shivaji Road. “One of the two said sorry to Patil and touched his feet. The duo then left the spot. After this, Patil called his driver and asked him to bring the car. Once he sat inside the car, Patil realised that the cash he had kept in the trouser’s pocket was missing,” Kalaskar said. He said that police were studying the CCTV footages from the spot. The suspects would be tracked down soon, Kalaskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-distract-bizman-pick-rs-23-5k-from-his-pocket/articleshow/78305183.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Pune||PMC panel approves property tax relief plan||Pune: The civic body’s standing committee on Thursday approved a proposal to introduce an amnesty scheme to recover property tax dues. The scheme is proposed to be implemented from October 2 to November 30. The plan is to allow 80% waiver of penalty charges for properties with tax dues up to Rs50 lakh, including interests. The standing committee, in which the BJP is in majority, was in favour of a blanket waiver. However, this was opposed by Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena. A supplementary demand was tabled to put a cap, which was approved unanimously. Standing committee chairperson Hemant Ranse said the scheme was expected to help the civic body recover tax dues of around Rs1,000-Rs1,200 crore. The standing committee also approved extension of the 15% rebate on the general tax component on the payment of property tax up to September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-panel-approves-property-tax-relief-plan/articleshow/78305179.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mangaluru||TV host and actor Anushree summoned in drugs case||MANGALURU: The Mangaluru city police have summoned television host and actor Anushree, in connection with a drugs case. The case is related to the arrest of choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty, who was held for possession and consumption of drugs. Confirming this to TOI, Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru, said that a team of police officers left for Bengaluru on Thursday to summon Anushree to appear before the police for an investigation. Police sources also confirmed that they have arrested a dancer and choreographer identified as Tarun and a girl from Nagaland, who worked as a beautician, in connection with the drugs case. Tarun, during the course of the investigation, told the police about Anushree taking part in a party held in Bengaluru. Tarun has participated in TV dance reality shows. After the lockdown was clamped, he was conducting online dance classes, but stopped doing so a month ago, sources added. Kishore Aman Shetty was arrested along with Akheel Nausheel, 28, a resident of Surathkal, five days ago. Police had seized MDMA valued at Rs 1 lakh from the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tv-host-summoned-in-drugs-case/articleshow/78302502.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||100 Covid-19 deaths in a day in Vidarbha for second time in Sept||Nagpur: Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll reached 3,558 on Thursday after the region collectively reported 100 deaths — highest toll in a day for second time in September. Earlier, 100 deaths were reported on September 18. While new cases are slightly reducing and more patients are recovering daily, the increasing casualties are still a major issue for the region. On Thursday, Nagpur recorded 56 deaths, including 44 reported in day and 12 re-conciliated from the past deaths. Yavatmal reported nine deaths including a 17-year-old boy and a 19-year-old girl. With Chandrapur 6, Amravati 6, Wardha 5, Buldhana 5, Bhandara 4, Washim 4, Gondia 3, and Akola 2; total 100 deaths were reported in a day. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate (CFR) is still 2.7%, which is equalling the state’s and way higher than national average of 1.59%. With 2,944 new cases and 3,194 recoveries, Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 caseload reached 1,33,453 on September 25. Out of these, 97,188 patients have recovered so far. This hints at recovery rate of 73%. However, this is still less than state’s 76% and much lower than national average which is above 81% now. Thursday’s new cases include Nagpur 1,126, Gondia 305, Amravati 272, Yavatmal 219, Chandrapur 210, Bhandara 202, Wardha 171, Buldhana 124, Gadchiroli 119, Washim 99, and Akola 97. In Nagpur, the civil surgeon is into the data re-conciliation exercise after TOI repeatedly raised the issue of lack of coordination between civic body, district administration and health department regarding reporting of Covid-19 cases. As a result of this, more than 2,800 cases were added into the tally of Nagpur district on Thursday and total reached 71,616 despite the district reported only 1,126 cases in a day. This has shown its cascading effect on Vidarbha’s tally too as Nagpur alone accounts for 54% cases and more than 65% Covid-19 deaths in the region. YAVATMAL: Covid-19 situation is going out of hands in Yavatmal now. Patients as young as 17 are dying now. On Thursday, nine deaths were reported, including a 17-year-old boy and a 19-year-old girl. Total 219 new patients were detected while 230 patients recovered and went home. Now, Yavatmal has 7,843 total cases of Covid-19 till date, 6,370 of them recovered and 241 dead. Recovery rate of Yavatmal is more than 81%, but the case fatality rate is more than 3% which is the real cause of concern. The district has conducted 70,404 tests till date which is next only to Nagpur in Vidarbha. Out of these, 87% samples have tested negative. Now, Yavatmal has 1,232 patients under treatment. Out of them, 530 are admitted in hospital facilities and 702 are in home isolation. BULDHANA: Four men and a woman patient died in the district on September 24 taking the Covid toll to 81. While all four men were senior citizens — 61, 72, 75, and 81, the woman deceased was 48. Buldhana received 377 reports on Thursday out of which 124 tested positive which means sample positivity rate is about 33%, which is alarming. On the other hand, 196 patients recovered in a day. Now, Buldhana has total 6,268 cases, 5,183 recoveries and 81 deaths. Total 1,004 patients are under treatment here. WASHIM: Four male Covid-19 patients from the district — 40, 58, 65 and 75 years of age — died of Covid-19 on September 24. New 99 cases were detected while 95 patients got discharge on Thursday. In all, Washim now has 3,883 cases, 2,957 recoveries and 78 deaths while 848 patients are under treatment . AMRAVATI: A spike of 272 cases took the caseload past 12,000-mark to 12,016 even as six more deaths took the district’s Covid toll to 259 on Thursday. With 269 patients getting discharge from Covid Hospital today, the number of recovered cases crossed 9,000-mark and reached 9,166. This left 3,525 patients under treatment that included 1,566 in Covid ward, 12 in Nagpur and 1,947 in home isolation in corporation and rural areas of the district. A report from civil surgeon’s office said three male and three female patients breathed their last during treatment today. These included females aged 50, 58 and 60 from Morshi, Warud and Daryapur while three males aged 55, 45 and 63 from Kasbegawhan in Anjangaon Surji, Katpur in Morshi and Amravati, respectively. GONDIA: With a whopping 305 positive cases and three more fatalities, the district’s caseload reached 5,623 and toll to 80. However, number of patients discharged was also 304. Reports of 1,975 samples are awaited. WARDHA: The district crossed 100 Covid death mark after five casualties were reported on Thursday. The Covid toll has now gone up to 102, while 171 new patients were detected and 95 persons discharged. Three men aged 40, 65 and 70 from Wardha, a 40-year-old man from Hinganghat and 80-year-old man from Pulgaon died due to coronavirus on Thursday. Total 1,823 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. With 171 more persons testing Covid positive (men 97 and women 74), the district’s patient count has climbed to 3,868. The new patients are from Wardha 104, which is the highest single-day spike since the outbreak, while Hinganghat 31, Deoli 15, Arvi 10, Ashti 8, Karanja 2 and Selu 1. With 95 persons discharged on Thursday, the total number of recoveries has gone up to 1,943. On Thursday, 546 reports were received while 41 are pending. In all 546 swab samples were sent for test on Thursday. Total 32,732 swab samples have been sent for testing so far. BHANDARA: The district reported four deaths due to Covid-19 which took the toll to 94. Total 202 new cases were detected in a day taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 4,413. On the other hand, 95 patients recovered taking the number of total recoveries to 2,751. Now, 1,568 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: Death of two Covid-19 patients, 97 new cases, and discharge to 199 persons marked September 24 in Akola. A 50-year-old woman from Morgaon Ural and a 79-year-old man from Akot died during treatment. Both were admitted on September 20. Now, Akola has total 6,924 cases, 5,144 recoveries and 217 deaths. Total 1,563 patients are under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: Total Covid-19 cases in the district jumped to 8,709 with the detection of 210 new patients and the toll rose to 130 after six new Covid deaths were reported in the district on Thursday. The district also witnessed discharge of 150 patients taking the total recoveries to 5,051. Now, there are 3,528 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Record 119 new patients were detected in a day on Thursday in Gadchiroli while 54 patients got discharge after recovery. No death was reported in the district. This took total Covid-19 cases in Gadchiroli to 2,290, including 1,672 recoveries and 15 deaths. Total 603 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/100-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day-in-vidarbha-for-second-time-in-sept/articleshow/78314909.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Containment zones in Delhi double, at an all-time high||NEW DELHI: CM Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that the surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi in the third week of this month was the second wave in the city and had, perhaps, already hit the peak. He said experts feel that the number of cases will be declining in the coming days though his government had its fingers crossed. His remarks came on a day when 3,834 cases and 36 deaths were reported. The number of containment zones too breached the 2,000 mark. The Delhi government's health bulletin on Thursday revealed that the number of containment zones stood at an all-time high of 2,059 as against 894 on September 1. Containment zones go up from 550 in mid-August to over 2,000District officials said the number of cases was rising due to aggressive testing, leading to creation of more containment zones. According to Thursday’s health bulletin, 59,183 tests were carried out and the positivity rate was 6.4%, well below the national average. Officials said they were creating micro containment zones now which had resulted in the total number of such zones showing a sharp increase. “Experts believe that the second wave which has hit Delhi seems to have perhaps reached its peak. It will decline in the days to come,” said the chief minister, speaking to reporters after visiting Indian Agricultural Research Institute. Kejriwal pointed out that the government had increased the number of containment zones from 550 in the middle of August to over 2,000 now and hoped that this expansion would help in bringing down the number of positive cases. The CM said coronavirus cases were by and large under control in the capital between July 1 and August 17 when the city was reporting 1,100 to 1,200 cases on an average daily. “The cases started going up from August 17. As a responsible government, we did not take any risk and immediately scaled up testing,” he said, adding that the daily tests were increased from around 20,000 to 60,000. Kejriwal said aggressive testing and isolation of positive cases were the most effective way of defeating Covid-19. Had the government scaled down the daily tests to the previous level of 20000, cases would have come down to around 1500 daily, he said. Out of the total 2,059 containment zones at present, 1,612 are active. This means these zones have live cases while the others don’t have any but have still not been declassified according to the protocol that has been laid down. On September 1, there were 699 active containment zones in the city. South West district, which is spread over a huge area, has 341 containment zones at present, the highest in Delhi. It has also till date seen the highest number of containment zones –610. The areas that have a large number of containment zones include Raj Nagar, Mahavir Enclave and Mohan Garden, apart from some areas in Najafgarh, Dwarka and Uttam Nagar. West district has the second highest number of red zones –234. The increase, however, has been sharp in case of North West, New Delhi, North East, South East and Central districts. North West district, which has a population of around 37 lakh according to the 2011 census, has seen an almost eightfold rise in the number of Covid-19 cases this month. On September 1, the district had 29 containment zones and by September 23, the number had risen to 229. The areas that have seen a large number of containment zones being created this month include some sectors of Rohini and blocks of Ashok Vihar, Pitampura and Budh Vihar. “The containment zones in North West district were earlier spread over a much bigger area and it was realised that this could lead to more positive cases. Creation of micro containment zones helps not only in more efficient management but reduces the spread,” said a district official. “The strategy was changed and the number of containment zones were increased by creating some very small ones. “Initially, the number of active cases here was 20% which has now increased to 24%, which is at par with other districts,” he said. “Also, testing has become much more aggressive now compared to last month,” he said. New Delhi district, which had 40 containment zones at the beginning of the month, has seen the number go up 164. The most affected areas are different sectors of RK Puram and Vasant Kunj, apart from Naraina and Munirka. North East district, which has the lowest number of containment zones – 72 – has also seen a three-fold increase from September 1, when the figure was 19. “Extensive testing is resulting in more positive cases being detected, and whenever we see clustering of cases happening in any area, we create a containment zone. With many migrants coming back to Delhi and more offices and businesses opening, it is natural that there would be a rise in cases,” said another district official. Watch Covid-19: Containment zones in Delhi double, at an all-time high||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/containment-zones-in-delhi-double-at-an-all-time-high/articleshow/78306646.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Protection of land is crucial, says Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday asked public representatives from municipal areas to involve themselves in ground-level work and assess people’s problems before the launch of Dharani web portal. In a review meeting held at Pragati Bhavan, the CM instructed the officials to also check the non-agricultural properties such as plots, flats and houses that are being registered online now. Speaking about the reforms rolled out by the state, KCR said: “In the initial days of the formation of Telangana, people were opposing the state said that the land rates will fall here. But with the measures taken by the government, rates of both agriculture and non-agriculture properties have reached peak. This was possible only due to good governance as there was a decline in land disputes, cases of land grabbing, harassment and activities of land mafia.” He said the new acts by the government have been drafted to bring in qualitative changes in the society. “The aim will be fulfilled when Dharani gets operational. There will be total security and protection for the properties of the poor. By giving green passbooks for the agricultural lands and maroon passbooks for the non-agricultural properties, every inch of land will be notified by the government,” said KCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protection-of-land-is-crucial-says-kcr/articleshow/78305215.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Sexual exploitation slur on policeman||PUNE: A woman (50) from Hadapsar lodged an FIR on Wednesday accusing an inspector posted with the Regional Police Training School (RPTS) in Solapur of sexually exploiting her since 2009 after promising to marry her. The woman said in her complaint that she first met the policeman in 2009, when she worked as a real estate agent. He was then looking for a rented accommodation following his posting as an assistant inspector with the Sahakarnagar police. The two developed a friendship, which continued after the officer got a quarter in the Bhavani Peth police colony. The woman stated that during one of her visits to the officer’s quarter in 2009, the latter established physical relations with her after spiking her soft drink. He allegedly took her photos and videos, forcing her into continuing with the relationship. He also promised to marry her, she said. The officer threatened her with dire consequences and posting her video clip on a social media on September 17, she said. The police inspector denied all allegations. He told TOI, “The woman kept quiet for more than 10 years and now implicating me in a false case. I met her only once in 2009, when I was looking for a flat in Hadapsar. I do not know her personally and I shall fight the case legally.” Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from the Samarth police said, “The woman had filed a complaint application in August. Our verification established that the quarter, where the woman claimed to have been first raped, was then allotted to the inspector. We then registered an FIR for offences under sections 376 (2), 354C, 328, 417 and 506 of the IPC.” A court has granted him 72-hour interim protection (from the date of FIR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-accuses-police-inspector-of-sexual-exploitation/articleshow/78305191.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||ULBs used only 22% of funds meant for Solid Waste Management||AHMEDABAD: Significant delays in preparation and approval of detailed project reports by Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) led to utilization of only 22% of funds meant for solid waste management (SWM), as of March 2020, says the Comptroller and Auditor General (GAG) report, which was tabled in the Gujarat assembly on Friday. The CAG report has also observed that systems adopted by ULBs for estimating waste generation were neither uniform nor conformed to procedures prescribed in Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation (CPHEEO) manual. Among other observations, the CAG report says that solid waste is being transported in environmentally unsound manner, and that facilities available in ULBs for processing of bio-degradable waste were either not in working condition or were not being used optimally. 170 ULBs – eight municipal corporations and 162 nagarpalikas – are engaged in solid waste management (SWM) in the state. The CAG test checked records of urban development department, urban housing department, mission directorate of Swachh Bharat Mission – urban and GPCB at the state level. It selected two of the eight municipal corporations (Ahmedabad and Jamnagar) and 16 of the 162 nagarpalikas to check if solid waste had been managed effectively in urban areas of Gujarat between 2014 and 2019. Scrutiny of records of the 18 selected ULBs revealed inordinate delays in preparation and submission of detailed project reports (DPRs) to state level high-power committee (SLHPC). DPRs of Ahmedabad and Jamnagar were approved in November 2016 and May 2018 respectively, while DPRs of 16 nagarpalikas were finally approved in March 2020. “As of March 2020, SLHPC approved DPRs worth Rs 863.8 crore for implementation of SWM in selected 18 ULBs, of which Rs 249.7 crore was received from central and state government. However due to delay in approval of DPRs, overall utilization had been meagre Rs 54.61 crore (22%). It is thus highly unlikely that SWM projects approved by SLHPC would be completed by the end of the Mission period (March 2021),” the CAG report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ulbs-used-only-22-of-funds-meant-for-swm/articleshow/78324625.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Modi govt hatching conspiracy to privatize agri sector: Chhattisgarh CM||NAGPUR: Terming three farm bills passed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi government as “black laws”, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday accused the NDA of hatching a conspiracy to hand over the agriculture sector to private players. “With these laws, the private players would hoard food grains at will in their godowns and sell them at exorbitant prices, as there will be no government’s restrictions from now. We all have witnessed how prices of onions and pulses were inflated in the past. The ultimate sufferer will be the common man, along with the farmers and farm traders,” he said. Flanked by Maharashtra cabinet minister Yashomati Thakur, MLA Vikas Thakre and others, Baghel said the government’s restrictions on the agriculture sector were imposed by former PM Jawaharlal Nehru, but this government wants to hand over control to private players, who will have a monopoly on entire affair. “The entire economy of every household will suffer, just like in the demonetization period. The Congress party strongly opposes these bills and also requests other like-minded outfits to join us in this cause. We’re with farmers in their demand to withdraw all three bills,” he said, adding that GST introduced by NDA government had also failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/modi-govt-hatching-conspiracy-to-privatize-agri-sector-chgarh-cm/articleshow/78305198.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: No plans to reimpose lockdown in Karnataka, says state govt||BENGALURU: After speculation spread rapidly on social media that the government is contemplating another Covid-19-induced lockdown in Karnataka — a lot of it generated after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with the state on Wednesday — the state government on Thursday clarified there was no such proposal before it. Speaking to reporters, medical education minister K Sudhakar clarified that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did suggest imposing a lockdown to curb surging cases, but insisted it was not binding on any of the states that participated in the interaction with him. “It was more a suggestion from his side rather than a direction,” Sudhakar said. “Moreover, there is no reason to implement it in Karnataka.” Citing a suggestion from Modi, he said it is more important for state governments to focus on micro-containment zones. “It was a fruitful discussion. No one should misinterpret or misguide people in the state or elsewhere. There will be no seal down also,” said Sudhakar.` Meanwhile, Karnataka tourism minister CT Ravi underlined that though the state government wanted to increase awareness about Covid-19, yet there is no talk regarding another lockdown. “What needs to be done is for people to strictly follow safety protocols if at all we want to fight this dreaded virus. There will be no lockdown in Bengaluru or elsewhere in the state,” said Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-plans-to-reimpose-lockdown-in-karnataka-says-state-govt/articleshow/78302702.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Defence minister Rajnath Singh applauds Karnataka girl who stitched masks for jawans||MANGALURU: A Class 8 student’s concern for army jawans has won the appreciation of defence minister Rajnath Singh. Ishita Achar, a student of Madhava Kripa School, had stitched and sent 300 facemasks for jawans and on Thursday, she and her family in Udupi were surprised and excited when they received a letter of appreciation from the minister. In the letter dated September 16, addressed to Ishita’s mother Nandita Achar, Singh appreciated Ishita’s sentiments for army personnel and her awareness of Covid-19 safety measures. An excited Nandita told TOI, “We did not expect the defence minister to acknowledge my daughter’s effort.” Ishita had stitched the masks during the lockdown in response to a call from Bharat Scouts and Guides state chief commissioner PGR Sindhia to students to make a mask bank. “We watched videos online, and after trial and error, got the technique right,” Nandita said. “Most of the masks stitched by Scouts and Guides were handed over to the education department for SSLC students. Since there was adequate stock, I was wondering what to do with the masks that Ishita had stitched and was keen on handing it over to NGOs. “A friend suggested I send it to jawans. About a month ago, I reached out to the deputy commissioner’s office to check if the courier could be sent through them. I was told that I could send it directly. I found the address of the defence minister and couriered the parcel about a month ago.” Ishita said she stitched about five masks every day. “I am happy that jawans will use our masks,” she said. Ishita actively participates in Bharat Scouts and Guides’ Sankalp project, where children have to engage themselves in tasks related to the pandemic. Her father Girish S Achar is a civil engineer in Qatar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/defence-minister-applauds-class-8-pupil-who-stitched-masks-for-jawans/articleshow/78302529.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 25, 2020||Delhi||200 educationists, filmmakers, authors demand Umar Khalid’s release||NEW DELHI: Academicians Noam Chomsky, Angela Davis and Ashutosh Varshney, authors Salman Rushdie and Arundhati Roy, and filmmakers Mira Nair and Anand Patwardhan on Thursday issued a joint statement seeking the release of activist Umar Khalid from prison, who was arrested in the February riots case and charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The statement read, “As an international community of scholars, teachers, students, artists and filmmakers, we have watched with alarm the events unfolding in India. We stand in solidarity and outrage with the brave young scholar and activist Umar Khalid, who has been arrested under fabricated charges of engineering the Delhi riots in February 2020. He is charged with sedition, conspiracy to murder, and under sections of anti-terror law UAPA. This process of criminalising all dissent has been under way for a few years. Even under the pandemic, relentless political arrests under fabricated charges are punishing the innocent long before they are brought to trial.” Asking what was Khalid’s crime, the statement further stated, “He used the passion of his commitment to his country, marshalled his education and his voice to join the movement for equal citizenship against Citizenship Amendment Act, the law that introduced religion as a criterion for citizenship. It has no place in a secular nation. Combined with the proposed National Register of Citizens, it threatened the citizenship rights of millions of India’s poorest, and especially targeted Muslims.” “Much like Black Lives Matter, the movement against CAA-NRC was led by those most affected — Muslims and especially Muslim women, students across universities, regions, classes and religions,” the statement claimed. Signed by 200 people, including historians Ramachandra Guha and Audrey Trushke, journalist P Sainath, actor Ratna Pathak Shah and author Amitav Ghosh, the statement said that the arrested people were not terrorists and the police investigation was a premeditated witch-hunt. Calling on the central government to free Khalid and “all those falsely implicated and unjustly incarcerated” for protesting against CAA-NRC, the statement urged to ensure that Delhi Police investigated the riots with “impartiality under the oath they took as public servants bound by the Constitution”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/200-educationists-filmmakers-authors-demand-umars-release/articleshow/78305950.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||House passes land law amendments||GANDHINAGAR: Despite stiff opposition by the Congress party, the BJP-ruled state government passed the Gujarat Tenancy and Agricultural Land Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the state assembly on Friday. The amendments will ease purchase of agricultural land for educational purposes. A prior approval in the form of a non-agriculture certification by the district collector will not be required to buy agriculture land for setting up educational institutions like agricultural universities, animal husbandry universities, medical colleges, engineering colleges or other educational institutions. In a written statement, revenue minister Kaushik Patel said, “By the amendment in the said law, wide opportunities for development in the fields of agriculture, animal husbandry, education and health will open up in the state. More industrial investments can also be attracted in the state.” In the past, non-agricultural organizations or individuals had to get the approval of the district collector for the purchase of such land, which took considerable time, resulting in delays. Restrictions on industries relaxed: The state government has decided to amend tenancy laws. With the amendment, if land has been purchased for bona fide industrial purpose, but cannot be used for industrial purpose, it can now be sold for purpose other than industry as per the provisions of GDCR. In such cases, after obtaining the certificate, industries will have to pay 100% jantri rate to the government if the land is sold between three and five years of purchase, 60% if it is sold between five and seven years of purchase, 30% if it is sold between seven and 10 years of purchase and if sold after 10 years of purchase, the prevailing jantri rate will be taken into account. In case of such lands, merger of the company, joint venture, amalgamation or sale of land transferred to its own subsidiary, group company or associate company will not be considered as transfer. In such transactions, transfer can be done by paying only 10% amount of the existing jantri. In the cases of debt-recovery, auction through NCLT, liquidators or financial institutions, the buyers of such land will have to pay only 10% premium of the existing cost within 60 days from date of the auction order. Amendments will help land mafia: Dhanani Leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, while opposing the amendments, said in the assembly, “In the name of reforms, the government is attempting to help land mafia to grab farmer’s land more easily. The earlier law also permitted agriculture land allocation for educational and medical institutions, but all checks have been removed,” Dhanani said. Commenting on the amendments that ease restrictions on industries, Dhanani said that industries have acquired thousands of acres of land. Before the amendments, the government was duty-bound to take back public or agricultural land which was not utilized by industries in the stipulated time and grace period. “The amendment will help industries amass lands in huge quantities,” the LOP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/house-passes-land-law-amendments/articleshow/78324643.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid graph flattens as recovery rate climbs to 82%||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh climbed to 82.19% with number of patients discharged over the past week outnumbering fresh cases every day. On Thursday, coronavirus cases fell below 5,000 mark after several days with 4,674 cases reported in 24 hours. “Over a week, number of discharged patients has been more than new Covid cases and this has spurred the recovery rate to 82.19%. Till Thursday, there were 61,300 active cases in UP of which 31,751 or 51.79% were in home isolation. Currently, 3,07,611 persons have recovered in the state,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health). On Thursday, against 4,674 new cases, 4,922 patients were discharged. However, number of deaths remained high at 68. Lucknow continued to report the highest number of cases in the state, though the number fell to 659, below 800 after several days. It, however, recorded 14 deaths, taking the capital’s toll to 644. On Wednesday, the state government earned praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for averaging 1.50 lakh tests a day for past several days. A third or about 50,000 of these tests are being carried out through RTPCR method. ACS (home) Awanish Awasthi said, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had given directions that the proportion of RTPCR tests should be raised in comparison to rapid antigen tests or TrueNAT machines. “RTPCR is the most accurate method of testing and number of these tests should increase. However, the CM also said these have to be focussed and used for vulnerable groups like senior citizens and pregnant women,” Awasthi said. The CM had earlier said, if someone displaying symptoms tests negative in rapid antigen testing, he or she should get an RTPCR test done as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-covid-graph-flattens-as-recovery-rate-climbs-to-82/articleshow/78305924.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanjay takes a dig at Jagan||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday said it was not right on the part of politicians to get themselves involved in religious matters or hurt religious sentiments. Asserting that it is for seers and pandits to debate on such matters, Sanjay said politicians should refrain from making sensitive comments on religious matters. “It is unfair on the part of politicians to hurt the religious sentiments of a particular community. They must have equal respect for all religions,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-takes-a-dig-at-jagan/articleshow/78305202.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 20-year-old drowns in Musi river||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old drowned while swimming in Musi river checkdam near Rajendranagar on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as A Ravi Kiran Goud. His body was fished out by GHMC’s disaster response team on Thursday morning. Ravi Kiran ventured into the water for a swim on Wednesday around 4 pm and his body was brought out on Thursday at 10 am . GHMC’s directorate of Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management received a call on Wednesday at 6.30 pm about the incident. “Two teams rushed to the spot along with a supervising officer but we could not save him,” read a statement issued by EVDM. Police registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of Cr PC. In another incident, 28-year-old Lata jumped into a water-filled quarry at Balayya Nagar, Gajularamaram. “Within 25 minutes three DRF teams reached the spot along with boats. All efforts are on to trace the person,” read a statement issued by EVDM on Thursday. Jagathgirigutta police said Lata’s body is yet to be traced. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-drowns-in-musi/articleshow/78305194.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Badly hit, domestic workers demand job guarantee scheme||BENGALURU: The Karnataka Domestic Workers Union staged a protest in Bengaluru on Thursday demanding comprehensive legislation for domestic workers, transfer of cash to vulnerable helps as mandated by Disaster Management Act and implementation of an urban employment guarantee scheme. Many domestic workers have lost their jobs since the outbreak of the pandemic and are struggling to make ends meet. Many are unable to pay school and college fees for their children. Yasodhamma C, who has been working as a maid for as long as she can remember, said, “My son has to start twelfth this year. I’ve been working in three houses for a very minimal amount. How can I afford the rent, food and school fees? My husband used to work as a driver but he lost his job. The expenditures don’t end at that, the electricity bill, the water bill and the list goes on.” Simultaneous protests were held by domestic workers across the country. In Karnataka, Belgaum and Mangaluru also witnessed protests. K Madevi, who has been working as a domestic help for 20 years now, said, “I have four children and I have to raise them by myself as my husband and I are separated. One of my daughters is 18 years old and is supposed to join a degree college this year but we do not have the money so she will be staying at home for one year. It breaks my heart as I know the importance of education but I am helpless.” Karnataka Domestic Workers Union president Sharanamma Ramaiah said, “I’ve been working as a domestic help for 30 years now. I am a senior citizen and I was working in only one household, but they asked me to stop coming to work and haven’t paid me since March.” M Mangala who has been a cook for 24 years now said, “I was working in five households but now it has come down to one. Some of my employers even told me that people like me are not clean and hence we should not be anywhere around them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/badly-hit-domestic-workers-demand-job-guarantee-scheme/articleshow/78302544.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||ITC granted to dealers with cancelled registrations||AHMEDABAD: A slew of irregularities have been pointed out in the allowance of claiming input tax credit (ITC) by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in its latest report tabled in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly. According to the report, cases of excess ITC being granted, the same given to dealers whose registrations have been cancelled and irregular allowance of tax credit have come to the fore. “Rs 3.68 crore of ITC was granted to dealers whose registrations were cancelled. The audit observed that in 49 assessments some 43 such dealers had been allowed to claim input tax credit on their purchases,” mentions the report. Specific irregularities were also observed wherein the tax credit was reduced in case of goods resold as raw material in the manufacturing of goods sold in inter-state trade and commerce. According to the report, non/ short reduction of tax credit to the extent of Rs 5.11 crore excluding interest and penalty was reported. Furthermore, the report has also cited cases of excess ITC being processed to certain dealers. According to the act, a registered dealer is entitled for ITC of taxable purchases provided such purchases are intended to be used for manufacturing taxable goods. However, irregularities were reported during which excess allowance of ITC worth Rs 3.34 crore was extended to some nine dealers for purchase of raw materials used in manufacturing tax-free goods. SGST department has initiated reassessment in such cases, according to the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/itc-granted-to-dealers-with-cancelled-registrations/articleshow/78324653.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Three booked for attacking pharmacist||Aurangabad: The city chowk police have registered an offence against three people for allegedly assaulting a pharmacist for refusing to give them medicines for cough and cold in the Chelipura area on Wednesday evening.The trio was also booked for robbery as they allegedly walked away with chocolates worth Rs 250.According to police, said a youth approached the pharmacist seeking medicines for cold and cough but the shopkeeper demanded a doctor’s prescription. Around the same time, a man came and told the pharmacist his doctor had asked him to take particular medicines. The pharmacist spoke to the doctor on the phone and sold the medicine to the customer, following which, the youth demanded that medicines be given to him also without prescription, but he was refused.“The youth left the shop and returned with two of his accomplices, who allegedly threatened the pharmacist and tried to take cash from the counter. When he resisted, the accused twisted his arm and picked up a glass container with chocolates and left,” said police while citing the complaint.The pharmacist approached police, who booked the trio under sections 392 , 504 , 427 and 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/three-booked-for-attacking-pharmacist/articleshow/78301214.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC issues notice to government on registration IG’s memo||HYDERABAD: The high court on Thursday issued notices to the state government and revenue and registration officials asking them to explain their stand on a PIL that questioned a memo issued by the IG of the stamps and registration wing on August 26, prohibiting registration of unauthorised plots and buildings. Advocate I Gopal Sarma filed this plea terming the memo as unconstitutional and illegal. Such prohibition has to be preceded by a state notification and it cannot be unilaterally issued by an IG, he said. Seeking answers from the authorities to the contentions raised in the PIL, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posted the case to October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-issues-notice-to-govt-on-registration-igs-memo/articleshow/78305251.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||New law could save govt land, water bodies||Chennai: The state government is all set to bring in a stringent legislation to protect water bodies, which are facing an existential crisis on account of rampant encroachments. The legislation could also have a clause that bars civil courts from entertaining cases related to encroachment of water bodies. Encroachments of lakes, tanks, canals and other water bodies may hereafter be treated as criminal offence. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday chaired a high-level meeting of ministers and officials in the departments of revenue administration, public works and finance and discussed the finer elements of the legislation. A committee led by Tamil Nadu revenue secretary presented the proposed clauses to the chief minister. “The revenue department has sent a draft of the legislation to the law department. The government could either introduce a bill in the next assembly session or take an ordinance route,” said a senior official. It seeks to address the ineffectiveness of existing laws, including the Land Encroachment Act, 1905, to prevent encroachments in government lands and water bodies of the public works department. “The new law may impose a high penalty and prison sentence,” another official said. The EPS government’s move also comes in the backdrop of the Madras high court pulling up the state on several occasions over encroachments of water bodies and the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) reports finding fault with the administration for alleged laxity. Sources said the plan is to fix the responsibility on the officers concerned, and the remedies could be sought only through a hierarchy of revenue officials, like tahsildar, revenue divisional officer and collector and later the high court if all the channels have been exhausted. The government will also clearly spell out its intention to do away with “limitation period,” which the encroachers take advantage of to claim ownership rights over encroached properties. “If the encroacher faces a criminal case, others will think twice before resorting to such misdeeds,” another official said. A CAG report tabled in the assembly in 2018 stated that a majority of ‘objectionable’ encroachments in the state, totalling 39,261 hectares (which is 49% of the total objectionable encroachments) were on water courses, which impacted storage capacity of tanks and hydrology of streams, causing floods and depletion of groundwater. Of the available government land, the percentage under encroachment ranged between 1.24 in Tirunelveli district to 23.9 in Chennai district. More than 10% of government property have been encroached in Dindigul, Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Villupuram, Tiruvallur and Chennai districts. In another report, the CAG said the efforts of Tamil Nadu government in prevention, identification and eviction of encroachments in the water bodies were ineffective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-law-could-save-govt-land-water-bodies/articleshow/78303988.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 25, 2020||India||LAC face-off: Can fire in extreme case, India tells China||NEW DELHI: India has clearly told China that its soldiers will take all measures to protect themselves and their positions in eastern Ladakh, including opening fire in extreme circumstances in the region, clearly indicating that India will not shy away from a conflict, if pressed. Though both sides have agreed not to further escalate tensions by sending additional soldiers to the frontlines, there is no tangible breakthrough yet in the continuing military confrontation despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. Both armies remain prepared to maintain their positions along the frontier during the harsh winter. The seventh round of talks between the delegations headed by 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin is likely to be held after 10 days to take the dialogue on de-escalation further. Read AlsoIndia-China stand-off: Must avoid changing LAC status quo, says MEAThe govt said it was important to avoid changing the status quo in border areas while India and China continue their discussions to achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas and to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC. The govt insisted the process had to be“During the sixth round on September 21, India made its position clear to China that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) should not take any aggressive actions. Otherwise, Indian soldiers will take steps to defend themselves and fire in self-defence,” said a source on Thursday. 27 'points of dispute' between India and ChinaAs reported by TOI earlier, there have been at least four incidents of warning shots being exchanged after the PLA tried to dislodge Indian troops who had occupied multiple tactical heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul on August 29-30. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageThere has been an uneasy calm since then, with the two sides last Monday agreeing to not send additional troops to forward areas as well as refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and taking any actions that may complicate the situation. “The two sides are now talking to each other on a daily basis, at the level of colonels and brigadiers, to avoid misunderstandings and misjudgments, as per the agreement,” said the source. “Our troops are prepared to stay in the forward locations throughout the winter if required. The PLA also seems to be preparing for it,” he added. The two armies have amassed well over 50,000 soldiers each, along with tanks, armoured vehicles, howitzers, surface-to-air missiles systems, along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh. Even if the two sides finally arrive at a de-escalation plan, the deinduction of such high levels of troops is likely to stretch till the end of this year. At the marathon corps commander-level talks last Monday, China kept insisting that Indian soldiers vacate the heights in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area.But India stuck to its stand that de-escalation should take place along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh, as was reported by TOI earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/can-fire-in-extreme-case-india-to-china/articleshow/78306465.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||HC quashes FIR against Myanmar nationals labelled ‘Tablighis’||NAGPUR: Coming to aid of eight Myanmar nationals who were labelled Tablighis and arrested by city police, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court quashed the FIR against them holding they were only “studying Quran and offering Namaz” and “not engaged in Tablighi Jamaat work or any activity to spread Covid-19 infection”. “There’s no material to prove petitioners were engaged in Tablighi work or were preaching religious ideology or making speeches at religious places. Having considered ambit, scope and ratio laid down by the Supreme Court, we are of the opinion that investigating authorities acted without jurisdiction in registering FIR under IPC Section 188 based on a police complaint. The investigation conducted by police was also without jurisdiction,” a division bench comprising Justices Vinay Deshpande and Amir Borkar ruled. Quoting SC’s rulings for exercising HC’s powers under IPC Section 482, the bench added allowing prosecution to continue would be an abuse of court process. “The petitioners’ implication under IPC Sections 188, 269, 270, Section 14 of Foreigners Act, Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be an abuse of process of law. Compelling them to undergo trial would cause grave injustice,” the court said. The petitioners arrived on a tourist visa in Kolkata and travelled to Delhi and stayed there from March 2-5. They arrived in city by Kerala Express on March 6 and submitted documents required for stay of foreign nationals to Foreigner Regional Registration Office, Muslim Cell of police special branch, State Intelligence Department and Gittikhadan Police Station. After Janata curfew was imposed on March 22, they were shifted to Markaz Center at Mominpura and remained there till March 31. NMC Zonal officer Dr Khawaja visited them along with police. They were later shifted to MLA Hostel for institutional quarantine and tested for Covid-19, which turned out to be negative. However, police lodged an FIR against them on April 5 and arrested all of them before filing the charge sheet, which petitioners challenged in HC. “It is clear that on March 19 and 20, the petitioners studied Quran and Hadis and offered Namaz. They acquainted themselves about Indian Muslim culture. Since they were not conversant with local language, they studied Quran and Hadis in their own language. No prosecution could have been launched against them under IPC based on police’s written report,” the judges said before quashing FIR and charge sheet against HLA Shwe and seven others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-quashes-fir-against-myanmar-nationals-labelled-tablighis/articleshow/78305255.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Government has no data on leased land||AHMEDABAD: Reflecting a major disregard towards effective management of land on part of the state government, the revenue department dealing with land administration does not have a database of the land parcels granted or leased, according to the latest report of comptroller and auditor general (CAG). The report was tabled in the Gujarat assembly on Friday.  Reflecting a major disregard towards effective management of land on part of the state government, the revenue department dealing with land administration does not have a database of the land parcels granted or leased, according to the latest report of comptroller and auditor general (CAG). The report was tabled in the Gujarat assembly on Friday. “Effective management of land resources requires a database of its land resources, identification of lands for disposal and database of lands granted/leased. This is crucial in monitoring the lands transferred to ensure due compliance with the same,” says the report. CAG also pointed out that no orders or instructions for determining the qualifications of allottees or for inviting applications were issued by the revenue department; instead allotments were considered in respect of only those who applied for allotment. “The department as a result was not in a position to take informed decisions regarding the allotment of government land or monitoring of land parcels already allotted,” the report mentioned. There was no system of maintaining registers for monitoring receipt of applications, disposal, approval or sanction received and allotment made at district collector offices. This was particularly true for Kutch, Dahod and Vadodara. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-has-no-data-on-leased-land/articleshow/78324698.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mangaluru||HC order allows merchants to function from Central Market||Mangaluru: Following a high court order, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to open Central Market in the city, which was closed due to the pandemic from April. Merchants, who were asked to shift to the APMC yard in Baikampady, had filed a writ petition in the high court. After the court delivered a verdict in favour of the merchants, the city corporation has asked merchants, who have trade licences, to open their shops at the Central Market. “The high court, in a writ petition, has directed that business activities as per law should be allowed at the Central Market. Accordingly, we have already communicated to all merchants that those who have trade licences may meet the commissioner to reopen their shops at the Central Market. After verifying the documents, merchants will be allowed to continue business activities under certain conditions,” said mayor Diwakar. He added that only genuine licence holders will be allowed to continue to conduct business at the Central Market. “Those who hold trade licences in someone else’s name will not be allowed to conduct business from Central Market. We are collecting information on all traders, who have valid trade licences in their own name. At present, only 30 out of 264 retail merchants have trade licences in their own names. All the 45 wholesale merchants have valid licences, and they have been given permission to reopen their shops,” Diwakar said. The mayor warned that the city corporation will launch a drive to clear all vendors, who are carrying out business illegally on footpaths . “We have received complaints that street vendors are encroaching upon footpaths in the city. They should vacate the footpaths within a week. Thereafter, we will launch a drive to evict them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hc-order-allows-merchants-to-function-from-central-market/articleshow/78302558.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||APMC Act amended; BJP calls it historic||GANDHINAGAR: Amid vociferous protests from the opposition Congress, the Agricultural Produce Markets Committee (APMC) Act Amendment Bill was passed in the Gujarat assembly on Friday. Earlier, the government had issued an ordinance to make the amendments to the APMC Act. Minister of state for co-operation Ishwarsinh Patel in his statement said: “The new bill will ease regulations of APMCs, which will not collect cess outside yards.” He went on to say: “Farmers will be free of all restrictions and can sell their yield anywhere in the state. Until now, they were forced to sell their produce only at a nearby APMC.” He added that the new law provides ample scope to farmers to seek better prices for their produce as the APMC framework undergoes deregulation. The government said that until now, fruits and vegetables had to be sold inside market yards. “As they are now denotified commodities and can be sold anywhere,” the government statement said. “The amendments offer radical scope to private markets for fruits and vegetables, leading to higher price value to farmers.” There are 224 APMCs in the state. They collect 0.5% cess on notified agricultural produce. Last year, transactions of Rs 35,000 crore took place at APMCs and the annual cess collection was Rs 350 crore, of which 40% came from sale outside market yards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/apmc-act-amended-bjp-calls-it-historic/articleshow/78324672.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP orders criminal case against four major hospitals in B’luru||BENGALURU: The BBMP on Wednesday ordered criminal prosecution of four major hospitals and issued a show-cause notice to another hospital for not complying with the government direction to provide 50% of its beds for Covid-19 patients referred by public authorities. Police stations concerned have been informed of the criminal complaints. The civic agency has directed hospitals to comply with the rules within 48 hours, failing which they will face immediate suspension of registration under Section 15 of KPME Act. The notice accuses three hospitals of not providing beds and two hospitals of diverting patients referred to them citing ‘no beds’. The managements had been warned earlier that they would be penalised or imprisoned under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005. “When a patient tests positive, we allot a bed through our CHBMS system, after checking availability of the beds. But we have realised that when patients reach the hospital, they are sent back citing non-availability of beds. This is wrong,” said N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner. “The beds which are supposed to be reserved for the government are being allocated to private patients. Hospitals are giving us the wrong numbers and generating wrong data, for which we are being blamed,” Prasad said. The civic body has asked hospitals to update bed occupancy of non-Covid patients on the SAST portal within two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-orders-criminal-case-against-four-major-hospitals-in-bluru/articleshow/78302564.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Umar Khalid sent to judicial custody till October 22||NEW DELHI: A special court hearing Delhi riot cases on Thursday sent student activist Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to judicial custody till October 22. Khalid appeared before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat through videoconferencing after his police custody ended on Thursday. On behalf of Delhi Police’s Special Cell, special prosecutor Amit Prasad moved a plea for Khalid’s 30-day judicial custody remand. Khalid’s counsel submitted that his safety and security should be given priority. “In view of the apprehension as stated by the counsel for the accused, the Tihar Jail superintendent is directed to take all necessary steps, within the rules, to ensure the safety and security of Khalid in jail,” the court said. Khalid, on the other hand, said he had “not signed any document whatsoever during the police remand”. He sought court’s permission to meet his family before being sent to the judicial custody. The prosecutor said they could meet provided the family reached in time as Khalid had to be taken for his medical examination before being sent to jail. Delhi Police has alleged that Khalid gave provocative speeches at various places and appealed to the Muslim community to block roads and other public places during the US president Donald Trump’s visit on February 24/25, 2020, which it added was a“deep-rooted” conspiracy to defame the country in front of international media. “Names of some more suspects have cropped up and above named accused is required to be questioned at length about those suspects to obtain their exact particulars for further investigation,” police had said while seeking Khalid’s remand earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/khalid-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-oct-22-court-directs-tihar-officials-to-ensure-safety/articleshow/78305973.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Saffron card holders not interested in PDS foodgrain||Nashik: People who are not in the below poverty line (BPL) category have not taken the subsidised foodgrain made available for them at the fair price shops (FPS) across the Nashik district.After the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, the state government, in May, devised a plan to provide foodgrain through the public distribution system (PDS) even to those who did not fall in the BPL bracket.As per this plan, the state government is providing wheat at the rate of Rs 8 per kg and rice at Rs 12 per kg for people who hold the saffron ration cards.The plan was to provide relief to people who are not the regular beneficiaries of the PDS, but whose income is considerably low or who have lost source of income due to the pandemic.Nashik district has estimated 12 lakh individual beneficiaries of the scheme, or they constitute around 2.5 lakh families.Out of them, only 30% of the beneficiaries took the foodgrain in the month of May and another 32% benefited from the scheme in the month of June. However, since July, there have been very few or no takers, the supply officer said.“Most of the beneficiaries who availed of the benefit were from the urban areas. This was perhaps because people were going through hardships then and after one month of the Unlockdown, there were no takers,” an officer said.In the rural areas, most of the beneficiaries did not buy the goods from the PDS. It came as a surprise for the government agencies.Experts said people know the quality of foodgrain provided under PDS. “So instead of paying a nominal amount, they might have preferred to get better quality grain from the market by paying a slightly higher price,” some said.The scheme has now been discontinued and the foodgrain that had been received from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) earlier was thus used for the regular distribution through the PDS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/saffron-card-holders-not-interested-in-pds-foodgrain/articleshow/78303962.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mid-day meal: Wrong figures submitted||AHMEDABAD: The Comptroller and Auditor General in his report has said that the commissioner mid-day meal (MDM) had submitted incorrect utilisation certificate to the ministry of human resource development (MHRD). The CAG reported that during 2015-16 to 2017-18, MHRD released Rs 21.62 crore to Gujarat government and of these the education department released Rs 20.16 crore to the Commissioner (MDM). CAG stated that on scrutiny of records the Commissioner had submitted utilisation certificate for Rs 20.17 crore stated as fully utilised, though only RS 7.46 crore had been utilised by the Commissioner for office expenses and salary of contractual staff at the commissioner, district and taluka levels and an unspent balance of Rs 28.62 crore was lying in the bank account with the Commissioner (includes unspent balance of previous years and interest earned). The CAG noted that no funds have been expended at the school level during 2015-16 to 2017-18. The Commissioner stated that the MME funds are of permanent nature and non-lapsable so utilisation certificate for entire funds was given. The report also pointed out that there was incorrect reporting of the coverage of students and schools. There was higher reporting of students due to incorrect reporting by talukas and at the commissioner level. The report also stated that food grains and cooking cost was allocated more than the actual ground-level requirements. The secretary admitted and said that they were in the process of developing a software which will integrate the entire information related to the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mid-day-meal-wrong-figures-submitted/articleshow/78324721.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Chevella police arrest wife and son of man killed 7 weeks ago||HYDERABAD: Seven weeks after a man was killed and buried secretly at Gundala village, Chevella police arrested his wife and son on Thursday. According to police, Krishna (45), a worker was found missing since July 30. When curious villagers inquired his wife Lalitha and son Ramesh, the duo said that Krishna went to Hyderabad in search of work. On noticing that Krishna did not return even after many weeks and was inaccessible over the phone, the villagers suspected foul play. They cornered Ramesh, who spilled the beans about the murder. Alerted by the locals, the police took Ramesh into custody. Ramesh disclosed that he and his mother throttled Krishna as the later was harassing them after consuming alcohol. Later, they buried the body in their agricultural field. Worried that their criminal act would be exposed, they used to frequent the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-wife-and-son-of-man-killed-7-weeks-ago/articleshow/78305259.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Riot accused are misusing interim bail provision: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: An inquiry by Delhi Police into interim bail sought by many of those accused in the February riots cases has suggested that they had allegedly misused the provision of “humanitarian grounds”. Police claimed that many accused sought interim bail of a week or so in the lower court and then applied for extension before its expiry on the ground that the full bench of Delhi High Court had extended all interim bails during the pandemic till October 31. This was mentioned by Delhi Police during the bail hearing in two recent cases. One of the cases was of Salim Khan seeking interim bail to attend the last rites of his 75-year-old sister who had passed away on September 18. Opposing the plea, special prosecutor Amit Prasad said, “An inquiry has established that the presence of the applicant is neither necessary nor compulsory for the last rituals. The accused is involved in the serious offence of assault on police personnel on duty, in which a head constable was killed. He wants to travel to Kannauj from Delhi, which is almost 450km away and outside the jurisdiction of this court.” Finding substance in the plea, the court rejected the bail. In the second case, Mohammed Ayub, who was seeking interim bail for attending his father’s “chaliswa”, or the fortieth-day death ceremony, was denied the reprieve after the court noted that he was also involved in the attack on police personnel leading to the death of head constable Rattan Lal. Prasad opposed the plea arguing that “misuse of interim bail on humanitarian grounds” among the accused in the riots cases was quite prevalent. He said the accused got bail for a very short period and then filed an application seeking further extension before the expiry of the period citing the high court’s direction. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav found substance in the prosecutor’s submissions and stated that the accused had several relatives who could perform the rituals. “The offences alleged against the applicant are quite serious as the present case pertains to assault upon police and resultant death of head constable Rattan Lal and severe injuries to IPS officer DCP (Shahdara) Amit Kumar Sharma, ACP Anuj Kumar, and 51 other personnel at the hand of rioters,” the court held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riot-accused-are-misusing-interim-bail-provision-police/articleshow/78305979.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP launches U-Rise portal to help students in academics, getting jobs||Lucknow: A portal ‘Unified Re-imagined Innovation for Student Empowerment’ or 'U-Rise' was launched on Thursday by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath which will contain a database of around 20 lakh engineering and vocational courses students and help them with study material and also get employment. The portal will contain details of each student from their time of enrolment till they get employment. It will also have an e-library which can be accessed by students from anywhere, giving students even in the most remote districts of the state access to quality study material. The database will also help in getting students employment as their details will be available at one place for prospective employers. The CM also released Rs 100 crore under the second phase of Deendayal Upadhyay Quality Improvement Programme which will be used to develop digital and physical infrastructure in various technical institutions in the state. The portal has been developed by the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University and is a joint initiative by the technical education department, training and employment department and skill development mission. The CM said that by providing a common platform to educationalists, employers and researchers, it would benefit lakhs of students. They would get access to information through digital content, digital assessments, digital examination papers, webinars, e-library and recorded video content. With data of all students available on the portal, employers, too, would be able to offer jobs through it. The portal will be useful for students, teachers, trainers and institutions providing employment related to technical education, ITI and skill development. They will have access to relevant information about students from the time they enrol to the point they get employed. “The aim of the portal is to ensure uniform quality education to all students. It is a place with a unique network of trainers, faculty and industry. Students once registered will continue to receive life-long benefits and their track records will be digitally stored to help them employment in future,” said an official. The CM also said that it was necessary to impart uniform education to all students in the state as that would bring about an equitable society. “In view of future requirements, education should be unified and there should be coordination at all levels so that students have the option to choose their areas of skill,” the CM said. He added that the National Education Policy-2020 also espouses the cause of uniform education. “There is barely any disparity between the syllabus for arts and science, and extra-curricular activities and their unification will not be difficult. Prime Minister Narendra Modi understood that there is a need for a multi-discipline education system that will weave various streams like science, arts, social science, humanities, engineering and sports into a unified syllabus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-launches-u-rise-portal-to-help-students-in-academics-getting-jobs/articleshow/78305978.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Rural police on guard as farmers plan stir today||Nashik: The Nashik rural police are all geared up to avoid an adverse law and order situation on Friday when farmers’ outfits take to the roads to protest against the agricultural bill passed in Parliament. Various farmers’ outfits and even the Congress workers have decided to agitate against the bills, claiming that they were anti-farmer. Sunil Malusare, the Maharashtra secretary of Kisan Sabha, said the bill was intended to serve the corporate houses and not the farmers. “There are many farmers who may not know what is going on, and we are trying to bring awareness among them as well as protest against the undemocratic manner in which the bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha by the government,” Malusare said. Sandip Jagtap of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana also said they would be agitating against the government’s anti-farmer policies and would stage rasta rokos across the district and outside the tehsil offices and agriculture produce market committees. “The government should understand that the farmers know where their interests are and they do not want reforms that will write them off,” Jagtap said. Superintendent of police Sachin Patil said they had asked all inspectors to ensure that agitations are conducted off the roads and adhering to the Covid-19 health restrictions. The agitators should not be allowed to stop vehicular movement. “The police pickets will be set up at important junctions and places to ensure the farmers do not do anything that may disrupt the law and order situation,” the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-police-on-guard-as-farmers-plan-stir-today/articleshow/78303992.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mysuru||Covid testing will be intensified in Mysuru, says DC||Mysuru: Concerned over the rising number of Covid cases in Mysuru, the district administration and police department have decided to intensify testing. In a bid to increase the number of tests, nurses, paramedical personnel and diploma holders are being hired. The team will conduct a survey with the available data of patients — especially those with hypertension, diabetes or other life-threatening diseases. While the district administration has appealed to the public to turn up for Covid tests voluntarily and decided to carry out tests post noon hours, police officers have warned action of bringing those causing nuisance and bothering health care workers under the ambit of organised criminal act. Police have also warned action against erring shopkeepers failing to adhere to Covid guidelines. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner B Sharat said primary and secondary contacts of infected patients are not turning up for tests and even the positive patients aren’t disclosing their contact details correctly. “This has been a major concern. If they get tests done it would be helpful in tackling the virus,” he added. Sharat claimed delayed admission is one of the reasons for the rise in fatalities in the district. Private hospitals have been warned of action if they don’t reserve 50% of its capacity for Covid patients. “I have undergone Covid tests several times. People have the wrong conception that they would be hospitalised, but I got cured without hospitalisation,” said the DC. “Wearing a mask is the only way to prevent spread of the virus. Administration will resume penalising those not wearing masks — both in urban and rural areas,” he added. Vidyagama teachers must get tested Mysuru ZP CEO D Bharathi on Thursday said teachers involved in the Vidyagama scheme must be subjected to Covid tests as they engage with children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-testing-will-be-intensified-in-mysuru-says-dc/articleshow/78302595.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Separate crematoriums, graveyards mooted for Covid-19 fatalities||BENGALURU: With Covid-19 fatalities surging and cemeteries and crematoriums struggling to keep pace, the government has decided to set up designated burial grounds and crematorium across all major cities and towns in the state. In Bengaluru, the government plans to develop nine new crematoriums in addition to the existing 10. “We have already invited tenders and work will begin soon. We have decided against developing designated burial grounds because of want of land and stiff opposition from residents,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad. “Before crematoriums used to get 100 to 120 bodies, but now they get 165 or more,” Prasad said. Municipal administration and urban development departments have already asked district deputy commissioners and civic body chiefs to identify open land to streamline disposal of Covid-19 bodies. “Each of these burial grounds and crematoriums will be developed at a cost of Rs 25-30 lakh. The idea is to ensure patients who have died of Covid-19 get a dignified farewell,” said municipal administration minister KC Narayana Gowda. “These burial grounds and cremation centres will be reserved so that there is no confusion or commotion.” The government plans to earmark one acre of land for burial grounds and crematoriums in all 30 districts. All religions and sects that bury their dead will be allowed to use these grounds. Demands from communities who bury their dead to earmark space for last rites have been growing. But due to the shortage of burial grounds and stigma associated with Covid-19 fatalities, many bodies have been cremated. Residents living near burial grounds have also protested against burying Covid-19 dead there, while crematorium staffs have expressed anxiety in handling the bodies as they fear infection. The government has instructed managements of burial grounds to demarcate space to bury Covid fatalities and to erect ‘Covid Graveyard’ signboards besides preparing a separate approach. The site will be protected with barbed-wire and it will have security room, waiting hall, rest rooms and other facilities. Only five people will be allowed to attend the last rites and they will be given disposable masks and sanitisers by the Covid liaison officer in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/separate-crematoriums-graveyards-mooted-for-covid-19-fatalities/articleshow/78302600.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maha among states running WWF’s ‘One Earth One Home’ initiative||NAGPUR: Eleven states and one union territory have launched WWF-India’s ‘One Earth One Home’ initiative to promote environment education amongst school students. “Globally, environment education has been recognized not only as a short-term stimulus but also as a necessity for long-term growth of our children and their successful future. It is a solution to build a resilient and positive environment for children and young people,” said Radhika Suri, director environment education, WWF-India. The recent Living Planet Report 2020 of WWF highlighted catastrophic environmental decline around the world and the need to inspire children to steer a change in their own lives by adopting pro-conservation attitudes and sustainable household practices towards a greener lifestyle. Students from Class 1-8 from government or government-aided schools across the country will go through a well-guided digital journey ensuring that learning, wellness and actions go hand-in-hand. The ‘One Earth One Home’ initiative is being implemented by Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh and Bihar and eight other partners including the Smile Foundation & Million Sparks Foundation. Chief education officers, zonal education or block education officers have been engaged to percolate information and resource material to all teachers and students. The programme has been designed with multiple sustainable development goals (SDGs) including good health & well-being, quality education, clean water & sanitation, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption & production and climate action. Suri said, “It is the need of the hour to educate present generation toward greener habits and sustainable consumption practices in a playful, creative and engaging manner. With schools closed nationwide, the perfect solution to build a positive environment for children at home is by connecting them to nature.” “One Earth One Home’ movement will not just inspire children but their families and immediate communities towards environment and will enlighten them to contribute towards a greener, cleaner and healthier India. The support we have received from so many states is a testimony to the importance of imparting environment education and taking action during this pandemic,” Suri said. Department of school education in each state has permitted 30 minutes per week for 10-weeks to students and teachers to conduct activities designed for the ‘One Earth One Home’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-among-states-running-wwfs-one-earth-one-home-initiative/articleshow/78305267.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 25, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi eateries can serve in open on rooftops||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday approved a proposal to allow open-air dining on rooftops and in lawns of restaurants. The civic agency, however, made it clear that the restaurant owners would need to obtain fire NOC mandatorily before starting the facility. Also, they need to have a health trade licence. According to the policy, which was approved in the House meeting, open-air dining will be allowed at those restaurants where open areas or terraces are privately owned. There should be no encroachments on public land or footpaths. The open space should also not have a direct opening to the main road. Cooking of food and barbecue in the open space are also prohibited. The policy says that light music can be played in the open-air seating area but it should not be beyond the permissible decibel levels. Live band performance will not be allowed. The permission for serving food in open terrace and lawns will be given only on submission of building's structural safety certificate from a registered structural engineer with clear mention of using terrace for serving food (dining). "The food will have to be cooked in enclosed kitchens and only serving of food will be allowed in open air. Serving of liquor will only be permitted at licensed terraces," states the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-delhi-eateries-can-serve-in-open-on-rooftops/articleshow/78306663.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Attempt to frame Salman Khurshid, Brinda Karat’||NEW DELHI: Congress and Left on Thursday slammed Delhi Police for trying to “frame” opposition leaders and activists and “shielding the culprits” who provoked the Delhi riots that claimed 56 lives. Among others, Delhi Police’s September 17 chargesheet also named, among others former Union minister Salman Khurshid, CPM leader Brinda Karat and CPI national executive member Annie Raja, apart from Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, advocate Prashant Bhushan, and former bureaucrat Harsh Mandar among others. Condemning Delhi Police’s move, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said, “Trying to malign people by reference to disclosure statements without the slightest corroborative evidence and only because they are your political opponent is deplorable and condemnable. I have no doubt that this is worse than tilting at windmills for oblique and malicious motives.” Khurshid’s former colleague Jairam Ramesh also came to the former minister’s defence. “A former foreign minister and law minister, Salman Khurshid is amongst the nicest, gentlest, learned, nationalistic, secular Indians I have known, and he figures in a chargesheet! It is a SHAME on the Delhi Police and its true and two masters,” he said. Khurshid, who was named in the chargesheet for making “provocative speeches” that may have incited the communal conflagration in Delhi, said the charges levelled against him were “garbage”. “It is garbage, worst sort of garbage collection. It is incompetence or evil design. Delhi Police has hurt its reputation irreparably. I can find 1,000 holes in what DP has done. I don’t have words to describe what they have done,” he said. The Left parties also criticised the Delhi Police for registering names of well-known politicians, academics, and social activists in an FIR for the communal riots in Delhi in February this year. “This is an attempt by Delhi Police under the leadership of Union Home Ministry to shield the real culprits who provoked riots through their provocative speech belonging to BJP….This is an attempt by Delhi Police and the government to either arrest or name in FIR all those who lent support to the anti-CAA and NRC agitations in Delhi and India,” CPI said in a statement on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/attempt-to-frame-khurshid-karat/articleshow/78305986.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad collector: Shut shops by 9pm||Aurangabad: District collector Sunil Chavan on Wednesday evening issued a strict warning to shopkeepers asking them to shut their businesses and establishments by 9 pm to contain the spread of Covid-19. He said that licences will be cancelled if anybody is found violating the norms, even if their establishments were found to be half-shuttered. The issue of hotels and other establishments running beyond the permitted time in the district came up at a meeting chaired by the district collector. The people’s representatives expressed concern over the situation. Following this, Chavan issued the orders. While urging the businesses to start shutting their shops by 8.30 pm, Chavan appealed to the people to cooperate in the fight against Covid. Meanwhile, the district administration said as many as 329 Covid cases were reported by Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 31,772. Four Covid deaths were reported by late Wednesday night, taking the death toll to 890. As many as 24,692 patients have recovered while there are 6,190 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-collector-shut-shops-by-9pm/articleshow/78301226.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nagpur||War of words over pvt jumbo Covid centre in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: The BJP-ruled municipal corporation giving express permission to a businessman to set up a jumbo Covid centre has ruffled many political feathers leading to allegations of allowing private players to exploit the Covid pandemic situation. Congress stalwart and former MP Naresh Puglia has also slammed his party rival and guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar for failing to build Covid treatment facilities for common people and instead allowing private hospitals to commercialize the Covid treatment. Jan Vikas Sena president Pappu alias Pradeep Deshmukh has accused the BJP-ruled CMC of conniving with private players in setting up mega private Covid facilities. Puglia claimed that while an additional 100 oxygen bed facility is ready in Chandrapur GMCH, the health department is faced with lack of manpower. He slammed Wadettiwar for the delay in raising additional beds and oxygen facilities promised in his Independence Day speech. The former MP expressed surprise over the fact that while private businessman can raise jumbo Covid centre in 15 days, how come district administration, with all resources at its disposal, has failed to hire necessary manpower to start Covid facility in the women’s hospital here. In a letter sent to health minister Rajesh Tope, Puglia also demanded immediate recruitment of qualified doctors and paramedics by offering triple remuneration and incentives. Rebutting Puglia’s charges, Wadettiwar said leaders should not spread lies. He informed that Rs53.18 crore have been approved under different schemes to build Covid facilities and the work is underway on warfooting. He also released a list of 26 Covid-related measures like raising additional bed facilities, including oxygen and ICU beds, readying oxygen plants and refilling facility, hiring and purchase of ambulances and procurement of necessary equipments costing Rs54.15 crore. Pappu Deshmukh expressed surprise over the permission granted to private jumbo Covid hospital, while the CMC did nothing to raise its own Covid treatment facility. He claimed two private doctors submitted handwritten application expressing desire to set up 100-bed Covid facilities and the civic body rushed to clear the proposal without even inspecting the proposed site. The applicant-doctors have neither bothered to submit a detailed project report, nor have they briefed the CMC about what kind of doctors, paramedics and equipment they would be deploying in those facilities, said Deshmukh. BJP clarified that none of the party’s office-bearers in the CMC has any connection to the jumbo private Covid hospital coming up in the city. Instead, the party claimed it has demanded 1,000-bed government Covid facility within 48 hours and its leaders will be staging agitation at the district collectorate to press the demand on September 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/war-of-words-over-pvt-jumbo-covid-centre-in-chandrapur/articleshow/78305320.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil school in Gujarat shut; will fund it, says TN govt||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday urged his counterpart in Gujarat, Vijay Rupani, to intervene and issue orders to reopen a Tamil medium school in Ahmedabad which was shut down recently. In a letter to Rupani, the chief minister said he was distressed to know the school catering to migrant workers in Ahmedabad had been closed suddenly due to low attendance and that the children were left without any choice to continue their education. “I request you to intervene in this matter and pass suitable orders for the continuance of the Tamil medium school. The Tamil Nadu government is willing to bear the entire expenditure for the continuance of this Tamil medium school in Ahmedabad,” Palaniswami said. According to EPS, Tamils has been contributing towards the development of Gujarat. The future of Tamil linguistic minority in Gujarat should be protected, he said. “I hope the government of Gujarat will protect the right to education of Tamil linguistic minorities. I would appreciate early action in this regard,” he added. In a statement, PMK leader S Ramadoss expressed anguish over closure of the school. The school falls in Maninagar assembly constituency, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was the chief minister of Gujarat. “The PM, who is fond of Tamil, should intervene and arrange for the immediate opening of the school,” Ramadoss said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-school-in-guj-shut-will-fund-it-says-tn-govt/articleshow/78304018.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Rail roko’ agitation starts in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab began their three-day “rail roko” protest against farm bills on Thursday as the Railways suspended several trains to avoid a confrontation with them. The call for agitation was given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and later different farmers’ outfits extended their support to it. Besides “rail roko” protest, 31 farm organisations have also given a call for Punjab Bandh on Friday. They will disrupt rail traffic from October 1 for an indefinite period. Meanwhile, the SAD has given a call to disrupt vehicular traffic for two hours on Friday in protest against the agri bills. In Bathinda, BKU Ekta Ugrahan held protests at 19 places in the state, mainly in the Malwa region, whereas Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee blocked tracks in Majha and Doaba. Protesters pitched tents on railway tracks. On Wednesday, Ferozepur railway division had cancelled 14 special trains for three days, keeping in mind the safety of passengers and protection of railway property from any damage. “It is a do or die battle for farmers. Once the bills become laws, minimum support price will be a thing of the past and crop will be purchased by multinational companies and corporate houses at prices they fancy. Besides farmers, states where the concept of agricultural produce market committee concept is strong will also face huge financial losses. Contract farming will reduce small and marginal farmers to farm labourers on their own farms,” said BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. Apprehending hoarding by big players following changes in the Essential Commodities Bill, Kokri claimed farmers will not get remunerative prices. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh said, “We have decided to go all out and fight a full-fledged battle. We will make any sacrifice but will not allow the laws to be implemented in Punjab.” Police facilitated the protests at many places. In Barnala, cops set up a stall at the entrance of the railway station and provided masks and soaps to farmers. They also looked out for those not wearing masks and asked them to do so. Three women and two male cops were deployed. In Ferozepur, protesting farmers and farm labourers, including women, raised anti-government slogans and demanded rollback of all the three farm bills passed recently by both the Houses of Parliament. They blocked the railway track near Ferozepur Cantonment railway station by putting up a tent on the railway lines. Various farmers’ outfits, government teachers’ unions, agriculture employees’ unions, public organisations, milk union, taxi union, arhtiya association, munim and palledar union also joined the protest. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee state president Satnam Singh Pannu condemned the lathicharge and use of water cannons on protesters in certain parts of the country. He also announced that MPs who supported the bills would not be allowed to visit villages in the state. In Amritsar, where a large number of farmers and their family members converged at Devidaspura, a village on the city outskirts, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said they had received immense support from various quarters, be it youths, teachers, commission agents and women. He also announced that they would not allow any political leader to address the farmers, saying, “No doubt they are extending support for the farmers’ cause but they should struggle on their own and not use our platform. Tomorrow, these politicians will come seeking votes.” Sources said representatives of different farmers’ organisations held a meeting to chalk out a strategy in case police stopped them from reaching the protest venues. Various farm leaders questioned SAD (B) president Sukhbir Badal over his party’s coalition with the BJP, saying, “When will Sukhbir Badal, who claims to be the well-wisher of farmers, break the coalition with BJP and extend 100% support to farmers?” Farm leader Gurbachan Singh Chabba said, “India’s future lies with farmers and labourers and not with the corporates. The Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi should face the reality and withdraw the controversial bills.” Twinkle Singh, who among the protesters, said, “I am an Indian citizen and it is my democratic right to stand against the policies which will have a devastating effect on the people of my country, especially farmers, who are already reeling under debt and other issues.” Box SGPC offices to remain closed SGPC has extended support to the Punjab Bandh on September 25 and announced to keep its offices closed on that. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “We are with the farmers in their struggle against the controversial agriculture bills and will keep our offices closed on Friday.” Describing farmers as the backbone of the country’s economy, he said no bill that jeopardises the farming sector could be approved and the Centre should understand the sentiments of farmers and needs of the farm economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rail-roko-agitation-starts-in-punjab/articleshow/78305299.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Mysuru||Five held in Hassan for betting on IPL matches||Hassan/ Mysuru: Police attached to Hassan District Crime Information Bureau on Wednesday evening arrested five youths on the city’s outskirts for betting on IPL cricket matches online. The accused are Akash, 20, data-entry operator at Sathyamangala Gram Panchayat, Kumaraswamy, 20, student, Poornachandra, 20, private finance firm employee, Avinash, 21, canter driver, and Niranjan, 24, cashier at a hotel. At 6pm on Wednesday, the police team raided a complex at Sathyamangala and found the accused engaging in betting on IPL cricket matches through online links. The payments were also done online, police said, adding that they have recovered five cellphones and a notebook from them. SP R Srinivas Gowda said it was one of the main raids on a local bookie. “Raids will continue,” he said, calling upon the public to help them in checking cricket betting and matka. 13 held for betting in Mysuru Devaraja police have seized Rs 1.33 lakh from gamblers who were betting at a lodge room near Janganmohan Palace in Mysuru. Acting on a tip-off, the police team raided the room at 11.15pm and detained 13 youths for allegedly playing ‘Andar Bahar’ (betting game) there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/five-held-in-hassan-for-betting-on-ipl-matches/articleshow/78302636.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Nashik||Impose sec 144 in 14 market areas: Civic chief to top cop||Nashik: Alarmed by the congestion and overcrowding at 14 prominent market places of the city, The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has suggested to the police that section 144 be imposed at these locations.Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has written to police commissioner Deepak Pande, requesting him to promulgate section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) at these 14 locations immediately in a bid to help reduce congestion and curb the spread of coronavirus. As per the section 144, the assembly of four or more people is prohibited in the areas.The 14 locations are Bhadrakali, Raviwar Karanja, Trimurti Chowk, Dwarka, City Centre Mall area, Central Bus Stand, Nimani bus stand, Meher Circle, Shalimar, Bytco chowk, Railway station area, Datta Mandir Chowk, Lekha Nagar and Pathardi Phata.The city has recorded an impressive recovery rate of 88%, but officials are worried that there might be a spike in Covid-19 cases due to overcrowding at these places.Jadhav said civic teams had made surprise visits at these 14 locations and found that there was no adherence to safety protocols like maintaining physical distance, wearing masks etc.“People are not following safety protocols and are unnecessarily crowding at various market places. Therefore, we need to take some measures to curb the spread of the nCoV infection. The objective is to break the chain of the Covid-19 spread,” said Jadhav.The civic chief said he had also urged the police commissioner to add more places which they think are more crowded and where safety protocol is not being maintained.When contacted, deputy commissioner of police Pournima Chaugule said instructions from the Nashik municipal commissioner about implementation of the section 144 will be followed and implemented shortly. Moreover, action is being taken against those not wearing the masks in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/impose-sec-144-in-14-market-areas-civic-chief-to-top-cop/articleshow/78304086.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM appeals to all parties to fight against farm bills, says ready to lead battle||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday appealed to all political parties to rise above petty considerations and come on one platform to fight against the treacherous agriculture bills that would destroy the farmers of Punjab. Amarinder said he was committed to protecting the rights of the farmers at all costs, adding that he was ready to lead the political fight against the unconstitutional anti-farmer bills with all his might. “I will do what it takes to save my farmers and my state from these dangerous new laws, whose implementation will cripple the farming sector and also destroy Punjab’s lifeline,” he added. He said the Congress had always stood by the farmers and will fight with them, shoulder to shoulder, to scuttle the Centre’s plans to ruin agriculture. The BJP-led Union government has stooped to a new low by bringing these bills, and that too in a totally undemocratic and unparliamentary manner, he said. Criticising the Akalis for trying to change the narrative through their concerted and deliberate efforts to transform the fight into a local political clash for their vested interests, he said they have reduced SAD from a political force into a puppet of the BJP. Ridiculing SAD chief Sukhbir Badal’s latest statement that Akali Dal can make any sacrifice for farmers, Amarinder said, “What are you still doing in the anti-farmer NDA government at the Centre?” He also has appealed to the farmers to maintain law and order and adhere to all Covid-19 safety protocols during Friday’s bandh. He said while the state government was with the farmers in their fight against the bills and no FIRs would be registered for violation of Section 144, there should be no disturbance of the law and order during the bandh. He also urged the farmers and other organisations supporting the protest to maintain social distancing and wear masks at all times. “The state is already in the midst of a surge in Covid cases and any violation of precautionary norms could lead to the situation spiralling out of control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-appeals-to-all-parties-to-fight-against-farm-bills-says-ready-to-lead-battle/articleshow/78305324.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Chennai||Modi praised Tamil Nadu Covid efforts out of political compulsion, says MK Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday said political compulsions and AIADMK’s support to the farm bills, moved by the BJP government at the Centre, had forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to praise Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for his government’s efforts to tackle the Covid pandemic. “Palaniswami has long left it to God to contain the pandemic. The AIADMK government had completely failed in its efforts to contain Covid-19 spread in Tamil Nadu, where more than five lakh have tested positive and over 9,000 people have died so far. Only political compulsions and the AIADMK’s support to the farms bills could have been the reasons for PM Modi to praise CM Palaniswami,” Stalin said in a statement. PM Modi praised the TN government while participating in a virtual interaction with chief ministers across the country on Wednesday. Stalin said more than 1.5 lakh people were infected and more than 3,000 died in state capital Chennai, while in Salem, the CM’s home district, more than 17,000 people have tested positive and 284 people have died. “But the CM has already started his election campaign by going around districts in the name of Covid review meetings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/modi-praised-tn-covid-efforts-out-of-political-compulsion-says-stalin/articleshow/78304099.cms||D Govardan
September 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: HC confirms man’s life term for murder||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently confirmed life sentence granted to a man who allegedly murdered an acquaintance while attempting to rape her in 2009 in a forest in Hingoli district. However, the bench ordered to reduce his sentence of seven years granted under the rape charges by the additional sessions judge, Hingoli. The court had appointed a lawyer to represent the accused. The Akhada-Balapur police on March 30, 2009, arrested Sakharam Sitaram Bhise (then 25) from Sukliveer village in Kalamnuri taluka of Hingoli for murdering the woman, who also belonged to the same village. When the woman went to get firewood in the adjoining forest, the accused spotted her and attempted to rape her. When she resisted, he killed her and tried to bury the body near a stream. When the woman did not return home, her daughter and one of her friends went looking for her. They found Bhise throwing stones in a gap near the stream. After being spotted, he fled. The two found the victim half-buried. They alerted Ranjana’s husband who lodged a complaint. Police used a sniffer dog which led to the accused. Following the trial additional sessions judge, Hingoli on 21-02-2012 sentenced the accused u/s 376 and 302 of the IPC, and directed him to 7-year rigorous imprisonment as well as to imprisonment for life, respectively. Both the sentences were to run concurrently and time spent by the accused in jail due to his arrest on 30-03-2009, was directed to be set off. The accused had approached the HC through legal aid services in 2017. Court appointed lawyer Yogita M Kshirsagar to represent him. The matter came up for hearing before Justices Ravindra V Ghuge and B U Debadwar. The bench while recently allowing his criminal appeal partly observed “The impugned judgement to the extent of the conclusion that the accused committed rape on victim punishable u/s 376 of the IPC, is set aside.’’ However, the bench confirmed the life imprisonment stating: “The sentence awarded by trial Court to the accused for murder punishable u/s 302 of the IPC, which stands confirmed.’’ (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-confirms-mans-life-term-for-murder/articleshow/78301245.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Senior railway official dies of Covid in Dhanbad, toll past 650-mark||RANCHI/SINDRI: Ghanshyam Piu, divisional commercial manager (coal) of the Railway’s Dhanbad division, succumbed to Covid-19 while he was being taken to a private hospital in Ranchi from the coal town late on Wednesday night. However, Piu death was not recorded as a Covid casualty in the state health government date till Thursday night. Piu (57) had tested positive for the virus on Saturday and was admitted to Railway Hospital, Dhanbad. He was shifted to the Covid-19 ward at PMCH when his condition started deteriorating. A senior railway official said he was referred to Ranchi when his condition did not improve. Meanwhile, recoveries continued to outnumber fresh infections diagnosed even as the state reported four Covid casualties along with 1,349 new cases and 1,386 recoveries on through Thursday. Among the casualties, three were reported from East Singhbhum and one from Ranchi. The positivity ratio remained pegged at around 5% with 23,482 samples tested through the day. Ranchi and East Singhbhum again got the highest number of new infections with 362 and 123 cases respectively. Garhwa also posted a three-digit figure with 112 cases followed by West Singhbhum and Hazaribag with 79 and 78 cases respectively. The cumulative Covid caseload in Jharkhand on Thursday stood at 76,438; of which 12,841 are active cases, 62,945 have recovered and 652 have died. Jharkhand also reached another milestone in testing, crossing the 19 lakh-mark. Till date, Jharkhand has tested 19,49,673 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/senior-rly-official-dies-of-covid-in-dhanbad-toll-past-650-mark/articleshow/78304237.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: First virtual lok adalat to settle 9,000 pre-litigation insurance cases||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) will hold the state’s first ever virtual lok adalat on September 26, with an aim to settle disputes to the tune of Rs 50 crores in the insurance sector, Jhalsa executive chairman and Jharkhand high court justice H C Mishra said on Thursday. The virtual lok adalat will be inaugurated by National Legal Services Authority executive chairman and Supreme Court justices M V Ramana and Annirudh Bose, the former chief justice of the Jharkhand HC prior to his elevation. Addressing a virtual press conference, Justice Mishra said that as many as 9,000 cases in the pre-litigation stage and 500 cases related to insurance pending in courts will be disposed of on the day. Special virtual benches have been formed and they will be coordinated by the District Legal Services Authority centres and monitored by Jhalsa, Justice Mishra said. The beneficiaries already been contacted and will be connected online during the lok adalat with the bench and representatives of the insurance companies, he said. “Insurance claims are meant for persons who are in distress. During the pandemic, people everywhere have suffered and as a responsibility towards society, Jhalsa has come up with the idea of holding a virtual lok adalat. Strenuous efforts and planning have been gone into making this possible,” Justice Mishra added. Jhalsa has played an active role during the pandemic and continues to do so, secretary Muhammad Shakir said. He added that para-legal volunteers under Jhalsa have also been instrumental in fighting the pandemic and creating awareness about precautions that needed be taken to prevent the virus from spreading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/first-virtual-lok-adalat-to-settle-9k-pre-litigation-insurance-cases/articleshow/78304315.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid test for all restaurant workers in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: Amid rising Covid cases in urban areas of East Singhbhum, the district administration will launch a mega drive to conduct Covid-19 tests on all those working at various restaurants and eateries in Jamshedpur. An order in this regard was given by district magistrate Nand Kishore Lal. Sources said the rapid antigen testing kits will be used during the two-drive beginning on Friday at camps set up at Ramada Hotel, Hotel Ginger in Bistupur, Kerala Samajam School, Kadma market, South Point School, RVS School in Mango, Sonari, and Bawangora Urdu School. The decision comes in the wake of 11 employees of United Club testing positive for Covid-19. The club has not been thrown open to patrons yet and only home delivery of food is allowed. In the past, five other employees of the same club had been found positive. Meanwhile, the district administration has opened six new permanent testing centres at various corners of the city to ramp up diagnosis infrastructure. The centres – at at Sidhgora Town Hall, Kerala Samajam School in Golmuri, Thakkar Bappa in Dakthkidi, Community Centre in Sonari, ME SChool in Jugsalai and Kaushal Vikas Kendra in Pardih -- will remain open from 10am to 5pm every day. East Singhbhum remains the worst affected district in the state as far as Covid death toll is concerned with 279 patients dying with the virus until Thursday morning, as per state government records. The cumulative caseload here is also only second to Ranchi with 12,936 cases detected so far, of which 2458 are active and 10,199 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/covid-test-for-all-restro-workers-in-steel-city/articleshow/78303600.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand health minister helps meritorious pupil for kidney transplant||RANCHI: State health minister Banna Gupta came to the rescue of a 16-year-old boy from Bermo in Bokaro, who is suffering from renal failure and requires an urgent kidney transplant. Nikhit Nischhal, who is a topper in his class, comes from a poor family and his parents have been running from pillar to post to get the best possible medical care for their son. After Gupta’s intervention, Nikhit is now admitted to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital here and the government is paying his medical bills. Doctors of the hospital have started his treatment and suggested a kidney transplant. Gupta, who met Nikhit at the hospital’s diagnostic centre on Thursday afternoon, said, “This government under the leadership of chief minister Hemant Soren is a people’s government and we will do all everything possible to make the lives of its citizens better. I am pained to see such a talented kid suffering from kidney ailment and have assured his parents that the state government will bear the treatment costs.” Medica hospital nephrologist Dr A K Baidya said, “We will be conducting several tests on the patient and after a thorough diagnosis and tests, we will be in a position to conduct a transplant.” The incident came to light after doctors told Nikhit’s parents that he needs a kidney transplant. Since they could not afford to pay for the treatment, the parents approached Congress leader Anup Singh for help who in turn informed Gupta. Singh said, “Soon after I was informed that the boy requires a kidney transplant, I requested the health minister for his intervention. I am very thankful to Banna ji that not only he postponed his trip to Jamshedpur on Wednesday evening, but he also came and met the parents and admitted the boy at the Medica hospital for treatment at government’s expense.” Nikhit has topped his school in the Class X examination with 98% marks this year. Soon after, he fell sick and started experiencing urinary problems a couple of months ago. He said, “I was admitted to Muskan Hospital in Chas initially after I started experiencing problems in passing urine. After the initial treatment, I visited Rims and I was admitted there for a week around a month ago.” A pale-looking Nikhit added, “At Rims, I was diagnosed with renal failure. I have been on dialysis for more than four times now and the doctors say that there is no permanent option other than a kidney transplant.” On his studies, Nischhal said, “I like being with my books and once I recover, I will study hard to become a doctor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-health-min-helps-meritorious-pupil-for-kidney-transplant/articleshow/78303398.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 25, 2020||Jamshedpur||Doctor dies one week after ‘recovering’ from Covid-19 at Jamshedpur hospital||JAMSHEDPUR: A 61-year-old retired skin doctor of Tata Main Hospital (TMH), who was initially found positive for Covid-19 but tested negative in subsequent tests, died on Thursday. The deceased doctor, H K Gardin, tested Covid positive after admission to the TMH with complaints of high fever and respiratory illness on September 5, but tested negative on September 15. He was undergoing treatment at the hospital when he breathed his last on Thursday afternoon, confirmed civil surgeon Dr R N Jha. TMH officials said the doctor suffered a multi-organ failure and he had hypertension and respiratory illness. “He was suffering from secondary diseases too,” a source at TMH said. Condoling the death of the doctor, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said: “Gardin will be known for his service to the people infected by HIV/AIDS.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/doc-dies-a-week-after-recovering-from-covid-19-at-steel-city-hosp/articleshow/78304385.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Testing times: Ranchi schools hold e-exams||RANCHI: After nearly six months of online classes, some city schools are holding examinations for the first time in the ongoing pandemic, in a bid to see how effectively the students have taken to online teaching. The schools are using apps like Zoom and Google Meet to conduct the exams and the students are being given a link on which the schools have uploaded the questions. The examinees are required to answer the questions in a stipulated time frame. The questions are mostly of the objective type and in case of the subjective ones, the students are required to upload their answers in a PDF format. Guru Nanak Public School’s principal Manohar Lal said, “Right now, we are conducting online examination from Classes 1 to 6 which will conclude on September 30. Generally, students are required to answer 50 questions in an hour. Exams for the senior classes will start soon.” He informed that his school is using an app developed by the teachers for the purpose. He further said that these examinations are being held internally in many schools and the CBSE has not issued any guidelines in this regard. Shashank Shekhar, who teaches at Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli, informed that the school is conducting the exams through Goggle Meet and the students’ participation has been pretty high. “In humanities section, 170, out of 190 students, took the test,” he added. The public relation officer at Delhi Public School, Achla Chauhan, informed that the half-yearly examinations were conducted recently for students of all classes where the participation was nearly 100%. “Our school conducted subjective and objective tests with proper invigilation of the students through the Zoom app,” Chauhan said. Several ICSE schools, including Bishop Westcott Boys School (BWBS), are holding 30-minute examinations based on multiple choice questions. BWBS principal R I Thornton said, “ICSE has not issued any guidelines on holding exams but it asked us to submit a report of our internal exams.” When asked about the effectiveness of such examinations of such short duration, he said, “We are planning to hold exams based on subjective questions in November.” Jharkhand Abhibhawak Sangh feels that the online mode of holding exams has its set of flaws. “Given the current circumstances, it is good to know that the students’ knowledge is being assessed but the process has many flaws. The poor internet connectivity and lack of accessories available with the students to take part in the exams are just some of the problems that the pupils face while taking the exam,” Sangh functionary Ajay Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/testing-times-ranchi-schools-hold-e-exams/articleshow/78303443.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Congress plans protest against farm bills||RANCHI: The state unit of Congress will organise a slew of activities from September 28 to October 20 to whip up support against the passage of farm bills in Parliament earlier this week. RPN Singh, the Congress’s minder for Jharkhand, on Thursday said a party delegation will meet governor Droupadi Murmu in Raj Bhavan on September 28 and submit a memorandum seeking a rollback of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020, which were passed by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha in the Parliament’s recently concluded monsoon session. There will be demonstrations across districts of the state on October 2 and a month-long signature campaign will be initiated. That apart, dharnas will be organized across all district headquarters on October 10, Singh said. Speaking to Congress functionaries virtually from New Delhi, Singh presented the AICC’s stand on the issue. “The laws will wipe out 40 lakh vegetable mandis (agriculture market produce yards) and will do away with the provision of minimum support price for farmers. These twin blows will affect the country’s farmers badly. Around 60% of the farmers work in farms less than 2 acres. After the MSP is abolished, they will be at the mercy of corporate houses,” Singh said. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, Congress legislative party leader Alamgir Alam, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and health minister Banna Gupta also attended the session. Meanwhile, the state unit of BJP came out strongly in support of the bills. Ranchi MLA C P Singh said: “In their addresses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and agriculture minister are repeatedly claiming that the MSP and mandi system will not be abolished. If the MSP systems were to be done away with, the Centre would not have increased the MSP rates on rice, wheat, grams and pulses substantially this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-readies-protest-plan-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78303499.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro: Stir for jobs outside BSL HQ, protesters give 72-hour deadline||BOKARO: Hundreds of displaced people sat on a dharna outside Ispat Bhavan, the headquarters of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL), demanding jobs and other benefits on Thursday. The agitation is being carried out under the banner of Visthapit Sanyukt Morcha (VSM). Large numbers of CISF and police personnel have been deployed at the spot. Traffic in one lane of the main thoroughfare between City Centre and Nayamoad came to a standstill for almost two hours during the day owing to the agitation. The BSL officials tried to pacify the protestors but without success. Nirmal Digar, who is leading the agitation, said: “The BSL management had cheated many of us by not providing jobs and compensation against our land.” He added: “We have vowed to carry our fight till the end. Our agitation will continue for the next 72 hours. We will stay at the spot. And if our demand is not fulfilled, we will intensify our stir. We have placed a 14-point demand before the BSL management.” The agitators assembled at Birsa Chowk in the afternoon. There they first garlanded the statue of Birsa Munda and marched towards BSL’s Ispat Bhawan. BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said: “We are trying to talk to the agitators. There has been no disruption of work at the Ispat Bhavan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/stir-for-jobs-outside-bsl-hq-protesters-give-72-hr-deadline/articleshow/78304372.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Ranchi||Centre passed farm and labour bills to help corporate friends: JMM||RANCHI: The ruling JMM has called upon farmers and labour unions across political affiliations to join hands in protesting against the farm and labour bills passed recently by Parliament to safeguard their rights. The party’s central general secretary, Supriyo Bhattacharya, said, “Even the Bharat Mazdur Sangathan (BMS), a labour union having allegiance to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has also criticized the bills. I appeal to all trade union leaders affiliated to BMS and RSS, who are now elected representatives in state assemblies and Parliament, to tender resignation and distance themselves from the BJP government which has become a corporate entity.” Criticising the labour bills, Bhattacharya claimed that the Centre revoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) to allow hoarding by corporate houses. He also said while the Adani group has come up with a warehouse spread across 2,100 acres of land at Moga in Punjab, Reliance has built a 1,600-acre warehouse in Rohtak, Haryana. “Unless the Centre allows hoarding by repealing ESMA, these warehouses would have become purposeless,” he claimed. Bhattacharya also said his party has decided to create awareness among people throughout Jharkhand about the bills apart from strengthening the labour laws at the state level. “We are going to give social security to peasants and labours in our state because the central laws would rob them of their basic right to live,” he said. The JMM leader also said it was for the first time that a bill was passed through a voice vote in Rajya Sabha even when there were 174 amendments proposed by other members. “The government introduced the labour law amendment bill as a finance bill and it was passed through voice vote as if it was in a tearing hurry to get the ‘black laws’ implemented soon. It was referred to a select committee in 2019 and should have been subjected to division by voting in the Upper House when there were voices of dissent,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-passed-farm-labour-bills-to-help-corporate-friends-jmm/articleshow/78303304.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Snatchers shoot at businessman in Delhi's Shahdara||NEW DELHI: A businessman was shot at in full public view on the Shahdara flyover by two unidentified miscreants when he resisted their attempt to snatch his bag containing cash. While the man survived the attack with a bullet wound to his abdomen, police are trying to identify the armed attackers who managed to escape the spot. The incident took place around 8pm on Wednesday when Manish Aggarwal and his brother, Arun, were returning home after closing their shop in Chawri Bazaar. As soon as they reached the Shahdara flyover, two men on a motorcycle intercepted them from behind and tried to snatch the bag that the businessman was carrying. When Aggarwal resisted and raised an alarm, one of the miscreants opened fire. As Aggarwal collapsed, the two men left the bag behind and fled on their bike. Arun with the help of passersby then rushed Aggarwal to a nearby hospital from where he was shifted to a private hospital in East Delhi for treatment. A case of attempt to murder was registered. DCP (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said, "There was not much money that the two brothers were carrying and, therefore, all other angles are being looked into. The brothers are also being questioned if they have enmity with anyone," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/snatchers-shoot-at-businessman-in-delhis-shahdara/articleshow/78306677.cms||---
September 25, 2020||India||Congress kicks off nation-wide campaign against farm bills, says govt misleading people||NEW DELHI: Congress on Thursday kicked off its nation-wide campaign against the farm bills passed by Parliament earlier this week and referred to them as “anti-farmer, unconstitutional and in violation of the federal structure”. Even as state units and the Indian Youth Congress kicked off street protests against the bills, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi alleged the Modi government and the prime minister himself were “misleading” people on the provisions of the bills, which he said would leave Indian farmers at the mercy of corporate players. “In India, the average size of farmholding is 2 acres, and they account for over 80% of the total farmers in the country. For the government to claim that farmers with such limited means will be able to bargain and negotiate with corporate players on an equal footing is ridiculous,” Singhvi said. Citing the example of Bihar, which abolished the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2006, Singhvi said the result was significantly lesser government procurement of farm produce and also the winding up of mandis. Referring to the new farm bills as a “new zamindari system”, he added that the state of affairs in Bihar would now be replicated in the rest of India. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhury echoed Singhvi’s sentiment and said the state unit would actively participate in the call for Bharat bandh on Friday. He also announced a series of online and street protests by DPCC starting on Friday, including a ‘Speak Up For Farmers” campaign on social media, leading up to an eight-day signature campaign and a Kisan Sammelan on October 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-kicks-off-nation-wide-campaign-against-farm-bills-says-govt-misleading-people/articleshow/78306668.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Results of third sero survey likely next week||NEW DELHI: Results of the third serological survey are likely to be out on September 29, with analysis of 17,000 samples collected from 11 districts almost completed. "The preparation of the serological survey report is in the final stage. It may be declared on September 28-29," said a source. The survey was done by Delhi government with technical support from Maulana Azad Medical College, which is currently analysing the collected samples. Before the results are declared, the findings will be submitted in the Delhi high court. The third serological survey has found Covid-19 antibodies in around 33% of the population, which means that nearly 66 lakh people of Delhi are likely to have developed Covid antibodies according to the analysis of the samples. The third survey is likely to produce highest seroprevalence-prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies-since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The second survey had revealed the prevalence of Covid antibodies in 29.1% population, up from 23.4% in the first serological survey. The first sero-survey was conducted from June end to early July while the third survey was conducted in the first week of August. "The survey report will help the government plan micro-level interventions in the district for containing the coronavirus spread," said an official adding that areas in districts with low prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies will comparatively need more attention. In the three serological surveys conducted so far, a vast area of the capital has been covered. In the first survey, 21,000 samples were collected from different areas. In the second survey, only 15,000 samples were collected, but no sample was collected from areas already covered under the first sero-survey sample collection exercise. Similarly, in the third survey, the areas covered under the first two surveys were excluded. The samples were collected from people of all age groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-results-of-third-sero-survey-likely-next-week/articleshow/78306687.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Yediyurappa lays foundation stone for pilgrim centres at Tirumala||BENGALURU: Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday laid the foundation stones for two complexes, including a guesthouse, for Karnataka devotees in Tirumala, the hill abode of Lord Venkateswara in Andhra Pradesh. Andhra chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy attended the event. The projects are expected to cost a total of Rs 200 crore. Using a plan shared by Karnataka, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which governs the hill shrine, will built a complex with amenities for pilgrims from Karnataka and a marriage hall. Karnataka will fully fund the construction, Yediyurappa said. Before laying the foundation stones, Yediyurappa and Reddy offered prayers to the presiding deity of Lord Venkateswara. The two chief ministers also took part in ‘Sundarakaanda Paaraayanam’ recitation, which is being conducted for over three months now for everyone’s safety from Covid-19, officials said. The guesthouse will have 305 rooms with two beds each, 12 dormitories, 24 suites and four double suites, accommodating 1,005 pilgrims at a time. It will be spread over three blocks, each having three floors and basement parking. Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy had urged the government to defer the projects in wake of the pandemic. “The project cost went up from Rs 26 crore during my tenure to Rs 200 crore in just one year,” he had tweeted, questioning the decision to hand over the project implementation to TTD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yediyurappa-lays-foundation-stone-for-pilgrim-centres-at-tirumala/articleshow/78316612.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ten water bodies closer to wetland status||PANAJI: While the Bondvol lake is in the final stages of becoming Goa’s first notified wetland, ten other water bodies in the state are also inching closer towards being officially declared as wetlands. The Goa State Wetland Authority, at its meeting held last week, approved the “brief document” on these ten water bodies, which will now be sent to the state government for their draft notification as per the wetland rules of the Union environment ministry. The water bodies that have been identified include, in North Goa, the Carambolim lake, Tollear lake in Chimbel and Batim lake in Tiswadi taluka, the Dhasi lake in Revora and Saulem tollem in Pilerne in Bardez taluka. In South Goa it is the Sarzora lake and Durga lake in Chinchinim, Xeldem lake and Nanda lake in Quepem and Cottambi lake. “The seventh meeting of the Goa State Wetland Authority was held on September 18 and was chaired by environment minister Nilesh Cabral. Considering public interest, another significant decision was taken by the authority. It was to exclude all existing residential houses and buildings in the areas from the scope of zone of influence of the notified wetland,” said an official present at the meeting. After the state government receives the document, a draft notification will be issued and kept open to the public for 60 days. In the case of Bondvol lake, this process was already carried out, but it was later found that some survey numbers were not incorporated in the draft notification. After adding these survey numbers, the draft notification has recently been kept open again to the public. “The state government has entrusted a team from CSIR-NIO the task of identifying water bodies, which can be notified as wetlands. Accordingly, the team had identified 35 such bodies. Besides Bondvol and the ten water bodies for which the brief document is ready, the process for 24 other water bodies has also been set rolling ,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ten-water-bodies-closer-to-wetland-status/articleshow/78305651.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||In landslide-prone Mormugao ward, families live on the edge||VASCO: Dinesh Naik and his family had a narrow escape last monsoon when a landslide led to the collapse of the steps leading to his front door, at Rumdavaddo, in Bogda. The 15-member family, which is among several others living in homes precariously perched on a hillock facing the Mormugao Port Trust yard, was subsequently accommodated in a flat of the Goa Rehabilitation Board at Sada. A few months later, however, the Naiks were asked to vacate. Left with no alternative, they returned to their home on the hillock at Rumdavaddo. Like them, there are several families that continue to live in the area not knowing when a similar tragedy might strike them. “At least six landslides occur in ward 6 each year, but luckily, no casualties have been reported yet. Houses have been built from the top to the bottom of the hillock and over the years, rainfall has caused substantial soil erosion,” said councillor Nilesh Navelkar, who represents the ward. The entire hillock comprises wards 5 and 6 and part of ward 3 of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC). Former MMC vice-chairperson and councillor Shashikant Parab attributed the frequent landslides to haphazard tree-cutting and unplanned construction. Mormugao mamlatdar Saiesh Naik told TOI that the area is served notices to vacate every year. “Whenever tragedies occur, we at the most provide those affected with temporary shelters and prepare reports for compensation.” Many times, portions of houses higher up the hillock collapse onto the ones below. Other times, trees get uprooted and damage properties. People have stopped reporting such incidents as they do not want to be evacuated and placed in temporary public shelters,” Navelkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-landslide-prone-mormugao-ward-families-live-on-the-edge/articleshow/78305654.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: High-resolution CT scan 50% cheaper, plasma cost dips 25%||MUMBAI: The state government on Thursday slashed the price of high resolution CT (HRCT) scan for Covid-19 patients by more than half, fixing it between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 depending on the machine’s features. The price of 200 ml plasma unit too has been cut by 25% and capped at Rs 5,500. The decisions follow complaints from patients of being overcharged or blackmarketing in case of plasma. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of the State Health Assurance Society, who headed the committee set up to decide on the HRCT price capping, told TOI that “the cost of HRCT has been between Rs5,000 and Rs1,0000 in some five-star hospitals.” Radiologists performing CT scans for Covid-19 patients will not only have to report on the lungs, but also mention details of other organs. “Doctors were following a short-cut method of only reporting on lungs, but if a patient is undergoing a scan full of radiation, he or she should be told about other organs as well,” said Dr Shinde. The cost of CT (HRCT) scan includes the price of PPE, disinfectants, etc. HRCT emerged as a key diagnostic tool for Covid-19, while convalescent plasma is being used to treat mild to moderately ill patients. While a 200 ml unit of plasma extracted using the plasmapherisis method has been capped at Rs5,500 per bag, the average cost in most hospitals in Mumbai is between Rs7,000 and Rs 7,500. In the early phase of the Covid pandemic, high-resolution CT scan (HRCT) had emerged as a life-saving tool for city doctors. The ‘ground glass’ opacities in the CT scans of the lungs helped doctors decide on the severity of the disease in patients whose tests results were taking days to arrive. “RT-PCR only has a sensitivity of 70% to diagnose Covid-19, while antigen tests have 50% sensitivity. However, HRCT has over 80% sensitivity,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19. “It is a useful tool to understand the severity of the disease. The capping will make it more accessible for the common man,” he added. Convalescent plasma is in demand for treatment of Covid-19 patents after the ministry allowed for off-label or emergency use of plasma. The state government appointed an expert committee with the help of the State Blood Transfusion Council. The committee has fixed the rates keeping in view the cost of collecting plasma by plasma apheresis method and the service charges for additional tests/special tests on blood as per the National Blood Policy. If the plasma bag is provided with a NAT test, the charges for the test have been capped at Rs1,200 per test (excluding the cost of plasma bag) and Rs 500 for a chemiluminescence test done on the plasma unit. “The almost 25% cut in the rate of 200ml of plasma is good for patients. The capping exercise will introduce checks and balances and control blackmarketing,’’ said Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist, who is a member of the state task force on Covid. The first plasma trial findings by the ICMR over a month back showed that it didn’t affect mortality rates. However, many doctors have said plasma has a role to play in mild to moderately ill patients. “With the capping of rates, plasma will be available to patients at a nominal rate. The government will take strict action like revoking licences of blood banks which do not implement the rate and are found to overcharge,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-high-resolution-ct-scan-50-cheaper-plasma-cost-dips-25/articleshow/78306742.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 25, 2020||Goa||Centre notifies national highway for Mopa airport||PANAJI: The Centre on Thursday declared that the proposed Dhargalim to Varconda road, which will connect NH 66 to the new airport at Mopa, will be part of the national highway network. Land will be acquired for the new national highway which has been designated as 166S. With the notification out, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will begin the process to acquire land and tender the contract to build the highway. “The highway connecting Mopa airport to NH 66 has been declared as National Highway by the government of India,” said chief minister Pramod Sawant. “I thank minister Nitin Gadkari for the notification. This will ensure that the highway is developed under NHAI and Mopa airport will have seamless connectivity,” he said. In 2018, the Centre had given an in-principle approval for the construction of an 8-km-long highway from Dhargalim to Varconda though authorities had yet to decide whether to construct a six-lane or a four-lane highway. GMR Airports Ltd, through its subsidiary GMR Goa International Airport Limited (GGIAL), is constructing the greenfield airport at Mopa plateau in Pernem taluka. The first phase of the airport is supposed to be ready by March 2022. “This is a new road. Land has to be acquired for the highway and then the construction will start,” said PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar. The PWD has prepared a detailed project report for the road, envisioning it as an expressway to the airport and has recommended that a six-lane highway should be constructed in view of the higher traffic projected along the route. Aside from the airport, 234 acres of land has been earmarked for commercial development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-notifies-natl-highway-for-mopa-airport/articleshow/78305664.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Another alleged organiser of ‘rave’ to travel to Mum||Panaji: After permitting Kapil Jhaverri to travel to Mumbai for a limited period on medical grounds, the sessions court at Panaji has permitted one of the alleged organisers of the drug-fuelled party in Anjuna, a Mexican national, to travel to Mumbai. The court relaxed her bail conditions for 15 days and directed her to return to Goa by the end of the second week of October. She was among those arrested by the crime branch at a rave party at Anjuna last month. She submitted to the court that she has to visit her family members and mother-in-law who is alone in Mumbai. Public prosecutor Ana Mendonza stated that the application should be rejected as she is one of the main accused and may not return to Goa. The court granted her permitting her to travel to Mumbai only for a limited period after observing that her husband who was not found at the spot during the rave party was granted permission to travel to Mumbai and report to the police station in Goa, whenever required by the police. Another foreign national from Russia who was also arrested at the party and let out on bail has requested the court for her phone and belongings which were seized by the police during the raid. The court dismissed her application stating that her phone and backpack in which the drugs were allegedly found were required for investigation. Public prosecutor Mendonza submitted to the court that the Apple I-Phone-7 Plus phone will be sent to GFSL, Verna for examination and to retrieve data. The court held that the items couldn’t be returned as the investigation is not over and chargesheet hasn’t been filed as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-alleged-organiser-of-rave-to-travel-to-mum/articleshow/78305681.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Gakuved for village mining cooperatives||Poinguinim: The Gawda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar (Gakuved) Federation has said that the published draft on proposed mining reforms only talks about the enhancement of private investments and has no mention of the tribals devastated by the effects of mining. Gakuved general secretary Rupesh Velip said mining activities should be carried out by village cooperatives. “The mineral resources raised by villages can be then purchased by private players under the supervision of the state and central governments. It will help make villages ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) and will also create employment,” he said. The federation said that mining-affected communities are never taken into confidence when policies are decided. “We have cases where their lands have been forcibly taken over by mining companies. When they protest, they are either beaten or arrested,” Velip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gakuved-for-village-mining-cooperatives/articleshow/78305686.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Goa invites applications for private fishing jetties||PANAJI: In a bid to relieve pressure from the existing notified jetties, the state government has proposed to notify private fish landing centres in Goa. Applicants that desire to notify any area as private landing centre where the activity of unloading of fish, along with its other auxiliary activity such as net mending, repair of vessel is carried out, has to make application to directorate of fisheries along with all the details of land he owns or taken on lease. Along with the application, the applicant has to provide a report, which will include all details, like total area to be notified, different kinds of auxiliary activity to be carried on proposed landing points, mechanism for reporting entry and exit of vessel, fish catch data and coastal security measures. The layout and plan with proper demarcation of area for various activities must be furnished. Fishing vessels which are registered with the fisheries department only shall be allowed to land at private landing centres from a coastal security point of view. CCTV cameras that cover the entire landing centre 24 by 7 have to be compulsorily installed by the applicant. The CCTV footage data has to be stored for a minimum period of two months and the same submitted to the coastal security police as and when asked for. Besides, the applicant has to provide an online application based viewing rights to the coastal security police and other security agencies, like the district collector, department of fisheries, coast guard, captain of ports, etc, at all times as and when sought for. The owner of the landing centre has to also maintain the record of the crew working in the proposed landing centre. Also, the movement of vessels and other activities conducted have to be recorded in the register and must be produced before any officer of the directorate of fisheries for inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-invites-applications-for-private-fishing-jetties/articleshow/78305695.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Melauli locals hold anti-IIT project protest||Valpoi: A day after officials from the land survey department began demarcating land for the proposed IIT-Goa project at Shel-Melauli village in Sattari taluka, local residents organised a rally in Valpoi town demanding that the project be shifted from their village. Co-convener of Melaluli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shubham Shivolkar, said the government had taken over villagers’ lands to construct an IIT without even holding a gram sabha. “The people have the right to participate in a gram sabha. Without the people’s permission, nothing can be done. So, how is this government bringing up such a big project at the cost of our environment and livelihood?” Shivolkar said. Earlier, the locals had submitted a memorandum to Sattari deputy collector Rajesh Ajgaonkar urging that demarcation be stopped. Ajgaonkar, however, said he couldn’t halt the activity but could just forward the villagers’ concerns to the higher authorities.  Demarcation was done in the presence of a strong police force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-locals-hold-anti-iit-project-protest/articleshow/78305706.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Goa||Congress to hold protest march against farm bills on Sept 28||PANAJI: The three agricultural bills pushed through Parliament will have an adverse impact on farmers as it will leave them vulnerable to market forces and large corporates, said the Congress party as it announced its plan to hold a protest march to Raj Bhavan on September 28. The Congress has started a nationwide protest with state level protests proposed till November demanding immediate withdrawal of the farm bills. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that they would walk from Dona Paula circle to Raj Bhavan and submit a petition to Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Newly appointed Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao will join the march in Goa. “This government is against farmers and the Congress party will bring all the pressure required to force the government to revoke these bills,” said Chodankar. Parliament has passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Centre now awaits presidential assent for the Bills. Chodankar said that on September 26 a social media campaign in support of farmers will be organised while on October 2, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day). “The program will have block-level discussions across the state,” said Chodankar. On October 10, state-level conferences will be held and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures with the aim of garnering two crore signatures from across the country. The party’s state office bearers met on Wednesday to discuss the Bills and the strategy for the protests and demonstrations in Goa. “Private companies will enter this sector because of these Bills and farmers will not get the price that they deserve,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “Big companies will take advantage of the poverty of farmers and soon the farmers will lose ownership of their land.” The party said it believes that the Centre also plans to dismantle the Food Corporation of India (FCI). “The prime minister says that there will be a minimum support price but the Bill does not mention this at all. Farmers will come victim to market forces and with no mandis to sell to, they will have to sell their produce at whatever prices the big companies offer,” said former union law minister Ramakant Khalap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-to-hold-protest-march-against-farm-bills-on-sept-28/articleshow/78305713.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai toll (54) highest in 47 days, BMC wants to do 20,000 tests daily||MUMBAI: On the 200th day since Covid-19 struck Maharashtra, the state reported a dip in cases but for the second day in a row added over 400 fatalities. The state reported 19,164 cases and 459 deaths on Thursday, taking its total cases to 12,82,963 and toll to 34,345. Mumbai also registered a slight dip in the daily tally of cases with 2,163 reported on Thursday, taking its tally to 1,92,301. The number of deaths in the city were 54—the highest single-day toll in 47 days. While 38 of the 54 victims had comorbidities, 43 were over 60 years old. Officials have attributed the large number of deaths to book-keeping. Of the total 459 deaths, 256 were from the last 48 hours, 125 from last week and 78 from the period before that, the state update said. BMC commissioner I S Chahal told a CII conference on healthcare that BMC would work towards increasing the number of tests to 20,000 a day as CM Uddhav Thackeray had told the Centre the state’s testing capacity would be increased to conduct 1.5 lakh tests daily. “We in Mumbai have the capacity to conduct 1,000 RT-PCR tests and the rest are antigen tests, but I prefer RT-PCR tests and we will work towards increasing its numbers,” said Chahal. AMC Suresh Kakani said BMC has contacted more private labs to conduct RT-PCR tests in a bid to increase testing capacity. Pune region added the highest cases while MMR reported the most fatalities. MMR reported 4,740 cases and 97 deaths, taking its cases to 4.5 lakh and deaths to 15,178. Pune region added 4,956 cases and 94 deaths. Except for Kalyan-Dombivli, the rest of MMR registered a slight drop in cases. Kalyan-Dombivli saw 469 cases and 4 deaths. Thane city saw 389 new cases and 8 deaths. In Navi Mumbai, 325 cases were reported and 5 deaths. The PCMC areas reported 264 cases and five deaths. A total of 17,184 people recovered on Thursday, taking the state’s total recoveries to 9.7 lakh and the rate of discharge to 75.8%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Manoj Badgeri and BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-mumbai-toll-54-highest-in-47-days-bmc-wants-to-do-20000-tests-daily/articleshow/78306779.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 25, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai toll (54) highest in 47 days, BMC wants to do 20,000 tests daily||MUMBAI: On the 200th day since Covid-19 struck Maharashtra, the state reported a dip in cases but for the second day in a row added over 400 fatalities. The state reported 19,164 cases and 459 deaths on Thursday, taking its total cases to 12,82,963 and toll to 34,345. Mumbai also registered a slight dip in the daily tally of cases with 2,163 reported on Thursday, taking its tally to 1,92,301. The number of deaths in the city were 54—the highest single-day toll in 47 days. While 38 of the 54 victims had comorbidities, 43 were over 60 years old. Officials have attributed the large number of deaths to book-keeping. Of the total 459 deaths, 256 were from the last 48 hours, 125 from last week and 78 from the period before that, the state update said. BMC commissioner I S Chahal told a CII conference on healthcare that BMC would work towards increasing the number of tests to 20,000 a day as CM Uddhav Thackeray had told the Centre the state’s testing capacity would be increased to conduct 1.5 lakh tests daily. “We in Mumbai have the capacity to conduct 1,000 RT-PCR tests and the rest are antigen tests, but I prefer RT-PCR tests and we will work towards increasing its numbers,” said Chahal. AMC Suresh Kakani said BMC has contacted more private labs to conduct RT-PCR tests in a bid to increase testing capacity. Pune region added the highest cases while MMR reported the most fatalities. MMR reported 4,740 cases and 97 deaths, taking its cases to 4.5 lakh and deaths to 15,178. Pune region added 4,956 cases and 94 deaths. Except for Kalyan-Dombivli, the rest of MMR registered a slight drop in cases. Kalyan-Dombivli saw 469 cases and 4 deaths. Thane city saw 389 new cases and 8 deaths. In Navi Mumbai, 325 cases were reported and 5 deaths. The PCMC areas reported 264 cases and five deaths. A total of 17,184 people recovered on Thursday, taking the state’s total recoveries to 9.7 lakh and the rate of discharge to 75.8%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Manoj Badgeri and BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-mumbai-toll-54-highest-in-47-days-bmc-wants-to-do-20000-tests-daily/articleshow/78306767.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 25, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Mumbai toll (54) highest in 47 days, BMC wants to do 20,000 tests daily||MUMBAI: On the 200th day since Covid-19 struck Maharashtra, the state reported a dip in cases but for the second day in a row added over 400 fatalities. The state reported 19,164 cases and 459 deaths on Thursday, taking its total cases to 12,82,963 and toll to 34,345. Mumbai also registered a slight dip in the daily tally of cases with 2,163 reported on Thursday, taking its tally to 1,92,301. The number of deaths in the city were 54—the highest single-day toll in 47 days. While 38 of the 54 victims had comorbidities, 43 were over 60 years old. Officials have attributed the large number of deaths to book-keeping. Of the total 459 deaths, 256 were from the last 48 hours, 125 from last week and 78 from the period before that, the state update said. BMC commissioner I S Chahal told a CII conference on healthcare that BMC would work towards increasing the number of tests to 20,000 a day as CM Uddhav Thackeray had told the Centre the state’s testing capacity would be increased to conduct 1.5 lakh tests daily. “We in Mumbai have the capacity to conduct 1,000 RT-PCR tests and the rest are antigen tests, but I prefer RT-PCR tests and we will work towards increasing its numbers,” said Chahal. AMC Suresh Kakani said BMC has contacted more private labs to conduct RT-PCR tests in a bid to increase testing capacity. Pune region added the highest cases while MMR reported the most fatalities. MMR reported 4,740 cases and 97 deaths, taking its cases to 4.5 lakh and deaths to 15,178. Pune region added 4,956 cases and 94 deaths. Except for Kalyan-Dombivli, the rest of MMR registered a slight drop in cases. Kalyan-Dombivli saw 469 cases and 4 deaths. Thane city saw 389 new cases and 8 deaths. In Navi Mumbai, 325 cases were reported and 5 deaths. The PCMC areas reported 264 cases and five deaths. A total of 17,184 people recovered on Thursday, taking the state’s total recoveries to 9.7 lakh and the rate of discharge to 75.8%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Manoj Badgeri and BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-mumbai-toll-54-highest-in-47-days-bmc-wants-to-do-20000-tests-daily/articleshow/78306778.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 25, 2020||Amaravati||Global demand for Guntur’s dry chilli shoots up, farmers rejoice||AMARAVATI: With the markets slowly opening up across the globe, demand for dry chilli in the international market has shot up, resulting in an increase in prices. The high quality chilli Teja variety is fetching around Rs 17,000-18,000 per quintal while other common varieties too are getting a good price of over Rs 12,000-14,000 per quintal. Sources said that the price in the local markets was escalating thanks to the good export orders. The chilli prices were just around Rs 8,000-10,000 per quintal during the peak season before lockdown and they dipped to around Rs 6,000 per quintal due to the lockdown. Majority of the growers sold their stocks to the merchants and their middlemen after seeing the prices nose diving during the lockdown. Sources said that around 20 per cent of the farmers kept their stocks in the cold-storages after the merchants assured them of getting reasonably good prices after the lockdown. As anticipated by the traders, the prices started shooting up in the last 2-3 weeks. The prices touched an all-time high of Rs 18,000 per quintal in the last two days. Sources said that about 30-40 lakh bags of stock is still parked in the cold-storages which might give decent profits to the traders. “Teja and Byadigi varieties are commanding good prices due to the demand from exporters. The prices are relatively high,” said L Kranti Sekhar, a leading chilli trader. Commission agents association former secretary Suresh Reddy said that production loss in some of the northern states due to the sudden floods and heavy rains has triggered the prices in the local markets. He said that common varieties too were fetching around Rs 100-120 per kg which is almost 40-50 per cent increase from the lockdown period. He said that there was a demand from other states in view of the festive season. Guntur agriculture market committee chairman Ch Yesurathnam said that they were allowing the sale of the stocks even at the cold-storage points to ease the traffic congestion in the market yard. He said that the decision to operate market near cold-storages had also helped farmers gain good prices. About 40,000 bags per day were being transacted at the market yard which is also very high during September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/global-demand-for-gunturs-dry-chilli-shoots-up-farmers-rejoice/articleshow/78303280.cms||Samdani MN
September 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Railways provide special rakes for transport of chilli||GUNTUR: Taking the advantage of the growing demand for chilli, the Guntur railway division is making special arrangements for its export and has provided rakes if the farmers come together and are ready to export even 23 quintals. The earlier minimum export limit to book a wagon was 230 quintals. Guntur railway division officials have set up a special Business Development Unit (BDU) to closely coordinate with the farmers and merchant bodies. Curiously, the BDU itself is making all arrangements, including tie-ups with the transporters, to move the stock from field to the goods shed and ship out the produce to the final destination. The railway officials are encouraging the farmers to join hands and strike deals with the exporters who could in turn export the stock to other nations. “We are ready to extend all possible support to the growers as well as the merchants as transport through goods wagons is relatively environment friendly and economical,” said DRM R Mohan Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rlys-provide-special-rakes-for-transport/articleshow/78303296.cms||Samdani MN
September 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: CID summons former minister Bhuma Akhila Priya||VIJAYAWADA: The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) issued summons to five persons including former tourism minister and TDP leader Bhuma Akhila Priya on Thursday. The summons were issued because the former minister allegedly made allegations against Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan that he was responsible for the spread of Covid-19 at a quarantine centre. According to CID sources, the department received a complaint from Hafeez Khan wherein he alleged that Akhila Priya and a few other politicians have held him responsible for the spread of Covid-19 at a quarantine centre. On the basis of the complaint, CID has issued notices to Akhila Priya, BJP functionary Byreddy Rajasekhar Reddy and three others under Section 41 of CrPC (notice of appearance before police officer). Speaking to the media a few days ago, the former minister had reportedly said that the Srikalahasti MLA Madhusudhan Reddy had organised a rally with tractors and eight government officials contracted Covid-19 due to ruling party MLAs and MPs. She had also demanded that criminal cases be filed against those responsible for the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kurnool. On the other hand, Hafeez Khan had initially denied the allegations calling them politically-motivated rumours and has now chosen to file a complaint. Responding to the notices, the BJP functionary cited the Covid-19 situation in the region as the reason for him being unable to make it to CID’s inquiry. TDP sources said that Akhila Priya would send a legal response to the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cid-summons-former-minister-akhila-priya/articleshow/78303353.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||TDP lodges complaint against Andhra Pradesh labour minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: TDP leader and former minister Ayyanna Patrudu on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) alleging that state labour minister Gummanur Jayaram’s son has received a car from a businessman. TDP functionaries demanded that Jayaram be removed from the cabinet. Speaking to the media, Ayyanna Patrudu said, “Why did the minister and his son take photographs with one of the accused in the ESI scam?” He further said, “Why does a businessman give a lavish car to the minister’s son? The chief minister is trying to protect the corrupt minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-lodges-plaint-against-labour-min/articleshow/78303378.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Lucknow||Crime against women: UP plans to name & shame habitual offenders||LUCKNOW: The UP government is planning ‘Operation Durachari’, to be launched soon for naming and shaming habitual offenders in the cases of crime against women. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also instructed the police to strengthen ‘anti-Romeo squads’ across the state. Although the modalities and other details of ‘Operation Durachari’ are yet to be finalised, sources in the state home department said that photographs of those found to be habitual offenders in cases of sexual harassment and other crime against women would be put on display at prominent crossings. It has also been decided that all those involved in crime against women should be handled by women officers only. If there is any criminal incident with a woman, then the respective beat in-charge, outpost incharge, police station in-charge and circle officer would be held responsible. DGP HC Awasthy also instructed district police chiefs to take strict action in cases of crime against women and strengthen the ‘anti-Romeo squads’. He said that patrolling of UP 112 vehicles should be intensified on places where eveteasing is common and all the police chiefs should make a facility of women help centres in their respective offices. Checking by anti-Romeo squads must be done by cops while wearing body-worn cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crime-against-women-up-plans-to-name-shame-habitual-offenders/articleshow/78306788.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Mass culling of street dogs in Chilakaluripet||GUNTUR: Around 100 street dogs were found dead in a garbage yard at Purushottampatnam in Chilakaluripet constituency. The incident came to light when animal rights activist Tejovanth Anupoju of Help for Animals society brought the issue to the notice of district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar. The collector directed district panchayath officer (DPO) to conduct an inquiry and take appropriate action. In his complaint to the collector, Tejovanth said the killing of street dogs continues due to lack of awareness about laws and lack of sensitivity in dealing with the strays. He said the village authorities were ordering killing of street dogs and dumping them in open places posing serious threat to public health. “Such open dumping will cause dangerous diseases and will make people sick,” said Tejovanth. He said they were urging the authorities to go for sterilization of dogs. “The killing of animals is a violation of all animal protection laws and the Supreme Court verdicts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mass-culling-of-street-dogs-in-chilakaluripet/articleshow/78303424.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Centenarian woman beats Covid-19 in East Godavari||KAKINADA: A centenarian woman has successfully defeated Covid-19 in East Godavari district. She was discharged from a Covid hospital on Thursday after she tested negative. Though the woman is said to be around 100 years old, an official statement issued by the district public relations officer put her age at 127 years. When asked, the district collector said he was not sure whether she was 127 years old, but said she looked very feeble and old. As per record books, the oldest surviving person on earth is about 112 years old. Interestingly, her family members claimed she was born in 1893 at Jagapathinagaram, in Kirlampudi mandal of undivided Godavari district in British India. She was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital about 20 days ago. Her grandson said they had little hope of her survival when they admitted her, and thanked God for her recovery. Kakinada government general hospital superintendent M Raghavendra Rao said the hospital staff took special care of the old woman and provided her healthy food and fluids. “She was admitted on August 31 and discharged on Thursday. The centenarian’s recovery has proved that anyone can defeat Covid-19,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/centenarian-woman-beats-covid-19-in-eg/articleshow/78303450.cms||Samson Raj
September 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four arrested for robbery in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The city police on Thursday arrested four persons, including a juvenile, for robbing two women. The arrested have been identified as M Ganesh (30), N Yellaji (31), T Kumar (20) and a juvenile. V Suresh Babu, DCP (crime), said that the four people on September 22 night threatened an auto driver near Old Gajuwaka and stole his autorickshaw. Around 12.15 am, two women, who came from Vijayawada in a bus and got down near Duvvada. Noticing the two women, the gang stopped the autorickshaw and claimed that they were heading towards their destination. The two-women boarded the vehicle. Later, the gang threatened the women with knives and took away Rs 4,000 cash, bags, mobile phones. Based on information from the police patrolling teams, the police nabbed the gang in the wee hours on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/four-arrested-for-robbery-in-vizag/articleshow/78303476.cms||---
September 25, 2020||India||In two days, NIA ‘cracks’ Bengaluru riots case, arrests ‘key plotter’||NEW DELHI: Two days after it took over the probe into the mob violence that rocked Bengaluru on August 11, 2020, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted searches at 30 different locations in the city and arrested a key conspirator, Sayed Saddiq Ali. NIA sources said the links of Saddiq , a recovery agent with a bank and allegedly a member of Congress, with hardline outfits State Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI) are being investigated. The locations searched on Thursday were essentially residences of arrested accused, absconding accused and suspects in the two cases relating to the mob attacks. Among the recoveries made by NIA were airgun, pellets, sharp weapons, iron rods, digital devices, DVRs and many SDPI and PFI-related “incriminating” documents and material. Saddiq, aged 44 years and a resident of Bengaluru, NIA said, was directly involved in the August 11 attack on KG Halli police station in Bengaluru, which resulted in huge damage and destruction of public and government property, including to the police station building and vehicles parked there and in nearby areas. Saddiq had been absconding since the mob attacks that day. He was named as an accused in the original FIR registered by the Bengaluru Police, after eyewitness accounts indicated that he was at the front of the violent mob and an active participant in the attack. After taking over the case, NIA served summons to Saddiq at his residence and he responded by presenting himself before the agency’s investigating team. He was arrested after a round of questioning. “Saddiq’s suspected links with the SDPI and PFI (whose leaders and members are believed to have instigated the mob to unleash violence in protest against the allegedly derogatory Facebook post by nephew of Congress MLA from Pulakeshi Nagar, Akhanda Srinivas Murthy) are a subject matter of investigation,” an officer told TOI. The cases taken over by NIA on Tuesday pertain to mob violence, allegedly against a “derogatory” social media remark that was seen as insulting the religious sentiments of Muslims, by Naveen, nephew of Congress MLA Srinivas Akhanda Murthy. The State SDPI Secretary, Muzamil Pasha and other members of SDPI/PFI, NIA said, had assembled the mob at the houses of Naveen, Akhanda Srinivas Murthy and at the premises of DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations. The mob then vandalised the premises and resorted to arson, creating fear and panic among the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-two-days-nia-cracks-bengaluru-riots-case-arrests-key-plotter/articleshow/78306655.cms||Bharti Jain
September 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||6.5 lakh cases in Andhra Pradesh, 1 lakh per million tested||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state reported 7,855 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,54,385 even as the death toll increased to 5,558 with 52 more deaths in the last 24 hours. On the brighter side, as many as 8,807 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. There are currently 69,353 active cases with 5,79,574 recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 88.55 per cent. East Godavari is the only district in the state that continues to report more than a thousand new cases daily. On Thursday, East Godavari reported 1,095 new Covid-19 cases while the neighboring West Godavari added 992 new cases, Prakasam district reported 927 cases and Chittoor district reported 902 cases. As many as 76,000 samples were tested in the state in the past 24 hours. The state has so far completed 53.78 lakh sample tests at the rate of 1,00,718 per million population, turning out a positivity rate of 12.17 per cent. While East Godavari has the highest number of active cases with 11,395 persons still under treatment in hospitals and home isolation, Anantapur district has the lowest number of active cases with 2,456. East Godavari also has the highest number of recoveries of 79,246. Chittoor district reported eight fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, while Anantapur and Guntur reported six fresh fatalities each. Krishna, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts reported five casualties each. With four more deaths on Thursday, Covid-19 toll of East Godavari district breached the 500 mark to 501 and it was the third district after Chittoor and Guntur to cross the 500 deaths mark. Kadapa, Kurnool and West Godavari districts reported three more casualties each. Vizianagarm district reported two deaths, while Nellore and Srikakulam districts reported one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/6-5-lakh-cases-in-ap-1l-per-million-tested/articleshow/78303497.cms||---
September 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna crosses 25,000 mark, toll rises to 413||VIJAYAWADA: Covid-19 cases in Krishna district crossed the 25,000 mark on Thursday as the district recorded 346 new cases. The total number of cases rose to 25,281 even as the death toll rose to 413 with five new casualties. The doubling rate in Krishna district had come down from August first week and the infection rate also came down as urban areas like Vijayawada, Gudivada, and Machilipatnam recorded less cases. Officials are performing tests at multiple locations and have shifted their focus to rural areas as the number of cases there have increased. Krishna district administration on Thursday declared 11 new areas as containment zones. The total number of containment zones in the district now touched 507. Health wing authorities at the ground-level are striving hard to provide medical care for the 2,830 active cases in the containment areas. High-risk cases were been shifted to Covid-19 hospitals based on health conditions and complications. Revenue divisional officers of Machilipatnam, Gudivada, and Nuzividu were directed to take strict containment measures as 65 percent of new cases were registered in these areas. Rural areas were registering a huge number of cases, which has became a concern for the officials. Contact tracing is monitored from the dedicated control rooms and data of smart pulse survey is used to alert neighbours and close contacts of Covid-19 patients in villages. Meanwhile, district collector A Md Imtiaz on Thursday demarcated eight containment areas in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-crosses-25k-mark-toll-rises-to-413/articleshow/78303570.cms||Venu Lanka
September 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Guntur fisherman nets rare Ghol fish, gets Rs 1.4 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: A fisherman in Guntur district struck gold when he netted a rare fish, whose bladder sells at Rs 11 lakh a kg. The fish is believed to possess medicinal properties and has high demand in China. The fisherman, Doni Devudu from Danapet village in Bapatla mandal of Guntur district, caught the fish, commonly known as Ghol (Otolithoides biauritus). Traders from Maharashtra bought it and plan to export it to China. The fish has high demand in China.Devudu could not believe his eyes when he found the fish, locally known as ‘Kachidi’, in his nets. As the word went around, Yeripilli Darakonda, owner of Baba Sea Foods at Vadarevu in Chiala mandal of Prakasam district, brought the fish from Bapatla for Rs 1.4 lakh, said A Chandrasekhar Reddy, joint director, fisheries department, Prakasam district. The bladder of the Ghol fish sells at Rs 11 lakh a kg.Darakonda told TOI that the air bladder of the fish weighed 520 grams. The fish weighed 24.8 kgs. He said sold the fish to traders from Maharashtra. “A kilo of Ghol fish bladder sells for anywhere between Rs 3.5 lakh and Rs 11 lakh, depending on its size, in the international market. I got 520 grams this time,” Darakonda said. The fish is also used for preparation of beer and wine as a clearing agent. Dr Shubhadeep Ghosh, principal scientist at Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute in Vizag, said Ghol is rarely found in the East Coast. The bladder is used to make isinglass, which contains more than 80% collagen. It is used for preparation of beer and wine as a clearing agent. It is also used in the pharma industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/guntur-fisherman-nets-rare-ghol-fish-gets-rs-1-4-lakh/articleshow/78303609.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
