September 26, 2020||India||Oxford vaccine's trial to start at Mumbai's KEM Hospital||MUMBAI: The government-run KEM Hospital here on Saturday will administer, as part of human trial, Oxford University's Covishield vaccine for coronavirus to three persons, said hospital Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh. "We have screened 13 persons so far including 10 today, of which three will get the first shot of Oxford University-AstraZeneca developed Covishield vaccine on Saturday," he said. Another person will get placebo as part of the standard testing procedure, he added. Read AlsoHighly effective coronavirus antibodies identified, may lead to passive Covid-19 vaccineScientists have identified highly effective antibodies against the novel coronavirus, which they say can lead to the development of a passive vaccination for Covid-19. Unlike in the active vaccination, passive vaccination involves the administration of ready-made antibodies, which are degraded afterKEM is the first hospital in Mumbai where human trials of the vaccine, being manufactured in the country by Pune- based Serum Institute of India, will begin on Saturday. Watch Oxford vaccine's trial to start at Mumbai's KEM Hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oxford-vaccines-trial-to-start-at-mumbais-kem-hospital/articleshow/78324810.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||FC Goa sign towering Australian defender Donachie||PANAJI: FC Goa have completed their foreign quota for this season with the signing of Australian defender James Donachie. The towering 27-year-old will be here on a season-long loan from Newcastle Jets after FC Goa convinced the defender that it was best for him to spend the prime of his career in the Indian Super League (ISL) and AFC Champions League. At 1.93m (6ft 4in) Donachie is taller than Mourtada Fall (1.91m), the Senegalese defender he will replace at FC Goa, and will provide the same aerial threat, if not more. Besides, his experience of playing in the AFC Champions League for five seasons will hold the team in good stead. “Donachie ticks all the boxes. He’s tall, strong, but more importantly very comfortable with the ball at his feet. Alongside Ivan (Gonzalez), the two can form a very sturdy partnership at the back. “FC Goa saw plenty of profiles for the Asian player but Donachie was always the top choice. The club should be glad that they were able to complete the move,” a source who has tracked the development told TOI on Friday. Despite Donachie – a junior international who also played in South Korea -- verbally agreeing a move to Goa last month, it seemed like there would be a major stumbling block. The defender, who was with Melbourne Victory last season, had signed for Newcastle Jets, and they were understandably reluctant to release him. However, with A-League clubs facing a shortfall of almost 50 per cent in their annual grants from the federation and loss of revenue from sponsorship in times of Covid-19, clubs have been forced to reduce their salary bill. This has meant asking some players to take a 30 per cent cut. For those like Donachie with better offers outside Australia, it was time to seek a transfer. “Till last week Goa didn’t know whether the move would happen. To their credit, they waited for a long time to make this happen,” said another source. It is no secret that Goa’s first choice for the Asian slot was Iranian defender Roozbeh Cheshmi, who represented his country at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Cheshmi, though, was always going to be difficult to convince, forcing Goa to abandon the chase even before it began due to wage expectations. Talks with Hadi Mohammadi, who represented Iran U-22 between 2011 and 2014, were also held. “Goa looked at many options for the Asian slot. There were two players from Iran, one from Jordan and another from Lebanon. In the end, everyone is pleased with Donachie’s signing,” said the source. The ISL has now made it mandatory for the clubs to sign at least one player from Asia, or a country like Australia which is affiliated to the Asian Football Confederation (AFC). It is not mandatory for any team to field an Asian player, but Goa will need Donachie the most for its AFC Champions League campaign where the 3+1 rule is adopted. Except for Donachie, all foreign players for FC Goa are from Spain this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-sign-towering-australian-defender-donachie/articleshow/78321657.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 26, 2020||World||China rebuked by West at UN rights forum on Hong Kong, Xinjiang||GENEVA: Western powers called on China on Friday to restore basic legal rights in Hong Kong and open up to scrutiny its remote Xinjiang region where more than one million ethnic Uighurs are held. The rare rebuke of China came at the U.N. Human Rights Council where the European Union, Britain, Australia and Canada were among those voicing mounting concerns about both areas. "No state should be above the law, China's turn has come," John Fisher of Human Rights Watch told the forum, speaking on behalf of more than 300 activist groups. Abdulxukur Abdurixit, a Uighur, urged the council to name a U.N. investigator on his native region, saying: "There is a genocide being committed against my people." "My family is held hostage in a Chinese concentration camp. My brother is forced to assemble phone chargers as a slave labourer. Your charger may be among them," he said. A Chinese diplomat rejected "baseless allegations" by Western delegations but did not address them. China has denied mistreating Uighurs and said the camps provide vocational training and are needed to fight extremism. Britain called on China to uphold rights and freedoms guaranteed in the Sino-British Joint Declaration on Hong Kong, and maintain the independence of the former British colony's judiciary. WIDESPREAD SURVEILLANCE The new security law imposed by Beijing on Hong Kong was "being implemented with the apparent intention to eliminate dissent", Britain's Lord Tariq Ahmad said. "It allows prosecution of certain cases in mainland China, a jurisdiction where defendants are often held for long periods without charge or access to legal counsel, and where we have concerns about judicial independence, due process, and reports of torture," he said. Germany, speaking for the EU, voiced concerns at "the existence of a large network of political re-education camps, widespread surveillance, and systemic restrictions on freedom of religion or belief against Uighurs and other minorities" in Xinjiang. Canada's ambassador Leslie Norton voiced alarm at "mass arbitrary detention and separation of children from their parents, repressive surveillance, as well as reports of forced labour and forced sterilisation affecting Uyghurs and other minorities" in the region. U.N. human rights chief Michelle Bachelet said last week she was discussing a possible visit to Xinjiang with Chinese authorities. Her predecessor, Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, told a UK-hosted panel on Wednesday that the "excessive use of force" against Hong Kong protesters "cannot be divorced from what is happening in the rest of China - the persecution, possibly even amounting to genocidal acts against the Uighurs in Xinjiang, the long suffering of the people of Tibet." "This only underscores why the people of Hong Kong ought to be worried," Zeid said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-rebuked-by-west-at-un-rights-forum-on-hong-kong-xinjiang/articleshow/78325263.cms||---
September 26, 2020||World||China rebuked by West at UN rights forum on Hong Kong, Xinjiang||GENEVA: Western powers called on China on Friday to restore basic legal rights in Hong Kong and open up to scrutiny its remote Xinjiang region where more than one million ethnic Uighurs are held. The rare rebuke of China came at the U.N. Human Rights Council where the European Union, Britain, Australia and Canada were among those voicing mounting concerns about both areas. "No state should be above the law, China's turn has come," John Fisher of Human Rights Watch told the forum, speaking on behalf of more than 300 activist groups. Abdulxukur Abdurixit, a Uighur, urged the council to name a U.N. investigator on his native region, saying: "There is a genocide being committed against my people." "My family is held hostage in a Chinese concentration camp. My brother is forced to assemble phone chargers as a slave labourer. Your charger may be among them," he said. A Chinese diplomat rejected "baseless allegations" by Western delegations but did not address them. China has denied mistreating Uighurs and said the camps provide vocational training and are needed to fight extremism. Britain called on China to uphold rights and freedoms guaranteed in the Sino-British Joint Declaration on Hong Kong, and maintain the independence of the former British colony's judiciary. WIDESPREAD SURVEILLANCE The new security law imposed by Beijing on Hong Kong was "being implemented with the apparent intention to eliminate dissent", Britain's Lord Tariq Ahmad said. "It allows prosecution of certain cases in mainland China, a jurisdiction where defendants are often held for long periods without charge or access to legal counsel, and where we have concerns about judicial independence, due process, and reports of torture," he said. Germany, speaking for the EU, voiced concerns at "the existence of a large network of political re-education camps, widespread surveillance, and systemic restrictions on freedom of religion or belief against Uighurs and other minorities" in Xinjiang. Canada's ambassador Leslie Norton voiced alarm at "mass arbitrary detention and separation of children from their parents, repressive surveillance, as well as reports of forced labour and forced sterilisation affecting Uyghurs and other minorities" in the region. U.N. human rights chief Michelle Bachelet said last week she was discussing a possible visit to Xinjiang with Chinese authorities. Her predecessor, Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, told a UK-hosted panel on Wednesday that the "excessive use of force" against Hong Kong protesters "cannot be divorced from what is happening in the rest of China - the persecution, possibly even amounting to genocidal acts against the Uighurs in Xinjiang, the long suffering of the people of Tibet." "This only underscores why the people of Hong Kong ought to be worried," Zeid said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/china-rebuked-by-west-at-un-rights-forum-on-hong-kong-xinjiang/articleshow/78325265.cms||---
September 26, 2020||India||Navies of India, Japan to hold 3-day mega military exercise from Saturday||NEW DELHI: Indian and Japanese navies will hold a three-day mega military exercise beginning Saturday in the North Arabian Sea to further consolidate their operational convergence, officials said. The exercise is taking place in the backdrop of growing concerns over China's military muscle flexing in the Indian Ocean Region as well as in the Indo-Pacific. It will be the first military exercise after the two countries signed a landmark agreement on September 9 that will allow their militaries to access each other's bases for logistics support. The officials said the fourth edition of the India-Japan maritime exercise JIMEX will feature a multitude of advanced exercises across the spectrum of maritime operations, in reflection of high degree of inter-operability and joint operational skills. The JIMEX series of exercises commenced in January 2012 with a special focus on maritime security cooperation. The last edition of JIMEX was conducted in October 2018 off Visakhapatnam coast. "Advanced level of operations and exercises planned during JIMEX-20 are indicative of the continued upswing in Indo-Japanese defence relations and continued efforts by both governments to work closely for a more secure, open and inclusive global commons, in accordance with international regulations," an Indian Navy spokesperson said. He said multi-faceted tactical exercises involving weapon firings, cross deck helicopter operations and complex surface, anti-submarine and air warfare drills will further consolidate coordination between the two navies. Indigenously built stealth destroyer Chennai, Teg Class stealth frigate Tarkash and fleet tanker Deepak will represent the Indian Navy at the exercise. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force will be represented by ships Kaga, an Izumo class helicopter destroyer and Ikazuchi, a guided missile destroyer. In addition to ships, a fleet of long range maritime patrol aircraft, helicopters and fighter aircraft will also be part of the exercise, officials said. This week, the Indian and Australian navies carried out a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean Region that featured a range of complex naval manoeuvres, anti-aircraft drills and helicopter operations. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. In the exercise with the US Navy, four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated. The US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The Indian Navy carried out a similar exercise with the Japanese navy in June. India has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region with a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row to send across a message to Beijing. The maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/navies-of-india-japan-to-hold-3-day-mega-military-exercise-from-saturday/articleshow/78325331.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||The stage comes alive after six months in Lucknow||Monday was an exciting day for theatre lovers in the city as the first play in six months was staged at the Sangeet Natak Akademi. The dance drama, Prem Na Haat Bikaay, directed by Puneet Mittal and written by Chhavi Mishra, was staged at the theatre by SNA and Yayavar Rangmandal artistes. Keeping in mind the pandemic rules and regulations, only 80 people were invited to witness the drama at the auditorium while over two thousand five hundred watched the play online. A scene from the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)A scene from the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) The play dealt with the love story of Avni and Anwar, a couple who are separated when Avni dies. Later they reunite and and in an interesting twist, their love story is told to the audience by Anwar’s wife. –Yashi Agarwal The dance and music added to the allure of the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)The dance and music added to the allure of the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) All safety precautions were put in place at the venue for the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)All safety precautions were put in place at the venue for the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) Pinky Pandey Puneet Mittal as Avni and Anwar in the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Pinky Pandey Puneet Mittal as Avni and Anwar in the play (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) (L) Jitendra Mittal (R) One of the performers (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Jitendra Mittal (R) One of the performers (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/the-stage-comes-alive-after-six-months-in-lucknow/articleshow/78321421.cms||---
September 26, 2020||India||Oct 28-Nov 7, India’s 1st polls under Covid shadow in Bihar||NEW DELHI: Bihar is set to make history as it heads into India’s first major election to be held under the shadow of Covid-19. The Election Commission on Friday announced polls to the 243-seat assembly that would test the fortunes of the ruling NDA alliance and the opposition RJD-Congress combine. The election, to be held over three phases — on October 28, November 3 and November 9 — with counting scheduled for November 10, will be keenly watched even if the RJD-led ‘Mahagathbandhan’ is seen as the underdog at the starting line. At the national level, the Modi government has faced unprecedented challenges by way of the impact of the pandemic on healthcare and economy as well as the prolonged military standoff with China — issues that will echo in the assembly polls despite the more usual focus on state and local matters. While CM Nitish Kumar of JD(U), along with allies BJP and LJP, as well as some new partners, will seek to repeat NDA’s impressive performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it bagged 39 of 40 seats, RJD and Congress will look to exploit what is seen as a certain slackness in governance in Nitish’s third term. NDA’s social combination of several non-Yadav OBCs and upper castes is formidable even as RJD has a very handy Yadav-Muslim combine as a starting block. There will be an inevitable element of polarisation as both sides look to consolidate support, and BJP is expected to point to issues like the successful litigation for Ram temple. If the polls are set to be a test of whether voters feel fatigued with Nitish who rescued the state from the lawlessness under RJD rule, they mark an opportunity for opposition’s CM face, Tejashwi Yadav, to prove wrong those who doubt he has the mettle to be a worthy successor to father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Read AlsoBihar elections: Why seat-sharing between BJP and JD(U) may not be easyNEW DELHI: The stage is set for the big battle to win Bihar. The state will go to polls in three phases and the results will be declared on November 10. The political equation in the state has changed since the last assembly elections. Nitish Kumar, who led the opposition Grand Alliance to victoryIn social terms, the elections in the state where caste often trumps other considerations will be a contest between RJD’s coalition of Muslims and Yadavs, and the JD(U)-BJP’s rainbow bloc of upper castes, non-Yadav OBCs and most backward castes. For the JD(U)-BJP, this is the first test after the Covid lockdown, which had forced a major migrant crisis, with many workers making the journey back to their homes in Bihar. Around 2.3 lakh migrants who returned to Bihar in the last few months have been added to the Bihar rolls. Approximately, 14 lakh such citizens were already on the rolls. The alliance would hope PM Narendra Modi's popularity and a weak opposition will help it to another win after Kumar returned to the NDA fold in 2017. Besides the pandemic which has highlighted the pervasive problem of unemployment in one of the country’s most backward states, controversy over the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, military confrontation with China in which Bihar Regiment was involved, and construction of Ram Mandir are expected to be other dominant themes in the fray. Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said the EC’s decision to hold the assembly polls in spite of the pandemic was taken after due deliberation and after studying practices followed by election management bodies across the world. “As the pandemic spread across the world, the first reaction globally was to postpone elections,” he said, adding this was done in over 70 countries. “However, as days and months passed and the pandemic showed no signs of abating, it became evident that some way will have to be found to balance democratic rights of citizens to choose representatives while making a systematic effort to protect the health and safety of the electors,” he said. To ensure this balance, the EC had recently issued broad guidelines on holding polls and bypolls safely, with strict social distancing and minimum contact. Number of voters per polling station was reduced from 1,500 to 1,000, taking the strength of polling stations to 1.06 lakh from around 65,367 in 2015. The nomination process has been made fully online. Physical campaigning will be allowed in grounds earmarked by district election officer who will also enforce social distancing norms. Roadshows will be broken into convoys of five vehicles and door to door campaign done by maximum five persons. With more reliance on digital campaign, the EC will monitor social media posts of parties and candidates closely and initiate appropriate action under model code of conduct, IPC and IT laws not only against those making the objectionable posts but also social media companies who don’t pull down such content. Covid-19 positive people and those under quarantine can vote by postal ballot or, alternatively, visit polling stations in the last hour of poll. In containment zones, depending on the size, auxiliary polling stations may be set up with all polling staff in PPE gear. Polling timing has been increased by an hour from 7 am to 6 pm (except in Naxal-hit pockets) instead of 7 am to 5 pm. EC sources said the Bihar polls will be wound up in three phases stretching over 11 days, as compared to five phases spread over four weeks in 2015. More than double the number of central forces has been deployed this time and phasing done so as to minimise their movement across multiple lodging facilities. When asked if the EC was apprehensive of a low turnout, the CEC cited the example of NEET and JEE having been held successfully this month. Around 15.97 lakh candidates who registered for NEET and 8.58 lakh for JEE had travelled to test centres across the country. For their safety, NEET exam centres were increased to 3,843 from 2,546, and number of candidates per room halved to 12. For JEE, 8.58 lakh candidates had registered and exam centres raised 570 to 660 across 232 cities including eight outside India. Number of shifts were increased from eight to 12 and number of candidates per shift reduced from 1.32 lakh to 85,000. “EC does not view Bihar polls (amid Covid threat) as a dare. It is a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark,” Arora said, adding that the EC had done meticulous planning to ensure safety of all stakeholders and adherence to Covid-19 management protocols. Watch Covid-19: 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits arranged for Bihar polls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oct-28-nov-7-indias-1st-polls-under-covid-shadow-in-bihar/articleshow/78325982.cms||Bharti Jain
September 26, 2020||---||Oct 28-Nov 7, India’s 1st polls under Covid shadow in Bihar||NEW DELHI: Bihar is set to make history as it heads into India’s first major election to be held under the shadow of Covid-19. The Election Commission on Friday announced polls to the 243-seat assembly that would test the fortunes of the ruling NDA alliance and the opposition RJD-Congress combine. The election, to be held over three phases — on October 28, November 3 and November 9 — with counting scheduled for November 10, will be keenly watched even if the RJD-led ‘Mahagathbandhan’ is seen as the underdog at the starting line. At the national level, the Modi government has faced unprecedented challenges by way of the impact of the pandemic on healthcare and economy as well as the prolonged military standoff with China — issues that will echo in the assembly polls despite the more usual focus on state and local matters. While CM Nitish Kumar of JD(U), along with allies BJP and LJP, as well as some new partners, will seek to repeat NDA’s impressive performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it bagged 39 of 40 seats, RJD and Congress will look to exploit what is seen as a certain slackness in governance in Nitish’s third term. NDA’s social combination of several non-Yadav OBCs and upper castes is formidable even as RJD has a very handy Yadav-Muslim combine as a starting block. There will be an inevitable element of polarisation as both sides look to consolidate support, and BJP is expected to point to issues like the successful litigation for Ram temple. If the polls are set to be a test of whether voters feel fatigued with Nitish who rescued the state from the lawlessness under RJD rule, they mark an opportunity for opposition’s CM face, Tejashwi Yadav, to prove wrong those who doubt he has the mettle to be a worthy successor to father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Read AlsoBihar elections: Why seat-sharing between BJP and JD(U) may not be easyNEW DELHI: The stage is set for the big battle to win Bihar. The state will go to polls in three phases and the results will be declared on November 10. The political equation in the state has changed since the last assembly elections. Nitish Kumar, who led the opposition Grand Alliance to victoryIn social terms, the elections in the state where caste often trumps other considerations will be a contest between RJD’s coalition of Muslims and Yadavs, and the JD(U)-BJP’s rainbow bloc of upper castes, non-Yadav OBCs and most backward castes. For the JD(U)-BJP, this is the first test after the Covid lockdown, which had forced a major migrant crisis, with many workers making the journey back to their homes in Bihar. Around 2.3 lakh migrants who returned to Bihar in the last few months have been added to the Bihar rolls. Approximately, 14 lakh such citizens were already on the rolls. The alliance would hope PM Narendra Modi's popularity and a weak opposition will help it to another win after Kumar returned to the NDA fold in 2017. Besides the pandemic which has highlighted the pervasive problem of unemployment in one of the country’s most backward states, controversy over the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, military confrontation with China in which Bihar Regiment was involved, and construction of Ram Mandir are expected to be other dominant themes in the fray. Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said the EC’s decision to hold the assembly polls in spite of the pandemic was taken after due deliberation and after studying practices followed by election management bodies across the world. “As the pandemic spread across the world, the first reaction globally was to postpone elections,” he said, adding this was done in over 70 countries. “However, as days and months passed and the pandemic showed no signs of abating, it became evident that some way will have to be found to balance democratic rights of citizens to choose representatives while making a systematic effort to protect the health and safety of the electors,” he said. To ensure this balance, the EC had recently issued broad guidelines on holding polls and bypolls safely, with strict social distancing and minimum contact. Number of voters per polling station was reduced from 1,500 to 1,000, taking the strength of polling stations to 1.06 lakh from around 65,367 in 2015. The nomination process has been made fully online. Physical campaigning will be allowed in grounds earmarked by district election officer who will also enforce social distancing norms. Roadshows will be broken into convoys of five vehicles and door to door campaign done by maximum five persons. With more reliance on digital campaign, the EC will monitor social media posts of parties and candidates closely and initiate appropriate action under model code of conduct, IPC and IT laws not only against those making the objectionable posts but also social media companies who don’t pull down such content. Covid-19 positive people and those under quarantine can vote by postal ballot or, alternatively, visit polling stations in the last hour of poll. In containment zones, depending on the size, auxiliary polling stations may be set up with all polling staff in PPE gear. Polling timing has been increased by an hour from 7 am to 6 pm (except in Naxal-hit pockets) instead of 7 am to 5 pm. EC sources said the Bihar polls will be wound up in three phases stretching over 11 days, as compared to five phases spread over four weeks in 2015. More than double the number of central forces has been deployed this time and phasing done so as to minimise their movement across multiple lodging facilities. When asked if the EC was apprehensive of a low turnout, the CEC cited the example of NEET and JEE having been held successfully this month. Around 15.97 lakh candidates who registered for NEET and 8.58 lakh for JEE had travelled to test centres across the country. For their safety, NEET exam centres were increased to 3,843 from 2,546, and number of candidates per room halved to 12. For JEE, 8.58 lakh candidates had registered and exam centres raised 570 to 660 across 232 cities including eight outside India. Number of shifts were increased from eight to 12 and number of candidates per shift reduced from 1.32 lakh to 85,000. “EC does not view Bihar polls (amid Covid threat) as a dare. It is a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark,” Arora said, adding that the EC had done meticulous planning to ensure safety of all stakeholders and adherence to Covid-19 management protocols. Watch Covid-19: 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits arranged for Bihar polls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/oct-28-nov-7-indias-1st-polls-under-covid-shadow-in-bihar/articleshow/78325770.cms||Bharti Jain
September 26, 2020||World||Cadets among 22 dead in Ukraine military plane crash||KIEV: At least 22 people including military cadets were killed and two others seriously injured Friday when a Ukranian air force plane crashed near Kharkiv in the east of the country, the interior ministry said. "Twenty-two people died," Deputy Interior Minister Anton Gerashchenko told AFP, adding that "the search for two other people is continuing". The transport plane was carrying a total of 28 passengers when it crashed, including 21 military students and seven crew, he said. "It's a shock," he added. "At the moment it's impossible to establish the cause" of the crash." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he would travel to the region on Saturday. "We are urgently creating a commission to investigate all the circumstances and causes of the tragedy," he wrote on Facebook. The Antonov-26 transport aircraft crashed at around 8:50 pm local time (17:50 GMT), two kilometres (1 mile) from the Chuhuiv military air base, the emergency services said. The plane caught fire after the crash and was extingushed after one hour. The town of Chuhuiv is around 30 kilometers southeast of Kharkiv and 100 kilometres west of the front line with the pro-Russian separatists. Watch At least 22 dead as military plane crashes in Ukraine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/22-die-in-ukraine-military-plane-crash/articleshow/78326096.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Business||Vodafone wins Rs 20,000 crore arbitration against India||NEW DELHI: Global telecom giant Vodafone has won a long-pending arbitration against India with the Permanent Court of Arbitration in Hague ruling that income tax authorities had violated provisions of the Bilateral Investment Treaty with the Netherlands by amending the law retrospectively to demand over Rs 20,000 crore in tax and penalties. A tribunal ruled that the tax demand was in breach of “equitable and fair treatment standard” provided for under the Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement (BIPA). The original tax demand was under Rs 8,000 crore, but has increased to Rs 22,000 crore due to interest and penalty claimed by the tax department. “Vodafone confirms that the investment treaty tribunal found in Vodafone’s favour. This was a unanimous decision, including India’s appointed arbitrator Mr Rodrigo Oreamuno. The tribunal held that any attempt by India to enforce the tax demand would be a violation of India’s international law obligations,” the company said in a statement. Describing it as the second win for Vodafone after the Supreme Court ruling in its favour, Anuradha Dutt, who represented the company, said: “We are hoping that the government implements the award as it will boost investor sentiment, which is critical for India today.” The finance ministry said it would study the award and decide on the future course of action in consultation with its counsels. “After such consultations, the government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action, including legal remedies, before appropriate fora,” it said in a statement. While one option is to implement the award, the government can file an appeal in a Singapore court, but on limited grounds. In the past, the government had contended that an international tribunal did not have jurisdiction on an issue that had been legislated by Parliament. “The government will have to take a view on whether to implement this award or not. If it does not, the matter will go to an Indian court. The award does tell the government not to pursue a tax demand, which may not be fully acceptable,” said Akhilesh Ranjan, a former member of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, who also headed the foreign tax wing. The case — which relates to Vodafone’s acquisition of Hutchison Whampoa’s 67% controlling interest in its Indian operations — had faced massive criticism from global investors after then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee retrospectively amended the Income Tax Act to overturn the impact of a Supreme Court ruling. The apex court had dismissed the capital gains tax demand on the transaction involving two overseas entities with underlying assets in India. Mukherjee’s action resulted in what has come to be described as “tax terrorism” as several companies faced similar demands. Although the government has promised to avoid such retrospective amendments, companies often point to the Vodafone case to argue about the lack of policy certainty in the country. The government liability from the arbitration award is estimated to be restricted to around Rs 45-50 crore, which is 60% of the legal costs and fees. Although a tribunal’s award does not set a precedent in other cases, the outcome of a similar dispute involving an over Rs 10,000 crore demand from Cairn Energy in “retrospective taxes” is being closely watched. “The tax chickens of 2012 have come home to roost... The arbitration victory is a setback for the Indian government, the ramifications of which might be even worse as there are a number of other pending arbitrations on the same set of issues. Hopefully, the Indian government will learn from this arbitration that an attractive investment climate requires that they respect the rule of law rather than undermine it,” said Nigam Nuggehalli, dean of the School of Law at BML Munjal University. On Friday, Vodafone shares closed 13.6% higher at Rs 10.36 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. Watch Vodafone wins international arbitration against India in $2 billion tax dispute case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vodafone-wins-rs-20000-cr-arbitration-against-india/articleshow/78326158.cms||---
September 26, 2020||India||Farmers, workers to benefit for 1st time in years from new laws: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Even as some farm organisations and opposition-ruled states like Punjab and Maharashtra said they will oppose implementation of the new farm laws, PM Narendra Modi on Friday stuck to his guns, asserting that the opposition has launched a disinformation campaign against welfare measures that have for decades remained mere slogans. Addressing BJP workers, the PM also backed the new labour codes, saying more than 50 crore workers in the organised and unorganised sectors will benefit from the legislations that have replaced a complex set of rules and laws and will also ensure timely payment of wages. Seeking to counter claims that the minimum support price system was being done away with, Modi said the Centre had revised MSP handsomely and added that hurdles that prevented farmers from selling their produce freely had now been dismantled. The MSP was fixed at 1.5 times of cost and Rs 1 lakh crore have been transferred to bank accounts of farmers under PM-Kisan. The PM’s remarks reflected the sense of satisfaction in government that the Covid-impacted monsoon session of Parliament had seen the passage of crucial farm and labour reforms the Centre believes are central to its economic and welfare agenda. The labour reforms are intended to give teeth to measures like reduced corporate tax to make India an attractive business destination. Farm laws are aimed at loosening the middleman nexus in agriculture and provide farmers options like contract farming as an alternative to increase incomes. Modi asked party workers to reach out to people and explain in simple words about how the legislations would impact their lives positively. “After Independence, several slogans were raised in the name of farmers and workers, manifestos were written making promises, which proved to be hollow. Those who always lied to farmers are obsessed with their own political interests and have launched a disinformation campaign to misguide the farmers,” he said. He recalled the times when Jan Sangh stalwart Deen Dayal Upadhyay spoke about “hollowness” of slogans about welfare of the poor and oppressed. He said opposition parties are spreading rumours while in fact small and marginal farmers, who constitute 85% of the peasant community, will benefit the most from these reforms. They will have an option to sell their produce outside the current agriculture ‘mandis’ for a better price. “Several farmers’ unions have hailed the legislations endorsing the government move,” he added. “Similarly workers were made to suffer due to numerous legal complications. The changes in the labour laws will be beneficial for more than 50 crore workers of the country,” Modi said. He said the government has tried to make life easier for the workers by replacing dozens of labour laws with the four labour codes. Modi also said his government has been very clear that it should not excessively interfere in the lives of those who do not need the government. “The government must use its resources more on the deprived and the marginalised,” he said. “Our ideology and political mantra is crystal clear, not ambiguous. We live by what we pledge — nation is the top priority for us. Our slogan is nation first, which is inclusive of the steps we took like removing Article 370 and helping in construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya,” the Prime Minister said. The three bills passed by Parliament are the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Modi also said it was a great coincidence that the faceless assessment of tax filings, one of the biggest reforms in our tax system, comes into effect on Deendayal Upadhyay’s birth anniversary. “This birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal ji is even more relevant as the reformist decisions taken by the government in recent times had the imprint of the vision shown by him,” he said. Watch Agricultural Bills 2020: Amid farmers' agitation, PM allays fears||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-workers-to-benefit-for-1st-time-in-yrs-from-new-laws-pm-modi/articleshow/78326240.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 26, 2020||Business||CAG: 40% of cess collections not going to designated funds||NEW DELHI: The Comptroller and Auditor General has pulled up the government for diverting a large chunk of the money it collected as cess to the general pool making it difficult to ensure that the funds were used for the intended purpose. It also said the Centre had overstated its revenue and transferred a lower share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) to the states than it should have. A CAG report on government finances tabled in Parliament found that the Centre did not transfer nearly 40% of the cesses to the designated funds. “…Out of the Rs 2,74,592 crore received from 35 cesses, levies and other charges in 2018-19, only Rs 1,64,322 crore had been transferred to reserve funds/ boards during the year and the rest was retained in the CFI (Consolidated Fund of India),” the report observed. The Centre levies cesses with the stated purpose of providing dedicated funding to a whole host of activities, from education to roads and cleaning the environment. The result of this diversion of cess collections, the CAG said was that, “not only was the revenue/ fiscal deficit understated due to the non-transfer of these amounts to reserve funds, failure of the ministry of finance to create/operate essential Reserve Funds makes it difficult to ensure that the cesses etc, had been utilised for the specific purposes intended by Parliament.” Further, it pointed out that there was incorrect accounting of around Rs 10,000 crore from the Central Road Fund, which was shown as non-tax revenue, and resulting double counting as the money had already been accounted for in the tax receipts. The problems related to GST allocation, pointed by the CAG, come at a time when the Centre and the states are fighting over the compensation cess and some of the opposition-ruled states have already flagged the discrepancy. Last year too, the CAG had reported that devolution of integrated GST of close to Rs 68,000 crore to states and UTs was inconsistent with the legal provisions. “Government of India was advised to account for its IGST share correctly, apportion 50% to the states as per the IGST Act, and thereafter also devolve to states their share under Article 270,” the report said. During 2018-19, Rs 15,001 crore had been devolved to states and UTs. “Audit examination showed that Rs 13,944 crore was left unapportioned under Major Head 0008 and retained in the CFI though the amended IGST Act now provides for a process for ad hoc apportionment of IGST. No reasons were provided by department of revenue for non-apportionment of this balance amount,” the report noted. Due to “the continued adoption of the erroneous process of devolution of IGST to states and retention of unapportioned balance in the CFI instead of first apportioning IGST between the Centre and states/UTs and then devolving states’ share from the amount apportioned to the Centre”, states received less money, it concluded. “This also implies that tax receipts of the GoI were overstated to that extent and the revenue deficit understated during the year,” the CAG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cag-40-of-cess-collections-not-going-to-designated-funds/articleshow/78326343.cms||---
September 26, 2020||World||US Election 2020: Could Trump reject the results?||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump sparked a furor suggesting he might not accept the results of the November 3  if he loses. His stance drew comparisons with lawless dictators -- Belarus and North Korea were mentioned -- and raised fears that he could fracture the US democratic system in a cling to power. Trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden in polls, the US leader refused to rule out the prospect on Wednesday when asked if he would support a peaceful transition. "Well, we're going to have to see what happens," he replied. Trump has already prepared the ground should he decide to challenge the results, repeatedly claiming that Democrats will hijack tens of millions of mailed-in ballots to defraud the vote. "Democrats are rigging our 2020 Election!" he declared Thursday after a handful of early mailed ballots marked for Trump were discovered discarded in a Pennsylvania election office. In most recent US elections, winners have been declared, and losers have conceded, within hours of the polls closing in November, based on the early vote counts. When the loser concedes, it allows the winner to immediately begin preparing to take power in January, well before the official winner is declared by the Electoral College in mid-December. This year experts agree with Trump on one key point: because of a massive surge in voting by mail due to the coronavirus, and untested systems for handling those votes, early election results might be very incomplete and open to challenge. The winner "likely will not be known on election night," concluded the Transition Integrity Project, a group of academics and former government officials studying possible 2020 problems. TIP, whose members include both Democrats and Republicans, says it expects a period of legal and political "chaos", exploitable by the parties. Unless Biden captures the election by a clear landslide, TIP expects Trump to exploit any ambiguity, laws and his presidential powers, to assert victory and refuse to leave office. "We also assess that President Trump is likely to contest the result by both legal and extra-legal means, in an attempt to hold onto power," they said. Trump has signalled two possibilities. First, if the projected results on election night go against him, he will refuse to concede and challenge the vote count, with the support of Republican political operatives on the ground in the states. That could lead to grinding recounts, with each ballot reviewed and challenged on any anomaly: a smudged signature, an abbreviated address, or a ballot mailed without a special inner envelope meant to ensure secrecy -- which in some cases can lead to its rejection as a "naked ballot." The process could take weeks. On the other hand, if Trump sees himself leading the night of November 3, he could declare victory before millions of mailed ballots are tallied. Analysts believe that more Democrats will vote by mail than Republicans, and Trump has already suggested he may not accept their validity. "The ballots are out of control," Trump said Wednesday. "Get rid of the ballots and you will have a very peaceful -- there won't be a transfer, frankly. There will be a continuation," he said. Both Republicans and Democrats have mustered large legal teams for a post-vote siege. In the 2000 presidential election, the fight between Democrat Al Gore and Republican George W. Bush came down to the result in one state, Florida. The state's Republican-controlled government declared Bush the winner on a miniscule vote margin. Gore's side went to court for a recount of millions of "punch-card" ballots which proved prone to errors and miscounting. The case escalated to the Supreme Court, which ruled against a recount, handing the election to Bush. This year Trump's Republicans are preparing to challenge adverse results in a number of key states like Florida, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. "There is a chance the president will attempt to convince legislatures and/or governors to take actions -- including illegal actions -- to defy the popular vote," said TIP. "A determined campaign has the opportunity to contest the election into January 2021," it said. The Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell -- whose body could remove Trump by impeachment if he refuses to go -- sought to reassure voters this week. "The winner of the November 3rd election will be inaugurated on January 20th," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/election-2020-could-trump-reject-the-results/articleshow/78326388.cms||---
September 26, 2020||India||Centre notifies revised guidelines for ground water use; prohibits new industries, mining projects in ‘over exploited zones’||NEW DELHI: With around one-sixth of assessed ground water units in the country facing ‘over-exploitation’, the Centre on Friday issued revised guidelines for groundwater use, prohibiting new industry and mining projects in ‘over-exploited’ zones and making it mandatory for existing industries, commercial units and big housing societies to take ‘no objection certificate’ (NOC) under ‘expanded compliance conditions’. Under the new conditions, such NOC holders will now have to pay groundwater “abstraction and restoration charges” based on the quantum of extraction unlike old provision where they had to just pay a nominal lumpsum amount. Though these guidelines will have pan-India applicability, states may be at liberty to suggest additional conditions/criteria based on the local hydro-geological situations. Violation of NOC conditions will attract a penalty from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Industries and mining projects will also have to pay an ‘environmental compensation charge’, fixed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), for not obtaining NOCs under the new conditions. Residential societies will have to install sewage treatment plants (STPs) for getting NOCs if their groundwater requirement is more than 20 m3 /day. Under the condition, water from STPs will be utilised for toilet flushing, car washing, gardening, etc. NOCs will, however, be granted to the housing societies only in such cases where the local government agency is unable to supply the requisite amount of water. The NOC will be valid for a period of five years or till such time local government water supply is provided to the area. “Though the guidelines will come into force with immediate effect, the projects and societies will be given adequate time for getting NOCs. Entire process of grant of NOC will be online,” said an official. The NOC will be taken from the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) or the state/UT groundwater authorities concerned. Currently, 1,186 out of 6,881 assessment units in the country are ‘over-exploited’ – it means those units where groundwater extraction exceeded the annually replenishable groundwater recharge. Majority of the over-exploited units are concentrated in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, western UP, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Under the revised guidelines, the agriculture sector will be exempted from obtaining NOC for groundwater extraction. Besides, individual domestic consumers in both rural and urban areas for drinking water and domestic uses, rural drinking water supply schemes, Armed Forces establishments, Central Armed Police Forces establishments and micro and small enterprises, drawing groundwater less than 10 cum/day, will also be exempted from taking NOC. “The revised guideline will not stop further depletion of groundwater ... uninterrupted use of groundwater in ‘critical’ and ‘semi-critical’ areas after paying ‘abstraction and restoration’ charges will defeat the purpose of conservation,” said environmentalist Vikrant Tongad. Tongad, one of the petitioners in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over the issue of groundwater depletion, even questioned the categorisation of units as ‘over-exploited’ or 'safe' or 'critical' through assessment of administrative blocks. He said, “The assessment must be aquifer-wise so that the authorities will have a correct picture of groundwater availability in particular areas.” All industries/mining/ infrastructure projects drawing ground water in ‘safe’, ‘semi-critical’ and ‘critical’ assessment units will have to pay groundwater abstraction charges based on the quantum of groundwater extraction. Out of the total 6,881 assessment units, 1186 units (17%) have been categorised as ‘over-exploited’, 313 units (5%) as ‘critical’, 972 as ‘semi-critical’ units (14%) and 4310 units (63%) as ‘safe’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-notifies-revised-guidelines-for-ground-water-use-prohibits-new-industries-mining-projects-in-over-exploited-zones/articleshow/78326470.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 26, 2020||Patna||Daily commuters demand resumption of local trains||PATNA: Daily commuters have demanded immediate restoration of local passenger trains on different sections of Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) as the government has already permitted resumption of bus services in the state. Railways has suspended movement of all passenger trains, including local ones, since March 24 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association general secretary Nand Kishore Sharma and secretary Shoaib Quraishi said the association had recently submitted a memorandum to CM Nitish Kumar, chief secretary, ECR GM and Danapur DRM to consider restoration of some local passenger trains. They said monthly seasonal ticket (MST) holders are not allowed to travel in the special trains. Aggrieved commuters said a large number of people used to commute daily to Patna from Jehanabad, Gaya, Fatuha, Biharsharif, Barh, Mokama, Bihta, Ara and Buxar. “Under Unlock 4.0, business establishments were allowed to resume operations in the city. Banks, many offices and other essential services were allowed to function even during the lockdown period. Thus, most people found it difficult to reach their workstations due to suspension of local passenger trains,” they said. Ranjan Sinha, a bank employee, said he faced great hardships in reaching Patna from Ara. “It is not possible for me to come to Patna from Ara daily by my own vehicle. Local train services should be immediately resumed,” he added. Radheshyam Singh, who works in a private company in Patna, uses his motorcycle to reach office from Koilwar. People commuting to Patna every day from Jehanabad and Gaya are the worst sufferers due to suspension of local passenger trains on the Patna-Gaya section. “It is difficult for the sick people to go to Patna for medical needs,” said Mahendra Singh from Bihta. Danapur DRM said local passenger trains would start running only after getting nod from the Railway Board and the state government. ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar said about eight lakh passengers travel every day from different places under the ECR jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daily-commuters-demand-resumption-of-local-trains/articleshow/78324733.cms||Kumod Verma
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Raise entry ceiling from 50% to 75% of capacity: Bar plea||Kolkata: A rise in footfall triggered by the opening of bars on September 1 has prompted restaurants and pubs in Kolkata to seek a relaxation of the 50% ceiling on seating capacity — a rule that was laid down to check Covid transmission in June. The Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI), which has 400 member-restaurants in Kolkata, will write to the state government and the Union home ministry asking for permission to fill up 75% of their capacity. It could be difficult for a majority of restaurants to sustain business if the ceiling persisted, the HRAEI has said. Since measures are being taken inside restaurants, it was safe to allow more guests, they argued. Rather, overcrowding at the entrance due to a longer waiting time posed a bigger transmission threat, it has been pointed out. “Footfall has shot up since alcohol was allowed this month. The puja shopping crowd and IPL, too, have helped to swell the number of visitors. But since seating capacity has been reduced to half, guests are being kept waiting and on weekends, a big crowd is building up at the entrances, which could be riskier than letting them inside. So, it makes sense to relax the ceiling to 75% now,” said HRAEI president Sudesh Poddar. He pointed out that more than 90% of restaurants were operating with a reduced workforce since there were fewer guests to cater to. “More than half the employees are either being paid only a part of their salaries or not being paid at all. Rents and electricity bills, too, make it difficult to sustain business with sales reduced to half. Unless we are allowed to have more guests, there could be more job losses,” he said. Others like Sanjay Khullar, owner of Amber, agreed. “Last weekend, we were filled to capacity with scores waiting to get in. It’s a bigger risk. Even if we have more guests, there will still be vacant seats to maintain distance. But it will help to save jobs and businesses,” said Khullar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/raise-entry-ceiling-from-50-to-75-of-capacity-bar-plea/articleshow/78323098.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Illegal water connection fine in Rajkot slashed by 80%||Rajkot: With an obvious eye on upcoming municipal corporation elections, the standing committee of the BJP-ruled Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) proposed a drastic reduction of 80% in the penalty for illegal water connections.The penalty has been reduced to just Rs 500 from Rs 2,500. The standing committee believes that this decision will encourage more people to regularise their connection rather drawing illegal water from the pipeline.Uday Kangad, chairman,standing committee said: “Under the ‘Nal se Jal’ scheme launched by chief minister Vijay Rupani, we have reduced the fine for illegal water connection from Rs 2,500 to Rs 500.” The state government launched a scheme for urban areas to regularize illegal water connection by collecting fine of Rs 500 only by December 31, 2020.”While Narmada water supply and brimming Aji and Nyari dams due to good rains has eased Rajkot water woes, the scarcity in summer always emerges. Water tanker owners do a brisk business as water cuts are imposed and penalties on levied even on water wastage in cleaning cars.According to RMC sources, Rajkot has at least 45,000 illegal water connections. The city fulfils its water requirement through Narmada and Saurashtra Narmada Avtaran Irrigation (SAUNI) scheme every summer. Every summer, RMC forms a task force of over 100 employees to trace illegal water connections. In the past, the civic body had even warned citizens of filing FIRs for damaging public property against repeated offenders for pilfering water from pipelines.Despite getting 190% rainfall this monsoon, RMC needs to buy Narmada water because there is no capacity for rain water conservation. Rajkot’s daily water requirement in peak summer is 280-300 million litres per day (MLD) of which 100MLD is supplied through Narmada pipeline.Aji dam also needs to be filled under SAUNI with nearly 1,000 million cubic feet water every summer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegal-water-connection-fine-in-rajkot-slashed-by-80/articleshow/78324482.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Patna||20 CNG buses starts plying on Patna routes||PATNA: Altogether 20 city buses powered by compressed natural gas (CNG) has started plying on five different city routes from Friday. According to Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Limited (BSRTC) sources, “Five eco-friendly buses run by the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Limited (BSRTC) were introduced on Gandhi Maidan- Danapur bus stand (route number111) and Gandhi Maidan-Danapur station (111 A), while six buses have been introduced on route number 222 between Gandhi Maidan to AIIMS-Patna. Two buses will ply from Gandhi Maidan to Patna University (333) and to Patna Sahib (555). The footfall in CNG buses was encouraging on the first day, said sources. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal said that as a pilot project, 20 diesel buses operated by BSRTC have been converted to CNG. “These buses will operate everyday on different routes. CNG buses will not only help to check vehicular pollution in the city, but will also reduce the fuel expenses,” he said. “Once these buses start plying properly, all 115 city buses running on diesel will be converted to CNG,” Aggrawal said. All CNG buses have been designed on the basis of ‘Green Bus Service’ theme. The 32- seater buses are well-equipped with GPS tracking, CCTV cameras and speed governor and other facilities like water cooler, first-aid and fire extinguisher. Tulika Raj, who took a ride to Danapur by a CNG bus said, “The pollution level, especially during winter, will surely decline with the introduction of CNG buses and eco-friendly autos.” Another passenger Raj Narayan Singh said, “Fare of CNG and diesel buses are same and the eco-friendly buses are also less noisy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-cng-buses-starts-plying-on-city-routes/articleshow/78324795.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 26, 2020||Patna||Approach roads to Munger bridge yet to be constructed||BEGUSARAI: Even as the government has announced construction of several new bridges across Ganga river to facilitate better road communication between north and south Bihar, people continue to wait for the Munger rail-cum-road bridge to be fully operational even after more than four-and-a-half-years of its completion. The rail part of the bridge was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in March 2016. However, the road bridge remains a far cry as the approach roads on both the ends are still to be completed as the project has been beseech with land acquisition issues. Begusarai Daily Rail Passenger Association general secretary Rajeev Kumar said passenger train services across the country are largely suspended at present owing to the pandemic. “However, for the capacity utilisation record of Munger rail-cum-road bridge, the fact remains that the railways failed to introduce even a single regular long distance passenger train through this bridge in four years. Only a few pairs of DMU trains between Begusarai station and Jamalpur, Khagaria and Jamalpur junctions used to run daily through the bridge,” he said. He added, “The bridge facilitates new route to Howrah and can be effectively used to lessen the load on Barauni-Kiul-Howrah main line. People of Begusarai, Khagaria, Munger and Bhagalpur regions had nurtured high hopes of getting the facility of some long-distance trains after launch of this bridge, but its underutilization for passenger services is really perplexing.” A dream project of late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the mega rail-cum-road overbridge project was launched in 2002 and after several delays in the scheduled timeframe, it was finally completed in 2016 with an expenditure of Rs 2,700 crore. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said some private houses were built along the national highway on the new land alignment for the approach road to the Munger road bridge. “However, about 15 days back, the NHAI released money for payment to their owners, who have most probably received the same. There were also issues related to internal feuds between two of the rayats on the land. However, the administration has already provided possession of that land to the NHAI, thus clearing all obstacles from the Begusarai end,” the DM added. Another district administration official said the process has been further delayed due to changes in the original land alignment to the bridge on the Sahebpur Kamal side in the district. Prem Vijoy, a teacher at the local G D College, who hails from Munger, said starting road communication through the bridge would have given a massive fillip to local economic activities in the region as Begusarai, Khagaria and Munger districts would have got direct road connectivity. “This could open a host of business and employment avenues for people of the region. The inordinate delay in construction of approach roads to the bridge is really frustrating,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/approach-roads-to-munger-bridge-yet-to-be-constructed/articleshow/78322983.cms||Rajiv Kumar
September 26, 2020||Hubballi||Mulgund police seize explosives||HUBBALLI: The Mulgund police seized 10kg of ammonium nitrate, 625 electric detonator wires and 214 gelatin sticks stocked in a shed at a farm, that was allegedly being used to blast quarries to obtain rocks in Gadag taluk on Thursday evening. The police said that Hanumantappa Yarevaddar and Mudukappa Yarevaddar, without obtaining the necessary permission from the concerned department, had stocked these explosives to carry out blasts in the stone quarries. They had stored these materials in a farm shed on the Shitalahari-Shirahatti Road, said the police. The Mulgund police have registered a case against the accused under Explosive Rules 2008 and Explosive Substance Act 1980.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/explosives-seized/articleshow/78326159.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mysuru||NHAI to build city’s second grade separator on B’luru-Mysuru Expressway||MYSURU: The expansion of the highway between Bengaluru and Mysuru to a ten-lane expressway is benefitting the Heritage City in more ways than one: Mysuru, which only recently got its first flyover on the Mysuru-Madikeri Road in Hinkal, will soon have its second grade separator – a flyover-cum-underpass – at the highway junction near Columbia Asia Hospital to ensure signal-free traffic movement there. The junction is one of the major bottlenecks in the city connecting as it does T Narasipura, Nanjangud, Hunsur and HD Kote to Mysuru from the Outer Ring Road, and leads to Srirangapatna on one side. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing the project at a cost of Rs 170 crore, has already acquired the land for the grade separator. While vehicles entering or leaving Mysuru via the ORR along the underpass, the flyover will be meant for traffic to and from Bengaluru. This will prevent the junction turning into a bottleneck where vehicles from all directions are jostling to either enter or leave Mysuru. NHAI’s Mysuru-Bengaluru Expressway project director BT Sridhar said that work on the grade separator would start once their design for the structure received approval from the competent authorities. “Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha visited the spot where the grade separator has been proposed, and gave his approval for the project and the design,” Sridhar said. Although the NHAI had proposed the ‘full cloverleaf interchange’ – a design using one or more ramps – and a ‘half-cloverleaf interchange with rotary junction’, and had even obtained approval from the Centre for the two projects in February 2019, they were subsequently dropped owing to the prohibitive costs involved. While the ‘full cloverleaf interchange’ design would have cost nearly Rs 484 crore, the ‘half cloverleaf’ design would need Rs 347.5 crore in funds. The NHAI ultimately settled on the ‘flyover, rotary and underpass’ design, the funds required for which is one-fourth less than what the earlier proposal would have cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nhai-to-build-citys-second-grade-separator-on-bluru-mysuru-expressway/articleshow/78323485.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Business||SP’s PR firm head quits Tata company board||MUMBAI: Two weeks after his appointment was approved by the board, Taj GVK Hotels said Dilip Cherian, chairman of Perfect Relations, has resigned from the director’s post. Cherian’s appointment came as a surprise as his firm handles the communications account of Shapoorji Pallonji Group, which is in a legal battle with the Tata Group. Taj GVK Hotels is a part of the Tata Group in which the conglomerate holds 26% stake. In a September 24 regulatory filing, Taj GVK said Cherian, through a September 19 letter, has resigned as a director due to “other business commitments and pre-occupations”. TOI had reported about Cherian’s appointment at the Taj GVK board on September 15. Incidentally, another Taj GVK board member and a nominee of the Tata group Giridhar Sanjeevi too has stepped down. Sanjeevi is the CFO of Indian Hotels (IHCL), the oldest listed company in the Tata Group. Following Sanjeevi’s resignation, Tata now has two nominees on the Taj GVK board — IHCL MD Puneet Chhatwal and general counsel Rajendra Misra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sps-pr-firm-head-quits-tata-co-board/articleshow/78324853.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||IPS officer’s graft charge against Mughalsarai police to be probed||Varanasi: Reacting swiftly to the tweet of IG (civil defence) Amitabh Thakur that the Mughalsarai police was illegally earning over Rs 35 lakh monthly from ganja peddlers, animal smugglers and people involved in illegal mining, ADG Varanasi zone has sought a detailed report in this regard from SP Chandauli. “However, during the initial investigation, it has surfaced that the allegations are based on the content of a Facebook page of a woman, Rekha Chauhan. It has been written by one Saumitra Mukherji,” said SP Chandauli Hemant Kutiyal, mentioning that both had been charge-sheeted in separate cases of land grabbing. However, we are taking the matter seriously, said Kutiyal adding, SP Chandauli has been asked to conduct a detailed investigation after which appropriate action would be initiated in this episode. Thakur on Friday morning tweeted the photo of a handwritten ‘vasuli list’ (list of extortion money) alleging that it is being quoted as a list of Mughalsarai police station. It states that a total of Rs 35.64 lakhs, including 25 lakhs from ganja peddlers, Rs 12,000 and Rs 4,000 from per vehicle of elements involved in illegal mining and animal smuggling is being taken. Many names, details and facts are mentioned in this list which should be investigated deeply. When contacted, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan admitted that taking note of this tweet of Thakur, SP Chandauli has been directed to probe into the matter. In the late afternoon, Chandauli police released a report on the basis of initial investigation in this matter. Regarding this report Kutiyal said, “Initial investigation has brought it light that sitting SHO of Mughalsarai Shivanand Mishra was posted as SO Sigra in Varanasi in 2015 when in a case of land grabbing a case was lodged against Mukherji following detailed investigation of senior officials and a chargesheet was also filed against him.” Kutiyal further said, “The content created by Mukherji has been posted on the Facebook page of Rekha Singh alias Rekha Chauhan, who is a native of Mainitali area under the limits of Mughalsarai police station. Two cases including one of grabbing the municipal body’s land grabbing had been lodged against her and chargesheet had also been submitted by police before court in these cases.” Kutiyal said that prime face it seemed that due to vendetta they targeted Inspector Mughalsarai as he did not agree to favour them in their bid of grabbing land illegally. “But, despite surfacing all these facts, the ASP has been asked to conduct a detailed investigation after which course of action would be decided in this episode,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ips-officers-graft-charge-against-mughalsarai-police-to-be-probed/articleshow/78323391.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Opposition misleading farmers on new bills: Gordhan Zadafiya||RAJKOT: State BJP vice-president Gordhan Zadafiya on Friday accused the opposition parties for spreading misinformation regarding the farm bills passed in the Lok Sabha recently. The parliament recently passed The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill “There is no provision in the bills that is against the interest of farmers, but the opposition is only misguiding them. The government will not stop procurement of farm produce at minimum support price (MSP) from marketing yard,” he told reporters here. “The farmers are now free to sell their produce wherever they get good price in the entire country. If industrialists have freedom to sell their products everywhere, why should farmers not get this liberty?” Zadafiya said. The bill provides farmers the freedom to sell their produce anywhere instead of the current law where they are required to sell the crops through APMCs only. The second bill empowers them to engage with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers and exporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/opposition-misleading-farmers-on-new-bills-zadafiya/articleshow/78325004.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Leopards attack two kids in Gir||RAJKOT: Two children in Gir area were attacked by leopard in two different incidents on Thursday evening. However, both of them received minor injuries only and are stated to be out of danger. According to the forest department, nine-year-old Mayur Jatavada, a resident of Sarasiya village of Dhari taluka in Amreli district was attacked by a leopard on Friday morning when she was going to bring milk. She received injuries on her right elbow and was discharged after primary treatment. In the second incident, eight-year-old boy was attacked by a leopard in Prasli village of Sutrapada taluka in Gir Somnath district. After primary treatment, the boy too has been discharged. The forest department set up cages to trap the leopards following villagers’ demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopards-attack-two-kids-in-gir/articleshow/78324834.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Business||Samunnati raises $20m in debt from US International DFC||Chennai: Agri-finance company Samunnati has raised $20 million in debt from US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC). The company said fund raised will be used to make loans to farmer producer organizations (FPOs) and small and medium agribusinesses. The NBFC offers customized financial, co-financial and non-financial solutions to farmer producer organizations and agricultural enterprises. Its founder and CEO Anilkumar SG said, “this fundraising will help us further offer customized financial solutions, using social and trade capital, to FPOs and SMEs, enabling the agri value chain to operate at a higher equilibrium.” Samunnati is backed by external investors including Elevar, Accel, ResponsAbility and Nuveen.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/samunnati-raises-20m-in-debt-from-us-international-dfc/articleshow/78324739.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||Mughalsarai cops face graft charge, inquiry ordered||VARANASI: Reacting swiftly to the tweet of IG (civil defence) Amitabh Thakur that the Mughalsarai police was illegally earning over Rs 35 lakh monthly from ganja peddlers, animal smugglers and people involved in illegal mining, ADG Varanasi zone has sought a detailed report in this regard from SP Chandauli. “However, during the initial investigation, it has surfaced that the allegations are based on the content of a Facebook page of a woman, Rekha Chauhan. It has been written by one Saumitra Mukherji,” said SP Chandauli Hemant Kutiyal, mentioning that both had been charge-sheeted in separate cases of land grabbing. However, we are taking the matter seriously, said Kutiyal adding, SP Chandauli has been asked to conduct a detailed investigation after which appropriate action would be initiated in this episode. Thakur on Friday morning tweeted the photo of a handwritten ‘vasuli list’ (list of extortion money) alleging that it is being quoted as a list of Mughalsarai police station. It states that a total of Rs 35.64 lakhs, including 25 lakhs from ganja peddlers, Rs 12,000 and Rs 4,000 from per vehicle of elements involved in illegal mining and animal smuggling is being taken. Many names, details and facts are mentioned in this list which should be investigated deeply. When contacted, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan admitted that taking note of this tweet of Thakur, SP Chandauli has been directed to probe into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mughalsarai-cops-face-graft-charge-inquiry-ordered/articleshow/78325792.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 26, 2020||---||Political chameleon Upendra Kushwaha’s next move depends on Chirag Paswan||PATNA: All is fair in love and war, goes the saying. Just replace ‘love’ with ‘politics’ and put Upendra Kushwaha in perspective and you will get a clearer picture. Having hinted at coming out of the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan refusing to accept Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as its CM face, the next move of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief will depend on a couple of factors in the run-up to the assembly election. A brief look into the 60-year-old Koeri community leader’s political career reveals that he severed ties with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) three times in 11 years, giving the impression that he’s a master in jumping ships. Divorcing an alliance and joining another one only to rejoin the former partners later appears to be his forte. Kushwaha was dismissed from JD(U), of which he was a youth leader earlier, in 2007 and formed the Rashtriya Samata Party in February 2009. In November, he merged his RSP with JD(U) mending ties with Nitish. In January 2013, he left Nitish’s party again and set up RLSP. A year later, Kushwaha joined hands yet again with NDA, comprising JD(U) and BJP, and contested the Lok Sabha polls. Upon his win from Karakat constituency, he was given a berth in the Narendra Modi council of ministers. But his relationship with Nitish was never smooth and he resigned from the Union Cabinet a few months before the general elections (December 2018), blaming Modi for not doing enough for Bihar. On the eve of the Lok Sabha polls, he joined the Mahagathbandhan, hailing Lalu Prasad’s leadership. Now as the polls approach, Kushwaha, a political chameleon, has again dropped enough hints to go back to NDA. Although he has not cleared the air yet, the reason behind leaving Tejashwi-led alliance is not the CM pick, as is being said in the open, but the seat-sharing agreement. According to sources, Kushwaha had sought 36-41 seats from RJD, but Tejashwi was not willing to concede more than 12. The RLSP leader has now two options before him. The first is either to return to NDA and fight polls under the leadership of Nitish with whom he has shared a roller-coaster relationship and the second one is to form a “third front” with smaller parties like Jan Adhikar Party of Pappu Yadav, Mukesh Sahni’s Vikasshil Insaan Party and Lok Janshakti Party led by Chirag Paswan. Kushwaha’s next move will depend to a large extent on what Chirag does in the next few days. Of late, Chirag has indicated that he, too, is not happy with Nitish. In the event of LJP coming out of NDA, Kushwaha will get an opportunity to go with Chirag and form an alliance – a third front, so to say — along with other smaller parties to take on NDA and Mahagathbanhan. The 2020 election will then be a three-corner fight. But if Chirag decides to stay back with NDA, RLSP will be left with no other option but to join hands with Nitish, eating his own words and sharing the stage with Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM(S) - and thereby remaining happy with whatever seats being offered to him. Kushwaha will have to decide soon which way to swing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/political-chameleon-kushwahas-next-move-depends-on-chirag/articleshow/78322928.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Patna||EC announces biennial polls for 8 council seats in Bihar||PATNA: The Election Commission on Friday announced the schedule for biennial election to the Bihar Legislative Council from four graduates and four teachers’ constituencies. Voting in the four graduates and four teachers’ constituencies will be held on October 22. The counting of votes will be done on November 12, two days after the assembly poll results. The term of eight MLAs from both the constituencies had ended on May 6 this year. The four graduates’ constituencies where biennial polls will be held are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi. These seats fell vacant after the term of Neeraj Kumar (JDU), Devesh Chandra Thakur (Independent), Dilip Kumar Choudhary (JD-U) and N K Yadav (BJP) ended. Similarly, four teachers’ constituencies where biennial polls will be held are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga, and Saran. These seats fell vacant after the retirement of Nawal Kishor Yadav (BJP), Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI), Madan Mohan Jha (Congress) and Kedar Nath Pandey (CPI). Sources said the NDA leadership has almost finalized the list of its candidates from all the eight constituencies and the names would be announced in the next few days. Whereas there is no unity among the opposition parties on finalization of candidates from these eight constituencies. Sources in the JD(U) said outgoing MLC and senior party leader Dilip Kumar Choudhary would be the NDA candidate from Darbhanga graduates’ constituency while Suresh Rai will be the NDA nominee from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency. “I have got the blessings of CM Nitish Kumar the BJP leaders. I will file nomination papers from Darbhanga graduates’ constituency. I am sure the NDA will win the seat,” Choudhary told TOI on Friday. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha would be the party candidate from Darbhanga Teachers’ constituency, sources said. “Similarly, IPRD minister and JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar and BJP leader Nawal Kishore Yadav would be the NDA candidates from Patna graduates’ and teachers’ constituency, respectively. Both the leaders have been campaigning in their constituencies for the last several months,” a BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-announces-biennial-polls-for-8-council-seats/articleshow/78328942.cms||Madan Kumar
September 26, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar is NDA’s CM face, but who is GA’s?||PATNA: With the announcement of Bihar assembly election dates on Friday, political parties and leaders have virtually no time left to position themselves. Of late, elections in the country, or for that matter in any state, are contested on a ‘face’ as many of the young voters don’t have leanings towards any particular party. They make a choice and vote for a man who they believe can lead the state or the country. On that count, the NDA in Bihar has at least the advantage of making chief minister Nitish Kumar its face in the upcoming election whereas the opposition led by Lalu Prasad’s RJD is yet to stitch its alliance and agree on its CM candidate. Even Congress, its strongest ally, is yet to come out clearly in favour of Tejashw Prasad Yadav as the alliance's CM face. Though there is a sense of uncertainty about LJP led by Chirag Paswan, BJP leaders sound confident of keeping the ruling alliance intact. Nitish has much at stake in the three-phase Bihar election from October 28 to November 7. Despite a certain degree of anti-incumbency after leading the state government for almost 15 years, he has his development narrative to counter the previous regime of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Though Lalu’s son Tejashwi has got his father and other family members removed from the party posters in the city to send a message of a fresh start in RJD, he has yet to establish the leadership quality of taking along party seniors as well as alliance partners in the first election he is contesting without Lalu by his side who is serving a jail term in fodder scam cases. After HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi left the Mahagathbandhan to join hands with Nitish’s JD(U), Tejashwi received another jolt on Thursday when RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha said the RJD leader is no match for Nitish. “It’s not a matter of seats. The opposition should have a face that can match up to Nitish. Change in Bihar is not possible by supporting the leadership RJD has projected in the state,” Kushwaha told his party office-bearers at a meeting on Thursday. But RJD dismissed him. “Kushwaha has no moral right to question Tejashwi’s leadership. He is making excuses to join the NDA. Tejashwi is the leader of the largest political party in the assembly. People are fed up with crime and corruption in the Nitish government and trust that Tejashwi will change the face of Bihar by generating employment and making all-round development,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told TOI on Friday. Regarding the anti-incumbency factor, Union minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh told a TV channel that people of Bihar realise what the central government under PM Modi and state government under CM Nitish Kumar have done for them in the period of coronavirus and floods. Development work apart, people will not forget what the NDA government at the Centre as well as in Bihar have done for the poor and farmers. When asked about the LJP problem, he said it will be sorted out soon. RLSP state president Bhudeo Choudhary did not rule out a third front formation in a day or two. “Anything is possible in politics. Kushwaha ji has been authorized to make a final decision,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/nitish-is-ndas-cm-face-but-who-is-gas/articleshow/78324046.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 26, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar is NDA’s CM face, but who is GA’s?||PATNA: With the announcement of Bihar assembly election dates on Friday, political parties and leaders have virtually no time left to position themselves. Of late, elections in the country, or for that matter in any state, are contested on a ‘face’ as many of the young voters don’t have leanings towards any particular party. They make a choice and vote for a man who they believe can lead the state or the country. On that count, the NDA in Bihar has at least the advantage of making chief minister Nitish Kumar its face in the upcoming election whereas the opposition led by Lalu Prasad’s RJD is yet to stitch its alliance and agree on its CM candidate. Even Congress, its strongest ally, is yet to come out clearly in favour of Tejashw Prasad Yadav as the alliance's CM face. Though there is a sense of uncertainty about LJP led by Chirag Paswan, BJP leaders sound confident of keeping the ruling alliance intact. Nitish has much at stake in the three-phase Bihar election from October 28 to November 7. Despite a certain degree of anti-incumbency after leading the state government for almost 15 years, he has his development narrative to counter the previous regime of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Though Lalu’s son Tejashwi has got his father and other family members removed from the party posters in the city to send a message of a fresh start in RJD, he has yet to establish the leadership quality of taking along party seniors as well as alliance partners in the first election he is contesting without Lalu by his side who is serving a jail term in fodder scam cases. After HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi left the Mahagathbandhan to join hands with Nitish’s JD(U), Tejashwi received another jolt on Thursday when RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha said the RJD leader is no match for Nitish. “It’s not a matter of seats. The opposition should have a face that can match up to Nitish. Change in Bihar is not possible by supporting the leadership RJD has projected in the state,” Kushwaha told his party office-bearers at a meeting on Thursday. But RJD dismissed him. “Kushwaha has no moral right to question Tejashwi’s leadership. He is making excuses to join the NDA. Tejashwi is the leader of the largest political party in the assembly. People are fed up with crime and corruption in the Nitish government and trust that Tejashwi will change the face of Bihar by generating employment and making all-round development,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told TOI on Friday. Regarding the anti-incumbency factor, Union minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh told a TV channel that people of Bihar realise what the central government under PM Modi and state government under CM Nitish Kumar have done for them in the period of coronavirus and floods. Development work apart, people will not forget what the NDA government at the Centre as well as in Bihar have done for the poor and farmers. When asked about the LJP problem, he said it will be sorted out soon. RLSP state president Bhudeo Choudhary did not rule out a third front formation in a day or two. “Anything is possible in politics. Kushwaha ji has been authorized to make a final decision,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-is-ndas-cm-face-but-who-is-gas/articleshow/78329085.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 26, 2020||---||Mixed reaction to Bihar assembly polls amid pandemic||PATNA: With the announcement of assembly elections in Bihar on Friday, people were busy talking about the preparedness of Election Commission (EC) amid the Covid pandemic and fear of contracting the virus as the festive season is also approaching. The voters fear that the Covid tally, which has declined over the last few weeks, may increase during the Dussehra and electioneering. Though the EC has issued guidelines for the safety of people and election officials, some voters said they would take the decision after analysing the situation before the polling day. Sanjali Priyam (21), a resident of Ashiana Colony and a first-time voter, said, “I have visited the polling booth earlier with my parents. This time, however, it is going to be different with Covid pandemic everywhere. I want to experience first-time voting in abnormal circumstances while taking all precautions.” Aliza (28) of Sheikhpura Mor said people are rightly concerned about having to choose between their right to vote and health. “But I think voting during the pandemic would not be a problem if people take precautionary measures. People should vote to democratically elect their leader,” she said. “We are all carrying out our day-to-day activities with precautions, so why delay the elections. We like to see the changes in society by casting our votes. Everyone is ready for elections,” said Roselyn Anthony (39) of Kurji area. Some voters opined that elections should not be happening amid Covid, as the risk of contracting and spreading the virus would be high with huge gathering. Vijay Kumar Choudhary (46) of Boring Canal Road area said election should be delayed till the vaccine is ready. “People, especially the old ones having comorbid conditions or those having kids at home, are concerned about their health. Around 15,000 candidates tested positive across the country after the NEET exam and one girl died in Muzaffarpur,” he said. A resident of Patliputra Colony, Kalpana Sinha (48) also shared similar views. “I know how difficult it is for people who had contracted the virus. After even tested negative, they have to go through post-Covid trauma. Besides, the unofficial positive cases should be more than what the official figures are. Many people do not even know they are positive for the virus. So, there are possibilities of increase in virus contraction during electioneering and polling,” she said. She added: “When minister of health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan announced that Covid vaccine is possible by January 2021, then why there was so much hurry for elections.” Atul Sinha (62) of Kadamkuan said, “We are in unique times. Voting is a unique challenge for people, especially old ones. The voter turnout would be low and spread of virus would be high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/mixed-reaction-to-polls-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78324304.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Refund part of inflated bills, health panel tells hospitals||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has cautioned private hospitals to abide by Covid advisories on billing, including pathological tests, PPE, doctor consultation. On Friday, the commission pulled up two hospitals asking them to refund part of charges it had billed to patients. In the first case, Ashok Kumar Chauraria, 57, had lodged a complaint with the commission against Desun Hospital alleging overbilling. The Howrah resident was admitted on August 22 as a Covid suspect and the report came negative in about six hours. When he wanted to get discharged the next day, he was handed a bill of a little over Rs 1,15,000 for the 19-hour hospital care. He had already paid Rs 50,000 as advance deposit. The commission found the bill contained charges for various pathological tests conducted within such a short period of time, and Rs 26,000 as bed charges. “We have told Desun to refund Rs 65,470 as we found the patient was charged exorbitantly. The hospital has also been cautioned,” said Justice (retd) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman, WBCERC. Hospital officials said they will wait for a copy of the order before they comment. The panel also asked BP Poddar to refund Rs 50,000 to a patient who alleged overbilling and claimed he did not get proper medical care. Rajesh Singh was admitted for Covid treatment for eight days and the hospital charged a little over Rs 2.8 lakh. Of this, around Rs 1.3 lakh was paid by the insurance company. The hospital has agreed to the refund the amount. The panel has also asked Mission Hospital Durgapur to deposit Rs 25,000 till it disposes off a complaint against it for not helping a Covid patient’s mother get the boy admitted in another hospital. The 17-year-old died in a hospital a few days later after he was shifted from a second hospital. The panel asked the two hospitals to submit treatment documents of the teen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/refund-part-of-inflated-bills-health-panel-tells-hospitals/articleshow/78323079.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 26, 2020||Patna||Challenges galore for Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as GA still a divided house||PATNA: Even though the Election Commission announced the schedule for Bihar polls on Friday, the opposition camp, it seems, is still a divided house. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, whom the party has projected as its CM face, has several challenges ahead. While Lalu is behind the bars, internal murmuring from old timers in the party and keeping the pack of opposition parties together are not easy for Tejashwi. However, RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said everything was smooth in the party and absence of Lalu would not have impact on the outcome of election. Gagan said, “Lalu ji is present in our heart and people of Bihar know that Tejashwi will carry forward the ideologies and teachings of his father. We will definitely miss him.” Meanwhile, smaller allies are not so happy with RJD. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha has been speaking against Tejashwi’s leadership. He has also hinted at exiting the alliance. HAM (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi has already returned to the NDA fold. While interacting with mediapersons on Friday, Tejashwi made it clear it was none of the alliance parties’ business to interfere in the organisational set up or leadership of another party. He said, “Who will be the president, secretary or hold any party post or lead the party is decided by the party itself.” Tejashwi said it was the time to stand with farmers, poor and workers. “Our real alliance is with farmers, poor, unemployed youth and people of Bihar. Few people may have their own opinion, but that should be expressed from a proper platform.” Tejshwi said seat-sharing talks were on with the Left parties and even Kushwaha met him a few days back. Sources said the number of seats was the main reason for tussle in GA and not the leadership issue. For instance, VIP led by Mukesh Sahni is seeking 25 seats. However, RJD is not ready to give VIP more than eight seats. A senior RJD leader said, “Giving 25 seats to VIP is just not possible. As far as Left parties are concerned, the talks are at a final stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/challenges-galore-for-tejashwi-as-ga-still-a-divided-house/articleshow/78328960.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||---||Challenges galore for Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as GA still a divided house||PATNA: Even though the Election Commission announced the schedule for Bihar polls on Friday, the opposition camp, it seems, is still a divided house. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, whom the party has projected as its CM face, has several challenges ahead. While Lalu is behind the bars, internal murmuring from old timers in the party and keeping the pack of opposition parties together are not easy for Tejashwi. However, RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said everything was smooth in the party and absence of Lalu would not have impact on the outcome of election. Gagan said, “Lalu ji is present in our heart and people of Bihar know that Tejashwi will carry forward the ideologies and teachings of his father. We will definitely miss him.” Meanwhile, smaller allies are not so happy with RJD. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha has been speaking against Tejashwi’s leadership. He has also hinted at exiting the alliance. HAM (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi has already returned to the NDA fold. While interacting with mediapersons on Friday, Tejashwi made it clear it was none of the alliance parties’ business to interfere in the organisational set up or leadership of another party. He said, “Who will be the president, secretary or hold any party post or lead the party is decided by the party itself.” Tejashwi said it was the time to stand with farmers, poor and workers. “Our real alliance is with farmers, poor, unemployed youth and people of Bihar. Few people may have their own opinion, but that should be expressed from a proper platform.” Tejshwi said seat-sharing talks were on with the Left parties and even Kushwaha met him a few days back. Sources said the number of seats was the main reason for tussle in GA and not the leadership issue. For instance, VIP led by Mukesh Sahni is seeking 25 seats. However, RJD is not ready to give VIP more than eight seats. A senior RJD leader said, “Giving 25 seats to VIP is just not possible. As far as Left parties are concerned, the talks are at a final stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/challenges-galore-for-tejashwi-as-ga-still-a-divided-house/articleshow/78324121.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||Patna||Migrants return to workplaces with heavy heart||PATNA: Many migrant workers, who had marched day and night on foot to reach their hometowns during Covid-induced lockdown, have started returning to their workplaces in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi after exhausting their savings. Rakesh Sah (29), a resident of Sirauli panchayat in Sitamarhi, left for Jaipur along with his family, including two kids, after his crops got damaged by floods. “My father is a farmer and I work at a cable wiring unit in Sitapur industrial area in Rajasthan. I had walked miles to reach my home during lockdown. It still gives me shudders when I recall the time,” Sah told this newspaper over the phone. “I was worried for my family. Hence, I returned home in the last week of April. I was left with no other option but to return to Rajasthan with my family. My savings got exhausted and our crops were destroyed by floods. No compensation was given by the state government,” Sah said, adding his loan application to start a cable wiring unit in Bihar was rejected. He added, “I went from pillar to post to get the loan, but to no avail. I wanted to set up a unit for cable wiring. If such units are established in Bihar, the state will not have to import cable wires from other states.” Mrityunjay (36), a native of Kodiya panchayat in Munger, has again left his family at home to find job in Delhi. “When I reached my home in May, I thought I would work in cottage industry or small food packaging unit. But the situation has turned really grim that I had to leave again to earn livelihood for my family. After spending 14 days in Delhi, I finally got job in a ‘namkeen’ factory,” he said. Abhay Singh (31) from Munger said he contacted his previous employer to resume work at a cable wiring unit in Ahmedabad. “I returned to my workplace about weeks ago,” he said. Some real estate developers are also taking back the workforce to complete the stalled projects. Masons Dhiraj Sahni and Neeraj Sahni from Gopalpur in Madhepura also returned to Punjab’s Kapurthala after bus services resumed in Bihar. “I wanted to stay with my family at home. However, I could not find any work in four months. All my savings were exhausted, forcing me to return to Punjab,” said Dhiraj. Neeraj said, “After walking miles to reach my hometown, I had to leave the place with a heavy heart to earn livelihood. Despite the promises of the state government, migrant workers were not given job opportunities in the state. In Punjab, I at least get Rs 450-500 per day.” Mandeo Tiwari, who returned to Noida with his friend to work at a construction site, said, “It is our misfortune that we were born in a place where there is no job opportunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-return-to-workplaces-with-heavy-heart/articleshow/78324700.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Ahmedabad-Udaipur traffic hit as tribal students in Rajasthan block highway||Palanpur: Traffic movement on the highway from Ahmedabad to Udaipur was hit on Friday owing to protests by the tribal students in Rajasthan. The authorities had to divert the traffic from Shamlaji in Aravalli district to ensure safety of the commuters who were on their way from Gujarat to Rajasthan. The diversion led to long queues of vehicles that were re-routed to Ambaji and Vijaynagar for crossing over to Rajasthan.According to the police, Aravalli district that shares borders with Rajasthan was also placed on alert after the tribal students in Dungarpur district there resorted to violence during the protests. The students have been protesting over delay in teacher’s recruitment in the state through the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers. The tribal community is also upset over lack of enough representation.After the tribal students resorted to protests in Kankri-Dungri at Dungarpur district on Thursday and blocked the Ahmedabad-Udaipur highway, the Aravalli police feared that the violence may spread in this border district too. “Tribal students from Rajasthan had arrived in Gujarat on Thursday to seek support from the students here. About 15 students from the state were headed for Rajasthan to join the protests but they were detained en route,” said Sanjay Kharat, superintendent of police (SP), Aravalli.These students were allowed to go after warning them to not create any tension. Some local students had also gathered in Shamlaji on Thursday night to stage protests but they were dispersed by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ahmedabad-udaipur-traffic-hit-as-tribal-students-in-rajasthan-block-highway/articleshow/78324724.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Patna||Skipping vaccination could be risky, caution experts||PATNA: Fear of Covid-19 pandemic has forced many parents not to take their little ones to routine immunisation centres. However, according to health experts, skipping important vaccines can pose higher health risk and result in emergence of several other diseases after the Covid-19 pandemic is controlled. Even the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Unicef have warned that disruption in immunisation programmes due to Covid-19 pandemic would cause other diseases in future. WHO has cited several examples for disruption in vaccination, including reluctance to move out of home, transportation problems, fear of being exposed and involvement of health workers in fight against Covid-19. Though the vaccination process has improved a bit, health experts said even educated parents who have all the access to health facilities are still skipping vaccination. “There is a fear of getting infected when going to a health institute with kids. We have to motivate them. I fear diseases like pertussis, measles and polio, which can be prevented through vaccination, might emerge again,” said Muzaffarpur-based senior patrician Dr Arun Shah. Dr Shah added the first year of birth is very crucial and parents should not skip any vaccine. Even in second year, children are given several important vaccines. “There is a concept of catch-up vaccines. Even if parents have missed any vaccine, they should get those vaccines administered to their children because more delay would prove harmful,” Dr Shah said. UNICEF (Bihar) health specialist Dr Hubbe Ali said four diseases – diphtheria, rubella, pertussis and measles – might re-emerge because of lack of immunisation due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Even if one case of diphtheria is reported in Bihar, it will be termed as an outbreak,” Dr Ali added. He added when the lockdown was imposed first, anganwadi centres were closed in the state from March 24 to May 6. “These are the centres where 80% of immunisation is carried out. This means around one million children missed their routine immunisation. However, catch-up immunisation was started later. Though there was dip in vaccination in April, it increased from May onwards,” Dr Ali said. As per the monthly immunisation data uploaded on the portal of health management information system, while 1.97 lakh children were administered vaccine in July last year, the number came down 1.60 lakh during the same month this year. Lack of routine immunisation in containment zones was one of the reasons for drop in immunisation rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/skipping-vaccination-could-be-risky-caution-experts/articleshow/78324664.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||Patna||Oppn parties hit roads to protest farm Bills||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday hit the road driving a tractor to protest against the farm Bills passed by the Parliament. His elder brother, Tej Pratap, occupied the roof of the same tractor, holding an axe in his hand. Other opposition parties, including three Left parties, Congress, RLSP headed by Upendra Kushwaha and JAP led by Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav also protested against the passage of farm Bills. While interacting with mediapersons after his tractor march, Tejashwi said, “All the framers, workers, unemployed youths and poor have made up their mind to topple the government.” Trained gun on chief minister Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi said, “The CM should make it clear why agricultural products are not sold at minimum support price in the state. He keeps telling that others do not have knowledge, so he should talk about MSP. The fact is that the government is least concerned about farmers.” RJD MLA Bhola Yadav, who took part in another tractor march in Darbhanga, also lashed out at the NDA governments at the Centre and in state. “This march is in support of farmers whom the Centre wants to make slaves of big corporates. We had to wrap up protests early following enforcement of model code of conduct,” Bhola said. CPI (ML) supporters took out a march from Buddha Smriti Park to Dak Bungalow roundabout in the state capital. CPI (ML) national secretary general Dipankar Bhattacharya, while addressing the gathering, said the NDA government was trying to bring back ‘company raj’ in the country. “Voices are being raised across the country against these Bills. The way these Bills were passed in Rajya Sabha, it amounted to murder of democracy,” Bhattacharya said. JAP workers, on the other hand, raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside the BJP office. In a video clip that has gone viral, some JAP workers could be seen climbing BJP’s office gate, which led to clashes between the two groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-parties-hit-roads-to-protest-farm-bills/articleshow/78322958.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar registers 1,632 fresh corona cases||PATNA: Altogether 1,632 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Friday, taking the tally to 1,75,898. Officially, three deaths were reported and the toll mounted up to 881. However, with 1,61,510 recoveries, there were only 13,505 active cases in the state. A two-day-old baby born at AIIMS-Patna died on Friday. Hospital’s gynaecology and obstetrics department’s additional professor Dr Mukta Agarwal said the child’s mother was positive for Covid-19, but the baby had tested negative. However, he died because of meconium aspiration. She said, “After birth, he was put on oxygen support and then shifted to ICU.” Twelve people were discharged on Friday, including a four-day-old child while 21 patients were admitted there from different pockets of the city like Patliputra Colony, Mithapur, Nasriganj, SK Puri and Punaichak. NMCH reported the death of a 68-year-old man from Barati village in Vaishali. Hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said four people were admitted and three were discharged. As per the health department bulletin, one death each was reported from Patna, Vaishali and Samastipur. As far as new cases are concerned, 294 were reported from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 26,740. However, with 24,499 recoveries and 203 deaths, active cases stand at 2038 only. Covid-19 cases were reported from some other districts Purnia (134), Muzaffarpur (72), Rohtas (62), Banka (63), Supaul (58), Madhepura (56) and East Champaran (53). Other districts registered less than 50 Covid-19 cases. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1810 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 91.82%. He further stated that 1,64,769 samples were tested in the same time period and, so far 65,79,427 samples have been tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-registers-1632-fresh-corona-cases/articleshow/78324556.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna doctors design dedicated Covid ICU||PATNA: A team of All doctors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has designed a dedicated Covid-19 intensive care unit (ICU). This research report on innovation in ICU set-up to suit the requirements of the Covid-19 patients has been accepted for publication in the International Journal of Critical Care Medicine. Hailing the work as a much needed innovation in this pandemic era, AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh, who is also a member of the research team, said this new model of ICU would be of great help in all those hospitals which provide treatment to patients with Covid and many other infectious diseases. “This innovated OT is now being used for treatment of Covid 19 patients at AIIMS-P,” he said. Dr Neeraj Kumar, who led the research team, said the novelty of this ICU was the demarcation of space or zone around so as to minimize the chances of spread of the microorganisms, including the coronavirus, to zero level. Health workers engaged in treating Covid patients had to face the challenge of checking the spread of virus from ICUs and the adjoining spaces.  Other members of the research team are Dr Abhyuday Kumar, Dr Ajeet Kumar and Dr Amarjeet Kumar. Dr Neeraj said this dedicated ICU is divided into four areas — clean filter lobby, contaminated filter zone, Covid care unit and central nursing station. He said with the inflow of Covid patients, the attending doctors and health workers realized the challenges coming in the way of saving precious lives of both the patients and health workers. This ICU would also be much useful in checking other infectious agents which behave like airborne and spread diseases via aerosols. “Soon, we plan a new dedicated ICU and are working on the concept by adding new features and dropping the unnecessary ones,” said Dr Neeraj. Dr Abhyuday said while in normal ICU, there is emphasis on checking infection from outside, but this ICU would work in reverse way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patna-doctors-design-dedicated-covid-icu/articleshow/78324613.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Patna||Huge rush for PhD degree in Bihar||PATNA: With greater weightage on research and publications in appointment of assistant professors, the universities in Bihar are witnessing huge rush of PhD degree aspirants. Most postgraduate departments of different universities are trying to cope with the ever-increasing demand for enrolment in PhD courses. Most of the social science departments of Patna University (PU) are facing difficulties in accommodating all the scholars who qualify the PhD admission test. Even scholars qualifying the National Eligibility Test (NET) organized by UGC or CSIR are at times not accommodated as the teachers have already got full strength of PhD scholars registered under their supervision, said PU examination controller R K Mandal. PU economics department head Raj Luxmi pointed out that as many as 70 scholars had qualified the PhD admission test in economics in February, but only seven of them could be enrolled for the course work as there were only that much vacancies under the faculty members of the department. The remaining 63 scholars had to return disappointed. Similar is the condition of other departments like history, political science, sociology and English, she said. The university has already fixed the number of PhD scholars to be supervised by different categories of teachers (assistant professors, associate professors and professors). And, once all the seats under a teacher are filled, it takes at least three to four years to have a vacancy, added Raj Luxmi. The rush for PhD course has increased manifold in recent times following the 2018 notification by the Union human resource ministry that PhD will be mandatory for the direct recruitment of assistant professors in Indian universities. The new UGC regulation in this regard would be in place from July 2021 and the same rule will also be applied for promotion to the post of assistant professor (selection grade) in colleges, according to the notification. Currently, those who hold PhD degree as per the provisions of UGC PhD Regulations of 2009 or 2016 or are UGC National Eligibility Test (NET) qualified with master’s degree are eligible to apply for assistant professor. Moreover, in the recent advertisement made by the Bihar State University Service Commission for recruitment of 4638 assistant professors, as many as 40 marks out of 100 have been earmarked for PhD degree and research publications. Hence, candidates having a PhD degree as per UGC regulations stand a better chance of selection, said Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma. Academics, however, feel that undue stress on PhD for the new entrants in teaching profession may not auger well in the long run. Despite enforcement of new PhD regulations in 2009 and 2016, there has hardly been any marked improvement in the quality of research work in most universities. Scholars still manage to get a PhD degree sans any original work or some positive contribution, said PU former social science faculty dean N K Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/huge-rush-for-phd-degree-in-bihar/articleshow/78324769.cms||B K Mishra
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Will follow EC guidelines’||PATNA: Political parties in the state have begun to brace up to contest the polls and outdo their rivals in the field, abiding strictly by the guidelines issued by the Election Commission in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The parties said they made necessary preparations to hold virtual meetings and rallies. The candidates are expected to launch their door-to-door campaign in a group of five people as warranted by the EC and conduct the mass contact programme holding rallies through the digital medium. “We welcome the announcement of the election schedule by the CEC for the three-phase poll,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, adding the JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar has overseen the laying of the system for networking and contact through the digital medium. “Periodically, the CM has also addressed the party workers, supporters and sympathisers through the digital medium. Our organizational machinery is also geared up to take up the task,” he said, adding both he and PM Narendra Modi have been asking the people of the state to maintain social distancing and use mask, besides following other advisories in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Welcoming the poll schedule, state BJP spokesman and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said the candidates would abide by the guidelines while filing the nomination papers or conducting door-to-door campaign. Further, the leaders would use only five vehicles during their road shows, he added. Asked as to what would be done if the people in an area begin to follow the candidates during door-to-door campaign or road shows in large numbers, Patel said, “It would be the job of the police personnel to prevent people from crowding.” “Our party leaders, be at the Centre or in the state, including PM Narendra Modi and Union ministers, have been addressing the virtual rallies through digital medium at district, block, panchayat and booth levels,” Patel said, adding the BJP’s organizational machinery has been very effective in making these meetings successful. “The schedule of the Bihar assembly elections has been announced. The LJP welcomes the decision of the Election Commission. The 2020 assembly elections will help materialize a new story of development in Bihar,” LJP president Chirag Paswan said. The state Congress, however, has been taken off-guard by the announcement, as it was expecting the poll schedule announcement in the second week of October, party sources said. However, the RJD leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha, maintained that their constituents had made up their mind to see party leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the next CM of the state. Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said, “We have conducted mass meetings through digital medium in 19 of the 38 districts down to the block level. Our digital system is ready and we will start meetings in the remaining districts soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-follow-ec-guidelines/articleshow/78324477.cms||Abhay Singh
September 26, 2020||---||EC announces biennial polls for 8 council seats in Bihar||PATNA: The Election Commission on Friday announced the schedule for biennial election to the Bihar Legislative Council from four graduates and four teachers’ constituencies. Voting in the four graduates and four teachers’ constituencies will be held on October 22. The counting of votes will be done on November 12, two days after the assembly poll results. The term of eight MLAs from both the constituencies had ended on May 6 this year. The four graduates’ constituencies where biennial polls will be held are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi. These seats fell vacant after the term of Neeraj Kumar (JDU), Devesh Chandra Thakur (Independent), Dilip Kumar Choudhary (JD-U) and N K Yadav (BJP) ended. Similarly, four teachers’ constituencies where biennial polls will be held are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga, and Saran. These seats fell vacant after the retirement of Nawal Kishor Yadav (BJP), Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI), Madan Mohan Jha (Congress) and Kedar Nath Pandey (CPI). Sources said the NDA leadership has almost finalized the list of its candidates from all the eight constituencies and the names would be announced in the next few days. Whereas there is no unity among the opposition parties on finalization of candidates from these eight constituencies. Sources in the JD(U) said outgoing MLC and senior party leader Dilip Kumar Choudhary would be the NDA candidate from Darbhanga graduates’ constituency while Suresh Rai will be the NDA nominee from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency. “I have got the blessings of CM Nitish Kumar the BJP leaders. I will file nomination papers from Darbhanga graduates’ constituency. I am sure the NDA will win the seat,” Choudhary told TOI on Friday. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha would be the party candidate from Darbhanga Teachers’ constituency, sources said. “Similarly, IPRD minister and JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar and BJP leader Nawal Kishore Yadav would be the NDA candidates from Patna graduates’ and teachers’ constituency, respectively. Both the leaders have been campaigning in their constituencies for the last several months,” a BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ec-announces-biennial-polls-for-8-council-seats/articleshow/78324749.cms||Madan Kumar
September 26, 2020||Patna||Political chameleon Upendra Kushwaha’s next move depends on Chirag Paswan||PATNA: All is fair in love and war, goes the saying. Just replace ‘love’ with ‘politics’ and put Upendra Kushwaha in perspective and you will get a clearer picture. Having hinted at coming out of the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan refusing to accept Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as its CM face, the next move of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief will depend on a couple of factors in the run-up to the assembly election. A brief look into the 60-year-old Koeri community leader’s political career reveals that he severed ties with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) three times in 11 years, giving the impression that he’s a master in jumping ships. Divorcing an alliance and joining another one only to rejoin the former partners later appears to be his forte. Kushwaha was dismissed from JD(U), of which he was a youth leader earlier, in 2007 and formed the Rashtriya Samata Party in February 2009. In November, he merged his RSP with JD(U) mending ties with Nitish. In January 2013, he left Nitish’s party again and set up RLSP. A year later, Kushwaha joined hands yet again with NDA, comprising JD(U) and BJP, and contested the Lok Sabha polls. Upon his win from Karakat constituency, he was given a berth in the Narendra Modi council of ministers. But his relationship with Nitish was never smooth and he resigned from the Union Cabinet a few months before the general elections (December 2018), blaming Modi for not doing enough for Bihar. On the eve of the Lok Sabha polls, he joined the Mahagathbandhan, hailing Lalu Prasad’s leadership. Now as the polls approach, Kushwaha, a political chameleon, has again dropped enough hints to go back to NDA. Although he has not cleared the air yet, the reason behind leaving Tejashwi-led alliance is not the CM pick, as is being said in the open, but the seat-sharing agreement. According to sources, Kushwaha had sought 36-41 seats from RJD, but Tejashwi was not willing to concede more than 12. The RLSP leader has now two options before him. The first is either to return to NDA and fight polls under the leadership of Nitish with whom he has shared a roller-coaster relationship and the second one is to form a “third front” with smaller parties like Jan Adhikar Party of Pappu Yadav, Mukesh Sahni’s Vikasshil Insaan Party and Lok Janshakti Party led by Chirag Paswan. Kushwaha’s next move will depend to a large extent on what Chirag does in the next few days. Of late, Chirag has indicated that he, too, is not happy with Nitish. In the event of LJP coming out of NDA, Kushwaha will get an opportunity to go with Chirag and form an alliance – a third front, so to say — along with other smaller parties to take on NDA and Mahagathbanhan. The 2020 election will then be a three-corner fight. But if Chirag decides to stay back with NDA, RLSP will be left with no other option but to join hands with Nitish, eating his own words and sharing the stage with Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM(S) - and thereby remaining happy with whatever seats being offered to him. Kushwaha will have to decide soon which way to swing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/political-chameleon-kushwahas-next-move-depends-on-chirag/articleshow/78328969.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Patna||Mixed reaction to Bihar assembly polls amid pandemic||PATNA: With the announcement of assembly elections in Bihar on Friday, people were busy talking about the preparedness of Election Commission (EC) amid the Covid pandemic and fear of contracting the virus as the festive season is also approaching. The voters fear that the Covid tally, which has declined over the last few weeks, may increase during the Dussehra and electioneering. Though the EC has issued guidelines for the safety of people and election officials, some voters said they would take the decision after analysing the situation before the polling day. Sanjali Priyam (21), a resident of Ashiana Colony and a first-time voter, said, “I have visited the polling booth earlier with my parents. This time, however, it is going to be different with Covid pandemic everywhere. I want to experience first-time voting in abnormal circumstances while taking all precautions.” Aliza (28) of Sheikhpura Mor said people are rightly concerned about having to choose between their right to vote and health. “But I think voting during the pandemic would not be a problem if people take precautionary measures. People should vote to democratically elect their leader,” she said. “We are all carrying out our day-to-day activities with precautions, so why delay the elections. We like to see the changes in society by casting our votes. Everyone is ready for elections,” said Roselyn Anthony (39) of Kurji area. Some voters opined that elections should not be happening amid Covid, as the risk of contracting and spreading the virus would be high with huge gathering. Vijay Kumar Choudhary (46) of Boring Canal Road area said election should be delayed till the vaccine is ready. “People, especially the old ones having comorbid conditions or those having kids at home, are concerned about their health. Around 15,000 candidates tested positive across the country after the NEET exam and one girl died in Muzaffarpur,” he said. A resident of Patliputra Colony, Kalpana Sinha (48) also shared similar views. “I know how difficult it is for people who had contracted the virus. After even tested negative, they have to go through post-Covid trauma. Besides, the unofficial positive cases should be more than what the official figures are. Many people do not even know they are positive for the virus. So, there are possibilities of increase in virus contraction during electioneering and polling,” she said. She added: “When minister of health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan announced that Covid vaccine is possible by January 2021, then why there was so much hurry for elections.” Atul Sinha (62) of Kadamkuan said, “We are in unique times. Voting is a unique challenge for people, especially old ones. The voter turnout would be low and spread of virus would be high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mixed-reaction-to-polls-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78329109.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 26, 2020||Business||Mondelez joins companies that offer live-ins health cover||MUMBAI: Mondelez India is bringing sweet tidings for its employees. Beginning January 2021, the leading chocolate maker will extend its group mediclaim policy to cover live-in partners as well. It will also cover adoptive and dependent children of the domestic partners. In sync with societal changes, the move has been triggered by the fact that 60% of the 3,500-strong multi-generational workforce of Mondelez India are millennials. The company’s HR director Mahalakshmi R told TOI, “The policy has its genesis in our employee listening forums, where such queries were raised. Studies show that there is a growing acceptance of live-in relationships in society. A lot of people do not want to get married early in life and prefer to go in for live-in relations. We want to pivot our policies in a manner that’s meaningful to our diversity and inclusion agenda.” Earlier this year, the maker of Cadbury chocolates, Oreo biscuits and Bournvita health drink had extended the group mediclaim benefits to same-sex partners. Among other organisations that have extended medical policy to cover live-in partners are KPMG India and Citibank. Citibank extended its family health insurance coverage and relocation expenses in India to all “domestic partners”, including live-in partners and LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer) partners. KPMG too made fair amount of adjustments in the insurance cover by extending ‘spouse’ references to include ‘partner’ and clearly stated that this may include partners of the same or opposite sex or live-in partner. Capstone People Consulting founder & CEO Sujaya Banerjee said changing relationship dynamics and lifestyles of millennials is compelling employers to engage with new realities of live-in partners instead of spouses and also same-sex partners in many cases. “While some progressive MNCs, banks and IT/ITeS companies have policies governing this, the offer to cover unmarried or same-sex partners as part of medical insurance or re-location policies is a positive indicator of both acceptance and inclusion. In a global and interconnected world, several lifestyle and personal choices are being re-visited by the growing millennial population, who want to work with progressive employers who understand these changing trends and are pragmatic enough to address real emerging situations with real solutions,” said Banerjee. Several organisations are drafting policies around millennials who also form a large consumer base. “Diversity and inclusion are the core business imperatives for us. We have already made progress on the gender diversity front with 33% of women in the leadership team and we are way ahead of the market with more than 35% of women in the next levels. While working on policies, we ensure we’re an equal opportunity workplace for all genders,” said Mahalakshmi. On the other hand, there are Gen Xers who look for companionship through live-ins. Such policies, said Mahalakshmi, would benefit all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mondelez-joins-cos-that-offer-live-ins-health-cover/articleshow/78324831.cms||Namrata Singh
September 26, 2020||Mysuru||KSRTC driver suffers seizure while at the wheel, none hurt||Chamarajanagar: In a freak incident, a KSRTC headed towards Chamarajnagar from Kollegal steered away from the road towards agriculture fields on Thursday when the bus driver suddenly developed discomfort and epilepsy, and lost control over wheels. The incident happened near Maddur village in Yelandur taluk. All 28 passengers escaped unhurt except a woman identified as Padma who sustained minor injuries. Driver S Yalakakki was rushed to the district hospital and is said to be stable. Yelandur police inspector Shekhar said the police visited the spot. “We have not registered any case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ksrtc-driver-suffers-seizure-while-at-the-wheel-none-hurt/articleshow/78324879.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 53 lakh mineral theft racket busted; two booked||RAJKOT: Two senior officials of a construction company were booked on Thursday for the alleged theft of 21,404 metric tonne mineral worth Rs 52.87 lakh from a land belonging to the state government in Amreli district. Police said two senior managers of Agroh Infrastructure Private Limited, manager Gautam Dutta, and project manager Niraj Agrawal were booked based on the complaint by royalty inspector with the state mines and mineral department, Rohitsinh Jadav. “We received a complaint from Amreli district collectorate about the mineral theft being carried out on a massive scale in Rajula, Jafrabad and Nageshri regions. Our investigation revealed that the company had excavated mineral from the government land in Balanivav of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district,” said Jadav. “Jadav alleged that the mineral was dug out under the supervision of the accused who had not acquired any permission from the government. The company workers, following the instructions of the accused, had used the mineral to lay it on the coastal highway linking Bhavnagar to Dwarka in the past three months,” said B G Vala, sub-inspector with Nageshri police station. Earlier, the state mines and mineral department had slapped Agroh Infra with Rs 52.87 lakh fine for the alleged mineral theft, regarding which it had sent a notice to the company on July 18 this year. However, the company in a written reply claimed that it had carried out the digging work in the area of which it had acquired permission from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-53l-mineral-theft-racket-busted-two-booked/articleshow/78324760.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Business||Cyber insurance premiums rise 20% on higher claims||Chennai: Premium on cyber insurance covers has risen by nearly 20% for corporates, as insurers see a surge in cyberattacks and higher claims arising out of such attacks. Future Generali India Insurance (FGII) said the claims arising out of cyberattack has increased from 20% in March to 45% in August, 2020. “This has led to the cost of premium of cyber insurance covers going up by 40% between March-September,” said a spokesperson at the non-life insurance company. For example, under the corporate cyber policy for a minimum sum assured of Rs 5 crore, the cost of premium has risen by Rs 4.5-Rs 4.8 lakh, as compared to Rs 3-Rs 4 lakh earlier. For a maximum coverage of Rs 50 crore, the cost of premium increased to Rs 30 lakh as against Rs 20-Rs 25 lakh earlier. However, insurers say the cost of retail or individual cyber insurance policies have not changed much as marginal claims are reported. Cyber Insurance policies offer protection for both individual and corporate customers, with a sum assured ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 crore. The cover protects against the loss of sensitive personal and corporate information caused by theft or altering of data, virus or malware, denial of service, and also reputational damage in terms of both the reputation of the business and that of the senior executives. It also covers policyholders from lawsuits and also losses arising out of virus attacks. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company saw the cost of premium for its corporate cyber covers increase by 15%-20% in FY21. Its head of claims, underwriting and reinsurance Sanjay Datta said, “Cyber Insurance is an exposure based insurance product, hence the premium cost is highly dependent on various risk attributes which involves cyber security measures for that particular organisation. If the growing trend of higher cyber-attacks continues, insurers and reinsurers offering cyber insurance will harden the rates.” Speaking on the increasing penetration of cyber insurance policy, Datta said 50% growth seen in the number of policies underwritten as compared to last year, besides customer enquiries gone up by 50% since lockdown. In the early phase, enquiries came from BFSI and IT/ITES companies who were the early adopters to cyber risk. As per recent trends, enquiries have been coming from hospitality, educational institutes, manufacturing, including SMEs. Large-level companies who have adapted the work-from-home model for a longer term have opted for higher loss limits, compared to mid-level clients. This is because the security of devices at work from home set up is unmatched to those offered in the office area,” he added. On claims settled, Datta said 10%-15% increase seen in settling loss this year. “Majority of claims are reported by corporate clients (the IT sector) and are examining the same.” Najm W Bilgrami, national head of financial lines at Tata AIG General Insurance, said forensic costs still form the largest piece of the cyber claims pie. Ransomware, data theft, fraudulent fund transfer, phishing attacks form the majority of claims applied by the insured. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance which offers Cyber protect standard digital business and data protection insurance cover has seen a 20% increase in premium cost at the time of renewal. TA Ramalingam, chief technical officer, said, “This increase in cost varies between customers and is calculated on the value of claims made by them. We are also open to provide discounts to new corporate clients who want to increase the coverage limit in the future.” Its cyber insurance business grew by 40% this year and booksize stands at Rs 35 crore. According to Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) 6.9 lakh cyber security incidents were reported till August, 2020, which is a 43% jump from the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyber-insurance-premiums-rise-20-on-higher-claims/articleshow/78324635.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 26, 2020||Business||Rana Kapoor fined Rs 1cr over disclosures||Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi on Friday fined Yes Bank’s founder and former MD Rana Kapoor Rs 1 crore for his failure to disclose price-sensitive information to the bank’s shareholders. In April 2018, Kapoor had pledged shares of unlisted Morgan Credit, one of the investment arms of Kapoor through which he controlled the bank, to raise Rs 950 crore from Nippon Mutual Fund. This information, which was price-sensitive in nature, was not disclosed to the bourses and hence Sebi fined Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rana-kapoor-fined-rs-1cr-over-disclosures/articleshow/78325139.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 76,000 police personnel test +ve across the country||AURANGABAD: Police personnel across the country have been at the forefront of the Covid-19 containment efforts. They had ensured effective implementation of the lockdown, and continue to oversee the adherance to safety protocols including social distancing and mask use. During the course of their duty, thousands of police personnel seem to have caught the infection. Over 76,000 police personnel across the country had tested positive for Covid-19 infection till August 21, statistics from a publication of the Bureau Of Police Research And Development (BPR&D) show. The BPR&D published a special compendium highlighting the police’s role in the fight against Covid-19. It stated as many as 76,768 police personnel across the country had tested positive. There were also 401 fatalities among the cops till August 21. Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, also has the most cases among the police personnel. Maharashtra had reported 12,760 cases among police personnel and 129 deaths, followed by UP with 6,708 cases and 19 deaths. West Bengal reported 5,794 cases and 19 deaths, followed by Karnataka with 4,925 cases and 32 deaths. Senior police officers in Maharashtra said they had ensured that police personnel with comorbidities and those above the age of 50 years were not put on high-risk duties. They also granted leave to personnel above the age of 55 years. Sanjeev Kumar Singhal, the additional director general of police (administration) in Maharashtra, told TOI, “Apart from ensuring quality treatment, they also gave immunity booster medicines and supplements to the personnel across the hierarchy.” The central armed police forces have also reported a high number of cases, adding to the concerns of those at the helm. Assam rifles reported 571 cases and one death, border security force reported 3,757 cases and 13 deaths, central industrial security force reported 3,041 cases and 17 deaths, central reserve police force recorded 5,467 cases and 24 deaths, Indo-Tibetan Border police reported 1332 cases and three deaths, national disaster response force traced 457 cases and no deaths, National Security guard reported 92 cases and zero death and Sashastra Seema Bal reported 601 cases and three deaths. However, Mizoram, Lakshwadeep, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu reported no cases. Meghalaya recorded eight Covid cases. A senior police officer from the DG office said, “Maharashtra police have remained at the forefront of the battle against the contagion, which has caused several deaths. The death should not be a reason for the demoralization of the forces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-76k-police-personnel-test-ve-across-the-country/articleshow/78326219.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Airport transit facility thrown open to public||Kolkata: The much awaited transfer facility for domestic-to-domestic transit passengers at the Kolkata airport, which allows transit passengers on arrival at the airport to move directly into the departure security hold area after being frisked at a dedicated security check portal, was commissioned on Friday evening. Around 300 passengers used the facility on the first day. Over the weekend, the numbers are set to increase, airport officials said. According to officials, the new facility will enhance maintenance of social distancing protocol, safety at the Kolkata airport terminal and reduce hassle for transit flyers. “The facility will save 50-60 minutes of transit time as passengers now require to exit the terminal at the arrival level, take elevators to the departure level, re-enter the terminal after necessary checks at the gate and then undergo security check,” an airport official explained. Developed at a cost of Rs 6.5 crore, the 24,000-sq ft transfer facility with a dedicated security check portal that has a capacity of clearing 300 passengers per hour. The infrastructure enhancement for the facility includes two baggage X-ray machines (one of them with an automatic tray retrieval system), three frisking booths (one for women and two for men), three dedicated elevators to move to the security hold area, a separate set of toilets and enhanced security hold area with two new bus coach boarding gates to travel to planes parked in remote bays. This will take the remote bay gate count from six to eight. The facility will, however, help only passengers booked on the same airline for flights arriving as well as departing Kolkata. Those booked in different airlines will have to collect their luggage at the arrival hall, exit the terminal and proceed to departure level to complete the formalities. “Every time I had to travel home from work, I had to get down at Kolkata airport, come out of the arrival terminal and enter the departure zone again to check in for the onward flight to Dimapur. Now on, the movement is going to be seamless,” said Dipa Nandeibam, a resident of Manipur who works in Bangalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-transit-facility-thrown-open-to-public/articleshow/78323088.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 26, 2020||Patna||Only 19% of 947 beds occupied at two Covid hospitals in Patna||PATNA: Only 19% of the 947 beds at city’s Covid-19 dedicated hospitals are currently occupied by patients, according to the data provided by AIIMS-Patna and NMCH. Of the total patients at these two health facilities, 45% are in severe category, 39.6% in moderate category and 15.4% have mild infection. With the decline in Covid positivity rate to nearly 0.7% till Thursday and the number of positive patients requiring tertiary care, the bed occupancy at Covid-dedicated hospitals continues to remain low for the last 20-25 days. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said the bed occupancy at the hospital has dipped consistently over the last one month due to decline in overall positivity rate. “On an average, almost 350-400 patients were admitted at the hospital in August. The number was much higher in July. However, in September, a gradual decline in Covid patients was witnessed,” he said. “Currently, we have 160 Covid patients, including 60 in ICU, 36 on ventilator and 100 in isolation ward. Around 42% patients have severe symptoms, 48% are in moderate category and 10% have mild symptoms. The severe patients have comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments,” Dr Sanjeev said. He added, “Late admission, inadequate treatment at other hospitals and late detection of Covid are the reasons for severity of the virus.” At NMCH, altogether 21 patients are being treated for Covid-19, including eight in ICU, two on ventilator and 13 in isolation ward. The hospital has the capacity to accommodate 447 Covid patients at a time. Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, medical nodal officer at NMCH, said 21 beds are currently occupied. “Five patients have mild symptoms and the rest are in moderate to severe categories. Early detection of the virus and proper treatment are necessary for recovery. Some patients have serious complications because of delay in testing,” he said. “In July, the hospital was overburdened with the Covid patients, but the positive cases started declining from the last week of August,” Dr Sinha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-19-of-947-beds-occupied-at-two-covid-hospitals-in-patna/articleshow/78324532.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 26, 2020||Patna||‘After Delhi, AIIMS-Patna second in treatment of Covid-19 patients’||PATNA: AIIMS-Patna is the second among the AIIMS institutes across the country in providing medical help to the maximum number of Covid-19 patients. “The maximum about 5,000 Covid-19 patients have been treated at the Jhajjar unit of AIIMS-Delhi and we have treated the second highest number of cases among all the AIIMS institutes in the country,” AIIMS-P Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. AIIMS-P was declared a dedicated Covid hospital in July. As per the figures shared by the hospital administration, 2799 Covid-19 patients have been admitted since March till mid-September and 2389 of them have been discharged and 383 died. Apart from indoor patients, nearly 3,000 other Covid-19 positive persons were given OPD services, he said. Recalling the journey of Covid-19 treatment, Dr Sanjeev said, “Initially in March, we started admitting suspected patients. Then we had eight ICU beds, six high-dependency units and 100 normal beds of Covid-19 positive patients. After becoming a dedicated Covid hospital, 500 beds were earmarked for treating Covid patients, which included 85 in ICU and 26 in HDU.” As per the break-up shared by Dr Sanjeev, maximum 1107 admissions were registered in July, followed by 614 in August. Among the total number of patients admitted, almost 40% were put in the ICU. Apart from providing treatment, Dr Sanjeev said, they had even tested nearly 70,000 samples through RT-PCR method. While AIIMS-Patna is celebrating its ninth foundation day, doctors say their past six months’ journey had been quite different. “Even though we have completed nine years, the challenges we faced in the past six months and the way all the doctors, specialists and superspecialists left their specialization and took on the new challenge is amazing,” Dr Sanjeev added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/after-delhi-aiims-patna-second-in-treatment-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78324639.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Parties hail poll date announcement||PATNA: After the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday announced the schedule for assembly elections in state, there was excitement at all party offices here. Beer Chand Patel Path, which hosts the offices of the state’s three main political parties – JD(U), BJP and RJD – wore a different look. Large number of SUVs parked along the road and gatherings inside the party offices showed the workers were all excited for the upcoming elections. Even incessant rain could not mar the enthusiasm of workers, who could also be spotted near tea shops and small litti-chokha stalls. JD(U) spokesperson Anjum Ara and Arvind Nishad, both of whom were present at the party office, said the excitement has further increased after the announcement of poll dates. Ara said, “Look at the faces of party workers to figure out how happy they are. RJD and other opposition parties did not want the election to take place, but the EC understands the importance of democratic exercise.” Nishad said their wait for announcement of poll dates was finally over now. The RJD office also witnessed activities throughout the day. Party’s state general secretary (headquarters) Nirala Yadav said, “Elections in Bihar are like festivals and we are very excited. This is an opportunity for people to hand over the reins of Bihar to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as CM Nitish Kumar has failed on all fronts.” Shailesh Kumar (21), an RJD worker from Masaurhi, said, “I am excited because I will exercise my franchise for the first time. I will try my best to help Tejashwi bhaiya win the election and become CM of the state.” The mood at BJP office was no different with party workers assembling there with party flags. “The leaders and workers of BJP are so happy with the announcement of poll schedule. BJP is a political organisation, which works round the clock and always remains prepared to face the electoral challenge. The NDA will sweep polls in the state,” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. Congress workers were also seen making a beeline for Sadaquat Ashram. Party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha was also present at the office at the time of announcement of poll dates by ECI. Congress’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said the party’s screening committee chairman, Avinash Pandey, along with two other members, will reach Patna on Saturday on a two-day visit. “We were already preparing for elections. The announcement of dates has further increased our zeal. However, we still wonder why the EC has allowed elections amid Covid-19 pandemic. It has also admitted that 70 countries have postponed their elections due to the pandemic,” Rathore added. At the RLSP office, party functionaries and workers got to know about the poll dates after conclusion of their protests against farm Bills. Bhola Sharma, media incharge-cum-spokesperson of RLSP welcomed the announcement of poll dates. Workers at HAM(S) office queued up for tickets after the announcement of poll dates and extended greetings to each other. Various cells of the party have been activated for the polls. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said the party would release its manifesto in the next couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-hail-poll-date-announcement/articleshow/78324391.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Handling smaller allies a difficult task for NDA||PATNA: Barring one occasion when he also led the Grand Alliance to victory in Bihar in the 2015 assembly elections, it is for the first time that CM Nitish Kumar will be going to the polls heading an NDA coalition comprising more than two parties. Otherwise, Nitish’s JD(U) was with the BJP for 17 years since 1996 and contested the four assembly elections together in 2000, February 2005, November 2005 and 2010. Of the four occasions, Nitish formed the government with the BJP in the state in November 2005 and 2010, and again in July 2017 after quitting the RJD-led Grand Alliance. Today, the Bihar NDA comprises four parties with the JD(U) and BJP serving as the two poles. In sync with this polarity, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is on the side of Nitish, while the Lok Janshakti Party headed by Chirag Paswan, son of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, is with the BJP and has been declaredly toeing its line on all matters within the NDA. The scene in the Bihar NDA has got complicated after Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, former Union minister, hinted at walking out of the Grand Alliance. However, the state BJP is in an expectant mood on the issue of Kushwaha. “We have nothing against Kushwaha in particular. We always expected him and he was also Union minister. It is up to him to decide which way he must go and take a firm step,” state BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said. The problem with Kushwaha is that he considers himself as “CM in waiting” and also wants respectable number of seats for the RLSP to contest. The JD(U) sources, however, said their party’s top brass was not sure about the step Kushwaha might take in the post-poll situation. Implicitly, Nitish would favour granting less number of seats to Kushwaha, at best. “We are sure that RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has ambition, but running a coalition with transparency would be tough for him,” RLSP spokesman Fazal Imam Malik said. Curiously, in line with the RLSP’s decision taken a couple of days ago, the party workers came out on the road on Friday to protest the farm Bills passed by Parliament. However, LJP chief Chirag Paswan has been insistent on continuing with the BJP in the NDA, even as he has been critical of Nitish. “It is time to inform people about the dream of the PM to make Bihar a developed state,” Chirag tweeted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/handling-smaller-allies-a-difficult-task-for-nda/articleshow/78328951.cms||Abhay Singh
September 26, 2020||---||Bihar: Handling smaller allies a difficult task for NDA||PATNA: Barring one occasion when he also led the Grand Alliance to victory in Bihar in the 2015 assembly elections, it is for the first time that CM Nitish Kumar will be going to the polls heading an NDA coalition comprising more than two parties. Otherwise, Nitish’s JD(U) was with the BJP for 17 years since 1996 and contested the four assembly elections together in 2000, February 2005, November 2005 and 2010. Of the four occasions, Nitish formed the government with the BJP in the state in November 2005 and 2010, and again in July 2017 after quitting the RJD-led Grand Alliance. Today, the Bihar NDA comprises four parties with the JD(U) and BJP serving as the two poles. In sync with this polarity, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is on the side of Nitish, while the Lok Janshakti Party headed by Chirag Paswan, son of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, is with the BJP and has been declaredly toeing its line on all matters within the NDA. The scene in the Bihar NDA has got complicated after Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, former Union minister, hinted at walking out of the Grand Alliance. However, the state BJP is in an expectant mood on the issue of Kushwaha. “We have nothing against Kushwaha in particular. We always expected him and he was also Union minister. It is up to him to decide which way he must go and take a firm step,” state BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said. The problem with Kushwaha is that he considers himself as “CM in waiting” and also wants respectable number of seats for the RLSP to contest. The JD(U) sources, however, said their party’s top brass was not sure about the step Kushwaha might take in the post-poll situation. Implicitly, Nitish would favour granting less number of seats to Kushwaha, at best. “We are sure that RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has ambition, but running a coalition with transparency would be tough for him,” RLSP spokesman Fazal Imam Malik said. Curiously, in line with the RLSP’s decision taken a couple of days ago, the party workers came out on the road on Friday to protest the farm Bills passed by Parliament. However, LJP chief Chirag Paswan has been insistent on continuing with the BJP in the NDA, even as he has been critical of Nitish. “It is time to inform people about the dream of the PM to make Bihar a developed state,” Chirag tweeted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/handling-smaller-allies-a-difficult-task-for-nda/articleshow/78324219.cms||Abhay Singh
September 26, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Our main fight is with BJP, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Minutes after the Election Commission of India announced the schedule for assembly elections in the state, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the people of the state wanted to get rid of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government. Maintaining that all sections of people, including farmers, workers, women and youths were angry, Tejashwi said the RJD’s main fight was with the BJP. “Hamari ladai kewal BJP se hai. Janata is chunav mein sampradayik takaton ko sabak sikhayegi (Our fight is with the BJP only. People will give a befitting reply to the communal forces in the upcoming election),” Tejashwi told mediapersons. Tejashwi, however, didn’t miss the opportunity to slam Nitish and alleged that the JD(U) has lost its credibility. “The JD(U) joined hands with the BJP and formed the government defying the people’s mandate in 2017,” Tejashwi said. Though the opposition parties appear to be scattered, RJD is hopeful of being benefited from anti-incumbency factor. “Janata apna man bana chuki hai. Mahagathbandhan ki sarkar banegi (People have made up their mind. GA will form the government),” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. Though RJD has projected Tejashwi as chief ministerial candidate of opposition parties or Grand Alliance (GA), many parties in the GA are not accepting his leadership. Former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP is a case in point. The RLSP, which held its crucial meeting on Thursday, is likely to quit the GA, the second GA ally to do so after Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S). Even Congress has made it clear that the CM face of the GA would be decided at the meeting of senior leaders of the alliance partners. However, CPI has no reservation with Tejashwi being projected as CM candidate of GA. CPI leader Ram Naresh Pandey said, “We have made it clear that the CPI will contest election under the leadership of RJD. If the RJD has decided to project Tejashwi as its CM face, we will stand by its decision.” The RJD is faced with the prospect of an election with its chief Lalu Prasad in jail. Internal squabbles inside Lalu’s family have also begun. The posters that the RJD has put up near its office with Tejashwi all over them clearly show the party’s intention. Some of these posters do not even have Lalu’s photo. During the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap had rebelled against his own party when some of his loyalists were denied tickets. For now, Tej Pratap appears to be standing strong in support of Tejashwi, but it will be interesting to see if this bonhomie remains once the tickets are distributed. Tejashwi’s task has become all the more more difficult this time. For, many senior leaders in the party are not feeling comfortable with the way Tejashwi is managing things. RJD’s founder member Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s resignation letter to Lalu Prasad three days before his death indicated that the old warhorses of the RJD were being sidelined in the party. In his letter, whose veracity was contested by the RJD, Raghuvansh had said he was leaving the party due to its “feudalism, nepotism, casteism and improper distribution of party positions”. The Congress, however, is likely to stick to the RJD in the absence of any feasible option. By announcing that the RJD’s main fight is with the BJP, Tejashwi has tried to consolidate the party’s traditional Muslim-Yadav (MY) vote bank, a senior RJD functionary said. He said the opposition would raise the issues like unemployment, inept handling of Covid-19 pandemic by the government, floods, poor health care, corruption and law and order in the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/our-main-fight-is-with-bjp-says-tejashwi/articleshow/78324934.cms||Ramashankar
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Our main fight is with BJP, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Minutes after the Election Commission of India announced the schedule for assembly elections in the state, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the people of the state wanted to get rid of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government. Maintaining that all sections of people, including farmers, workers, women and youths were angry, Tejashwi said the RJD’s main fight was with the BJP. “Hamari ladai kewal BJP se hai. Janata is chunav mein sampradayik takaton ko sabak sikhayegi (Our fight is with the BJP only. People will give a befitting reply to the communal forces in the upcoming election),” Tejashwi told mediapersons. Tejashwi, however, didn’t miss the opportunity to slam Nitish and alleged that the JD(U) has lost its credibility. “The JD(U) joined hands with the BJP and formed the government defying the people’s mandate in 2017,” Tejashwi said. Though the opposition parties appear to be scattered, RJD is hopeful of being benefited from anti-incumbency factor. “Janata apna man bana chuki hai. Mahagathbandhan ki sarkar banegi (People have made up their mind. GA will form the government),” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. Though RJD has projected Tejashwi as chief ministerial candidate of opposition parties or Grand Alliance (GA), many parties in the GA are not accepting his leadership. Former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP is a case in point. The RLSP, which held its crucial meeting on Thursday, is likely to quit the GA, the second GA ally to do so after Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S). Even Congress has made it clear that the CM face of the GA would be decided at the meeting of senior leaders of the alliance partners. However, CPI has no reservation with Tejashwi being projected as CM candidate of GA. CPI leader Ram Naresh Pandey said, “We have made it clear that the CPI will contest election under the leadership of RJD. If the RJD has decided to project Tejashwi as its CM face, we will stand by its decision.” The RJD is faced with the prospect of an election with its chief Lalu Prasad in jail. Internal squabbles inside Lalu’s family have also begun. The posters that the RJD has put up near its office with Tejashwi all over them clearly show the party’s intention. Some of these posters do not even have Lalu’s photo. During the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap had rebelled against his own party when some of his loyalists were denied tickets. For now, Tej Pratap appears to be standing strong in support of Tejashwi, but it will be interesting to see if this bonhomie remains once the tickets are distributed. Tejashwi’s task has become all the more more difficult this time. For, many senior leaders in the party are not feeling comfortable with the way Tejashwi is managing things. RJD’s founder member Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s resignation letter to Lalu Prasad three days before his death indicated that the old warhorses of the RJD were being sidelined in the party. In his letter, whose veracity was contested by the RJD, Raghuvansh had said he was leaving the party due to its “feudalism, nepotism, casteism and improper distribution of party positions”. The Congress, however, is likely to stick to the RJD in the absence of any feasible option. By announcing that the RJD’s main fight is with the BJP, Tejashwi has tried to consolidate the party’s traditional Muslim-Yadav (MY) vote bank, a senior RJD functionary said. He said the opposition would raise the issues like unemployment, inept handling of Covid-19 pandemic by the government, floods, poor health care, corruption and law and order in the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/our-main-fight-is-with-bjp-says-tejashwi/articleshow/78329098.cms||Ramashankar
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Dandia beats silenced, but fans’ hearts beat for the poor||VADODARA: Every year, ahead of Navratri, Nehal Sutariya used to save money and splurge on renting colourful costumes ang getting tattoos made. But this year, this ardent garba enthusiast won’t be splurging a single buck on himself. Instead, he will use the same amount to buy quality face masks and distribute them among the poor who can’t afford shields against Covid-19. “Every Navratri, I spend at least Rs 30,000 on not just the costumes but the accessories along with entry passes and food. But we are facing an unprecedented crisis this time, and so I thought of putting my money to good use,” said Sutariya, an advocate, who has already started distributing the masks. In the cultural capital of Gujarat, many garba enthusiasts shell out thousands of rupees to celebrate the nine nights of revelry. Both men and women either buy or rent colourful traditional costumes and spend big money in parlours too. But concerned with the pandemic, most big garba organizers have announced that they won’t organize Navratri as it will be too risky to gather large crowds at their venues. So many Gujaratis like Sutariya have decided to spend their garba money for a good cause. “During Navratri every year, I easily spend Rs 20,000 to 25,000. When I learnt that garbas won’t be organized this time, I was disappointed. But I immediately decided to use the money to distribute hand sanitizers in the slums as the poor can’t afford it,” said Ashish Shah, a 44-year-old businessman who plays garba at United Ways in Vadodara. Priyanka Kapur, another garba fan, too has decided to donate her Navratri funds for charity. “I have been associated with the NGOs that are helping the needy. This time, the money I spend on Navratri will be donated to these organizations that are helping in the battle against coronavirus,” said Kapur from Vadodara. In Surat too, where Navratri is celebrated with immense fervour, garba enthusiasts are preferring philanthropy. “Every Navratri, we spend money on garba dresses and ornaments. With Navratri called off due to Covid-19 pandemic, we will now spend money on buying masks and sanitizers and distributing them for free among the needy people,” said Chelna Jain, a resident of Piplod locality in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dandia-beats-silenced-but-fans-hearts-beat-for-the-poor/articleshow/78322192.cms||Tushar Tere
September 26, 2020||Business||Flipkart ropes in 1MG for e-pharma||BENGALURU: Following Reliance and Amazon India, Walmart-owned Flipkart has now entered the e-pharmacy space. It has partnered with Gurgaon-based 1MG, whose app is now available on Flipkart’s Android one. This means users can order prescription medicines, book doctor consultations and lab tests within Flipkart. The e-tailer’s entry in e-pharmacy is already seeing opposition. The All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), a body with 8.5 lakh members, has written to Flipkart CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy and Walmart president & CEO Doug McMillon, saying the partnership is against local laws. TOI first reported last month that the local e-commerce arm of the US-based retail major was looking to enter the space amid action from Reliance, which acquired a 60% stake in Netmeds. While Flipkart has now brought 1MG onto its platform, it has been building its own team internally for the e-pharmacy business and held similar partnership talks with PharmEasy, which is acquiring smaller rival Medlife. Owing to the traffic it gets, Flipkart is essentially trying to serve one more consumer need. Prescription medicines, lab tests and doctor consultations are in high demand amid the pandemic, as consumers try to limit their movement as much as possible. Consumer stickiness and average order size increasing to $15-20 are also some of the reasons large strategic players like Amazon, Reliance and now Flipkart are entering the space. “We are forced to write to you as we discovered that Flipkart, which is owned by Walmart Inc, USA has partnered with an e-pharmacy by the name of 1MG.COM to sell ‘Prescription Medicines’ on its platform. This partnership is against the laws in our country,” AIOCD’s note to McMillon and Krishnamurthy said. It has also started selling over-the-counter drugs which do not need prescription. “We hope that the above points make it amply clear to you that e-pharmacies are not legal in our country and indulging with them will attract unnecessary legal implications. We are sure that you will not like to get in those hassles,” the note from AIOCD added. When contacted, a Flipkart spokesperson did not comment on its partnership with 1MG and the AIOCD writing to its senior executives. “As consumers increasingly look for preventive care in the wake of the pandemic, it was a natural step for us to scale up our portfolio and launch products across categories such as immunity boosters, respiratory care, diabetic care, digestive care and cardiac care, among others,” the spokesperson added. 1 MG co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon did not comment on the matter. A report by market research firm RedSeer in August said e-pharmacy platforms, including consultation and lab tests, are expected to clock $2 billion in gross sales by March 2021, with supply chain restoration and rise in new users. During the pandemic, 6 million new households tried online medicine, taking the total to 9 million households, a recent Ficci-RedSeer white paper said. The latest RedSeer report said e-pharmacies clocked $1.3 billion in gross sales at the end of March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-ropes-in-1mg-for-e-pharma/articleshow/78325176.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 26, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers’ highway protest gets good response||MYSURU: The nationwide protest against the passage of the Centre’s farm legislations got a good response in the district on Friday. Urging the Centre to withdraw the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, farmers supported by nine farmer organizations blocked national highways at different places affecting traffic movement for some time. Farmers blocked the highways towards Mysuru at Nanjangud, HD Kote, Hunsur, Bannur and T Narasipura. As district police denied permission to block highways, police detained hundreds of protesters at the Mysuru Bengaluru junction near Columbia Asia Hospital on outer ring road on Friday morning. They bundled them into a hired KSRTC bus and released them later after warning. Socialist activist P Mallesh, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha general secretary Hosakote Basavaraju and others were among those arrested and released later. The farmers said the bills would affect people directly and indirectly engaged in agriculture and allied activities including chemical fertilizer shop owners, cattle and pig farmers, dairy farmers, seeds and chemical and agriculture tool distributors. Following the rasta roko call, district police had deployed 200 police personnel including 14 inspectors and 16 PSI level officers on the city's outskirts to prevent untoward incidents. Meanwhile, Karnataka State Sugar Cane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar who led the protest at Mysore Bank Circle at Bengaluru, said Friday’s highway bandh call had received overwhelming response from farming communities across the state. “The protest will be intensified until the demands of farmers are fulfilled by the Centre and state. As many as 34 organizations expressed their support on their own and took part in the agitation. The Karnataka bandh call on September 28 will be withdrawn if both the Centre and state withdraw the contentious farm bills, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-highway-protest-gets-good-response/articleshow/78323973.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||12 Balachadi Sainik School students make it to NDA merit list||RAJKOT: Twelve students of Sainik School Balachadi, Jamnagar have made it to the final merit list of the prestigious National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla, Pune.Aditya Kumar Ravi, Akash Ranjan, Sudhanshu Kumar, Aman Kumar, Shubham Mayank Singh, Vishal Parmar, Dev Singhania, Nishant Kumar, Aditya Kumar, Gopal Borkhatariya, Shubham Kumar and Rajiv Ranjan cleared UPSC NDA written examination and SSB, the school said in a statement on Friday. School principal Group Captain Ravinder Singh said, “Success of these cadets would definitely motivate other students of Sainik School Balachadi as well as the students of Gujarat schools to join defence services and serve the nation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/12-balachadi-sainik-school-students-make-it-to-nda-merit-list/articleshow/78324871.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Cop dies in car accident near Limbdi in Surendranagar district||RAJKOT: A head constable posted in Rajkot police headquarters died and his wife and son were injured when their car crashed into the rear of a tractor near Limbdi in Surendranagar district on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Rajeshkumar Nainuji (53). “Nainuji, who was driving the car, was declared dead on admission at Limbdi Civil Hospital,” said an official from Limbdi police station. The injured included his wife Hansa (50) and son Nikunj (27).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-dies-in-car-accident-near-limbdi/articleshow/78324888.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Municipal Corporation approved Rs 300 grant per body||RAJKOT: The standing committee of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) approved Rs 300 grant per dead body to four crematoriums. The committee chairman Uday Kangad also gave Rs three lakh to Ramnath Para crematorium from his own grant. The crematoriums had asked RMC for more grants looking at the pandemic and increase in death rate. Covid patients are required to be cremated with special protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/grant-for-crematorium-increased/articleshow/78324924.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabbed to death in Chotila, two arrested||RAJKOT: A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death by his four neighbours at Ghanchivad locality in Chotila of Surendranagar district on Friday morning. Two of the accused were arrested. Police said Saju Kaladia, his brother Shahrukh Kaladia and their two unidentified accomplices stabbed Faizal Kaladia to death over an issue of alleged molestation. “Faizal allegedly used to molest the wife of Saju. Nursing a grudge against Faizal, Saju and the co-accused barged into the house of Faizal and stabbed him with knives. Faizal’s mother Zubi, who tried to intervene, was also stabbed,” said Rajdeepsinh Jadeja, sub-inspector with Chotila Police Station. Faizal and Zubi were taken to a government hospital in Chotila, where Faizal was declared brought dead. Zubi was taken to Rajkot Civil Hospital for further treatment. “We arrested Saju and Shahrukh, while the hunt is on for the other co-accused,” added Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabbed-to-death-in-chotila-two-arrested/articleshow/78324808.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Stop random use of antibiotics in Covid treatment, West Bengal govt tells doctors||KOLKATA: The state government has issued an advisory asking doctors treating Covid-19 patients not to use antibiotics randomly. The advisory issued jointly by the director of health service (DHS) Ajay Chakraborty and director of medical education (DME) Debashis Bhattacharya stated that since Covid-19 is a viral disease, antibiotics per se have no role in it. Recently, an expert committee that visited several Covid hospitals in Bengal had observed a trend of using antibiotics indiscriminately while treating corona patients. The expert panel will re-visit the hospitals to check if their recommendations were being followed. TimesViewUnprescribed medicines should not be a part of the efforts to contain the virus’s spread. Indiscriminate use of antibiotics can have a long-term, negative side-effect on public health.“Antibiotics should not be prescribed routinely to Covid patients unless a bacterial co-infection is suspected. Consider using antibiotics only on those with severe Covid infection who have high oxygen demands and show signs of a rapidly progressing respiratory failure. All patients with severe Covid should not receive empiric antibiotics if there is no clinical suspicion and if there is absence of biochemical or radiological markers of bacterial infections,” the missive stated. The advisory further stated that antibiotic should be prescribed only after making assessments of biomarkers of bacterial infection, which include total leucocyte count and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) procalcitonin (produced due to bacterial infection). However, the missive cautioned that CRP level might be high among Covid patients due to inflammatory response in the body and may not be reliable. So, it suggested cultures of urine, blood and sputum before using antibiotics. But doctors have been asked to cross-check a positive culture report with clinical symptoms. Doctors have been further advised to stop using antibiotics as soon as the level of bacterial infection drops. But the absence of fever, it said, should not be an indicator since Covid patients have low-grade fever persisting for several days. Sukumar Mukherjee, a member of the state government’s global advisory committee on Covid, said antibiotics like azithromycin, meropenem, doxycycline were essential in some cases. “Often, doctors have to use them empirically without knowing the amount of CRP or procalcitonin in the body. For there might be fungal as well as a bacterial infection.” He, however, pointed out that hospitals patients were being given azithromycin without bacterial infection. “This might lead to antimicrobial resistance,” he said. Cardiologist D Bhattacharya said: “Azithromycin was being consumed as an OTC drug without consulting doctors, leading to antibiotic resistance.” Interventionist Wasim Aktar said that antibiotic resistance culture and sensitivity test of blood samples need to be done to find out a patient’s resistance and sensitivity to certain antibiotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stop-random-use-of-antibiotics-in-covid-treatment-state-tells-docs/articleshow/78323067.cms||Debasish Konar
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Hostile witness’ testimony should not be relied much: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that not much reliance should be placed upon an uncorroborated testimony of a hostile witness. The high court made the observation while suspending the sentence of a rape accused, as the victim in the case had turned hostile and retracted her statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPc and even refused to identify the accused during corroboration. “It is a well settled law that not much reliance should be placed upon uncorroborated testimony of a hostile witness. Under these circumstances, the trial court was not justified in placing reliance upon the statement recorded by the prosecutrix (victim) under Section 164 CrPc when the prosecutrix did not support the prosecution case while appearing as prime witness,” the court observed. Passing the order suspending the sentence of a Panchkula resident in relation to his conviction in a rape case, the division bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma also ordered to release him on bail till the pendency of his appeal against his conviction. The accused was sentenced to 20 years in jail on rape charges by the additional sessions judge, Panchkula in April 2019. He had approached the HC seeking suspension of his sentence on the ground that the prosecutrix, her mother and sister did not support the prosecution case and were declared hostile, and thus, no weightage could be attached to their testimonies. She did not even identify the accused before the trial court. He further submitted that the trial court had wrongly relied upon the statement made under Section 164 CrPC, as the statement under this section is not a substantial piece of evidence and could only be used for the purpose of corroboration. It was also argued that there were no injury marks on the private parts of the prosecutrix and the prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hostile-witness-testimony-should-not-be-relied-much-hc/articleshow/78324836.cms||Ajay Sura
September 26, 2020||Mumbai||Respond to exporters’ plea on onion ban: Bombay HC to govt||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday directed the Centre, including its commerce and industries ministry and Customs authorities to respond to a petition by Horticulture Producers Exporters Association and other exporters challenging a September 14 notification that banned all export of the onions ‘with immediate effect’. The petitioners said several exporters had confirmed orders from their global customers to supply onions and shipping bills were already generated before the notification. A bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Abhay Ahuja directed Mumbai Customs to consider allowing pending consignments of onions of nearly 108 containers with shipping bills. The exporters complained of major losses as onions, which are perishable goods, are decaying as the consignments are stuck. They exporters based their arguments on breach of norm under Ease of Doing Business promise. The plea also said that the decision was against their fundamental right to practice any profession and asked the HC to quash the notification. Customs said that consignments loaded prior to the September 14 notification can be exported. He said that if any consignments were still left, authorities would certainly consider the case. The HC asked it to extend the consideration to the petitioners and will now hear the matter on September 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/respond-to-exporters-plea-on-onion-ban-bombay-hc-to-govt/articleshow/78324855.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||A celebration of selfless service to humanity||Lucknow: Swati, a resident of Indiranagar, has been busy collecting used old mobile phones from her friends and relatives to hold online classes to teach English to youngsters in her area. Similarly, Dr Mandakini, a Faridabad-based dentist who conducts oral hygiene and health awareness camps across UP, is planning to conduct online awareness sessions. She has also decided to teach Mandala art which can be used to make greeting cards and put them up for sale. Swati and Mandakani are among many volunteers who are associated with Daan Utsav, organised every year from October 2-8, which celebrates the joy of giving. Covid-19 has cast its shadow on many festivals this year but for Daan Utsav, it has become a reason for volunteers from across the state to work hard and make the philanthropic initiative a big success. In place of camps, conferences and seminars at public places, various NGOs, institutions, individuals and schools will host virtual events to celebrate the festival. De Haath Society, a city-based NGO, will organize virtual creative competitions in painting, singing and designer wear apparel. Another NGO, USB Foundation, in association with Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Studies in Rural Development (PISRD), will run a fundraising campaign for children suffering from cerebral palsy. Virtual sensitisation workshops will be organised in which teachers and principals from select schools will create awareness about the disorder. With the funds raised through the initiative, T-shirts will be distributed among children afflicted with cerebral palsy. Citizens for Lucknow, a group of heritage enthusiasts from the city, will organize a virtual session on ‘Sufi and Bhakti Traditions of Daan and Langar’ with historian Rana Safvi. “The festival has touched the lives of many people. Most of them have become full-time givers and are ready to come forward amid pandemic too. We urge people to contribute in whatever way they can,” said Jyotsana Habibullah, a Daan Utsav volunteer. “While maintaining physical distance, you can identify a group of children and distribute toys and books. You can record stories on your phone and forward it to government teachers who can share it with their students. You may display gesture of kindness to your domestic help or spend time with elders at home,” she added. Many volunteers will distribute masks, sanitizers and sanitary napkins among people. Rafay Singh Habibuballah (11) will organize a chess tournament with students of a private school to raise funds for girl education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-celebration-of-selfless-service-to-humanity/articleshow/78325805.cms||Aditi Singh
September 26, 2020||Mumbai||40% more OBC than general examinees for JEE (A) entrance||MUMBAI: The JEE (Advanced) will see around 40% more OBC candidates take the entrance exam than general category students. There will be almost 15,000 fewer open category students than the OBC candidates, a first in recorded history after OBC reservation was introduced in 2008. On Sunday, while 41,067 general category students will give a shot at the entrance exam, competing against them will be 56,643 from the OBC-NL for 27% reserved seats (about 3,780 seats). While 3.9 lakh open category students took the JEE (main), the first level of the entrance exam, there were 4.02 lakh OBC-NL candidates. Not just boys, even more girls from the OBC category sat for the Mains. “We are noticing more OBC candidates in all Indian exams,” said an NTA official. “The trend started with a tiny increase of OBC over open category students last year, and we felt this could be an exception, but the pattern has only become pronounced in JEE and NEET,” said an NTA official. “The rise in family income levels for OBC students also has to do with their rising numbers,” he added. The limit of annual income of Rs 6 lakh was raised to Rs 8 lakh in 2017 for determining the creamy layer among OBC candidates in the Centrally funded technical education institutes. However, if the OBC numbers are increasing, experts felt, seat reservation and lower cut-offs give them an advantage. A former IIT dean pointed out, “The idea of lowering cut-offs for students from various categories was because we did not find enough students who would take our exams, and hence not many qualified to fill the seats reserved for them at IITs. Many seats for SC and ST candidates used to go vacant. But now, despite the fact that we are seeing more OBC exam taker numbers, we are still giving a relaxation in scores.” While the cut-off for general category students in the JEE Mains 2020 was 90.3 percentile, it was 72.8 for the OBCs. Similar treatment will be meted out in the Advanced exam too. On the other hand, if the past is anything to go by, many OBC candidates who are high on the merit list are allowed to forgo their reservation privilege and opt for a seat under the general quota. On result day, IITs release separate merit lists for each category. “For instance, if there is a student who is Rank One on the OBC merit list and his all-India rank is 25, he can opt to take a general category open seat and not use up the reserved seat so it could benefit a lower-ranked OBC candidate,” said a JEE chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40-more-obc-than-general-examinees-for-jee-a-entrance/articleshow/78324843.cms||Hemali Chhapia
September 26, 2020||Delhi||February riots: No bail for man with links to ex-councillor Tahir Hussain||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has dismissed the bail plea of a riot accused linked to suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and he will continue to remain behind bars. Justice Suresh Kait noted that the accused, Tanveer Malik, was also allegedly involved in other FIRs relating to the northeast Delhi violence, including the current one where the suspended councillor Hussain was also an accused. Malik allegedly was part of the mob that pelted stones and hurled petrol bombs from atop Hussain’s house while chanting communally-charged slogans. The high court noted that, according to police, Malik shot at the victim, Ajay, who sustained grievous injuries during the violence. It also took into account the statements of witnesses who identified Malik as part of the violent mob. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad opposed the bail citing Ajay’s statements where he claimed that, on February 25 around 4pm, when he came out from his house to purchase a few household items and reached near Lakhpat School in Chand Bagh, he found that riots had broken out there and the nearby areas. “When witness Ajay reached near Hussain’s house, he saw an angry mob on the terrace that was pelting stones, firing gunshots, and throwing petrol bombs on the houses of other communities,” Prasad submitted, alleging that the mob was also chanting communal slogans. He added that one of the accused fired at the victim from a pistol-like object, which hit him on the right shoulder. Later, he also identified Malik, apart from the co-accused, Gulfam. Taking note of the arguments, the court dismissed the bail plea adding that “the petitioner is involved in two other similar cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/feb-riots-no-bail-for-man-with-links-to-ex-councillor/articleshow/78325816.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal refutes reports claiming Chinese construction inside its territory||Pithoragarh: The Nepalese government has issued a statement saying that no construction has been undertaken by the Chinese inside their territory. The clarification comes days after reports were published in media outlets pointing out that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China has constructed at least nine buildings on the Nepal side of the Nepal-China border in the Lapcha-Limi area of Namkha rural municipality in Humla district of Karnali province. The alleged encroachment came to light after Vishnu Bahadur Lama, the chairman of Namkha rural municipality, who had visited the area, spotted the buildings. Subsequently, he had apprised the Humla district authorities of the construction. Later, a team of the local administration inspected the area from August 30 to September 9 and submitted a report to Nepal's ministry of home affairs. In a statement released on Wednesday, Nepal's ministry of external affairs said that “the buildings alleged to have been constructed by China between Nepal-China boundary pillars 11 and 12 are not located within Nepalese territory and that area comes under the Chinese territory.” The statement added that this has been verified by official records, reports of joint field inspection and boundary maps. The statement further said that “the matter of the buildings in question had surfaced in 2016 as well and it was then confirmed by an inter-ministerial team after field inspection that the buildings were situated one kilometre inside the Chinese territory from the Nepal-China border.” However, the main opposition party of Nepal — Nepali Congress — has accused the government of “being in a hurry” to clarify the matter. Bishwa Prakash Sharma, spokesperson of Nepali Congress, said, “The government should not have made any public statement over the issue when a team comprising chief district officer of the area and officials of Nepalese Army and Nepal police have not yet finished studying the situation. This statement does not look appropriate.” Meanwhile, the Nepalese government has also claimed that it has located the border pillar 11, which had been missing for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-refutes-reports-claiming-chinese-construction-inside-its-territory/articleshow/78320871.cms||Prem Punetha
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||105-year-old Durga puja tradition under Covid cloud||LUCKNOW: As coronavirus pandemic continues to cast its shadow on festivals, it is now likely to break the 105-year-old tradition being followed at the Bengali Club. Since its inception, Bengali Club has been preparing the idol of Goddess Durga on its premises – the only one to do so in the city. From the preparation of bamboo structure to making of the idol, filling it with colours and draping of saree on it, everything is done on its premises. “This is for the first time in the history of Bengali Club that we are seeing changes in Durga Puja festivities. In view of the pandemic, we are planning to hold a small puja on our premises with 5-10 people. We will install a small idol of the goddess and perform rituals while following all protocols. However, we are awaiting the state government to announce the guidelines for the festival,” president of Bengali Club and Young Men’s Association Arun Kumar Banerjee said. He said the idol of Goddess Durga would not be placed over ‘kathamo’ (base platform) this year. “The ‘kathamo’ (base) for the idol has been here since 1914. It is made of sakhu wood and has been repaired only twice in last 106 years, Due to this structure, people visiting the Club feel the presence of the goddess throughout the year,” he said. “Due to the pandemic, we will not be able to install the structure of Ma Durga. This is a break in the tradition of our Club,” Banerjee said. Traditionally, work on the idol begins about two months prior to the festival. “The pandal not only welcomes Ma Durga but also her children Lakshmi, Ganesh, Saraswati and Kartikey. We prepare the ‘Ek-chala-thakur’ (all five idols in a single frame). The tradition has been kept alive only by us,” said Banerjee, adding that till 1980 all puja pandals of the city used to prepare their idols at Bengali Club. According to its members, an employee of engineering department in Indian Railways, Atul Krishna Sinha, formed Bengali Club and Young Men’s Association in 1901 from a house in Sundarbagh to promote Bengali art and culture in the city. In 1914, the Club was formally established at Hewett Road. It is the oldest Durga Puja pandal of the city and has hosted stalwarts like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose (1938) and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In the early 1930s, Rabindranath Tagore came to Lucknow and visited his friend, AP Sen, the first elected president of the association, but couldn't visit the Club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/105-yr-old-durga-puja-tradition-under-covid-cloud/articleshow/78325813.cms||Aditi Singh
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Nashik city, rural police worst hit among other units in north Maharashtra||NASHIK: Nashik city and rural police are the worst hit by Covid-19 among the force in north Maharashtra. A total of 285 personnel have tested positive and 72 are currently being treated in the city while five have succumbed to the infection. “In Nashik rural, 291 have tested positive so far, 30 are being treated and six have died. Nashik city and rural combined have reported 576 Covid cases while 11 have succumbed to the infection and 102 under treatment,” said senior officers on Friday. In the north Maharashtra region 1,337 police personnel have been infected and 212 are under treatment at various facilities. A total of 22 police personnel have died in the region. Among other districts of north Maharasthra region, Ahmednagar has witnessed 291 infections and four deaths. Thirty-two personnel are under treatment. Jalgaon police has seen 356 infections with four deaths and 49 personnel currently under treatment. Dhule has seen 60 infections and two deaths with 12 under treatment and Nandurbar has seen infection among 54 policemen with one death. Seventeen police personnel are under treatment there-Santosh Sonawane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-rural-police-worst-hit-among-other-units-in-north-maharashtra/articleshow/78326220.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Municipality staff inspects Vasco market||VASCO: After complaints from public of flooding and encroachment at Vasco market, a team of Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) officials inspected the fruit and vegetable market. Noticing that vendors have extended their shops on foothpaths, the municipality warned of strict action against any encroachments. MMC chairperson Nandadeep Raut said, “The vendors are responsible for flooding of the market as they have covered the passage of nullahs by bringing their shops on the foothpath.” Raut has asked the municipality’s chief officer to take action against staff who do not report encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/municipality-staff-inspects-vasco-market/articleshow/78325836.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Eye on by-election, Haryana government vows Rs 270 crore development works||CHANDIGARH: With the Election Commission of India (EC) expected to announce the date for by-election to the Baroda assembly seat anytime next week, the Haryana government on Friday made major announcements to woo the voters. The announcements include a promise to spend around Rs 270 crore on various development works in the constituency, creation of an Industrial Model Township (IMT) and a university in the Baroda constituency. Giving more details, agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal, who is also the incharge of Baroda seat, said the government has approved an amount of Rs 271.37 crore for various development works in the constituency. The minister said paddy variety 1121 is grown in this area, but there is absence of government procurement for the same. So, this paddy variety would be procured through Hafed in future, he said. Besides, an ultra-modern rice mill would also be set up by Hafed at a cost of Rs 12 crore in this area. Dalal further said the Delhi-Amritsar Expressway, which is under construction, would pass through this assembly constituency and an Industrial Model Township (IMT) would be developed along the expressway. This would bring investment and provide employment opportunities to local youth, he said. The state government has also asked the officers to explore the possibility of converting the Janata College, located in Butana village in Baroda, into a university. Dalal said for the last three consecutive terms, the constituency had elected Congress MLA, but no development work was done by the previous government. The seat fell vacant following the death of sitting MLA and senior congress leader Sri Krishan Hooda. Baroda is considered a traditional seat of Congress and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda has strong influence there as it is close to his homeland Rohtak. BJP, however, has been making all efforts to win this Jat-dominated seat this time and that is why, the saffron party has made agriculture minister J P Dalal as incharge of the constituency. The saffron party has also roped in another Jat leader and Charkhi-Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan for campaigning in Baroda along with Dalal. According to sources, the EC may announce dates and schedule for the Baroda by-election on September 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/eye-on-bypoll-govt-vows-rs-270cr-dev-works-varsity-for-baroda/articleshow/78324852.cms||Ajay Sura
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||Poor response to Oppn’s call for Bharat Bandh in Varanasi||VARANASI: Call given by opposition parties for Bharat Bandh in protest against Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, received poor response in Varanasi and surrounding districts on Friday as the commercial activities remained unaffected. Only groups of leaders of Congress, SP and left parties could be found staging demonstrations and sit-in. A group of Congress leaders led by district unit chief Rajeshwar Patel and city president Raghvendra Chaubey tried to carry out a procession from Hathua Market after ensuring closure of the shops here. However, a heavy police force stopped them at the main gate after which they staged a sit-in and courted arrest. A group of Samajwadi Party leaders and workers led by city unit president Vishnu Sharma reached the district headquarters and submitted a memorandum demanding withdrawal of these bills. Activists of Apna Dal, Jan Adhikar Party and left parties also staged protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/poor-response-to-oppns-call-for-bharat-bandh/articleshow/78323413.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Janata curfew in Parbhani for 5 days starting today||Aurangabad: The five-day janata curfew sparked some confusion in Parbhani — with no clarity on whether the curfew was to start on Friday or Saturday. Parbhani district collector D M Mugalikar later had to clarify that the janata curfew would start on Saturday. He urged people to follow it sincerely to curb the spread of Covid-19 contagion.On Friday, some shops remained shut, but people were seen moving about freely.The district has, so far, recorded 4,987 Covid-19 patients. Of them, 170 have succumbed. As many as 3,551 patients have recovered and 1,266 are undergoing treatment.Officials said the administration has opted for mass awareness, instead of imposing any fine or registration of offences during the janata curfew period. However, those violating social distancing norms as well as those stepping out without masks, have been warned of strict action.A senior official from the district administration said that Sonpeth and Gangakhed taluka had recently successfully implemented the janata curfew and the number of cases being reported from these two talukas had registered a dip.“The results of the recent janata curfew in two talukas have been encouraging and so, we decided to appeal for it across the district,” Mugalikar said.He clarified that they were not forcing anyone to follow the curfew and that there would not be any coercive action against those not following it.Citing that it is being done to control the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Mugalikar said that preferably only essential services should remain open, so that the commoners do not have to suffer.Sources in the police department clarified that they have not been issued any order to use force for the strict implementation of the janata curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/janata-curfew-in-parbhani-for-5-days-starting-today/articleshow/78326224.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||61% students use social media to vent anger: Study||LUCKNOW: Do you have more friends on Facebook? If yes, you are likely to have higher stress level as excessive social media use not only takes a toll on your relationships but also causes dissatisfaction making you vulnerable to mental health issues. A research study among 500 students pursuing higher education in Lucknow shows 61% respondents use social media to vent their anger or grievance. The study establishes a correlation between the number of friends on social media and total hours spent surfing. For 6% of respondents having over 800 friends on Facebook, the average stress score was 26 points. For 50% of respondents having less than 300 friends, the average stress score was 21 points. Similarly, for 11.3% people who spent over eight hours online, the stress score was 26 points against occasional users. For remaining 88.7% who are hooked to social media for 8 hours, the stress score stood at 19 points. Undertaken by the department of mass communication and journalism, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, the research studied the impact of social media on the mental health of youngsters, particularly, during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. Key researcher Kritika Agarwal mental health is always a major issue. “Higher stress score indicates greater suicidal ideation,’ Agarwal said. The study shows 37.4% respondents check their social media profiles every hour, while 35.8% once or twice a day. Close to 17% respondents check their profiles every half-an-hour. A majority of 37.4% respondents log on to social networking sites to read other’s posts, while only 10.6% update something of their own. Another 4.6% only hit the like button, and 1.3% prefer to comment. “Spending a good amount of time on social media results in neglecting other priorities of life, making people frustrated and irritated easily. On social media, people usually portray their positive side. Looking at other’s profile leads to dissatisfaction which paves way to depression and anxiety,” she said. She added, “This pomp and show on social media results in inferiority complex, especially among students in the age bracket of 18-23 years.” Interestingly, the study finds 43% respondents access their social media accounts late in the night. About 45% do it right before going to bed. Urging parents to keep a check on their wards’ activities, research supervisor Prof Gopal Singh said, “Since children sleep and wake up with their phones, their time with parents and friends shortens. They are emotionally weak and are more prone to be affected by viral suicide stories.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/61-students-use-social-media-to-vent-anger-study/articleshow/78325825.cms||Isha Jain
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||RTC back on roads, passengers unhappy with safety norms||HYDERABAD: In a respite to commuters of the twin cities dependent on public transportation, the city bus services of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), which were suspended for over six months due to the Covid-19 outbreak, were partially restored on Friday. As the state government has instructed RTC authorities to only resume 25% of the total operations, the number of buses at bays and on roads were limited. Several depots have decided to only run 20 buses each. Posters saying ‘This bus has been sanitised’ were also put up on the buses to instil confidence among passengers who take public transport. “The resumption of bus services is a huge relief. I was spending around Rs 300 to Rs 400 every day on cabs and autos to travel from Sultan Bazaar to Bandlaguda Jagir. Covering the same distance in the bus will cost me only around Rs 30,” said Nazira Sultana, a sales executive of a furniture store. However, in spite of the measures taken, the footfall of passengers remained low. Several of those who travelled on the TSRTC buses also said that they had expected greater safety precautions to be put in place for seating arrangements. “The conductors were instructing passengers to maintain physical distancing. But since there are no markings to ensure alternate seating, people are not following any rules. The management must bring in strict measures to see that people follow the safety protocols,” said J Balchander, a resident of Secunderabad. In light of these complaints, the depot managers said that the buses are being disinfected after every trip and separate logbooks were being maintained at every depot to ensure the buses are sanitised before they hit the roads. “We have instructed the conductors to ensure that the passengers maintain physical distance by urging them not to sit side-by-side. We are also expecting the occupancy to increase in the coming days once all the educational institutions and offices resume operations,” a senior TSRTC official told TOI. A ground visit to Kukatpally, Sanathnagar and Miyapur depot revealed that all passengers were wearing face masks while boarding the buses and at bus stop points, buses are being sanitised with disinfectants after dropping the passengers. The state transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar announced on Thursday that 25% of the total 2,800 buses at 29 depots in Greater Hyderabad limits will resume operations from Friday. The TSRTC buses went off the roads across Telangana on March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-back-on-roads-passengers-unhappy-with-safety-norms/articleshow/78324866.cms||Moulika.KV
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Forest staff undergo training for UP’s first vulture survey||LUCKNOW: Ahead of the first statewide survey on vultures in December, forest department staff are undegoing a training programme to get equipped with relevant information about different types of vultures and their features . The training programme which began on Monday will continue till September 30. The survey will be conducted by UP State Biodiversity Board and the Institute of Wildlife Sciences at Lucknow University with the help of GIS mapping. “Forest department’s staff may not know the difference between slender-billed and long-billed vultures. During the workshop, we will inform them about the identification of vultures besides other things,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator, Institute of Wildlife Sciences at LU. She said the staff would also be trained to identify possible locations where different species of vultures and their nests could be found. They would also be provided information about survey tools and techniques and filling of forms, Kannaujia added. Traditionally found in Terai and Bundelkhand region, vultures are on the wane in UP and their sightings have reduced in recent past. Besides habitat destruction, there are many other threats that these raptors face. Vultures are killed for its skin and eyes (some people believe one can find a treasure by applying ‘surma’ prepared with the eyes of a vulture). According to experts, vultures are monogamous and the pairs formed after a long courtship are for lifetime. Vultures which permanently live in UP have a darker skin while the migratory ones have pink feet. The survey will provide details like population, spread, density, behaviour and habitat of vultures which will help in their conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/forest-staff-undergo-training-for-ups-first-vulture-survey/articleshow/78325833.cms||Neha Shukla
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||First vulture conservation centre devoted to red-head King in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: India’s first vulture conservation and breeding centre dedicated to the red-headed King Vulture will be established at Bhari Baisi village in Farenda range of Gorakhpur forest division. Speaking to TOI, divisional forest officer, Gorakhpur, Avinash Kumar, said, the proposal to establish the centre was approved on Thursday by joint secretary of the state’s environment, forest and climate change department, Deepak Kohli. “This vulture breeding and conservation centre will be the first in India which will be dedicated to the king vulture and also the first such conservation and breeding centre in Uttar Pradesh,” Kumar said. He said the centre will be established on the lines of Haryana''s Pinjore vulture conservation and breeding centre. Kumar further said the state government has allocated Rs 82 lakh for the centre which will come up over 5-hectare area. “The project will take 15 years to be completed and will cost around Rs 15 crore, but the basic infrastructure of the centre, including lab, breeding centre, quarantine centre, residential complex for doctors and staff will be completed in four years and we will start breeding and conservation of the red-headed king vulture by next year,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/first-vulture-conservation-centre-devoted-to-red-head-king-in-gkp/articleshow/78323444.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Karnal rape case: Punjab and Haryana HC orders to preserve CCTV, call records||CHANDIGARH: In a twist to the alleged rape case of Karnal city, where a teacher had accused the owner of a prestigious school and a senior officer of district administration for raping her, the Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered to preserve the CCTV footage of the police station and details of the calls records pertaining to the case. The victim was arrested by the local police on extortion charges almost one and half months after she had registered an FIR for rape against the owner of the schools and the officer. “SP Karnal shall ensure that the CCTV footage of police station civil lines, Karnal of August 21 is preserved. CCTV footage from a camera allegedly installed outside the house of the petitioner at Kurukshetra will also be obtained. Call detail records as mentioned in the petition be also taken into possession and the reply be filed after taking into consideration the said evidence also,” observed the HC while issuing notice to the Haryana government and the state police. Justice Sudhir Mittal of the HC has passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by the woman complainant seeking directions to hand over the probe of the case to CBI or any other independent agency. According to the petitioner, police is completely damaging the serious case of gang-rape committed by very rich, strong and influential persons, including a class-I officer posted at Karnal. The petitioner alleged that the police is biased against the complainant in an FIR registered at women police station in Karnal, under for rape and related charges under sections 323, 34, 376-D and 506 IPC, on July 6. No investigation is being conducted in the said FIR nor the accused named in the case have been arrested till date, argued the petitioner. It was further stated that another FIR on August 21 has been registered at Civil Lines police station, Karnal, under Sections 384, 389 and 506 IPC against her with the allegations of extortion. “The allegations of extortion are false. The petitioner was called to district courts, Karnal on August 21 by one Shiv Kumar Gonder and Sanjeev Kumar, Advocate to get the dispute between the petitioner and Ajay Bhatia settled by way of a compromise. Call detail records of Shiv Kumar Gonder and Sanjeev Kumar, Advocate would corroborate this statement. Further, according to the police, the husband of the petitioner was also arrested at the spot on August 21, although CCTV footage of Civil Lines police station would show that he had come to the police station sometime in the evening on the said date as he was looking for the petitioner,” counsel for the petitioner has submitted. After hearing the petition, the HC has issued notice to the Haryana government through chief secretary, IGP, Karnal range, SP Karnal and other police officials to file replies on the contentions raised by the petitioner. The matter would now come up for hearing on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-rape-case-hc-orders-to-preserve-cctv-call-records/articleshow/78324876.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Admin to take action against landlord who didn’t allow body of tenant inside house||ROORKEE: A day after a family had to spend the entire night at a crematorium in Roorkee with a corpse as the landlord of their house did not allow them to perform the last rites at the Uttarakhand home before cremation, the local administration on Friday assured it will take action against a house owner and other wrongdoers. Namami Bansal, joint magistrate of Roorkee, told TOI, “It is a very serious matter. We will take action against all wrongdoers.” To recall, 55-year-old Mahender Singh was rushed to a city-based hospital on Tuesday night after a chest pain where he succumbed. And though his landlord took him to the hospital for treatment, after his death he refused to bring back the body home (in Salempur locality of Roorkee) allegedly due to the fear of Covid-19. Mahender’s wife with the help of a few locals then took the body to Solani-Nadi crematorium and kept waiting the whole night for her relatives. On arrival of her relatives, on Thursday morning, she left for Haridwar in an ambulance for cremation. Meanwhile, doctors of the hospital, where Singh was taken, have claimed that the deceased was not infected by the coronavirus and died due to other ailments. “He was a leukaemia patient. His condition was very critical when he was brought to the hospital. He was suffering from low blood pressure and appetite-loss illnesses. He had also been vomiting. However, he was certainly not infected with the coronavirus,” confirmed Dr Vinay Gupta. Meanwhile, Desh Bandhu Gupta, one of social workers who had made arrangements for the stay of the victim’s family at a local crematorium, said, “The wife of the victim had expressed her wish for cremation of her husband in Haridwar. Thus, we called an ambulance to ferry them to Haridwar on Thursday morning. She told us that after performing the cremation, she will return directly to her native Rohtash district of Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/admin-to-take-action-against-landlord-who-didnt-allow-body-of-tenant-inside-house/articleshow/78321958.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Problems galore for Uttarakhand BJP as ‘clashes’ between MLAs and officials surface before start of election year||DEHRADUN: The simmering issues between a few BJP legislators and state officials have started coming to the fore in a big manner as the state approaches its election year in some months. The latest such case surfaced after state minister Rekha Arya wrote a letter to Dehradun SSP/DIG on September 22 claiming that an IAS officer of her department may have been “kidnapped” as he wasn’t responding to her calls and messages. The Congress has been quick to attack the incumbent government on the issue and term the BJP's term in office as “complete failure”. The Opposition even slammed the allegations levelled by the ruling party legislators on officials as “acts of frustration”. On the other hand, the ruling BJP government appeared in damage control mode by ordering a probe into the allegations levelled by Arya. Darshan Singh Rawat, media advisor to chief minister, said, “CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has instructed chief secretary Om Prakash for a probe into the matter by a senior IAS official. The official will not only look into the minister’s allegation but also record the statement of IAS officer V Shanmugam.” Following the directions, the CS handed over the probe to an additional chief secretary rank officer. Besides Arya, five-time MLA Bishan Singh Chufal has also complained of non-cooperation by officials. He even met saffron party’s national chief Jagat Prakash Nadda to discuss the issue of officials not listening to BJP lawmakers. Another BJP MLA Umesh Sharma Kau has accused state officers of ignoring his orders. He added that the officials refused to abide by the orders of the state urban development minister and even the CM by not carrying out development work in his constituency. In a letter to Nadda, Kau wrote, “People of Raipur have high expectations from me but as development works are not being carried out for the last few years, locals do not hold a good opinion of the government, the party, and myself. This is a cause of serious concern.” Recently, Lohaghat BJP legislator Puran Singh Fartyal accused the BJP government of clubbing hands with officials and a contractor to pressurise him during the one-day assembly session on September 23. In another such episode, BJP’s Kiccha MLA Rajesh Shukla had moved a privilege motion in the state Assembly against an IAS officer, who earlier was district magistrate, of “insulting him by passing derogatory remarks”. Further, ruling party MLAs from Haridwar district too have expressed concern over the issue. A state minister was apparently not too pleased with an officer in his departmental team. When queried on the issue, BJP state chief and senior leader Bansidhar Bhagat said the party was looking into all such issues. "An official not responding to the repeated messages of his minister is a serious issue. However, at the same time, the minister should have approached CM rather than shooting a letter to DIG. MLA Puran Singh Fartyal has gone against party lines and we will look into his case. Better coordination is important for everyone." With a number of BJP legislators accusing officials of ignoring them and public work, Bhagat said that the party would take up the matter. “At times, an official can get a project done only when the funds are available. Umesh Sharma Kau had raised some points regarding ignorance of projects by officials in his constituency. It needs to be seen whether funds are available for such projects,” said Bhagat. Meanwhile, Congress state chief Pritam Singh said, “I wish to ask the ruling party as to why have the BJP legislators and ministers woken up on the issue when the government is on verge of completing four years in office. It is only because development works have not been done and people are questioning their performance. Secondly, the tussle between BJP legislators and officials is also an indication that the ruling party has no control over bureaucracy.” He asserted that it was self-explanatory that people and their works have been put on the backburner as BJP legislators are “busy shifting blame of officers for their own poor performance”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/problems-galore-for-ukhand-bjp-as-clashes-between-mlas-and-officials-surface-before-start-of-election-year/articleshow/78321965.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||Nautanwa railway station new automobile handling terminal||GORAKHPUR: Nautanwa railway station of NE Railway’s Lucknow division has become a new automobile handling terminal in Indian Railway, said CPRO,NER, Pankaj Singh said. “This is an outcome of the division’s Business Development Unit’s outreach to showcase the potential of this location. This also marks a beginning in the Railborne Automobile traffic bound for Nepal which was hitherto moving by road,” said Singh. “The first consignment of 100 KIA Motor cars bound for Nepal was handled by Nautanwa station on Thursday,” he said. This heralds a new chapter for automobile traffic bound for Nepal being transported by Railways since Nautanwa is strategically located on the Nepal border and is a gateway to western and central Nepal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nautanwa-rly-stn-new-automobile-handling-terminal/articleshow/78323465.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath kicks off bypoll campaign, blasts opposition on farm bills||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath blew the bugle for UP assembly bypolls on eight seats by attacking the Opposition and labelling it as ‘anti-farmer’ for opposing the farm bills. Addressing the booth, sector and divisional unit chiefs of Bharatiya Janata Party at Kulahnamau in Malhani assembly seat of Jaunpur on Saturday, the CM asked party workers to gear up and ensure victory on all seats as there will be no public meetings and rallies due to Covid-19 pandemic. Hitting out at the Opposition, Yogi said “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised to double the income of farmers and these bills are steps in the same direction. They will not only free the farmers from the clutches of middlemen, but also give them the liberty to sell their produce at the best prices at their will. The Opposition is trying to mislead farmers and countrymen, but we will not let them succeed in their bid.” Giving the mantra for sweeping bypolls, Yogi asked BJP cadres to ensure victory at each booth in all eight seats. “No political rally or public meeting will take place, hence all office-bearers from booth to district level will have to take responsibility for winning at least one booth. Winning each booth is the key for winning all eight assembly seats,” Yogi said and asked cadres to visit door-to-door to meet people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-kicks-off-bypoll-campaign-blasts-oppn-on-farm-bills/articleshow/78339289.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Inmate escapes Covid temporary jail||KANPUR: An inmate of a temporary jail in Hamirpur district, suspected to be Covid-19 positive, escaped the facility in the night hours of Thursday. He was identified as Suraj Kumar, a resident of Kumhaupur village in Lalpura police area of Hamirpur. A temporary jail has been made at Sardar Patel Inter College near district headquarters, where inmates, who are suspected or positive cases, before being sent to district jail are kept amid the Covid protocol. Suraj was on Thursday arrested on charges of peddling drugs and a case under NDPS Act registered in Lalpura police station, according to the police. He was lodged in a room at the college building where the facility is situated. “He was in a room in the Covid care centre for the temporary prison. He cut open the grill bars on the window. The inmates who are suspected or test positive are treated there. After, dinner Suraj was found missing,” said deputy jailor RL Yadav. “A case in the matter was registered at Kotwali police station and searches are underway to make his arrest possible,” said Yadav further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/inmate-escapes-covid-temporary-jail/articleshow/78324894.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM gives Rs 465 crore projects to Deoria||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 465 crores through video conferencing in Deoria district on the birth anniversary of Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya. While foundation stones of projects costing over Rs 382 crore were laid, projects of over Rs 82 crores were inaugurated. The CM also announced a museum to be established in Deoria in the name of martyr Ramchandra Vidyarthi, a bridge on river Choti Gandak in the name of martyr Sona Sonar and a park in Deoria in the name of late Janmejay Singh, MLA who died recently. “The projects have been inaugurated on the anniversary of Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya. During the freedom struggle, the contribution of martyr Ramchandra Vidyarthi of Deoria district can’t be denied,” the CM said. While enumerating the benefits of farm bills which were passed recently in Parliament, the CM said, “The farm bills passed in Parliament are for the benefit of the farmers, but some selfish people who want to curb the rights of the farmers are confusing them.” He instructed to make payment of sugarcane farmers within the time-limit. He also directed the administration and sugarcane department to look into the issue of Pratapur sugar mill dues of farmers. The CM also said that the administration will provide compensation to the farmers within 24 hours for their crops destroyed due to heavy rain. The CM instructed the officials to begin dialysis treatment at Devraha Baba Medical College, and said Governor Rajasthan and then MP Kalraj Mishra had played an important role in the making of the medical college. Keeping in view water logging and water drainage issues, Yogi asked the Deoria Nagar Palika to submit a proposal for water drainage and also announced to make available the funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-gives-rs-465-cr-projects-to-deoria/articleshow/78323503.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Doctored video: Delhi court asks police to register FIR||NEW DELHI: A controversial video, which seems doctored and depicts chief minister Arvind Kejriwal singing an objectionable song, has garnered the wrath of a Delhi court. “It is not only lowering the reputation of a constitutionally elected chief minister but also addressing the public/voters in an abusive manner,” the court observed. Metropolitan magistrate Kishor Kumar accordingly found a prima facie case of “obscene acts and songs” and directed police to lodge an FIR. “The station house officer of the Paschim Vihar (west) police station is directed to register an FIR on the basis of the complaint within one week from today and file a compliance report on December 2,” Kumar said. Advocate Amit Sahni said he had earlier approached Delhi Police to lodge an FIR for uploading and circulating the questionable video but the cops took no action. Sahni, the complainant, argued that the video was uploaded on February 12, a day after the results of Delhi state elections were announced. He alleged that it was done with the “sole object of degrading the constitutionally elected CM in a manner, which is detrimental for kids, who cannot understand that it is not the CM but a doctored video”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctored-video-court-asks-police-to-register-fir/articleshow/78325838.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||Two technical bids opened for bullet train work||VADODARA: The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has opened technical bids for two packages for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project. The first technical bid is for procurement and fabrication of 28 steel bridges for crossing over railway lines, rivers, highways, road crossings and other structures for which eight companies submitted their tenders. These include Tata Projects Ltd, Afcons Infrastructure Ltd, consortium of Braithwaite & Co Ltd, Bridge & Roof Co (India) Ltd, NCC Ltd, JMC Projects (India) Ltd & Rahee Infratech Ltd, consortium of ISGEC Heavy Engineering Ltd – M & B Engineering Ltd and consortium of L&T– IHI Infrastructure Systems. Second bid is for design and construction of 88 km of viaduct between Vadodara and Ahmedabad including the construction of an elevated HSR station at Anand-Nadiad, five bridges and 25 crossings. Three Indian companies have participated for these two works. They include a consortium of Afcons Infrastructure – IRCON International Limited – JMC Projects India Ltd and HSR consortium of NCC Limited – Tata Project Ltd – J Kumar Infra Projects Ltd apart from L&T. It is estimated that about 70,000 metric tonnes of steel will be used in 28 steel bridges. With this, bids covering 64 % (325 km out of 508 km) of the total bullet train alignment including five stations — Vapi, Billimora, Surat, Bharuch and Anand/Nadiad — and one train depot at Surat are under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-tech-bids-opened-for-bullet-train-work/articleshow/78322237.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi Adityanath gifts projects worth Rs 600 crore to Jaunpur, Deoria||VARANASI: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath gifted projects worth crores of rupees to Jaunpur and Deoria on the birth anniversary of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya on Friday. While Deoria got development projects of over Rs 465 crores, Jaunpur got projects exceeding Rs 126 crores. In Jaunpur, the CM also announced renaming of a primary health centre and a road after Padma Shri awardee Prof Lalji Singh, legendary scientist known as the father of DNA fingerprinting in India. A bridge on river Ganga at Kalichabad will be named after Raja Yadavendra Dutt Dubey. Ahead of a visit to Jaunpur on Saturday to address a meeting at Kulahnamau in Malhani area, the CM inaugurated 36 projects worth Rs 39.5 crore and laid the foundation of 44 projects worth Rs 87.2 crore through video conferencing on Friday. Malhani assembly seat is lying vacant following the demise of former minister and Samajwadi Party MLA Parasnath Yadav. Addressing public representatives and officials, the CM said Jaunpur was the karmabhumi of Upadhyaya. “As a tribute to him, we are announcing development projects and foundation laying of 44 projects after him. These projects will play a key role in the development of Jaunpur,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-gifts-projects-worth-rs-600cr-to-jaunpur-deoria/articleshow/78324874.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Tulu song ‘Mokeda Singari’ immortalised him||Deepthi Sanjiv Mangaluru: When news of the death of legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam broke on Friday, Mangalureans remembered him for the Tulu song ‘Mokeda Singari’, among many other songs. The video of his rendition was shared widely on Friday. As condolences poured in, Mohan Alva, chairman of Alva’s Education Foundation, remembered the legend performing thrice at Alva’s Virasat, a national-level cultural programme, and also conferring the Alva’s Virasat Award on him. Alva recollected how the legend looked forward to performing at the campus, and responded to his phone calls personally. “He was never a problem artiste. He encouraged young talent and made no specific demands whenever he visited our place. He has sung over 40,000 songs in various languages, which is indeed an achievement,” he added. Businessman Varadaraja Pai of Shri Lakshmi Venkataramana Yajamana Industries (Mavinakatte), said SPB is not just as a singer. “Besides knowing him personally, I have seen a god in him. I’m privileged to interact with him. He gave concerts during the decennial celebrations of Yajamana Industries and the 40th anniversary Shri Lakshmi Venkataramana Industries in 2018. Though it was a two-day concert, he charged for only one day,” Pai recalled. Harikrishna D, vice-principal of Little Rock Indian School (Bramhavar), said they had hosted a mega music event at Government College ground (now University College ground) in 1990. The SPB fan, then residing at St Aloysius College Hostel, said: “At least 20 students had purchased tickets each costing Rs10 then. Though the programme was scheduled at 7.30pm, we landed at the venue by 6pm to see two legends — SPB and K J Yesudas — performing together. The ground, with speakers all over, was milling with huge crowds. SPB sang several film songs, including some from Bollywood. The concert ended at 10pm, leaving us with a lifetime experience,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tulu-song-mokeda-singari-immortalised-him/articleshow/78321967.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Surat||Concept Medical India sets up Rs 80 crore unit in Surat SEZ||SURAT: Concept Medical India (CMI) has set up, what it claims to be Asia’s largest manufacturing and coating unit to manufacture drug eluting stents (DES) and balloons, used in coronary and peripheral artery diseases. The unit has set up in Surat special economic zone (SEZ) at Sachin and will cater to the international and domestic markets. "The new facility has capacity to produce two million drug eluting balloons and 1.5 million DES per annum. This is the largest manufacturing unit of DES and balloons in Asia,'' said Manish Doshi, CEO, CMI The company’s existing facility at Hazira has an annual capacity of around 80,000 stents and balloons. CMI has invested about Rs 80 crore for the new facility and provide jobs to 450 people. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/concept-sets-up-rs-80cr-unit-in-surat-sez/articleshow/78323673.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Allahabad||Protesting at DM’s residence in Pratapgarh, SDM accuses seniors of graft||PRAYAGRAJ: A sub-divisional magistrate-rank official on Friday sat on a dharna at Pratapgarh district magistrate’s official residence along with his family for more than three hours while levelling corruption charges against administrative officials. SDM Vineet Upadhaya, who staged the protest, accused senior administrative officials, including an ADM-rank administrative official, posted in Pratapgarh district of graft. As soon as the news about the dharna spread, senior police and administrative officials rushed to take stock of the situation. Besides, police force was also deployed outside the DM’s residence to check the entry of outsiders. Despite repeated efforts, Pratapgarh district magistrate Rupesh Kumar remained unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/protesting-at-dms-residencesdm-accuses-seniors-of-graft/articleshow/78324885.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||School offers freeship for distressed parents||Mangaluru: An education institution in Brahmavar, Udupi district, is helping financially distressed parents unable to pay the school fees school with a unique offer- freeship. Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, has invited parents to apply for freeships starting from 50% of the fees, and in some cases 75% or in rare cases even 100%. The campus with a student population of over 3,500 realized that several parents are struggling to pay the fees due to the pandemic crisis. “To help them and most importantly to ensure that no child is deprived of an education, the school has invited parents to apply for freeship,” said Mathew C Ninan, director, Little Rock Indian School. Several parents whose children study here have lost their jobs, including those employed abroad, and many have lost their businesses, Ninan noted. “After discussions with staff and management, we rolled out the scheme. We expect that 10 per cent of the total student population will benefit from the offer.” Meanwhile, the school also has invited well-to-do parents and its alumni to contribute a certain amount along with their children’s fees towards the newly created For My Child’s Friend (FMCF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/school-offers-freeship-for-distressed-parents/articleshow/78321996.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Barmer hospital to get oxygen generation plant||JAISALMER: The number of serious patients is increasing in Barmer district and consumption of oxygen cylinders in the district hospital has increased to 40 from 20 per day previously. To maintain oxygen supply in the hospital, an oxygen generation plant will be set which will provide 90 cylinders per day and each bed will get the supply through a pipeline. The plant will be set up in next two months. Barmer district hospital PMO Dr BL Mansuria said maintaining oxygen supply looking at increasing corona patients was becoming a challenge. “Now, the hospital will become self by setting up an oxygen plant. The work of central pipeline has been started and 200 beds will get the supply through a pipeline,” he added. He said the hospital is getting ready with a 10-bed ICU with a cost of Rs 2.60 crore. He added that a 24-hour testing facility has also been set up at the emergency. He said so far 1 lakh patients have been tested for Covid at the medical college from May 1 till date. Mansuria said serious patients will now get facilities in Barmer like the one in AIIMS Jodhpur. The oxygen plant is being set up at a cost of Rs 62 lakh near the old cottage ward and work has started. “Soon around 14 wards of the hospital will have oxygen supply through a pipeline. At present, the pipeline oxygen supply is given in ICU, OT, emergency and MCH,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-hosp-to-get-oxygen-generation-plant/articleshow/78324909.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kanpur||Pangolin smuggler arrested in Kannauj||KANPUR: The forest department of Aravalli district of Gujarat and surveillance team of Kannauj police arrested a member of a gang of wild animal trafficking racket on Thursday. The arrested person, identified as Minhaj, a native of Bharuch district of Gujarat, was hiding at his relatives place in Jalalpura Panwara area of Kannauj. “Minhaj and one other of his aide Nasir of Haldwani, Uttarakhand had escaped, while Nadim, their third aide was arrested in connection with smuggling of pangolin carcasses and scales during a raid at a hideout near Ratanpur check post near Shyamlaji town in Aravalli district of Gujarat on September 17,” informed range forest officer, Gujarat, M M Gohil. “Kannauj Police and forest department officials have handed Minhaj to us and now we would take him back to Gujarat. A case against Minhaj and two others including Nadim and Nasir had been registered at Shyamalaji Forest range under Aravalli forest division. Now, we are on lookout for their third aide Nasir, who is still absconding,” he added. “Pangolin carcasses and scales weighing over 10k g were recovered from Nadim, who had admitted that they had brought the pangolin carcasses and the scales from Uttarakhand and were on their way to Maharashtra to sell it,” he further said. As per wildlife experts, pangolin is protected under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act. “Pangolins are in high demand for Chinese traditional medicine in southern China and Vietnam because their scales are believed to have medicinal properties. Their meat is also considered a delicacy. Nearly, 100,000 are estimated to be trafficked a year to China and Vietnam amounting to over one million over the past decade. This makes it the most trafficked animal in the world” experts added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pangolin-smugglerarrested-in-kannauj/articleshow/78325150.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kanpur||Farmers take out protest march against farm bills in Jhansi||JHANSI: Hundreds of farmers protested against the recently passed Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 at the district headquarters at Mauranipur tehsil here on Friday. The farmers, under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) reached the district collectorate and submitted a memorandum appealing to the government to take back the bill. Prem Narayan Dwivedi, , a farmer leader, who led the agitation, said their main objection is the removal of minimum support price (MSP) without which the farmers will be clueless about the price at which they should sell their produce. He also appealed to the government to implement two- child policy in the country to control the growing population which is creating a serious problem. Similarly, farmers in huge numbers marched towards the tehsil headquarters in Mauranipur and submitted memorandum to the SDM demanding withdrawal of the bill. Shiv Narayan Singh Parihar, a farmer leader, who was in the protest march, said, “The bill is completely against the interests of farmers and should be withdrawn”. The protestors blocked the road at Ambedkar crossing which was cleared. The protest march at both the places was however peaceful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/farmers-take-out-protest-march-against-farm-bills-in-jhansi/articleshow/78325166.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Two more clone trains on Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah routes likely||JAIPUR: Following the introduction of the Delhi-Ahmedabad clone train which is benefiting North Western Railway (NWR) especially for passengers travelling to Delhi from Ajmer and Jaipur, there is a huge demand of similar trains or special trains in routes such as Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah. There is a possibility that during the festive season, NWR might introduce these two trains and may be a few more. Delhi-Ahmedabad bi-weekly clone train was introduced on Wednesday and it runs every Wednesday and Sunday. “As clone train is meant to serve on routes in which the main trains like Aashram Express is not adequate enough to accommodate the rush, we have a few other circuits which are also running packed. Thus, we need trains on these circuits too,” said an officer with NWR. According to sources, NWR officials are in touch with the railway board officials to request them to either run clone trains or introduce more trains on busier routes. “Hopefully, during the upcoming Navratra, we might get either a few more clone trains or extra trains on busier routes. There is a possibility to get trains on two routes including Jodhpur to Howrah and Jaipur to Mumbai,” said a senior officer of NWR. Authorities are upbeat that in all the special trains run by NWR, passenger load is increasing. “When we started, we had a load of 25 per cent to 30 per cent, which has now gone up to 70 per cent and above,” an officer with commercial wing of NWR said. As per the booking status, Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah are running packed and there is a need of having more trains on these routes. “Migrant labourers are returning back to their original work place. We have demand from Rajasthan for Mumbai. Likewise from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, passengers are returning back to Rajasthan,” said Narendra Singh, a IRCTC train ticket booking agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-more-clone-trains-on-jaipur-mumbai-and-jodhpur-howrah-routes-likely/articleshow/78329977.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ajmer||Two more clone trains on Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah routes likely||JAIPUR: Following the introduction of the Delhi-Ahmedabad clone train which is benefiting North Western Railway (NWR) especially for passengers travelling to Delhi from Ajmer and Jaipur, there is a huge demand of similar trains or special trains in routes such as Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah. There is a possibility that during the festive season, NWR might introduce these two trains and may be a few more. Delhi-Ahmedabad bi-weekly clone train was introduced on Wednesday and it runs every Wednesday and Sunday. “As clone train is meant to serve on routes in which the main trains like Aashram Express is not adequate enough to accommodate the rush, we have a few other circuits which are also running packed. Thus, we need trains on these circuits too,” said an officer with NWR. According to sources, NWR officials are in touch with the railway board officials to request them to either run clone trains or introduce more trains on busier routes. “Hopefully, during the upcoming Navratra, we might get either a few more clone trains or extra trains on busier routes. There is a possibility to get trains on two routes including Jodhpur to Howrah and Jaipur to Mumbai,” said a senior officer of NWR. Authorities are upbeat that in all the special trains run by NWR, passenger load is increasing. “When we started, we had a load of 25 per cent to 30 per cent, which has now gone up to 70 per cent and above,” an officer with commercial wing of NWR said. As per the booking status, Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah are running packed and there is a need of having more trains on these routes. “Migrant labourers are returning back to their original work place. We have demand from Rajasthan for Mumbai. Likewise from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, passengers are returning back to Rajasthan,” said Narendra Singh, a IRCTC train ticket booking agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/two-more-clone-trains-on-jaipur-mumbai-and-jodhpur-howrah-routes-likely/articleshow/78329975.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||30% shops defy ‘order’, remain open after 7.30pm||Jaipur: The decision taken by the market associations unilaterally to close shops by 7.30pm seems to fall flat as around 30% outlets are still opening after the stipulated time. Most of the shopkeepers are trying their best to cover their losses due to Covid-19.“Does coronavirus spread only after 7.30pm? I don’t understand the rationale behind implementation of such orders especially at festival times. Anyways, the market is down by 70%. We had lost too much during three months of lockdown, so it is better to open shops as much as we can,” said Parvesh Saini, a shopkeeper at Hawa Mahal market.Due to the rising number of coronavirus cases in the city, many market associations in Jaipur had voluntarily decided to shut the market early. This was done to implement the prevent people from coming out of their houses.The order does not hold any legal value and association can just request shopkeepers to shut their shops as soon as possible.Mahendra Jain, president of Jayanti Market Association, said, “We have requested people to shut the shops but after such huge losses in three months due to complete lockdown, some people find it convenient to open the shops till 9pm.”Another shopkeeper at Bapu Bazaar said that many shops are on rent and it has become difficult to sustain. “No one can sustain after shutting their shops. Shopkeepers want to utilize as much as they can due to pending rent. Hence, many businessmen are keeping it open,” said Naveen Kumar from Bapu Bazaar.Market was shut from March 28 to June 30 till the state was under complete lockdown. However, with the relaxations in the lockdown rules, people started to come out and shops started opening up. Although the footfall is still low, markets are open and social distancing has become a problem. At present Jaipur has more than 4,000 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-shops-defy-order-remain-open-after-7-30pm/articleshow/78324916.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||13 years on, property survey to begin in Oct||Jaipur: After 13 years, a new property survey will begin in October to make a wholesome assessment of urban development (UD) tax in Jaipur. The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has finally tendered the project for six years to a firm.Last property survey was conducted in 2007 when there was house ax imposed in the city. Under the house tax, owner had to give tax on the basis of rental value of the property which was changed after implementation of UD tax in 2008. Now, any residential property above 300 square metre and commercial property above 100 square metre is taxable.However, without new survey, authorities were facing difficulties and economic losses as they assumed that there are around 8 lakh properties in the city out of which more than 3 lakh comes under the purview of UD tax. Deputy commissioner (revenue) Naveen Bhardhwaj said, “At present, we just have 1,34,000 properties surveyed under house tax in 2007 and later add on made by the corporation. This firm will start surveying the property from the scratch and will also collect the tax from the owners till six years. It will geo-tag the property giving each and every property its unique QR Code. Firm will be paid 9.95% of the total amount collected from the property surveyed.”On a trial basis, 50 properties in Jaipur Greater and 50 in Jaipur Heritage whose data were already with the corporation, were surveyed by the firm. A lot of discrepancies were found in them. If the property survey is done perfectly, JMC will earn more than Rs 400 crore of revenue every year. The firm has been asked to conduct survey of 6 lakh properties in the first year and provide at least Rs 80 crore of revenue to JMC. A year after that, firm has to provide 75% of revenue of the properties surveyed only then it will be able to get its own share. “Earlier, we hired a firm whose job was to survey the property, but it failed to accomplish the work efficiently. The firm was blacklisted. We don’t want to take any chances now, so payment of the firm is dependent on the result it will give,” said Bhardhwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-years-on-property-survey-to-begin-in-oct/articleshow/78324982.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Weekend lockdown in Jodhpur again||JODHPUR: The administration has announced weekend lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays in Jodhpur amid exponential rise in positive cases in the city and miserable depletion of resources in hospitals. The two-day lockdown, second after a similar one in August, began from Friday night and will continue till 6am on Monday. Essential services have been spared from this lockdown. It may be noted that the situation in Jodhpur is turning alarming by the day. While the city reported 630 positive cases, the highest-ever in a single day on Thursday, the casualty count crossed the 150 mark in just 25 days of this month. With this ever increasing data, resources in hospitals have also started giving in to the pressure making the fight against the pandemic more difficult. Admitting the increase in patient load on hospitals, district magistrate Indrajeet Singh said the administration has consistently been working to enhance the capacity of hospitals. Singh also unveiled a 24-hour control room at Abhay Command Centre with a view to receive calls from any person seeking/sharing some information or any assistance pertaining to corona. Though an aggressive awareness campaign has been initiated in the city under the joint aegis of administration, police and municipal corporation in order to spread awareness among people about compliance of Covid guidelines, there are some key issues, which the administration has failed to address. Jodhpur has availability of 1,030 beds available for positive cases in MGH, MDM and AIIMS combined, but there is severe shortage of ICU beds. There are only 158 ICU beds available in these hospitals in spite of the huge demand for them. Similarly, delay in issuance of reports of tests of suspects has also emerged a big issue. With 4-6 days delay in declaring the results of the tests in many cases, the suspect either continues mingling with other persons, thereby causing threat of infection to those, he comes into contact with, or has his condition critical awaiting treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/weekend-lockdown-in-jodhpur-again/articleshow/78324930.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana health minister launches two apps for Covid-19 care in Ambala||AMBALA: To provide immediate and booking based health services in view of COVID-19 care to the residents of Ambala district, Haryana home, health and urban local bodies minister Anil Vij on Friday launched two applications (apps) at the district-level, ‘Ambala Hospital Bed Management’ and ‘Home Isolation’. Vij launched these apps digitally from the PWD rest house in Ambala Cantonment. The apps can be downloaded from the website of Ambala district administration and from Google Play store. While appreciating Ambala district administration for developing such apps, Vij said, “Discussion will be done with senior officials to launch such apps pan Haryana. so that the record of all the districts could be made available at the state level along with the district too.” Vij said, after downloading Ambala Hospital Bed Management app, any resident in the district would be able to access information related to availability of beds in the hospital along with other health care facilities provided in hospitals of Ambala. “The resident will get access to data, but with the condition of providing one’s complete information. After providing the person’s details, the residents will be able to book the bed and an SMS will be sent on the registered mobile. The booking will be valid for 3 hours. If the resident completes all formalities as per norms, the booked bed will be allotted to the patient. Otherwise, the booking will be cancelled.” Giving details about the Home Isolation app, Vij said, “This app will help teams of the health department monitor Covid-19 patients kept under home isolation. Through the QR code, the health department team will fill the complete data of the concerned patient according to the information given by them. The health department has the necessary instructions, if the patient is in desperate need of medical care, then after consulting the doctor, the work of shifting to the hospital will also be done.” Ambala deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma and ADC Preeti were also present during the launch of two apps on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-health-minister-launches-2-apps-for-covid-19-care-in-ambala/articleshow/78324936.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Two more clone trains on Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah routes likely||JAIPUR: Following the introduction of the Delhi-Ahmedabad clone train which is benefiting North Western Railway (NWR) especially for passengers travelling to Delhi from Ajmer and Jaipur, there is a huge demand of similar trains or special trains in routes such as Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah. There is a possibility that during the festive season, NWR might introduce these two trains and may be a few more. Delhi-Ahmedabad bi-weekly clone train was introduced on Wednesday and it runs every Wednesday and Sunday. “As clone train is meant to serve on routes in which the main trains like Aashram Express is not adequate enough to accommodate the rush, we have a few other circuits which are also running packed. Thus, we need trains on these circuits too,” said an officer with NWR. According to sources, NWR officials are in touch with the railway board officials to request them to either run clone trains or introduce more trains on busier routes. “Hopefully, during the upcoming Navratra, we might get either a few more clone trains or extra trains on busier routes. There is a possibility to get trains on two routes including Jodhpur to Howrah and Jaipur to Mumbai,” said a senior officer of NWR. Authorities are upbeat that in all the special trains run by NWR, passenger load is increasing. “When we started, we had a load of 25 per cent to 30 per cent, which has now gone up to 70 per cent and above,” an officer with commercial wing of NWR said. As per the booking status, Jaipur-Mumbai and Jodhpur-Howrah are running packed and there is a need of having more trains on these routes. “Migrant labourers are returning back to their original work place. We have demand from Rajasthan for Mumbai. Likewise from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, passengers are returning back to Rajasthan,” said Narendra Singh, a IRCTC train ticket booking agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-more-clone-trains-on-jaipur-mumbai-and-jodhpur-howrah-routes-likely/articleshow/78324970.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Govt acquires oxygen generation plants to meet requirement||Jaipur: Amid increasing demand for oxygen for Covid-19 treatment, the state government is reducing the share of industries in oxygen produced by generation plants. The drug controllers are regulating the supply of oxygen from the plants across the state. Jaipur district collector Antar Singh Nehra said, "We have acquired oxygen generation plants to meet the requirement for medical purposes first." State’s drug controller Rajram Sharma has deployed his teams at all the oxygen generation plants. Officials said that earlier, the industries were getting 80% of the oxygen from the plants before the pandemic, but now over the past few days, 75% of the oxygen from the plants is being supplied for medical use in the hospitals for Covid treatment and also for non-Covid patients.In Bikaner, too, the demand for oxygen has almost doubled in the past one month. A private supplier is supplying oxygen to hosptials from Haryana. "We have no shortage of oxygen as of now," said Dr B L Meena, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Bikaner. In Jodhpur, CMHO Dr Balwant Manda said with more persons testing positive, MDM hospital has also started admitting Covid patients again. "As far as demand for oxygen is concerned, it has certainly increased, but there is no such crisis," said Dr Manda. Dr Manda said that the government has taken over the firms producing oxygen for supplying it for medical purposes first and then for the industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-acquires-oxygen-generation-plants-to-meet-requirement/articleshow/78325014.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||SCDCC Bank ramps up scale of finance to spur agriculture activities||Mangaluru: With areca nut prices on a bull run, South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank has decided to ramp up the scale of finance for farmers growing this horticultural crop. Price of old stock of white areca (chol) grown in this part of Karnataka that is in demand across India is presently trading in range of Rs 300-Rs 400/kg depending on the quality while the new areca nut is trading in the price band of Rs 280-Rs 360/kg. The move to hike scale of financing comes in the backdrop of commensurate increase in cost of cultivation due to the pandemic, said Ravindra B, in-charge CEO of the Bank. “We have taken an upwardly revised scale of finance to farmers to obviate the need for them to approach other lenders for their needs, ‘‘ Ravindra told TOI. Last week SCDCC Bank met with president M N Rajendra Kumar to decide on hiking credit limit to farmers. Hardships caused to farmers due to the pandemic that has led to shortage of labour for harvesting areca nut, spraying medicines and other actions that have to be done periodically too was a reason for this step, he said. Agriculture experts’ part of the meet had accordingly given their inputs on how the scale of finance should be worked out in given circumstances and the bank has moved accordingly, he said. The move will help farmers grow not just areca nut, but also papaya, pepper, banana, paddy and other crops grown locally, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/scdcc-bank-ramps-up-scale-of-finance-to-spur-agriculture-activities/articleshow/78322049.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Rajasthan govt adds eight more private hospitals for Covid treatment in 7 days||JAIPUR: Nine more hospitals – eight private and one government — have started admitting Covid patients in the wake of growing number of cases in the city. With this, the city has added 223 beds with oxygen support, 124 ICU beds and 30 beds with ventilators for Covid treatment in seven days. Now, 32 private, corporate-run and government-run hospitals are providing Covid treatment here. The health department on Friday directed private hosptials who are not providing Covid treatment to start admitting such patients for treatment. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora issued directions to private hospitals in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Ajmer and Bikaner to provide Covid treatment on 30% of the total capacity of their beds. Private hospitals with 80 or more beds in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur and hospitals with 60 or more beds in Ajmer and Bikaner divisions have been directed to provide Covid treatment on 30% of the beds by allocating a floor, a wing or ward on the rates already fixed by the state government. Besides, directions have been issued to private hospitals, who are already treating Covid patients, to constitute a board of two doctors, which will take decision for discharging patients if they are on recovery and further treatment is possible in the step down facility (covid care centre) so that vacated beds can be used for critical patients. Apart from encouraging private hospitals, the state government has also started Covid treatment facility at ESI hospital in Jaipur. The government managed to add 146 beds in ward/room, two beds with oxygen support, six in ICUs and five ICU beds with ventilators. ESI hospital has not started its ICU and ventilator facilities and currently patients with only mild and moderate symptoms are undergoing treatment. The state government is planning to set up a 20-bed ICU for Covid patients but officials are facing logistics problems. In ESI hospital, 32 patients are undergoing treatment, among those six are on oxygen support. It has capacity of 42 beds with oxygen support. Jaipuria Hospital has 95 beds including 10 in ICU with ventilators and 52 oxygen supported. Out of those, 28 beds with oxygen support were occupied and out of 10 ICU beds with ventilators, nine were occupied by Covid patients. In RUHS Hospital, out of 52 ICU beds, 51 are occupied, while out of 47 ventilators, 46 are occupied. “In government hospitals, there will be an increase in number of beds for Covid patients especially in RUHS, Jaipuria and ESI. We are constantly increasing facilities for Covid patients in the city. Currently, 32 hospitals including private and government ones are providing Covid treatment. The facilities have been expanded over the period of past few days. We are constantly increasing facilities depending the situation. Private hospitals are also cooperating us for benefitting patients,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-adds-eight-more-private-hospitals-for-covid-treatment-in-7-days/articleshow/78324998.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad sees new one-day high with 1,442 fresh cases||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, Gujarat recorded 1,442 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in the state so far to 1.3 lakh. This is the highest one-day tally of new cases in the state so far, and comes on the seventh consecutive day of 1,400-plus cases. Gujarat has reported 33,956 cases in the first 25 days of September, which is 26% of its total number of cases. The new cases included 300 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 148 from Rajkot, 134 from Vadodara, and 114 from Jamnagar. It was after 63 days that Surat recorded 300 new cases in a day. The total number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 35,939, 27,607, 11,414 and 8,465, respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 12 Covid patients, taking its death toll to 3,396. The deaths included three each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, two each from Rajkot and Surat, and one each from Banaskantha and Gandhinagar. With the update, Covid deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 1,797, 747, 177 and 134, respectively. A total of 1,279 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of such patients to 1.1 lakh. The discharges include 284 from Surat, 184 from Rajkot, 125 from Ahmedabad, 109 from Vadodara, and 101 from Jamnagar. Active cases in Gujarat have now reached 16,505, which is 12.7% of the total number of cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now 84.7% and 2.6%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-sees-new-one-day-high-with-1442-fresh-cases/articleshow/78325036.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kanpur||Three families in Bilhaur block get cows||KANPUR: The district administration provided cows to three families having the most malnourished child in Palia Bujurg village of Billhaur block of the district on Friday. The cows were given in presence of block development officer (BDO) Dinkar Vidyarthi who assured the families that an amount of Rs 900 per month would be deposited in their bank accounts for fodder of the cows. The cows were given under the scheme announced by the chief minister Yogi Adityanath to give a cow to a family having the most malnourished child to give him nutrition. The block development officer at a programme held at the child development service said that cow milk would be nectar to the malnourished children. Indrapal Singh, district programme officer said that as many as 12,283 children had been identified as mal nourished in the district and out of them 1423 were found as the most malnourished. The administration would provide cows to all families of ten blocks and urban projects having malnourished children, he said. So far three cows had been given in Bilhaur , two Patara and one at Shivrajpur under the project, he added.  Aruna Pal, incharge child development project officer told the villagers about significance of cows and the scheme of the state government. She said the government would provide Rs 900 per month for purchasing fodder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-families-in-bilhaur-block-get-cows/articleshow/78325183.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Surat||Actions against heavy vehicles entering Surat||SURAT: Surat city police commissioner Ajay Tomar on Friday said that police would take actions against heavy vehicles entering into the city area. Speaking at a Road Safety Council meeting on Friday at the Police Commissioner's office in the city, Tomar said that there are instances when trucks plying on industrial areas of Hajira enter into city roads creating traffic hassles and also pose threat to vehicular traffic. “We will emphasise to reduce the road accidents in the city in coordination with concerned departments and make the roads more safe,” Tomar said in a statement. Region Transport Officer (Surat) D K Chavda said that driving licences of three persons found violating traffic rules were suspended in the month of August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/actions-against-heavy-vehicles-entering-surat/articleshow/78323226.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Reverse migration may cause Punjab, Haryana $1.48 billion losses||CHANDIGARH: The mass exodus of migrant labour from Punjab and Haryana due to Covid-19 pandemic is expected to translate into economic losses of up to US $ 1.48 billion due to lower production of paddy and wheat -- between 9% and 21%-- says a study. In a double whammy for the two states, the delay in rice transplanting is also likely to worsen the seasonal winter air pollution associated with paddy stubble burning and push up associated health risks and Covid resurgence. These are the findings of a research study “Agricultural labour, Covid-19, and potential implications for food security and air quality in the bread basket of India" by scientists from reputed agriculture research institutes in India, Nepal and US, and published in the journal of Elsevier – a Netherland based global information analytics company. As per the study, Punjab is expected to face a loss of US $1,140 million and Haryana $ 337 million. The maximum loss in Punjab is expected in Ludhiana district (US $ 123 million) while Kaithal in Haryana is projected to be have the highest loss of US $ 58 million. The study, however, says, "the simulated yield outcomes under plausible transplanting delay scenarios from Covid-19 indicates less impact on the rice yields, but the potential for significant losses for wheat." It has been found that more than 95% of area under paddy in India is dependent on manual labour for crop establishment and the lockdown has triggered a huge reverse migration from the northwestern states of Haryana and Punjab, with estimates suggesting that around one million labourers had returned home. "In all scenarios, the spike in air pollution in the winter months, caused in part, by rice residue burning, could coincide with an anticipated Covid resurgence in the fall, potentially making the public health impacts more severe by increasing both morbidity and mortality rates," reads the study. It has also been observed that there is a large overlap between causes of deaths of Covid-19 patients and diseases that are affected by long-term exposure to particulate matter (PM 2.5). The researchers have observed that during the peak pollution period of November and early December, rice residue burning is a significant source of particulate matter (PM 2.5) in the region. How to cope with labour shortageAny delay in transplanting due to labour shortage can result in use of old (aged) seedlings, says the study. By delaying nursery sowing to better match delays in transplanting, yield potential can be conserved for rice. The researchers are also of the view that direct seeding of wheat into rice residues using the Happy Seeder can reduce the turnaround time between rice harvest and wheat sowing by 7-10 days and potentially eliminate the need of residue burning. With the Covid-19 mediated delayed transplanting, this window is expected to be further narrowed in this winter. It has also been recommended that timely planting of rice can also be achieved by adopting dry direct seeding of rice (DSR) using mechanized seed-cum-fertilizer planters, which requires less labour and water. DSR matures 8 to 10 days earlier than puddled transplanted rice, leading to an earlier harvest and higher yield of the following wheat crop. Replacing rice with maize in the monsoon season is another option to alleviate the potential shortage of agricultural labour due to Covid-19. The researchers have also recommended adoption of shorter duration rice varieties that maintain yield potential even with later transplantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-reverse-migration-of-labour-may-cause-pb-hry-1-48-billion-losses/articleshow/78324973.cms||Sanjeev Verma
September 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Auto hub returns to pre-lockdown gear, gets back 70% of its workers||GURUGRAM: Six months after the lockdown was announced, the automotive sector in Gurugram has nearly managed to reach earlier levels of production as it pulls out all stops to make the festive season count after losing an entire quarter. Around 70% of migrant workers employed in the sector in the Gurugram-Manesar region, which accounts for nearly 50% of India’s vehicle production, have returned, said industry sources. The industry has bepreen buoyed by a steady uptick in demand, particularly of two-wheelers. The other big employment generator in the region – the garment industry – is, however, yet to emerge from crisis since there are no fresh orders from the European and US markets. Most units in the sector are functioning at only 40-50% of their capacity, affecting the livelihoods of many workers. With just around 20% of the pre-lockdown workforce available, the real estate sector is also plodding along. Auto industry insiders said they have seen the demand solidify since Unlock began in pases. KK Gandhi, who owns an ancillary unit in Gurugram, said, “We are overbooked at the time because the auto majors, especially two-wheelers, have ramped up their production.” Several other manufactures said that the likes of Maruti, Hero and Honda are seeing higher demand than that in the pre-lockdown months and the demand curve has also risen for downstream units. Vinnie Mehta, director-general of Auto Component Manufacturers Association, said that while the first quarter was a complete washout, sales started picking up pace after June. “Be it the pent-up demand of buyers or festive rush, sales of cars and auto components have also increased. Besides, owing to the fear of catching the virus while travelling in public transport, more people are opting to buy a car or in most cases a two-wheeler,” Mehta added. Rajesh Kapoor, director of Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) northern region, said that even though the automotive industry had bounced back, there is no surety telling how long this will last. “Other sectors are still recovering. While some are recovering fast, others have a long way to go,” Kapoor added. Harbhajan Singh, who heads the ease of doing business vertical at CII, Haryana, added that across sectors, the demand for skilled workers is high. “Most companies have offered different sops to lure the skilled workforce back. While some have provided them with return air tickets, others have rolled back their salary cuts. Due to such initiatives, workers in most sectors have returned,” Singh said, adding the real estate sector had not seen many workers returning because such initiatives have not been taken. Rajesh Kumar, general secretary of Maruti Suzuki Kamgar Union, said that at least 70% of employees are back. He, however, alleged that several organisations in the city have fired old contractual employees and are hiring new workers as replacements. In the garment industry, however, around 90% of the workforce is now available but there aren’t enough jobs to absorb them because exports are not happening, sources said. “Even though many of the workers are back, there is no demand from markets abroad. There is no shortage of workers, but right now, there is not much work available apart from earlier orders,” said Animesh Saxena, owner of a garment factory. Gama Prasad, who is employed with an apparel house in Gurugram, said that in the absence of work, people are resorting to odd jobs to make a living. “Over 50% workers in the sector are without jobs and there is no sign of recovery in the sector,” he said. The real estate sector, meanwhile, has no shortage of work but not the people who can do those jobs. Praveen Jain, regional director at Naredco, said of the 1.5 lakh workers employed in real estate projects in the city in the pre-lockdown months, only around 25,000 have returned. “With less than 20% labourers on the ground, several projects are on hold,” he said, adding that at this rate, the sector will take a long time to recover. RK Arora, chairman at Supertech group, said construction activity in Gurugram’s real estate projects had picked up momentum in September. “More labourers are returning every day and we expect to carry out construction in full swing soon.” (Additional reporting by Rao Jaswant Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/auto-hub-returns-to-pre-lockdown-gear-gets-back-70-of-its-workers/articleshow/78325554.cms||Shubhra Pant
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||‘Whistle-blower’ Mahoba trader shot self: Cops||LUCKNOW: The 'whistle-blower' Mahoba trader who had accused a suspended IPS officer of graft, had shot himself, say police after a preliminary probe. It was alleged earlier that he was shot at a day after he accused the then Mahoba SP Mani Lal Patidar of seeking bribe. The trader succumbed to injuries later. However, Prayagraj zone ADG, Prem prakash who was probing the case, said that the trader, Indrakant Tripathi, had shot himself as he was under depression. The ADG also said that Patidar’s statement could not be taken as his lawyer submitted that he was suffering from covid-19 virus. Addressing media persons, Prem Prakash, claimed -- on the basis of a ballistic report of Forensic Science Laboratory of Agra, and statements of eye-witnesses -- that the crusher dealer was alone in the car 20 minutes before the time of incident. “On the day of the incident on September 8, Ravindra Srivas and Ankul Prajapati of Baghwakheda had spotted Prajapati in the car alone and informed one Shivpal Yadav about the incident after Tripathi was found injured. Yadav in return informed Satyam and Arjun who reached the spot and took the victim to the hospital while handing over the pistol to one Asharam. Asharam had given the pistol to the victim's wife,” said Prakash. During the fact-finding of the incident by the three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT), all the pistols including those named in the FIR by victim’s brother, Ravi Kant, and his business partners, Balkishore, Purushottam were sent to FSL Agra, where the shell recovered from the car of Tripathi matched with his pistol and the incident took place inside the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/whistle-blower-mahoba-trader-shot-self-cops/articleshow/78325888.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Covid may hit rail travel plans in festive season||Jaipur: The continued spike in Covid-19 cases has disturbed the travel plans of rail passengers for upcoming festival season. Due to limited trains or no trains for many destinations, many people may have to shelve their plans during Navratras, Durga Puja and Diwali.In most of the special trains, either there is no seat vacant or there are a few trains to some of the destinations. Various travel agents are getting queries on different destinations.Though the authorities at the NWR are tight-lipped and are on receiving end when it comes to announce and operate more trains, they stated that during festival season, there might be a few announcements on new trains.“There is no train for Jaipur to Pata, Jaipur to Lucknow, Jaipur to Varanasi, Jaipur to Chennai and other destinations. We are not sure if we will get a nod from the railway board to start trains for these destinations in a scenario where railways is moving in restricted manner,” said a senior officer.For November, especially during Diwali time, the trains like Jodhpur to Howarh, Jaipur to Pyagraj, Mumbai to Jaipur, Jaipur to Howrah, Jaipur to Hyderabad, Jaipur to Mysore and others are giving wait listed tickets.However, authorities at the NWR stated that there is a possibility that from October onwards there could be permission to add more wagons in different trains depending on the availability of berths. “I can’t confirm it now. After we will get final nod from the railway board, we will certainly add coaches or might come up with new trains,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-may-hit-rail-travel-plans-in-festive-season/articleshow/78325027.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||40% staff sacked after technical colleges apply for affiliation||HYDERABAD: At least 40 per cent of faculty members working in technical colleges, including engineering colleges, have lost their jobs since the colleges submitted for affiliation for the academic year 2020-21 in the second week of March. There are about 35,000 faculty members working in technical colleges, of which 14,000 lost their jobs during the lockdown. Faculty members claimed that another 40 per cent of them were not being paid salaries as managements are implementing no work no pay policy and the remaining 20 per cent, who are taking online classes, are being paid a part of their salaries. They said that Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, which grants affiliation to a majority of technical colleges in the state, should conduct physical verification before granting affiliation to colleges for this academic year. “I have been shown as a professor to JNTU and AICTE while submitting for affiliation, but I was dismissed from the job in April for asking the college to pay me as per the University Grants Commission pay scale,” said an English professor working at one of the top engineering colleges located in Nizampet. The professor, who has over 25 years of experience, said that the college terminated the services of several faculty members during the lockdown, violating university orders. Another professor, who was part of the computer science branch at a college in Kompally said that he was asked to leave in June. “Most of those who lost their jobs are PhD holders as they are paid higher salaries than others. Only in our college, more than 15 faculty members have been given the pink slip,” said the professor, who has over 21 years of experience. He added that until June, he was paid only half salaries. The members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association said that affiliation should not be given to colleges without verifying the number of faculty working. “Services of thousands of faculty members have been terminated during the lockdown. If JNTU cannot conduct physical verification, they should at least give edit option to faculty members allowing them to update whether or not they are currently working in the college. If they do this, they will get an idea about how many lost their jobs,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, TTIEA. The managements, meanwhile, said that the colleges should be granted affiliation as soon as possible and physical inspection should be conducted after colleges reopen. “It is true that 30 to 40 per cent of faculty members have either resigned or have been asked to leave during the lockdown. We have even written to AICTE, JNTU, among others asking them to conduct physical verification after colleges reopen and grant affiliation by accepting an undertaking,” said KVK Rao, general secretary, All India Federation of Self Financing Technical Institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-staff-sacked-after-tech-colleges-apply-for-affiliation/articleshow/78323212.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Career opportunities in defence sector set to grow, say experts||HYDERABAD: With more number of aerospace and defence manufacturing, research and development (R&D) units and startups setting up shops in the city, the defence sector has emerged as a lucrative career option for many students. From Defence Research and Development Organisation to Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited, Telangana hosts close to 2,000 aerospace and defence manufacturing units. The strategic sector is poised to bag orders worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the next couple of years, especially with the Centre imposing a ban on imports of 101 weapons, platforms and equipment. With this, career opportunities for engineering and law graduates and those passing out from industrial training institutions are only expected to grow. “Use of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning and cyber warfare is increasing in this sector. Therefore, skillsets specific to aerospace and defence sectors will be valued by the industry,” said Praveen PA, director of aerospace and defence, Government of Telangana, while speaking at a webinar on ‘career opportunities in the armed forces and defence sector’ organised by Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge. The sector also has a larger scope for law graduates as well. “In future, India will be confronted with many legal battles in this emerging field of law. Therefore, there is an urgent need for teachers, lawyers and other stakeholders to equip themselves with aerospace and defence specialization,” said Balakista Reddy, head, Centre for Aerospace and Defence Law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/career-opportunities-in-defence-sector-set-to-grow-say-experts/articleshow/78323230.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||Routine order sparks lockdown rumours||VADODARA: Barodians spent some anxious moments on Friday when rumours of yet another lockdown started doing rounds on social media. The buzz only got stronger after a police notification that bans gathering of more than four persons at any spot went viral on WhatsApp. City police commissioner, R B Brahmbhatt, however, clarified that it is a routine procedure. “This notification issued under section 144 is a routine order. It is imposed not just in the city but across the state and this is being done since years,” Brahmbhatt told TOI. Police said that neither any public places or parks are going to be closed down nor any lockdown is being planned. This prohibitory order is issued regularly to ensure that people don’t gather in large numbers at any place without proper permissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/routine-order-sparks-lockdown-rumours/articleshow/78322255.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Regulation of recovery agents sought by trade body||AHMEDABAD: Citing financial difficulties faced by traders in the wake of the pandemic, traders have sought from the state home department that regulations be imposed on recovery agents deployed by banks. A representation regarding this was made to Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state home, by Gujarat Traders’ Federation on Friday. “Traders are already facing financial difficulties amidst the ongoing pandemic and it has impacted the income of the middle class in a big way. As retail trade is reeling under recession, there must be some regulation on the illegal activities carried out by recovery agents deployed by banks,” mentions the representation. “Most agents deployed by banks for recovery of money availed under personal, automobile or other loans tend to threaten traders and take the law in their hands,” the representation further mentioned. In such circumstances, the trade body has sought that each bank submits a list of their recovery agents at the police station along with criminal records of their employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/regulation-of-recovery-agents-sought-by-trade-body/articleshow/78325032.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: One held for filming, raping women||KANPUR: Police on Thursday arrested a Grahak Sewa Kendra owner who used to pose as a policeman or media person and filmed several women, who came to the jungles of Asalatganj in Rasoolabad area of Kanpur Dehat district for outing with their boyfriends, before threatening, extorting money, blackmailing and raping them. Investigators said that he had raped several women, mainly in jungles of Asalatganj in Rasoolabad, after filming their obscene videos allegedly with their male companions. Police seized a mobile containing many videos and photos of women from the accused, identified as Pramod alias Kallu Yadav of Asalatganj. SP Kanpur Dehat Keshav Kumar Chaudhary, said, “There were inputs that a man, claiming himself to be a policeman, used to harass women, who visit jungles of Asalatganj in Rasoolabad along with their boyfriends.” “Based on inputs, we launched an investigation and zeroed in on one Pramod alias Kallu Yadav of the same area, and who runs a Grahak Sewa Kendra, and arrested him on Thursday. During interrogation, he confessed that he used to shoot intimate videos and photos of women with their boyfriends. Many times, he raped them, besides also snatching their phone and cash, and blackmailing them,” the officer said . A police officer privy to the investigation said that the accused always made sure that his victims were either unmarried couples or such people who were into an illicit relationship. “He had provided inputs regarding three other of his aides. The police are now zeroing on them to make their arrest possible,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-held-for-filming-raping-women/articleshow/78325197.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 68 more deaths, toll breaches 3,000 mark||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 claimed the lives of 68 persons while 1,930 tested positive on Friday. Recovery rate improved to 82.76% as 2,550 more people were discharged. So far, 84,025 patients have recovered. Punjab’s overall death count went up to 3,134 while 1,07,096 people have been infected till date. Of the deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 11 persons died in Amritsar, eight in Hoshiarpur, seven in Ludhiana, six each in Bathinda and Jalandhar, five in Patiala, three each in Fazilka, Mohali, Nawanshahr, Sangrur and two each in Ferozepur, Moga, Muktsar, Ropar and Tarn Taran. One death each was reported in Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Pathankot. High death rate is expected to continue in the days to come as 73 persons in critical condition are on ventilator support. Of these, 16 are new patients while 435 are on oxygen support. Among the fresh cases, seven districts contributed 1,161 cases, accounting for 60.15% of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours. The highest number of 256 cases was reported in Jalandhar followed by 176 in Amritsar, 171 in Ludhiana, 163 in Bathinda, 160 in Mohali, 118 in Patiala and 117 in Pathankot. As many as 95 people were tested positive in Kapurthala, 90 in Muktsar, 86 in Hoshiarpur, 79 in Ferozepur, 73 in Gurdaspur, 67 in Fazilka, 52 in Moga, 41 in Tarn Taran, 38 in Faridkot, 35 in Sangrur, 30 in Mansa, 28 in Nawanshahr, 27 in Ropar, 16 in Fatehgarh Sahib and 12 in Barnala. The health department removed 54 duplicate entries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-68-more-deaths-toll-breaches-3000-mark/articleshow/78325039.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Shimla||Covid test must before going near PM in Manali||MANALI: The Covid-19 test is mandatory for all politicians, officials, and journalists who will interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he opens the Atal tunnel at Rohtang on October 3. They will have to take the test two days before. Same goes for the briefing team and the select journalists invited to the event. Modi will address his first public gathering at Solang near Manali, where the orders are to limit the crowd to below 1,000 for the sake of social distancing. There is no clear testing order for the crowd. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur briefed the reception team in Kullu on Friday. Deputy commissioner Richa Verma issued orders to keep a clear passage between the helipad and the tunnel. She said: "Different committees will enforcing the social distancing and mask rules. People in traditional dress will welcome the PM." The Himachal Pradesh government will livestream the visit across the state and on to large screens in all the district headquarters and major towns. Only four or five VIPs, including defence minister Rajnath Singh and CM Jai Ram Thakur, will share the stage with the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/covid-test-must-before-going-near-pm-in-manali/articleshow/78325074.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Ramp up testing to 5,000 per day, AAP tells government||SALIGAO: AAP have demanded that 5,000 samples be tested for Covid-19 on a daily basis in Goa to enable timely tracing and isolation of patients. “PM Narendra Modi himself has asked state governments to increase testing and tracing. If he can understand it, why does chief minister Pramod Sawant have issues with it? Why can’t he ask health minister Vishwajit Rane to ramp up testing?” Rahul Mhambre, interim convener of AAP-Goa said. The party said a week-on-week trend from July 26 to September 19 has indicated that the average number of tests per day has remained the same while the average number of Covid-19 cases has increased 2.5 times. It also termed the revision of capped rates for Covid treatment in private hospitals a “gimmick”. “Private hospitals are making money by enforcing their own regulations. People have posted videos on social media complaining that private hospitals are imposing a mandatory seven-day stay. These hospitals are also forcing patients to pay Rs 2 lakh before getting admitted. All this is happening under the government’s nose and no action is being taken,” he said. Saligao: AAP have demanded that 5,000 samples be tested for Covid-19 on a daily basis in Goa to enable timely tracing and isolation of patients. “PM Narendra Modi himself has asked state governments to increase testing and tracing. If he can understand it, why does chief minister Pramod Sawant have issues with it? Why can’t he ask health minister Vishwajit Rane to ramp up testing?” Rahul Mhambre, interim convener of AAP-Goa said. The party said a week-on-week trend from July 26 to September 19 has indicated that the average number of tests per day has remained the same while the average number of Covid-19 cases has increased 2.5 times. “If AAP has reached almost 40,000 houses till date under ‘Goans against Corona’ campaign and performed oxygen level checkups, I want to ask Rane why have he has not been able to deliver the promised home isolation oximeter kits. Stop making false promises and start delivering,” Mhambre said. It also termed the revision of capped rates for Covid treatment in private hospitals a “gimmick”. “Private hospitals are making money by enforcing their own regulations. People have posted videos on social media complaining that private hospitals are imposing a mandatory seven-day stay. Daily room charges are as high as Rs 25,000. These hospitals are also forcing patients to pay Rs 2 lakh before getting admitted. All this is happening under the government’s nose and no action is being taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ramp-up-testing-to-5000-per-day-aap-tells-govt/articleshow/78325185.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||App cab refusal on the rise, commuters suffer||Kolkata: There has been a sharp spike in refusal by app cabs while commuters are still paying for cancellation of the trips. Since the past one month, when life started swinging back to normal, operators of app cabs have been refusing passengers just like the metered taxi drivers. Worse, app-cab drivers refuse to cancel trips, forcing passengers to cancel it after a long wait to book the next cab. “For me, refusal by app-cab drivers has become a regular affair. While going to office, I face this problem several times. They first ask me about my destination. If I don’t say, they will not move from where they are. If I tell them my destination, they refuse readily and then ask me to cancel the trip. Once I cancel the trip, the online cab aggregator imposes a penalty of Rs 20, which is supposed to go to the cabbie’s account,” said Mainak Dasgupta, a conservation architect who travels daily from his New Alipore residence to his office in New Town. “This is a new trend after the Covid-19 restrictions were imposed. Earlier, the app-cab drivers never asked for destinations. But now they insist on it and refuse if the destination is not of their choice,” said Sukanya Ghosh, a bank official. In case of refusal, the aggregator imposes a penalty of Rs 20. But if refusals are too recurrent, the cab service is downgraded and it will not get passengers any more. To avoid that, the drivers just stop interacting with the passenger and wait for the him/her to cancel the ride to evade the penalty. A passenger, desperate to catch a cab, has to cancel the ride to book another ride. Barun Sarkar, an app-cab operator, said, “It is due to the diesel price hike and rise in operation cost. Ïf I accept every trip, I will be grappling with heavy loss.” Online Cab Operators Association’s secretary Indranil Banerjee said, “They are rogue operators. There is no room for refusal in the app-cab segment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-cab-refusal-on-the-rise-commuters-suffer/articleshow/78325084.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Tahsildar booked for misconduct||Hyderabad: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths have registered a criminal misconduct case against jailed tahsildar EB Nagaraju for illegally issuing passbooks to four people pertaining to 24 acres of land worth about Rs 48 crore in Rampally village in Medchal district. Based on an inquiry report of the vigilance & enforcement department pertaining to the offence of criminal misconduct, criminal conspiracy and abuse of official position by Nagaraju, causing pecuniary gain by corrupt and illegal means to K Dharma Reddy, a farmer from Rampally, and others, ACB has registered a case of criminal misconduct against Nagaraju and others under the PC Act and the IPC as per the directions of the government. According to ACB, despite knowing that succession proceedings furnished by Dharma Reddy and others claiming to be owners of 24 acres and 16 guntas land in Rampally village of Keesara mandal were fake, Nagaraju digitally signed issuance of passbooks for the land. “The appeal about the land was pending before Keesara RDO. Despite knowing that, Nagaraju on July 9, 2020, digitally signed for issuance of new passbooks in favour of K Laxmamma, K Buchi Reddy, K Manemma and K Dharma Reddy for 24 acres and 16 guntas land whose market value is Rs 48.8 crore,” an ACB official said. After registering the case, ACB officers have started conducting searches at the houses of Nagaraju and other accused. A few weeks ago, Nagaraju along with village revenue assistant Sairaj, two realtors Ch Srinath Yadav and K Anji Reddy were arrested by ACB in the Rs 1.1 crore bribery case related to another parcel of land in Rampally village. ACB officials said K Dharma Reddy is a relative of K Anji Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tahsildar-booked-for-misconduct/articleshow/78323249.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-hit NMC seeks Rs 500cr aid from govt||Nagpur: The financially bruised Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sought Rs500 crore financial assistance from the state government to meet committed expenses.Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke told TOI that the NMC’s financial condition is deteriorating with each passing day due to Covid-induced lockdown and the resultant drastic fall in revenue. “The civic body’s monthly committed expenditure is around Rs115 crore, whereas its revenue from its own sources is negligible,” he pointed out. The NMC could meet the committed expenditure only with the increased GST grant of Rs100 crore, which was hiked from Rs93.50 crore, he said.“As the state’s second capital, the city should be given a special grant of Rs500 crore, which will not only help in taking up development works but will also help strengthen medical infrastructure to combat Covid-19,” Zalke stated in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday.Zalke also said the NMC’s main source of revenue is property tax from which it has generated a meagre amount of Rs78 crore so far. The current year’s property tax target set by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was Rs289 crore. Income from other sources, including Rs44 crore as water tax, too was very poor, he said. In this situation, we would not be able to take up any new work, he said.Senior officials in NMC’s accounts and financial department admitted to losses due to the pandemic, but refused to share data.Civic officials said every year, maximum amount of property tax is collected between April and June (first quarter of the financial year) because of a special 4% rebate offered by the NMC.But, the authorities confirmed that collection in these three months was “very less” due to Covid-19 crisis. Generally, maximum share of property tax is collected either in the first quarter (April-June) or in the last quarter (January-March) due to people’s attitude of either pay early or wait till the last month.The tax collection remained minimal in the first quarter this year because of the lockdown. Due to the crisis, even Mundhe had predicted a huge shortfall in NMC’s revenues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-hit-nmc-seeks-rs-500cr-aid-from-govt/articleshow/78322078.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 26, 2020||Kanpur||Farmers, led by BKU, protest against farm bill||KANPUR: Several farmers led by Bhartiya Kisan Union protested against Agriculture Bill in the city, Kanpur dehat and neighbouring towns including Fatehpur, Banda-Chitrakoot, Aurriya and Etawah, Farrukhabad and Kannuaj on Friday. In the the city, leaders and workers of Kisan Congress reached Vikas Bhawan in Geeta Nagar and handed over a memorandum to the chief development officer. They raised slogans against the Farm Bills. In Unnao, a massive protest was held while in Jalaun, several farmers led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) blocked highway. Heavy police force was deployed in the area to avert any untoward incident. In Kanpur Dehat, farmers staged a protest outside Mati collectorate and raised slogan agaisnt the Farm bills. In Farrukhabad’s Nawabganj block premises, BKU leader Arvind Shakya, along with the farmers, protested against the bill and demanded the government to roll back the bill. Similar protest was held at Gursahaiganj in Kannuaj. A protest march, led by BKU leader Shamim Siddiqui, was taken out by the farmers. In Aurriya, agistating farmers gathered at district collectorate. They termed the bill as anti-farmer and submitted a memorandum, addressed to President Ramnath Kovind, to the SDM. Similar protest was held in Etawah also. Samajwadi Pary, Congress and Kisan Sabha workers along also protested against the bill and termed the BJP led government in the Centre as anti-farmer. BKU leaders handed over a memorandum to SDM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/farmers-led-by-bku-protest-against-farm-bill/articleshow/78325218.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||BTP accuses Congress & BJP for violence||Jaipur: The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) on Friday held both the Congress and the BJP responsible for the incidence of violence over teacher’s recruitment lasting for the two days at Bicchiwada tehsil of Dungarpur. The tribal party says that Congress has betrayed the promise of filling 1137 vacant teaching jobs by tribal youths while accusing BJP of safeguarding the interest of non-tribal communities. Reacting strongly on the police action, Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP says that alliance between them and the Congress has lived its life. “The ruling party repeatedly deceiving us and they have taken the relations to the level of beyond repair. This demand has been listed on the top of our 17 demands assured by the Congress during the Rajya Sabha polls and re-assured while seeking support during the political crises,” said Ghogra. The violent clashes between the police and tribal youths started on Thursday afternoon. The tribal party didn’t minced words to attack tribal BJP leaders of working for oppressors. “BJP MP Kanakmal Katara has always taken side of non-tribal communities at the cost of the tribal. We have no expectation from him,” said Ghogra. The tribal youths were demanding the vacant post meant for the general class to be filled by them since no general category person has qualified REET. BJP chose to stay away from the controversy. Its senior leaders including the BJP state president Satish Poonia and leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria spoke to DGP Bhupendra Yadav. Dungarpur MP Kanakmal Katara initially refused to know anything about the incident citing he busy in the monsoon session in parliament. He opened up only to blame BTP behind the protest by students atop Kakri Doongri. He also refused to answer whether the demand raised by the tribal youth are valid or not. “Everyone has to look into the matter as everyone has stakes in the matter,” said Katara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-accuses-congress-bjp-for-violence/articleshow/78325068.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for posting pics on social media with weapons||Jaipur: Bhilwara police arrested two persons who had posted their photographs with weapons on social media. Of them, one was in regular touch with Lawrence Bishnoi and cops also recovered weapons from them.The accused were identified as Rahul Kumawat, 27, and Kartik Vyas, 30. The former was in regular touch with Bishnoi, claimed officials. Cops recovered two pistols, one country-made weapon and four cartridges.Bhilwara SP Preeti Chandra said, “The two persons had posted their photographs with weapons on various social media platforms. On their mobile phones also we found photographs of weapons and also came to know that Kumawat was in touch with Bishnoi.” The accused were arrested after cyber sleuths found their pictures doing rounds on social media platforms. The duo has been booked under various IPC sections and Arms Act. Police also seized an SUV from them.Less than two months ago, Bhilwara police recovered firearms from four accused while they were on their way to Haryana. The accused were reportedly from Bishnoi’s gang. Police are also looking into the fact that Bishnoi is still operating from jail and has ordered numerous killings in the past as well while being imprisoned. In one of the biggest seizures in Bhilwara, cops recovered 20 automatic pistols and 37 magazines, which the accused had acquired from Madhya Pradesh and were taking to Hisar in Haryana.Earlier this month, Bikaner police arrested two members associated with the gang. Both were in possession of a loaded pistol and two magazines. However, their third accomplice, also a notorious gangster from Haryana, managed to flee. According to officials, they managed to foil an attempt to murder bid. The notorious gangster Bishnoi is facing more than 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under Arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-posting-pics-on-social-media-with-weapons/articleshow/78325080.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||2,024 cases, 18 deaths on Friday in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana on Friday registered 2,024 Covid-19 positive cases and 18 news deaths. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has reached 1,20,578 and the total number of deaths in the state has reached 1,273. As far as sampling is concerned, 18,033,27 persons have been tested in the state. While 1,012,73 persons in the state have been discharged after treatment, 18,032 cases are currently active. With this, the recovery rate in the state is 83.99% and the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state has reached 28 days. As many as 322 persons in the state are currently on oxygen support and 53 are on ventilators. Highest numbers of 279 cases were reported from Gurgaon district on Friday, closely followed by 221 in Faridabad district and 186 from Sonepat district. Other districts that recorded a significant number of Covid-19 cases included Hisar (155), Kurukshetra (131), Panchkula (121), Rewari (117), Ambala (90), Jind (82), Sirsa (82), Panipat (80) and Rohtak (79) cases. Haryana Covid-19 status till Friday evening Positive | 1,20,578 Discharged | 1,01,273 Active | 18,032 Deaths | 1,273||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2024-cases-18-deaths-on-friday-in-hry/articleshow/78325057.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh to launch 1,250-bed super-specialty cancer hospital in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Lucknow’s newest super-specialty 1,250-bed cancer institute and a flyover will be inaugurated by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh. CM Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced that Singh, who is also the MP from Lucknow, will be inaugurating the two projects shortly in the presence of public representatives. While reviewing development works taking place in Lucknow division, comprising Lucknow, Hardoi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Rae Bareli, Sitapur and Unnao, the CM said that all projects should be completed within a fixed time frame. The CM said that Covid situation requires that all precautions and protective measures remain in place, especially as Lucknow has consistently for the past several weeks been recording the highest number of cases. He said testing should be done on war-footing, with effort to keep Covid positivity rate lower than 4% and death rate at below 1%. He said that his government was committed to bringing the Tharu tribe of Lakhimpur into the mainstream. He said that the sewerage and drinking water schemes should be implemented with a proper plan in place. The CM added that paddy purchase centres were going to be made operational from October 1, 2020 and that all arrangements should be made keeping in mind the social distancing norms due to Covid-19 and that officials should ensure that the purchase prices is not less than the minimum support price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajnath-to-launch-1250-bed-super-specialty-cancer-hosp/articleshow/78325906.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Kids, elderly citizens least affected among age groups||LUCKNOW: As the city’s caseload crossed the 50,000-mark on Friday, the age-wise analysis of cases reported since the outbreak shows that children below the age of 10 years have been least affected by the novel coronavirus infection. Of the total, kids accounted for 4% (1,899) of the cases thus far. Experts believe this could be because children in this age group are less exposed to the virus because of no school and little or no outdoor activity. It was also found that children in this age range who got infected had mild or no symptoms. Similarly, patients aged 60 years or above accounted for just 10% (5,029) of the total cases. “Even if children in this age group are getting affected, their symptoms are minimal and they are recovering at a much better pace. There is hardly any hospitalisation and mortality either,” said KGMU Covid in charge Dr D Himanshu. “Similarly, the elderly have also been mostly staying indoors, but not as strictly as kids, hence their positivity rate is high. Also, due to co-morbid conditions, mortality in this age group is high,” he added. The data reaffirmed that the most mobile age group of 21-40 years is the most affected. It constituted close to 47% (23,693) of the caseload. It was followed by the 41-60 years age group with 31% (15,625) patients. This group is also involved in outdoor work and has comorbidities. Senior district health officers said people in the 21-40 years age range comprise youngsters who are moving out with ‘overconfidence’ about their immunity. It also includes daily wagers. The 41-60 age group also comprises the working class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kids-elderly-citizens-least-affected-among-age-groups/articleshow/78325938.cms||Yusra Husain
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Climate protesters strike, place 1,200 shoes at Osmansagar||HYDERABAD: Shoes replaced people at a protest for ‘climate justice’ in the city on Friday. The global shoe strike – with 1,400 such protests taking place across the world – saw active participation from locals. Planned in light of the Covid-19 crisis and safety protocols, the protest is meant to draw the government’s attention on pressing environmental concerns. With notes such as “Wake up! Take action now” and “Climate change is worse than homework”, 1,200 shoes were placed at the lakebed of Osmansagar on Friday. The shoe strike has been inspired by climate change activist Greta Thunberg. The strikes have been planned across 130 countries with more than seven million people participating. In the city, the strike was led by Fridays for Future Hyderabad (FFFH), an initiative of the city’s youth. After the strike, the shoes were donated to under-served people through an NGO. Protesters said they were striking to save the ecosystems of lakes and forests. Environmental activist Kaajal Maheshwari said: “We have to preserve the protective function of lakes and forests. These are functions that support life-sustaining resources such as air, water and food chain. ” Vanita Khatter of Citizens for Hyderabad said: “We have received more than 1,200 shoes with messages to protect the environment. Shoes have been collected from citizens across the city and represent people of all ages from toddlers to grandmoms, migrant workers to tribals. A shoe strike is our way of saying that though we are in a pandemic, we need to raise our voices for the climate emergency.” 17-year-old Nishat Anaira of FFFH said: “In the name of urban development we are following a faulty model. A Tollywood actor had donated Rs 2 crore to convert over 1,600-acre of Khazipally reserve forest near Hyderabad into an urban forest park. The state is now inviting other industrialists and celebs to adopt other reserve forests. Now the question is - “Why are dense forests being exploited in the name of development and beautification?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/climate-protesters-strike-place-1200-shoes-at-osmansagar/articleshow/78323269.cms||Uttara Varma
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Cong manifesto committee reviews department-wise progress||Jaipur: The Congress public manifesto implementation committee held its meeting under the chairmanship of Tamradhwaj Sahu at the residence of chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday. PCC chief and school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, cabinet minister BD Kalla, Harish Chaudhary, Mamata Bhupesh and Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Punjab MP Amar Singh, who is member of the committee, were present at the meeting.Sources said the committee made a department-wise review of the progress made on the Congress manifesto promises met so far. Chairman Sahu and member Singh expressed satisfaction over the progress but emphasised that the achievements be highlighted among the people by taking the party workers into confidence, said sources. During the political crisis in July-August in Rajasthan, the dissident Sachin Pilot camp had alleged that the Gehlot-government was ignoring the promises made in the Congress manifesto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-manifesto-committee-reviews-department-wise-progress/articleshow/78325093.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Stay on govt move to fix charges for non-Covid patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday granted a stay to operation of ‘paragraph 4’ of its May 21 notification that deals with fixing charges for non-Covid treatment for 20% of beds in all hospitals and nursing homes across Maharashtra (50% beds for Mumbai Metropolitan Region).While adjourning the hearing till September 29, the division bench of justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala directed assistant government pleader Anand Deshpande to argue the case on merits.The directives came while hearing petitions by Dr Pradeep Arora, a paediatrician who runs a nursing home, and the Vidarbha Hospital Association. Many other hospitals had also individually challenged the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) notices in HC.The May 21 notification fixed rates for treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients in hospitals, nursing homes and clinics across the state. The government had warned these establishments against charging over the fixed rates.Pointing out that the government has filed an application to transfer the case to the Chief Justice’s court at the principal bench in Mumbai, the judges asked Anand to explain the need for issuing such a notification.Earlier, Anand argued that he had explained the government's intention behind notification where it was vested with powers under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.In the last hearing, the HC bench had asked the government to inform on its competency to prescribe rates for non-Covid patients as specified in notification. The judges also warned that if it failed to reply, it would stay notification.Along with amicus curiae Subodh Dharmadhikari and Deven Chauhan, Dr Arora, who pleaded in person, pointed out that the government is neither competent nor have the authority to fix rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals.The petitioners had challenged Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) notices to private hospitals over alleged over-charging of fees from Covid-19 patients. Questioning the legality of NMC’s move, they had termed it as “gross abuse and misuse of powers” by civic officials.Welcoming the decision, VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat said, “We are putting our lives at risk more than anyone else and in return we just want that we should be granted the benefit of rule of law.”Adding that doctors are committed to serve patients with diligence and dedication, Dr Arora said, “Too much of regulations only detracts us from applying ourselves fully in serving patients. If the doctors are fighting all the time against illegal impositions on them, it is a very unfortunate scenario.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stay-on-govt-move-to-fix-charges-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78322087.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 26, 2020||Shimla||293 positive cases take Himachal tally to over 13,000||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported seven Covid-19 deaths and 293 positive cases on Friday while 294 positive patients recovered. The seven deaths reported in the state include two deaths each from Solan and Shimla districts and one each from Chamba, Hamirpur and Sirmaur districts. The state now has 13,679 positive cases, of which 3,976 are active, 9,528 patients have recovered, 152 have died while 18 have migrated out of the state. Positive cases reported include 16 from Bilaspur district, seven from Chamba, 15 from Hamirpur, 57 from Kangra, nine each from Kinnaur and Kullu districts, two from Lahaul-Spiti district, 34 from Mandi, 36 from Shimla, 48 from Sirmaur, 26 from Solan and 34 from Una district. Those recovered include 16 from Bilaspur district, 12 from Chamba, 21 from Hamirpur, 30 from Kangra, 10 from Kinnaur, 27 from Kullu, 69 from Shimla, 72 from Sirmaur and 37 from Una. Bilaspur district has a total of 740 positive cases of which 245 are active, 494 have recovered while one person has died; Chamba district has 787 positive cases, of which 120 are active, 656 have recovered, nine persons have died while one person has migrated out of the state. In Hamirpur, there are 859 positive cases of which 128 persons are active, 724 have recovered while seven persons have died; Kangra district has 2,036 positive cases of which 510 are active, 1,489 have recovered while 37 have died. Kinnaur district has 181 positive cases of which 51 are active, 129 have recovered while one has died. In Kullu, there are 554 positive cases, of which 175 are active, 372 have recovered while five persons have died. Lahaul-Spiti has 133 positive cases of which 112 cases are active while 21 have recovered. Mandi district has 1,555 positive cases, of which 679 are active, 856 have recovered and 20 have died. Shimla district has 1,107 positive cases, of which 442 are active, 631 have recovered, 26 persons have died while six persons have migrated out of the state; Sirmaur district has 1,718 positive cases of which 323 are active, 1,384 have recovered while 11 persons have died. In Solan district, there are 2,806 positive cases of which 841 cases are active, 1,929 have recovered, 25 have died while 11 have migrated out of state. Una has 1,203 positive cases with 350 active, 843 persons have recovered and 10 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/293-positive-cases-take-himachal-tally-to-over-13000/articleshow/78325081.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers protest against agri bills across state||Jaipur: Farmers across the state on Friday participated in the nationwide protest against the three contentious agricultural legislations passed in both the houses of the Parliament.The maximum impact of these protests was seen in Hanumangarh and Sri Ganganagar districts bordering Punjab, while in the rest of the state the protest was symbolic.Thousands of farmers under the banner of CPI and farmers association held protest rallies in all the assembly constituencies of Hanumangarh and Sri Ganganagar districts. The farmers took a pledge to continue their opposition until the bills are dropped by the central government.The protesting farmers holding banners and raising slogans ‘Kala kanoon wapas lo’ gathered at a commonplace in these constituencies. They were addressed by local leaders who told them about the dangers of the farm bills followed by a march to build consensus on the subject.Balwan Poonia, CPI (M) MLA from Bhadra, led the protest from his constituency. He asked farmers to be ready for a ‘long fight with a fascist regime in Delhi’. “The bills are part of a larger conspiracy to make farmers irrelevant in political, social and economic space of the country. By these bills, they will end the MSP, making way for the corporates to make money by exploiting farmers. Our party will oppose it till they roll it back,” Poonia said.In both the districts, farmers attempted to block the highway, but police prevented them for doing it for long. The protest started at 10am and ended at 4pm with a resolution to burn the copies of the bill on September 27.While in other districts, farmers submitted a memorandum to the district collector raising objections against the bills. In Jaipur, a symbolic protest was marked at Amar Jawan Jyoti by farmers and rights group. Even smaller political parties in the state have opened a front against the central government.Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti convenor Sanjay Madhav in Jaipur said that farmers have woken up against the regime which is on a spree to kill all institutions in the country. “The anti-farmer regime is misusing constitutional means to demolish farmers in the country to keep a few corporates happy,” said Madhav. Similarly, protests took place in Sikar, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Pali, Barmer, Baran, Kota and Jhunjhunu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-protest-against-agri-bills-across-state/articleshow/78325088.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 143 cr approved for free wheat and Aadhaar seeding||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday approved an additional allocation of Rs 132.43 crore for free distribution of wheat to all the beneficiaries under the National Food Security Scheme(NFSS), to fulfill the goal of ‘nobody goes hungry’ in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and Rs 11.10 crore for Aadhaar seeding.The amount will be used to purchase wheat from Food Corporation of India and to make payment to FCI for wheat procured for free distribution to the beneficiaries under the Food Security Scheme from July 2020 to November 2020. A release from the CMO said Rs 100.35 crore out of the sanctioned amount will be payable from the Chief Minister’s Covid Relief Fund.The chief minister has also approved an additional budget provision of Rs 11.10 crore for Aadhaar seeding and e-KYC with ration cards of all the beneficiaries of the food security scheme under ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’. This seeding work is to be done by the Booth Level Officers (BLO).Under Aadhaar seeding, the ration card and Aadhaar number of all beneficiaries will have to be validated along with the work of removing names from the list of beneficiaries by investigating the cases of marriage, migration and death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-143-cr-approved-for-free-wheat-and-aadhaar-seeding/articleshow/78325086.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||New Covid-19 cases and fatalities lowest in Vidarbha in last 15 days||Nagpur: For the first time in the month after September 6, Vidarbha region reported less than 2,500 new cases of Covid-19 in a day on Friday. Total 2,356 new cases were reported on Friday.The region had reported 2,189 cases on September 6. Since then, the number of daily cases has been more than 2500 a day, and most of the times more than 3,000 a day.Total Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha reached 1,36,123 on Friday. Nagpur, for the first time in September, reported three-figure increase in the number of patients at 971. It was followed by Gondia (308), Amravati (217), Chandrapur (202), Buldhana (151), Wardha (118), Bhandara (94), Gadchiroli (85), Akola (80), Yavatmal (78), and Washim (52).Deaths due to Covid-19 also reduced on Friday. Total 74 deaths were reported in a day. This number is lowest since September 9. Nagpur reported 41 deaths, followed by 5 each in Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Washim, 4 each in Wardha and Akola, 3 each in Gondia and Amravati, and 2 each in Buldhana and Bhandara. Total Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha surged 3632, with 2043 of them coming into 25 days of September only. Though, deaths were less, the case fatality rate of the region continued to be around 2.7%. For the second day in a row, number of recovered patients was significantly more than number of new cases. Total 2,740 patients recovered in a day, taking number of recovered patients just 2 short of 1 lakh. Nagpur reported highest 1,318 recoveries followed by Amravati (313), Gondia (303), Akola (191), Chandrapur (142), Washim (124), Buldhana (121), Bhandara (84), Wardha (65), Gadchiroli (62), and Yavatmal (17). The recovery rate of Vidarbha increased up to 73.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-covid-19-cases-and-fatalities-lowest-in-vidarbha-in-last-15-days/articleshow/78322092.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Climate change made us join cause: Protesters||HYDERABAD: Several people who participated in Friday’s shoe strike spoke of their experiences with climate change and environmental degradation that motivated them to join the battle for climate justice. Karhtik Reddy, a resident of Gandipet, said, “Hyderabad is known as the city of lakes. But everywhere you see these lakes are being encroached and filled up in the name of development, even in our backyard. The natural forest in the area has seen a huge reduction in tree cover at the hands of private players. This is a loss for each one of us and I am here in protest.” Venkat Naresh, a bird watcher, says he has seen a dramatic decline in migratory birds at the Osmansagar over the years, which was the reason he joined Friday’s strike. “Owing to the reduction in water at the reservoir and rise in ambient air pollution, the number of birds here have reduced. In 2013-2014, I photographed about 500 to 700 flamingos in this season, now there are not even 50. Similarly, with pelicans, I would easily sight 200, now there are about five to 10.” A resident of Banjara Hills, Sriparna Dash, said she moved to the city in 2003 and has since seen a massive change in its landscape. “Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills were full of green stretches, but then the construction boom took hold. While we understand that development is necessary, this can be sustainable. Building and trees are equally important. We are at a point where we can make a difference, so I wanted to speak up for our kids’ future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/climate-change-made-us-join-cause-protesters/articleshow/78323257.cms||Uttara Varma
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||86 tribals held for protesting over quota||Hyderabad: The city police on Friday took as many as 86 tribal people into preventive custody for staging a protest at Pragathi Bhavan without prior permission. According to the police, 86 members of the Lambadi Ikya Vedika gathered near the Pragathi Bhavan at around 11.30 am and staged a protest, violating the guidelines promulgated by the government in view of Covid-19. The group obstructed the road and raised slogans against the state government. “They demanded increase of ST quota from the existing 6% to 12%. All the 86 people were taken into preventive custody and later let off,” said Punjagutta inspector M Niranjan Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/86-tribals-held-for-protesting-over-quota/articleshow/78323281.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Grain mandis remain open in Kota, Bundi & Jhalawar||Kota: Farmers and agricultural organizations under the aegis of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti led a vehicle rally in Kota city, protesting against the new farm bills. They submitted a memorandum in the name of the President to the sub-division magistrate in Kota, demanding to revoke the new bills, terming them to be destructive, anti-farmer and anti-agriculture. Despite the nationwide call for bandh, the markets and grain mandis in Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts of Hadauti remained open. However, shops in markets and grain mandis at a few places in the region remained closed. Raising slogans against the new bills, a large number of representatives of various farmers’ organizations and their workers assembled at Chawani Circle in Kota on Friday and led a motorbike rally through Gumanpura, Nayapura to collector’s office where they submitted a memorandum to the SDM in the name of the President, demanding to revoke the newly introduced bills. The newly introduced bills will certainly enslave the farmers and professionals associated with farming and agriculture to the corporate business families and would destroy farming and agriculture in the country, said Dhulichand Bordha, state vice president of Kisan Sabha. The new bills will facilitate corporate houses in buying agricultural produce at their own, wilful lower prices and following their storage, they would sell the produce at higher prices, said Fatehchand Bagla, convener of the Sangharsh Samiti. The farmers’ organizations, backed by various other working and civil forums, will continue to stir against the bills until they are scrapped, he added. Despite the call for Bharat Bandh on Friday, markets, shops and grain mandis in most of the areas across Hadauti region remained open and functioned unaffected. However, markets remained completely closed in Kundanpur village of Sangod area of Kota district. Partial bandh was also reported in Sultanpur, Ramganjmandi, Itawa areas of Kota district, in Mangrole area of Baran district and Bhawanimandi of Jhalawar district. Markets, shops and grain mandis remained open across Kota district. However, bandh was observed at a few places like Kundanpur in Sangod area and partially in Ramganjmandi of the district, said ASP, Kota rural, Paras Jain. Markets remained open and functional in Baran and no protests were witnessed here, said a farmer of Nahargarh area of Baran district. The representatives of labour unions also staged a dharna outside grain mandis at a few places in Hadauti and lodged protest against the bills. At a few places, they burnt the effigy of PM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/grain-mandis-remain-open-in-kota-bundi-jhalawar/articleshow/78325114.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Institutional deliveries see steep drop in Telangana amid pandemic||HYDERABAD: Even as the state struggled to contain the spread of Covid-19 since its onset, 2,50,055 babies were born between March and August this year — 1,30,655 deliveries took place at government hospitals and 1,11,278 in private facilities; 60,354 C section procedures were performed. As per data available with TOI, there has been a decrease in the number of deliveries compared to last year’s figures in the corresponding period. Last year, 2,81,768 babies were born in the period. So why did child births drop by over 31,700 this year? While the exact reasons are not immediately clear, health experts fear families may have chosen to conduct the deliveries at home or with the help of local midwives. “We cannot say anything on this, but couples are worried about starting a family now. We have completely stopped our infertility treatment wing during the pandemic,” Dr Mahalakshmi, Gynaecology wing head at Gandhi Hospital said. Dr Pramila Sekhar, senior Gynaecology consultant with Apollo Hospital said that many young couples have been postponing their pregnancies. “There is fear among young couples. They are opting for more family planning measures. Those who were already pregnant have a lot of concerns like they don’t want to deliver where even a single Covid-19 patient has been admitted,” she said. “During the pandemic, pregnant woman not only worry about their health but their babies’ health situation too. The fear of getting infected is high,” Dr Rubina Farooq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/institutional-deliveries-see-steep-drop-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78325141.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||PM Modi rejecting own report on MSP: Congress||JAIPUR: Supporting farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh against the three farm bills passed by Parliament, the Congress on Friday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was rejecting his own recommendation given to the Government of India when he was the Gujarat chief minister about protecting farmers’ interests by ‘mandating’ for minimum support price (MSP) through ‘statutory provisions’. Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said if the Modi government can guarantee MSP by mandating for it in the three recently passed farms bills, the famers would call off their stir. “Why is PM Modi not accepting CM Modi’s report sent to the GoI and not including MSP in the three farm bills,” Surjewala asked, while reading out from the report, which he called a “sensational expose” on the Modi government during a press conference here. “This is the worst kind of political dishonesty,” Surjewala added. He did not specify the date when Modi sent this “Report of Working Group on Consumer Affairs” to GoI. The Congress leader claimed that the farms bills were a “disgusting conspiracy” against the “kisan, khet aur khalihan (farmers, farms and barns)” by the Centre. “This government is attacking the three basic features of our Green Revolution launched in 1965-66—a government system to buy crops, MSP and ration shops,” said Surjewala. He added, “The FCI, which finds it hard to buy crops from 43,000 existing mandis, will it go to farms of 15.5-cr farmers to buy at MSP when there would be no mandis?” The Congressman said shutting mandis will deprive livelihood to different categories of crores of labourers. Surjewala accused PM Modi of misleading the nation on the farm bills. “As per the agriculture census of 2015-16, 86.2% farmers are owners of less than 5-acre land; of these 80% farmers have just 2-acre land. Can these farmers with small landholdings afford to travel across the country to sell their produce?” he said. Surjewala alleged, “Modi ji swears by farmers but stays true to his friendship with crony capitalist friends.” Earlier, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the Centre government that fell back on its written agreement with the states about sharing GST cannot be trusted on its verbal promises to farmers. “Ever since it came to power, the NDA government has been taking unilateral decisions, be it notebandi or lockdown or the farm bills. No farmer organisations or their representatives were consulted on these bills, which will destroy the agriculture system that has been built in 40-50 years,” Gehlot said. Chhattisgarh cabinet minister TS Singh Deo said the Modi-government was attacking the country’s federal structure by framing laws on agriculture, which was a state subject. Surjewala said the Modi-government has held the parliament ‘captive’. “There is attack in the country by the coronavirus, on the borders by China and in the barns by Modi ji,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-modi-rejecting-own-report-on-msp-congress/articleshow/78325103.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||8 new Eklavya schools to be set up in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The central government has approved eight Eklavya residential schools in the state. Additional chief secretary, tribal area development (TAD) department, Rajeshwar Singh said the Union ministry of tribal development has approved the opening of eight new Eklavya Model Residential Schools in the state in the year 2020-21. He said 15 acres have been allotted by TAD department for the purpose. The Centre has appointed the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) as the executive nodal agency for construction of the buildings Singh said these new residential schools will be set up at Jotana village of Jhadol town in Udaipur district, Kuna of Lassadia, Pram Nagar in Sulumbar, village Parkhelaunder Garhi town of Banswara district, Surajgaon in Sangwara and Panchaguda and Aranod blocks under Dhariaward block in Pratapgarh district. He informed that construction of four Eklavya Model Residential Schools in Jaipur, Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswara districts and one Eklavya Model Day Boarding School in Pratapgarh district is in progress and construction is expected to be completed by December. The additional chief secretary informed that 21 Eklavya Model Residential Schools, 13 residential schools, 2 model public residential schools, 13 sports hostels, 7 college hostels, 6 girls multipurpose hostels and 372 ashram hostels are already operational. With the construction and operation of these new schools, qualitative improvement and change in educational, cultural, social and economic scenario of tribal areas will be visible and educated students in these institutions will get the opportunity of higher education and employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-new-eklavya-schools-to-be-set-up-in-state/articleshow/78325101.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Demonstration by LDF in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The workers and employees’ action committee affiliated to the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Friday staged a demonstration in front of the district collectorate demanding the withdrawal of the farm bills. They also submitted a memorandum to President of India Ramnath Kovind through the district collector. Senior CPI leader Ram Baheti said: “We have drawn the President’s attention to the fact that 260 different farmers’ outfits were opposing the bills.” Lawyer-activist Abhay Taksal said the bills were approved without any discussion. “Instead of sending them to the expert committee, the decisions were taken at the cost of parliamentary traditions. The government intends to destroy the market committees for the benefit of corporates.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/demonstration-by-ldf-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78321108.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Jhalawar minor girl reunited with family after nine years||KOTA: A 15-year-old girl, who at the age of six had unknowingly boarded a goods train from a railway station near her village Budenpur under Bhawanimandi police station of Jhalawar district on May 13 2011, was on Thursday reunited with her family after 9 years. The girl had travelled by the train far ahead and reached Haryana where she was rescued in Jhajjar district after some days and since then she had been living in a children shelter home while studying in school. In view of sound school record with higher percentage, bright performance and poor background of the family, Jhalawar rural police decided to afford education expenses of the girl who is now in class 10. Two minor sisters — Seema (8) and Krishana (6) — daughters of Madan Banjara and their cousin Dilip (8), son of Ram Singh Banjara, residents of Budenpura village under Bahawanimandi police station of Jhalawar district, had unknowingly boarded a goods train from a railway station on May 13, 2011, Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Sidhu said. Seema was rescued from Guna in MP on May 23, 2011 and the boy returned home two days later on May 25. But Krishana had been missing since then and had travelled to Delhi and to Jhajjar district in Haryana where she was rescued and sent to children shelter home where she had been living and studying since then, Kang said. The girl was aware only of the name of her village ‘Budenpur’ and not of the district Jhalawar, Bhawanimandi police station inspector Mahaveer Singh Yadav said. Around a week ago, a message and detail on missing minor girl from Budenpur was received from Dungerpur district police on social media platforms of police who searched missing children, he said. Following initial inquiry, the parents of missing minor girl were contacted and an interaction between parents and the minor girl in children shelter home in Jhajjar was held through video calling during which the siblings recognized one another, he said. Following verification of details, a police team brought the girl from Jhajjar on Wednesday and she was handed over to her parents on Friday, Kang said. Since the rescued girl has performed outstanding in her school studies, her teachers in Jhajjar were not ready to leave her and were very concerned of her further studies. One of her teachers even cried for her studies as they feared she would not be able to continue her studies with the same rhythm at her home because of poor family background. “Because of this, Jhalawar rural police has decided foot education expenses of the girl as long as he studies,” the SP said. “We never expected that our daughter would be back to home, we are very thankful to police that it has reunited the daughter to the family,” Krishana’s father Madan Banjara said. Krishana said, “I want to be an IAS officer and I am keen to work to make society tobacco-free.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girl-reunited-with-family-after-9-years/articleshow/78325117.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||HC seeks explanation on non-compliance of order||Aurangabad: Displeased over non-compliance of its orders related to release of prisoners on emergency parole in view of the government’s notification, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the jail superintendent of Aurangabad to remain present before the court on Monday (September 28) at 10.30 am for an explanation. The jail superintendent, who has now been transferred, will also have to talk about steps taken by him for compliance of the general order made by the court on August 25, 2020. The bench comprising justices T V Nalawade and M G Swelikar also ordered that “we are hereby giving directions to the respondents (jail authorities) to see that the applications of the prisoners are decided within 15 days from the date of receipt of this order.’’ Two convicts — Kale Khan Pathan and Ramesh Nathbhaja — had approached court through lawyer Rupesh A Jaiswal, stating that their applications for emergency parole in the wake of the pandemic were not addressed for over a month. Following Pathan’s earlier petition, the court had directed the jail authorities to decide his application within 15 days. However, when this didn’t happen he again approached the high court. When the petition came up for hearing on Wednesday, the lawyer representing jail authorities informed that both the applications have been rejected. The jail authorities did now cite a reason for rejecting Pathan’s application while in case of Nathbhaja they pointed out that the convict didn’t come to jail on his own after availing a parole earlier and had to be arrested and brought to jail. While seeking the jail superintendent’s presence before it, the bench observed: “There are allegations of corruption at least against the officers of Aurangabad central jail. To see that there is transparency and fairness this court has directed many times to see that all the eligible prisoners are considered together and orders are made on emergency parole. This court had also expressed that the prisoner who wants to avail emergency parole under Government notification dated May 8, 2020, may avail it and prisoner who does not want to avail it may not avail the same. That way transparency could have been achieved and fairness could have been shown. It appears that even for acceptance of the application for emergency parole the prisoners were harassed. The present cases show that the applications were kept pending and they were not decided even for more than one month.’’ The bench added: “So, this court is hereby directing the jail superintendent (Aurangabad) to remain present before this court with his explanation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-seeks-explanation-on-non-compliance-of-order/articleshow/78321110.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman ended life over sex assault: Kin||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old girl working as domestic help along with her sister at a businessman’s house was found hanging at her employer’s house in Moinabad on Friday. The family of the girl alleged that the victim was sexually assaulted by the employer. The victim, a native of Chilkur village, has been working at her employer’s house in Moinabad with her sister for the past four years. “The deceased’s sister said that the victim has been suffering from stomach ache for the past six months. She found her hanging at around 5 am and alerted the police,” said ACP Rajendranagar, Ashok Chakravarthy. MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan met the family of the victim and alleged that the girl was sexually assaulted. “For the last one year, the employer was not allowing the sisters to go home to meet their family members. The family alleged that the girl was sexually assaulted,” said Khan. Following this, a case was registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC. The employer, Madhusudan Yadav, was taken into custody for questioning. “If the postmortem report suggests that she was sexually assaulted, the sections will be altered. Villagers and relatives held a protest demanding justice for the girl. We are investigating the case,” added the ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-ended-life-over-sex-assault-kin/articleshow/78323300.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Surat||Two breakdowns trigger long traffic jam on NH-8||SURAT: Two simultaneous breakdowns of a trailer and a truck near a bridge over Narmada river at Bharuch and Ankleshwar on the National Highway (NH)-8 resulted in an 8-km long traffic jam on the Vadodara to Surat stretch on Friday morning. The congestion was cleared after two hours. Official sources in the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said that the trailer had overturned on the NH-8 near Ankleshwar at about 8 am. The traffic going towards Surat was stopped for more than two hours to remove the trailer from the highway to clear the traffic. In the second incident, a truck broke down at the end of the bridge on Narmada river at about 8.30 am which took more than one hour for the NHAI authorities to lift with a crane to clear the traffic. Sources said that the traffic jams on the NHAI near Bharuch’s Jhadeshwar chowkdy to Narmada bridge has become regular for the last three days with the NHAI taking up the repair of the potholed roads on the bridge. A senior NHAI officer said, “The two breakdowns in peak hours aggravated the situation. Since the traffic merges from four lane to two lanes at the Narmada bridge, the highway gets jammed due to the breakdown of vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-breakdowns-trigger-long-traffic-jam-on-nh-8/articleshow/78323342.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Man bludgeoned to death at Hyderabad's Attapur||HYDERABAD: An unidentified man was bludgeoned to death by assailants at an open land at Attapur on Friday. Police are analysing CCTV footage to identify the offenders. The body of the victim, suspected to be around 30 to 35 years, was found with a head injury at Attapur. Police were trying to establish his identity. “The victim had sustained a severe head injury and died. There are no other injuries on his body. The victim has tattoos on both his arms and suture marks on his forehead. We did not find his wallet,” Rajendranagar police said. The body was found by a local and alerted police. The Clues Team and dog squad were pressed into service to collect evidence. “We are checking CCTV footage of nearby areas to identify the movement of the victim. The victim is suspected to have been killed in the morning,” the officer added. The body has been shifted to Osmania Hospital mortuary to conduct an autopsy and a murder case was registered at the Rajendranagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-bludgeoned-to-death-at-attapur/articleshow/78323291.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Second phase of panchayat polls on October 4||JAIPUR: In all, 5,472 candidates for sarpanch posts and 12,189 aspirants for panches are left in the fray for the second phase of elections to 1,028 gram panchayats on October 4. Already 28 sarpanches and 4,674 panch candidates have been elected unopposed. Secretary and chief electoral officer Shyam Singh Rajpurohit said a total of 9,390 nomination papers were filed by 9,340 candidates for sarpanch posts of which 9,167 nomination papers were found valid after scrutiny. He said 3,568 candidates withdrew their names on the last day of withdrawal. Rajpurohit said 22,456 nomination papers were filed by 22,446 candidates for 9,662 wards in 1,028 gram panchayats of which 21,759 nomination papers were found valid. He informed that 4,891 candidates withdrew their names, while 4,674 panches were elected unopposed. He told that now 12,189 candidates will try their luck in the election for ward panches. Polling will be held on all the panchayats on October 3 (Saturday) from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. Counting will be done after the end of polling. The election of up-sarpanch will be held on October 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-phase-of-panchayat-polls-on-october-4/articleshow/78325137.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||CAG: Railways sold 42 lakh less tickets than travellers during Kumbh||LUCKNOW: The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found a huge discrepancy between the number of passengers Indian Railways claims it ferried out of Prayagraj during Kumbh Mela 2019 and the number of tickets it sold during 49-day period between January 15 and March 4. In two of its internal audits after the mela, the Railways claimed it ferried approximately 73 lakh people out of Prayagraj (then Allahabad) through special and regular trains. However, while auditing the record of Railways' commercial department, CAG found only 31.2 lakh tickets had been sold from Allahabad area (stations of NCR, NR and NER zones) during Kumbh. According to Railways, the NCR was the coordinating authority for the Kumbh mela. "Even if it is accepted, for argument's sake, that the sale of tickets figure may not be total passengers as there would be ticket sale from other stations also for outward journey from Allahabad and ticketless travel during the Mela period, the gap of over 40 lakh passengers seems difficult to explain,” the CAG has noted in its report. Responding to the CAG report, chief public relation officer, NCR, Ajeet Kumar Singh said: "Railway indeed evacuated 73.41 lakh passengers during Kumbh mela. Learning from past experience of (Kumbh mela 2013), our priority was not the sale of tickets as it may have led to a long queue of pilgrims and further crowd management issue." The auditor has also said in its report that issues such as the running of special trains, works related to passenger amenities and safety, medical facilities to passengers, waste management at station premises were not adequately addressed by the Railways. These caused inconvenience to passengers coming for the Kumbh Mela. Temporary fencing at vulnerable locations (track & station entry point) were not completed. This led to cases of free movement of cattle on tracks and passengers trespassing. “Not addressing the basic issues adequately may pose risk for the next mega event such as Maha Kumbh Mela 2025. It is likely that in future the footfall and accumulation of crowd at Allahabad would only increase,” said the CAG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cag-rlys-sold-42l-less-tickets-than-travellers-during-kumbh/articleshow/78325968.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Mix of hope, despair for Sikhs from Afghanistan||NEW DELHI: It all started when customers loyal for many years stopped buying from Raghubir Singh’s ration shop in Ghazni in Afghanistan. The Afghans avoided the shop for fear of reprisals from the extremist groups that frowned on doing business with the country’s Sikh community. “Life was under constant threat because these groups harassed us for protection money. When living in this fashion no longer looked feasible, we decided to leave Afghanistan for good,” says Raghubir. But leaving your home bag and baggage is not an easy decision to make, and Raghubir agonised until the “oppression became too common”. The 30-year-old shuttered his shop and reached India earlier this month, part of a 400-strong contingent of emigres. The distressed refugees have found some hope at a facilitation centre in Tilak Nagar run by an international organisation called United Sikhs. The emotionally worn-out Afghan Indians, men and women, come daily with requests for employment and for free medical treatment. Masks on, they wait for counselling and support from the organisation on which they have pinned all hopes of a new life in India. From the moment he landed in Delhi, Raghubir was crushed by his son, Mansimran, suffering from pneumonia. At United Sikhs, he used his limited Hindi to communicate with the counsellors and was relieved when the two-year-old boy was admitted to a private hospital by the organisation. Raghubir, who had visited India once before four years ago, is happier when he tells TOI, “We are hardworking people. We know we are in a precarious situation at the moment, but we are ready to toil earnestly if given a job.” Raghubir hopes to find employment soon because he has a family of 11 to feed. Parvinder Singh Nanda, director, United Sikhs, is contented at being able to provide solutions for the refugees, from finding them jobs and providing medical care to procuring their government documents or getting their visas extended. “We are also the bridge between them and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. I worked with the UN for 30 years and have many contacts, which is helpful in this situation,” says Nanda. After reaching Delhi on July 11, Gurjeet Singh, 30, has been a regular visitor at the centre. “When my father was killed in a gurudwara bomb blast in Kabul, our family decided that was it,” narrates Gurjeet. “Leaving was difficult, but we had to do it for the safety of our women and children.” Gurjeet’s 7-year-old son has a piece of shrapnel lodged in his eyes. “Despite being an ayurvedic medical practitioner for 25 years, there was nothing I could do for my son,” rues Gurjeet, who now hopes to find a job similar to what he did back in Kabul — selling ayurvedic medicine. Many Afghan Sikhs who came to Delhi earlier now live in gurdwaras and receive rations, stipends for basic household items and rent assistance. Ujaagar Singh came to India in 2018. A father of five, he left his Kabul home after terrorists attacked the city’s gurdwara. “The extremists forced us to wear yellow and our women, the burkha,” he recalls. “Things improved some years ago only to deteriorate.” But coming to India hasn’t solved Ujaagar’s problems. “Even after two years, we have neither our Aadhaar cards nor Pan cards. Every six months, we have to get our visa extended, with a local guarantor for our stay,” he says. This biannual time always fills him with dread. But the 32-year-old’s has other woes. Ujaagar, who prides himself for knowing better Hindi than most Afghan Sikhs, was working as a translator at a private hospital in Lajpat Nagar when he lost his job due to the Covid lockdown. “Many Afghans come to the hospital, so they were looking for someone who could translate from Pastho and Dari. Things had begun to look good in India until the lockdown rendered me jobless,” he says with a sad shrug. Amid anxieties about their future, a daily worry is the food, unused as the refugees are to Delhi’s spicy cuisine. “We were lucky to discover a tandoor near our new home from where we get Afghani bread,” says Sudeep Singh brightly. Having left a bitter past behind, he is looking forward to better times ahead with local support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mix-of-hope-despair-for-sikhs-from-afghanistan-refugees-look-for-a-fresh-start-in-india/articleshow/78325201.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Tourism body appeals govt over sanitation||Hyderabad: Ahead of world tourism day on September 27, various travel and tourism associations of India, including those in Hyderabad, have come together to appeal to the government to strengthen the packaging waste collection and recycling ecosystem. The association said that cleanliness plays a vital role to attract regional and international tourists to Indian tourist destinations. In 2019, the travel and tourism industry contributed 9.3% to India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and account for approximately 8.1% of the total employment opportunities. The government had a month ago released the Swachh Survekshan survey, in which many tourist hotspots like Amritsar, Jaipur, Delhi, Mumbai, Varanasi and Shillong had received poor ratings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tourism-body-appeals-govt-over-sanitation/articleshow/78325180.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hubballi||Rumour on Hubballi postal depot merger with Bengaluru depot surfaces||HUBBALLI: Even as the news of merger of the decades-old postal stores depot located on Karwar Road with that of Bengaluru is doing rounds in the twin cities, officials said they have not got any communication to that effect. The Hubballi depot supplies Speed Post stickers, withdrawal forms, account passbooks, stamps, money-depositing challans, etc, to 4,480 post offices located in 14 districts in north Karnataka. The people of the twin cities seem not be happy with the merger as claimed by the rumour mills. The state has three such stores depots — one each at Arasikere, Hubballi and Bengaluru. As per the rumour, the ones at Arasikere and Hubballi will be merged with the Bengaluru stores depot. Hubballi depot manager Vijay told TOI that they have not received any message or official communication regarding the merger of their depot with that of Bengaluru. Besides refusing to comment on this further, the manager did not share details on the staff strength there. Meanwhile, a section of people took exception to the “proposed move” of the department, saying they will not allow the shifting of one of the major facilities of north Karnataka to Bengaluru. They have also threatened to stage protest if their concerns are not addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rumour-on-hubballi-postal-depot-merger-with-bluru-depot-surfaces/articleshow/78326169.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Surat||Surat bags UNESCO award under resilience category||SURAT: Diamond City Surat has added another feather. It has bagged the Netexplo Smart Cities Award with UNESCO in the resilience category. Surat’s mayor will receive the award at the UNESCO House in Paris, France in March next year. “Globally, 10 cities were awarded under the UNESCO-Netexplo Smart Cities Accelerator Programme. Surat is the only city from India to have bagged the award in the resilience category. This is a proud moment for all of the people in the city who have shown tremendous resilience whenever there is calamity and emerging victorious,” said Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. The other cities like Medellin, Espoo, Dakar, Santiago, Vienna, Austin, Tallinn and Shenzhen were awarded under different categories like attractivity, datasphere, education, finance, habitat, mobility, digital transformation, zero carbon emission and transport networks. This was the second edition of the Netexplo Smart Cities Award with UNESCO. Netexplo, an independent observatory that studies the impact of digital technology on society and business, has been a UNESCO partner since 2011. It has involved 19 globally acclaimed universities including Columbia University, New York (USA) Indian Institute of Technology, Bangalore (India), Oxford University, (United Kingdom) and Jawarwal Nehru University, Delhi, (India) for various studies in Smart Cities. The award felicitation was conducted live from Paris with eminent dignitaries from around the globe. Mayor Jagdish Patel and Pani also talked to a worldwide audience. In the last three decades, Surat has witnessed calamities like plague and floods. Surat city bagged the best overall smart city award from among the 100 cities at the third apex conference of smart cities in January. It also received two more awards for restoration re-use and re-development of Surat castle in culture and economy category and One City One Card-Digitalization for cashless travel by integration of Automatic Fare Collection System with Surat Money Card under the Mobility and Transportation category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bags-unesco-award-under-resilience-category/articleshow/78323713.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||Two hospitals, 52 new Covid beds for Padra||VADODARA: As Covid-19 cases continue to spike in Vadodara rural, number of beds are being increased in Padra. During a visit on Friday, district collector Shalini Agrawal gave permission to start two new Covid hospitals in the town, while 52 more beds will be added to the existing 70 in the three hospitals. Of these new beds, 40 are with oxygen supply. The total number of beds will reach 122. While Agrawal gave clearance to start a new hospital for Covid on immediate basis, another hospital will be ready for treating patients in next three days. The capacity of Covid care centre in the town which was recently enhanced from 15 to 30 is also being doubled. “We have issued directives to immediately double the capacity so that the centre can handle at least 60 patients,” she said. By Friday evening, the rural areas had 2,789 positive cases out of 11,192 cases registered in Vadodara city and district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-hospitals-52-ncov-beds-for-padra/articleshow/78322316.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Protesting tribal youths go on rampage on NH-8||UDAIPUR: Tension prevailed for the second consecutive day on NH-8 at Kankri Doongri on a stretch of some 10 kilometre between Bicchiwada (Dungarpur) and Kherwada (Udaipur) on Friday as tribal youths fought pitched battle with the police and set ablaze several vehicles. Mobs damaged highway hotels, restaurants and even petrol pumps. They got control over a passing truck and some men got over it. The protesters pelted stones from the truck at the cops who had to retreat to save their lives. Youths raised slogans demanding ‘azadi’ and rights. Scores of policemen and protesters were injured in the violence that spread from Dungarpur and reached Udaipur borders. Police opened fire, burst tear gas shells and lathicharged mobs that targeted highway hotels and restaurants, pelted stones and damaged the public property. The internet service has been suspended for 24 hours in the entire Dungarpur district, while in Udaipur, on the collector's advice, the divisional commissioner issued an order to suspend internet services in Kherwada block too later afternoon. Looking at the situation, police completely stopped commutation on the Udaipur- Ahmedabad highway. Cars, buses and trucks made a beeline at both the sides waiting for police clearance for traffic movement. Vehicles were not allowed to take the Highway route and asked to wait near the roadsides until a diversion was not specified. Additional forces, MBC and RAC battalions were pressed in services while teams from Udaipur too were sent to hold the tensed situation that intensified on the second day. On Friday, five to eight kilometres of the stretch was besieged by the protesters who put up blockades, burnt tyres and rained stones on cops who tried to stop them. The mobs attacked a hotel and pelted stones at the window panes and set ablaze many vehicles parked in the premises. Udaipur IG Binita Thakur supervised the police action in the area while Dungarpur collector Kanaram and SP Jai Yadav have been camping in the area and trying to pacify the agitators. More than 40 vehicles, including the Dungarpur SP's jeep and two other police vehicles, have been torched by the mobs in two days. On Friday noon, a luxury bus was put on fire at Kherwara. Delegation fails to pacify protestersOn Friday afternoon, the protesters rampaged through Kherwada town and looted highway shops. They forcibly entered inside a liquor shop and damaged alcohol bottles. Some of the men got inside hotels and shops, thrashed innocent people. They put three buses on fire. Police teams have been camping outside the Kherwada police station to prevent miscreants enter inside the settlement. A delegation was sent by Dungarpur district administration to hold peace talks with the agitators, however, things appeared uncontrollable and the protesters were not ready to listen. The delegation consisting of 10 members, including ex-MLA Devendra Katara, former Pradhan Laxman Koted, Marxist leader Gautam Damor, ex-sarpanch Sukhlal Ahari went to Kankri Doongri and initiated peace talks with the youth leaders, but they stuck to their demands and refused to withdraw unless their demands were met, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/protesting-tribal-youths-go-on-rampage-on-nh-8/articleshow/78325155.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Mines department’s amnesty scheme offers 3-month window for clearing dues||JAIPUR: Mines department has announced an amnesty scheme for unpaid royalty and dead rent by mining lessees, contractors and royalty collection contractors. The scheme will remain effective for three months from September 24. The scheme will be applicable to those lessees, royalty collection vendors and contractors of various departments on whom demand has been raised by the department till March 31, 2019. As per the scheme, mining lessees and brick kiln owners having dues till 1980 will be exempted of 90% on the principal amount if they pay up the demand money raised against by the department. Similarly, if the lessees having dues till 1990, 2000, 2010 and 2019 pay up, exemptions on the principal amount will be given 80%, 70%, 50%, and 30% respectively. Besides the exemptions on principal amount, they will not attract any interest and penalty if the dues are paid during the three months of the amnesty period. However, those 31 major minerals which were classified as minor minerals in 2015 will be out of the ambit of the scheme. Mining lease owners who exceeded the production mentioned in their plan or environment clearance will get relief. Instead of 10 times of the royalty, they can pay 2 times of the royalty and clear dues. Mining minister Pramod Jain Bhaya said even those who have gone to court challenging the dues demand raised against them, they can also avail the benefits offered in the scheme by simply withdrawing the case or giving an undertaking that they will not pursue the case in the court. Those who have paid the dues prior to September 24, they will not be eligible for the benefits under the scheme. However, if some mining title owners have paid partially and have some dues, they can get the exemptions on the rest of the payable money. Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, department of mines, said, “The scheme is aimed at giving the people an opportunity to clear their dues and get relief from past complicacies. Secondly, some lessees who have gone to courts will also be relieved of the burden of legal compliance. Thirdly, the state will get its dues which it deserves lawfully.” Agarwal said that the scheme would also enhance ease of doing business and add to the faith of the investors in the government. The department has estimated the dues at Rs 150 crore and through the amnesty scheme it expects to receive around Rs 80 crore in the current financial year. The pandemic has significantly reduced the tax receipts of the government. Recently, it has introduced austerity measures by restricting expenditure of the departments by up to 40%. While the amnesty scheme saves much of the time of the department from pursuing these cases, it has gets the important revenue it needs urgently at this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mines-depts-amnesty-scheme-offers-3-month-window-for-clearing-dues/articleshow/78325169.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||2 MNS office-bearers held for alleged extortion bid||Aurangabad: Vazirabad police in Nanded district have arrested the district president of the women’s wing of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and another office-bearer of the party on charges of demanding extortion money from a government employee.The arrested accused have been identified as Usha Narwade and Santosh Sunewad. Police said Narwade is the district president of the MNS women’s wing, while Sunewad is the district president of MNS transporters’ wing. Senior inspector Sandip Shivle said: “The accused were produced before the court and they have been remanded in 3-day police custody.”The officer added that the accused were arrested on Thursday when they reached theAnandnagar area to collect the amount. The police team had set a trap there.Complainant Surekha Surekar is a 42-year-old senior clerk at the Nanded ZP education department. Surekar has worked there since 2007 on a contractual basis. Surekar said while holding charge of inward and outward sections in 2019, she had left some inward entry numbers blank. Later, an entry operator’s letter for appointment was “inwarded” on one of these blank numbers. This came to the notice of the ZP CEO and education officer, who sought an explanation from Surekar. Between April and September 2019, two more such appointment letters were signed by authorities and their entries were taken in the inward numbers left blank. While doing so, Surekar’s name was added to this list at the last moment.Recently, Narwade filed an RTI and found that despite Surekar’s name not being mentioned in the notes and remarks recorded by ZP officials, she got an appointment letter. Using this information, the MNS leader sent a complaint on September 8 demanding immediate termination of Surekar’s service and demanded recovery of the salaries paid till date. Surekar then contacted Narwade over the phone on September 18, following which the suspect demanded Rs 40,000 to hush up the matter. Later, she agreed to Rs 30,000. However, Surekar lodged a complaint with the Vazirabad police and the accused were nabbed when they went to collect the extortion money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-mns-office-bearers-held-for-alleged-extortion-bid/articleshow/78321102.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 26, 2020||Kochi||KEAM: Ekm tops with max students in 1st 1,000 ranks||Kochi: As the results of Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) 2020 entrance test were published on Thursday, Ernakulam topped among the districts with maximum number of students in the top 1,000 ranks. Of the 6,119 students from Ernakulam who were qualified, 175 students secured a spot in top 1,000 ranks. Ernakulam was followed by Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode with 126 and 121 students, respectively, in the top 1,000 ranks. Idukki and Wayanad were the last in the list with only 10 and 11 students, respectively, among the top 1,000 ranks. While most number of students (6,479) who qualified in the exam was from Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam came second with 6,119 students. With only 858 students qualifying in the exam, Wayanad came last. In Ernakulam, there was no student who came in the top 10 ranks of KEAM engineering rank list. Aleena Paul, a student from Puthuppady, topped in the district with a state-wide rank (19) in engineering. Aleena was a student of St Augustine’s Girls Higher Secondary School, Muvattupuzha, and it was her second attempt in KEAM. Aleena is the younger daughter of Paul Varghese, a government servant, and Shilly Paul, who is a homemaker. “Though she had undergone coaching for entrance test along with her studies, the ranks were not promising last year. So, after completing Class XII, she had spent another year for entrance coaching at Brilliant Study Centre in Pala. She has managed to come within the top 10,000 ranks in JEE Main and is now preparing for JEE Advanced. Her dream is to get admission in a top engineering college,” said Varghese, Aleena’s father. KEAM 2020 architecture rank list would be announced later. KEAM is a state-level entrance examination conducted by the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations, Kerala, for admission to various professional degree courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keam-ekm-tops-with-max-students-in-1st-1000-ranks/articleshow/78302938.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Delhi||And the car goes to... its rightful owner: Welcome to unique mela in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Natasha Chopra had lost all hope of getting back her jewellery and foreign currency, which were stolen from her bag in Malviya Nagar in March. The 63-year-old woman was surprised when she got a call in the first week of September asking her to participate in a mela. Feeling a bit sceptical, when she reached the police station she saw cops calling out the names of people and returning their lost belongings. Chopra, a businesswoman was handed over her driving licence, foreign currency and jewellery. In an attempt to return recovered stolen property, such unique fairs are being organised at police stations across the capital. So far, 5kg gold worth over Rs 3 crore, 3,418 two-wheelers and 432 four-wheelers have been returned in the last four months. Earlier, people had to wait for years and run around in courtrooms to get their property released. For Chopra, the jewellery had emotional value as they were her husband’s first gifts. “The items from the bag were stolen when I had gone to get my watch repaired. The earrings and pendant were the first gifts given to me by my husband. Police have managed to recover the stolen items even during the pandemic. We must appreciate this face of police,” she said. The recovered items that were returned to their rightful owners ranged from a comb to a weighing scale, coin purse, autorickshaw, motorcycle, jewellery and cars. Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava has directed all SHOs to ensure that stolen goods are recovered and returned to their owners in a timely manner. So far, Dwarka, South, South East and New Delhi districts have organised such melas. Dhal Singh, additional DCP-II, who organised two such melas in South East district, said, “In the first mela, we had four categories, which included seizures during vehicle checking, court cases, SDM cases and personal search. The second mela had stolen items too. We are working on organising the third mela soon.” In South district, additional DCP-II Anuj Kumar said returning stolen properties also cleared up space at police stations. “We are trying to return as many goods as we can. The only ones being held back are related to heinous crimes. We usually prepare a list of people and call them to the mela. A seating area is created at the police station and their names are called out one by one. We have returned mobile phones, cash, diamond rings, foreign currency and even smaller items like an antique idol,” he added. Ajay, a resident of Maidan Garhi working as a manager in a garment house, was happy to get back his wife’s and mother’s jewellery. “In April, some people came to my house, called out my wife and then told my mother to give them all her jewellery as police were coming to conduct a raid. The men took the jewellery and fled. Some of my jewellery, including my precious engagement ring, was returned to me. My wife’s mangalsutra is yet to be recovered,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/and-the-car-goes-to-its-rightful-owner-welcome-to-unique-mela/articleshow/78325194.cms||Sakshi Chand
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Is it going to be a cakewalk for NDA in Lalu Prasad’s absence?||PATNA: With the Election Commission (EC) sounding the poll bugle on Friday, 'Battleground Bihar' is ready for NDA under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and PM Narendra Modi to take on a scattered Mahagathbandhan without the formidable Lalu Prasad, who is serving a jail term in Ranchi. Alliance-related troubles, however, are dogging both sides. If LJP chief Chirag Paswan is proving to be a thorn in the side for ruling NDA, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha and VIP supremo Mukesh Sahni remain unclear on their alliance decisions. Consequently, there has been no decision yet on seat-sharing in both ruling and opposition alliances. The battleground this time is radically different than the 2015 assembly election owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has changed the political landscape in one of the most politically active states in the country. Bihar happens to be the first state going to the polls after the onset of the pandemic in India more than six months ago. Incidentally, Bihar has shown much resilience to the deadly virus as is evident from the positivity rate of 2.45% and the remarkably high recovery rate of 91.64%. It is such impressive figures, which perhaps instilled the confidence in the EC to go ahead with the election here even as the chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said in his media briefing on Friday that around 70 countries have postponed their polls due to the pandemic. Elections in Bihar have often thrown surprises for political parties as well as poll pundits. In the last assembly election, people of Bihar showed that they can make a different choice in the national and state elections choosing Nitish over the BJP juggernaut led by PM Modi. Nitish was leading the newborn Mahagathbandhan, which banked on its social- engineering model to defeat the goliath. However, less than two years down the line, Nitish severed his ties with old friend Lalu on July 26, 2017, on the ground of corruption charges against the RJD first family, leading to the collapse of the Mahagathbandhan government. Nitish went back to the BJP-fold and formed the new government the very next day. Three- and- a half years down the line, the Nitish-Modi combine continues to stand its ground firmly despite claims of anti-incumbency by the Opposition. Some of the claims made by the Opposition against the 15-year regime of ‘Sushan Babu’ include mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic, woes of returnee migrants, lack of sufficient employment opportunities and the recent floods in north Bihar among others. The JD (U) on the other hand, has been largely banking on its battle cry of “15 years of good governance versus 15 years of Jungleraj (of Lalu- Tabri regime)’. BJP, on the other hand, has brought in the ultimate weapon in its arsenal — PM Narendra Modi to counter any adverse impact of any resentment among people against the incumbent government. “Though Nitish- Modi combine looks almost invincible but, indeed, we cannot solely bank on the former’s shoulder to fight this battle. PM Modi’s aura resonates with the masses and it will rule out any weak points on our side,” a senior BJP functionary said, wishing anonymity. Noted economist and political observer Shaibal Gupta on the other hand, claimed that ‘Brand Nitish’ remains intact. “Nitish is the first authentic provider in the post-Independence era in Bihar, which is seen in the form of roads, bridges, electricity and various other development factors. Nitish can’t be compared to anyone else in Bihar but only to his first and second terms. His image remains unsullied and clean. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on the other hand, has not been able to create an identity of his own as enjoyed by his father Lalu, who was the enabler of the backward and downtrodden,” Gupta said. However, another social scientist D M Diwakar said Tejashwi has an appeal among youths. “Tejashwi was proactive in reaching out and helping the migrant workers while they were marching back from across the country during the lockdown. Besides, youths are attracted to him as he is raising issues concerning them, including unemployment. Moreover, an anti-incumbency against the Nitish government can’t be ruled out after 15 years,” Diwakar said. Amid the claims and counterclaims, Bihar has stepped on an unexplored path of having elections amid the pandemic, which has opened new mediums of reaching out to the masses through digital electioneering. Over the next two months, the state will witness a unique poll, which can have its reflections on larger national political trend for the next year, when states such as West Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu among others go to polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/is-it-going-to-be-a-cakewalk-for-nda-in-lalus-absence/articleshow/78328990.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajendra Mirdha abduction case: Panel to take call on Harnek Singh’s parole plea||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court has asked the state-level parole committee to decide on the petition filed by Harnek Singh, convict in the Rajendra Mirdha abduction case. Harnek through a petition has pleaded for a permanent parole citing jail rules. His counsel Vishram Prajapati said under Rule 9 of Rajasthan Parole Release Rules 1958, a prisoner punished with life imprisonment of 14 years sentence can apply for permanent parole. It was also maintained in the court that behavior of the prisoner was better during his jail stay. Earlier on May 8, he was released on a 28-day special parole and returned to prison on time. Similarly in 2019, he returned to jail after parole. Hearing the petition, the bench comprising Justice Sabina and Justice CK Songera gave instructions to take a decision on the representation made in this regard in a month. Harnek Singh is lodged in jail since 2007 in connection to the kidnapping of Rajendra Mirdha, son of Congress leader Ram Niwas Mirdha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-to-take-call-on-singhs-parole-plea/articleshow/78325187.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik witnesses 22 robberies in just a month||Nashik: A total of 22 robberies — mostly chain-snatchings and cellphone snatchings — took place in the city in a 1-month period between August 20 and September 20. This means, approximately two robberies were committed in every three-day period. In order to check the number of robberies, police stations have been set up across the city. There are at least four to five police stations under each of the 13 main police stations in the city. Moreover, police patrolling is also continuing. This year, the highest number of chain-snatchings took place between January and March. There were no cases reported in April, May and June given the Covid-related lockdown. However, as the unlocking process began, the number of thefts and robberies increased. The robbery cases shot up mainly in July and August. The police have not been able to detect any of the suspects in the cases in recent months. However, police commissioner Deepak Pandey said the cops were keeping a tab on the city’s law and order and criminal activities. Criminals involved in chain snatchings will be arrested soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-witnesses-22-robberies-in-just-a-month/articleshow/78321125.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Kharge slams Central govt’s farm bills||Hyderabad: Congress Working Committee member and Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge on Friday termed the three farm bills passed by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government as controversial, anti-constitutional and anti-farmer. Stating that these bills will benefit only the corporates, he said almost all the opposition parties are opposing the legislations. “As many as 18 political parties opposed these bills and tried to stall their passage in Rajya Sabha with the contention that these bills are detrimental to the interests of the farmers,” he said. The farmers will not be in a position to sell their agriculture produce at a price they deem fit. They will not get even the minimum support price. These bills will inflict a lethal blow on small and marginal farmers who constitute 83% of the farming community in the country, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kharge-slams-central-govts-farm-bills/articleshow/78325210.cms||---
September 26, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Is it going to be a cakewalk for NDA in Lalu Prasad’s absence?||PATNA: With the Election Commission (EC) sounding the poll bugle on Friday, 'Battleground Bihar' is ready for NDA under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and PM Narendra Modi to take on a scattered Mahagathbandhan without the formidable Lalu Prasad, who is serving a jail term in Ranchi. Alliance-related troubles, however, are dogging both sides. If LJP chief Chirag Paswan is proving to be a thorn in the side for ruling NDA, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha and VIP supremo Mukesh Sahni remain unclear on their alliance decisions. Consequently, there has been no decision yet on seat-sharing in both ruling and opposition alliances. The battleground this time is radically different than the 2015 assembly election owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has changed the political landscape in one of the most politically active states in the country. Bihar happens to be the first state going to the polls after the onset of the pandemic in India more than six months ago. Incidentally, Bihar has shown much resilience to the deadly virus as is evident from the positivity rate of 2.45% and the remarkably high recovery rate of 91.64%. It is such impressive figures, which perhaps instilled the confidence in the EC to go ahead with the election here even as the chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said in his media briefing on Friday that around 70 countries have postponed their polls due to the pandemic. Elections in Bihar have often thrown surprises for political parties as well as poll pundits. In the last assembly election, people of Bihar showed that they can make a different choice in the national and state elections choosing Nitish over the BJP juggernaut led by PM Modi. Nitish was leading the newborn Mahagathbandhan, which banked on its social- engineering model to defeat the goliath. However, less than two years down the line, Nitish severed his ties with old friend Lalu on July 26, 2017, on the ground of corruption charges against the RJD first family, leading to the collapse of the Mahagathbandhan government. Nitish went back to the BJP-fold and formed the new government the very next day. Three- and- a half years down the line, the Nitish-Modi combine continues to stand its ground firmly despite claims of anti-incumbency by the Opposition. Some of the claims made by the Opposition against the 15-year regime of ‘Sushan Babu’ include mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic, woes of returnee migrants, lack of sufficient employment opportunities and the recent floods in north Bihar among others. The JD (U) on the other hand, has been largely banking on its battle cry of “15 years of good governance versus 15 years of Jungleraj (of Lalu- Tabri regime)’. BJP, on the other hand, has brought in the ultimate weapon in its arsenal — PM Narendra Modi to counter any adverse impact of any resentment among people against the incumbent government. “Though Nitish- Modi combine looks almost invincible but, indeed, we cannot solely bank on the former’s shoulder to fight this battle. PM Modi’s aura resonates with the masses and it will rule out any weak points on our side,” a senior BJP functionary said, wishing anonymity. Noted economist and political observer Shaibal Gupta on the other hand, claimed that ‘Brand Nitish’ remains intact. “Nitish is the first authentic provider in the post-Independence era in Bihar, which is seen in the form of roads, bridges, electricity and various other development factors. Nitish can’t be compared to anyone else in Bihar but only to his first and second terms. His image remains unsullied and clean. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on the other hand, has not been able to create an identity of his own as enjoyed by his father Lalu, who was the enabler of the backward and downtrodden,” Gupta said. However, another social scientist D M Diwakar said Tejashwi has an appeal among youths. “Tejashwi was proactive in reaching out and helping the migrant workers while they were marching back from across the country during the lockdown. Besides, youths are attracted to him as he is raising issues concerning them, including unemployment. Moreover, an anti-incumbency against the Nitish government can’t be ruled out after 15 years,” Diwakar said. Amid the claims and counterclaims, Bihar has stepped on an unexplored path of having elections amid the pandemic, which has opened new mediums of reaching out to the masses through digital electioneering. Over the next two months, the state will witness a unique poll, which can have its reflections on larger national political trend for the next year, when states such as West Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu among others go to polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/is-it-going-to-be-a-cakewalk-for-nda-in-lalus-absence/articleshow/78325214.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Funds crunch hits Mangaluru City Corporation as pandemic hits revenue||MANGALURU: The Covid-19 pandemic has led the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to face a severe funds crunch. Following this, the city corporation has been requesting people to pay property tax, trade licence renewal fee and other cess immediately so that the city corporation may take up ward-wise development works through corporator’s grant. The city corporation has received only about 28.5% of the property tax for the assessment year 2020-21 till August. As per the statistics available with the TOI, the city corporation has collected only Rs 18.5 crore against the target of Rs 65 crore towards property tax till August. Property owners were entitled to get 5% rebate on payment of property tax in April. Meanwhile, 2% penalty per month was fixed for property tax payment from July, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government has announced a 3% rebate scheme till August 31. The revenue collection of the city corporation has dipped in many other sources due to the pandemic. While the corporation’s target in advertisement revenue is Rs six crore, it could collect only Rs 23.9 lakh, which is 4%, till August. The income for the general fund expected through ground rent and road cutting was Rs three crore, but the collection during the period was just Rs 1.8 lakh, which is 0.6% of the target. Meanwhile, the city corporation has collected only Rs 1.8 lakh (1.9%) through ground rents on advertisements against the target of Rs 95 lakh. Similarly, only Rs 97 lakh (24.2%) was collected through trade licence fee, though the expected revenue was Rs 4 crore. AC Vinayaraj, corporator from the Congress, told TOI the city corporation has never witnessed such a fund crunch in its history. “The city corporation has no money in its general fund but has announced Rs 25 lakh each for 60 corporators to take up development works. The city corporation is trying to keep corporators and people in the dark on the funds crunch,” he added. Mayor Diwakar said the pandemic has affected the income generation of the city corporation. He urged the property owners, traders and others to cooperate with the city corporation by paying their dues at the earliest. “I request all property owners to pay property tax at the earliest. They may pay property tax without penalty till the September 30,” he said, adding that 2% penalty will be levied from October 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/funds-crunch-hits-mcc-as-pandemic-hits-revenue/articleshow/78322145.cms||Vinobha K T
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury on upward swing in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With monsoon over, mercury has taken an upward swing across the state with few places witnessing maximum temperatures on or above 40°C. Churu remained hottest clocking 41.2°C, the Met said on Friday. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds, Jaipur Met office said minimum temperatures across the state will continue to drop in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to comparatively pleasant morning with a minimum temperature of 27.4°C. The maximum temperature of the day was 37.8°C. Weathermen said in the next fortnight, temperatures will further dip across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-on-upward-swing-in-raj/articleshow/78325195.cms||---
September 26, 2020||India||Allies BJP and JD(U) both eye a bigger share of seats this time||NEW DELHI: The announcement of Bihar polls is expected to provide an impetus for BJP and JD(U) to wrap up their seat-sharing agreement even as the two sides look to wrest a marginally larger number. While CM Nitish Kumar is the unquestioned face of the alliance, the ‘seat-to-seat’ combat has always been a vexed affair for BJP and JD(U) with the regional party prodding its ally to make concessions to accommodate allies new and old. Kumar can be expected to cite the induction of sitting RJD MLAs and the alliance with Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) to seek some concessions. BJP, on the other hand, is likely to push for a 50:50 arrangement by citing the sacrifice it made in Lok Sabha polls when it gave 17 seats to JD(U) despite the latter having got only two seats in the 2014 LS polls. They also have to sort out how to accommodate Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the sacrifices each will need to make. While the overall social alliance works for NDA, the specifics of seat-sharing are crucial as the entire caste balance of the coalition hinges on it. Read AlsoOct 28-Nov 7, India’s 1st polls under Covid shadow in BiharBihar is set to make history as it heads into India’s first major election to be held under the shadow of Covid-19. The Election Commission on Friday announced polls to the 243-seat assembly that would test the fortunes of the ruling NDA alliance and the opposition RJD-Congress combine.Kumar has tried to make the case that LJP has to be accommodated by BJP, but the latter is not keen to pick up the entire tab. Paswan himself, along with son Chirag, has been sniping at Kumar, raising issues of governance relating to migrants and floods. BJP chief J P Nadda, during his recent visit to Patna, had met most stakeholders including Kumar and sources said the two have already discussed the broader lines on which seat-sharing will be finalised. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad expressed confidence that NDA will gain a majority. “We are confident that Nitish Kumarji will be CM again,” Prasad, who is the MP from Patna Sahib, said. “There is no dispute amongst us. The alliance is strong and we are contesting as strong allies. Even seat-sharing will be finalised amicably,” JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI. He further said that seat-sharing announcements will be made very soon. Read AlsoBihar elections: Why seat-sharing between BJP and JD(U) may not be easyNEW DELHI: The stage is set for the big battle to win Bihar. The state will go to polls in three phases and the results will be declared on November 10. The political equation in the state has changed since the last assembly elections. Nitish Kumar, who led the opposition Grand Alliance to victoryThe JD(U) member’s confidence of finalising seat-sharing amicably stems from previous instances when the two parties forged an alliance without any dispute. In 2010, the parties had an alliance when JD(U) won 115 seats and BJP 91. However, they fell apart ahead of the 2014 LS polls with Kumar departing over Narendra Modi’s candidature as BJP’s PM nominee. The 2015 state election saw JD(U) team up with RJD and defeat BJP. But Kumar rejoined NDA in 2017. Watch Bihar polls: RS Prasad expresses confidence on NDA and Nitish Kumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allies-bjp-and-jdu-both-eye-a-bigger-share-of-seats-this-time/articleshow/78326787.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 26, 2020||---||Allies BJP and JD(U) both eye a bigger share of seats this time||NEW DELHI: The announcement of Bihar polls is expected to provide an impetus for BJP and JD(U) to wrap up their seat-sharing agreement even as the two sides look to wrest a marginally larger number. While CM Nitish Kumar is the unquestioned face of the alliance, the ‘seat-to-seat’ combat has always been a vexed affair for BJP and JD(U) with the regional party prodding its ally to make concessions to accommodate allies new and old. Kumar can be expected to cite the induction of sitting RJD MLAs and the alliance with Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) to seek some concessions. BJP, on the other hand, is likely to push for a 50:50 arrangement by citing the sacrifice it made in Lok Sabha polls when it gave 17 seats to JD(U) despite the latter having got only two seats in the 2014 LS polls. They also have to sort out how to accommodate Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the sacrifices each will need to make. While the overall social alliance works for NDA, the specifics of seat-sharing are crucial as the entire caste balance of the coalition hinges on it. Read AlsoOct 28-Nov 7, India’s 1st polls under Covid shadow in BiharBihar is set to make history as it heads into India’s first major election to be held under the shadow of Covid-19. The Election Commission on Friday announced polls to the 243-seat assembly that would test the fortunes of the ruling NDA alliance and the opposition RJD-Congress combine.Kumar has tried to make the case that LJP has to be accommodated by BJP, but the latter is not keen to pick up the entire tab. Paswan himself, along with son Chirag, has been sniping at Kumar, raising issues of governance relating to migrants and floods. BJP chief J P Nadda, during his recent visit to Patna, had met most stakeholders including Kumar and sources said the two have already discussed the broader lines on which seat-sharing will be finalised. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad expressed confidence that NDA will gain a majority. “We are confident that Nitish Kumarji will be CM again,” Prasad, who is the MP from Patna Sahib, said. “There is no dispute amongst us. The alliance is strong and we are contesting as strong allies. Even seat-sharing will be finalised amicably,” JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI. He further said that seat-sharing announcements will be made very soon. Read AlsoBihar elections: Why seat-sharing between BJP and JD(U) may not be easyNEW DELHI: The stage is set for the big battle to win Bihar. The state will go to polls in three phases and the results will be declared on November 10. The political equation in the state has changed since the last assembly elections. Nitish Kumar, who led the opposition Grand Alliance to victoryThe JD(U) member’s confidence of finalising seat-sharing amicably stems from previous instances when the two parties forged an alliance without any dispute. In 2010, the parties had an alliance when JD(U) won 115 seats and BJP 91. However, they fell apart ahead of the 2014 LS polls with Kumar departing over Narendra Modi’s candidature as BJP’s PM nominee. The 2015 state election saw JD(U) team up with RJD and defeat BJP. But Kumar rejoined NDA in 2017. Watch Bihar polls: RS Prasad expresses confidence on NDA and Nitish Kumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/allies-bjp-and-jdu-both-eye-a-bigger-share-of-seats-this-time/articleshow/78326755.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 26, 2020||Delhi||That ’70s show: How ‘greypreneurs’ are knitting a whole new career||NEW DELHI: Asha Puri isn’t like any other woman her age. While India’s startup space is dominated by bright young minds, there are some enterprising greys like this 75-year-old who are bucking the trend. Today, Puri has not just transformed her passion into a job, but also enabled women her age and the underprivileged to earn from their unconventional talent — knitting. Over the past decades, Puri lovingly wove hundreds of sweaters for her children and grandchildren whenever she got the chance. This was until her granddaughter, 28-year-old Kritika Sondhi, decided to learn knitting. Inder While picking up the new skill, Sondhi realised that it was a tough nut to crack. “I was shocked that my nani had been doing this laborious and time-consuming activity all these years without charging a penny. This is when I thought of a business idea,” said the founder and CEO of “With Love, From Granny”. “Initially, my grandmother wasn’t sure about the idea as she felt who would pay for the sweaters. Knitting is both underrated and underpaid in our country. My grandmother was engaged selflessly in this activity for over five decades, but got little appreciation and no monetary returns. Surprisingly, our business plan was a hit. Last winter, we got 50 orders within just a month,” said Sondhi. (Clockwise from top left) Kritika Sondhi, Neeru Sondhi, Asha Puri and Chanchal AroraPuri, happily knitting a pink cap for a customer, said she started working on her passion when her granddaughter insisted upon giving it a serious thought. “I went in with zero expectations. When things started to pick up, I knew I could use this platform to engage other women my age who share the same skills. We also roped in two underprivileged women, Bunty (40) and Anita (39),” she added. The poor sisters-in-law ironed clothes for a living. Inder nani, as she is fondly called, is 78 years old and the oldest member of the team. However, her spirits are as high as a youngster who just bagged her first job. “Knitting is my passion and it keeps me busy all day. There is no other feeling like being able to do a job on your own terms. I have been knitting since the past two decades and will continue to do so till my body allows,” said the most recent addition to the team. Nirmal, the “youngest” elderly member, is 61 years old. She always had the support of her family, but never thought she could start earning after crossing the age when people retire from jobs. “I make money and also keep my mind occupied. What more could I ask for? I started feeling lonely when my children shifted out after marriage,” said the beaming sexagenarian. Another greypreneur, 70-year-old Chanchal Arora, said she enjoyed knitting for her loved ones and had never thought that she could make money from her passion. “Over the past decades, I have made sweaters and gloves for my children and they loved it. When Asha got in touch with me, I was more than happy to come on board. My mind used to be preoccupied with a lot of negative thoughts. But now I find myself so engrossed with work that I don’t get the time to think of anything else,” she added. The team has customers from across the globe and recently they dispatched 15 items abroad. “Age is just a number and cannot deter me from making my granddaughter’s dream business a success. Everyone works above expectations, which is why it won’t be wrong to call them my dream team,” Puri said. Neeru Sondhi, Puri’s 54-year-old daughter, also came on board to help her mother and daughter in the venture. “Our team consists of 12 women and a man. We are expanding this venture one day at a time. People relate to our brand more because of the personalised touch in every product,” she said. Another team member, 72-year-old Suman, said, “I feel just like a youngster starting a new job. The thought of our sweaters spreading warmth to strangers fills my heart with joy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/that-70s-show-how-greypreneurs-are-knitting-a-whole-new-career/articleshow/78325256.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Farmers protest against agriculture bills peacefully||Nashik/Kolhapur: The agitation against the passage of farms bills passed off peacefully in most places.In the Nashik division, including Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts, farmers, led by political and social organisations, presented memorandums to the revenue officials. The call for agitation given by the Leftist organisations to condemn the farm bills, witnessed a fair response in the areas dominated by these organisations. The agitation, however, was lukewarm in other places. “Barring two incidents of the rasta roko — one each in Ahmednagar and Jalgaon — there was no other incident in the entire region. The farmers agitated in a peaceful manner,” Pratap Dighavkar, the special inspector-general, Nashik range, said. The agitation saw the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana activists, led by Sandeep Jagtap and others, burning an effigy of the Central government. “The government is giving a red-carpet welcome to the traders in the agricultural sector and this will ruin the farmers,” said Jagtap. At Chandwad, about 300 farmers sought immediate withdrawal of the bills. “We met the tehsildar and presented the memorandum of the demands. It was a peaceful agitation and we ensured physical distancing,” said Shailesh Bachchav, one of the farmer leaders. The police said there was an attempt to block the road, but it was foiled. There were agitations in some talukas including Dindori, Kalwan, Surgana.In Jalgaon, the agitators, led by Pratibha Shinde, blocked the Mumbai-Agra highway on the Girna bridge to stage a protest. Several organisations came together for the agitation that disrupted the traffic on the highway for some time. The police quickly swung into action and whisked away the agitators, who were detained after cases were registered against them. Similarly, there were agitations in Akole, Shevgaon and Ahmednagar where rasta rokos were organised by the agitators at Kotwali near Ahmednagar city. The agitations were also witnessed in Nandurbar district.The business in the agriculture produce market committees continued as usual though few farmers agitated outside some of the committees. “Business and trade began on a peaceful note in the morning. There were no disruptions,” an official at the Lasalgaon APMC said. Centre looking to privatise Nafed, FCI: Raju ShettiIn Kolhapur, farmers’ leader and former MP Raju Shetti accused the Centre of trying to privatise National Agriculture Cooperative Federation (Nafed) and Food Corporation of India (FCI). Shetti, taking part in the nationwide protest, burnt copies of the farm bills. Several other organisations in the region were also out on streets in support of the farmers demanding withdrawing of the bills. Shetti said, “The Centre in on a spree to sell government companies. With these anti-farmer bills, the corporates will dictate the prices of the farm produce. The government is going to privatise Nafed and FCI. Though there is no law to buy farm produce at minimum support price (MSP), these two agencies buy the farm produce at MSP. The government is planning to privatise these two government agencies as the corporates are eyeing the godowns and infrastructure of Nafed and FCI across the country. We will support the bills, if government passes a law stating that no farm produce should be bought below MSP.”Shetti pointed out when Narendra Modi was a chief minister, he had written to the then Congress-led government to pass a law on mandatory MSP. “His intentions have now changed. His policies are destroying farmers,” said Shetti.Meanwhile, the Sangli district administration had issued prohibitory orders to quell the protest. However at some places in the district, roads were blocked, but mainly by the workers of farmers’ outfits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-protest-against-agriculture-bills-peacefully/articleshow/78321149.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 26, 2020||Surat||Fire at ONGC revives safety concerns at Surat airport||SURAT: The major blast in the gas pipeline of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation’s (ONGC) Hazira plant has once again raised concerns over the safety of flight operations and the extension of the runway at the Surat airport. The reason being: the 36-inch gas pipeline of ONGC where the blast occurred due to leakage passes about 250 metre away from the runway. While the 42-inch pipeline is laid nearly 350 metres from the runway. The ONGC had carried out a survey in December 2019 for gauging the possibilities for removal of these buried gas pipeline passing close to the airport runway, which are a major hindrance in the runway extension project and for safe flight operations. Even after nine months of the completion of the survey, the ONGC authorities are yet to give the report to the Airports Authority of India (AAI). This information was given to the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) during meeting held last month by Surat airport director Aman Saini. However, the chairman of AAC desired that the ONGC representative to be invited in the next AAC meeting with the current status report on the survey. According to sources, during the course of the survey, various testing including soil testing, wind direction, drilling test, vibration test etc. were conducted by ONGC. Sources said that the ONGC had proposed to construct a culvert, which will be a concrete structure, to cover the buried gas pipeline at the Dumas end of the runway. The culvert will have the capacity to handle more than 140 tonnes per square metre weight, which is enough for the wide-bodied aircraft for landing and take-off. Both the 36-inch and 42-inch South Bassein Hazira Trunk (SBHT) pipelines were laid in the year 1985 and 1996 respective to transport sour dry natural gas from Bassein Platform A (BPA) and Bassein Platform B (BPB) offshore process platforms to an onshore gas processing plant located at Hazira in Surat. ONGC had earlier raised concerns for the safe operation of both the pipelines due to proximity of runway of Surat airport located at Magdalla, which has undergone extension from 1,400 meters to 2,250 meters towards the route of the 42-inches pipeline in the south-east the direction in 2007 and from 2,250 meters to 2,905 meters towards 36-inches pipeline in the north-west direction in the year 2015-16. Meanwhile, president of Surat Airport Action Committee (SAAC), Sanjay Ezhava has filed a complaint with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas for taking appropriate measures for re-routing and shifting of the soar gas pipeline of ONGC passing near the Surat airport runway on Friday. “The gas pipelines of ONGC could lead to a big accident at Surat airport. It is in the interest of the safe flight operations and passenger safety that the pipelines be shifted at the earliest,” said Ezhava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-at-ongc-revives-safety-concerns-at-surat-airport/articleshow/78323459.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Kota man booked for raping daughter||KOTA: A 23-year-old woman from Kota lodged a case of rape against her father, a loco pilot in Indian railways in Kota, at the Bhimganjmandi police station on Thursday. The police booked the accused under Sections of IPC and Pocso Act and detained him for interrogation on Friday. Police have sent the survivor for medical examination and issued summons for recording her statement under 164 of CrPC before the magistrate on September 28. In the report received through post on Thursday, the survivor has accused her father of repeatedly raping her for the last 10 years at her house in Kota and at places where she studied, said sub-inspector at Bhimganjmandi police station Chetan Sharma, who is investigating the case. The accused even attempted to molest his younger daughter several times while teasing her objectionably, she alleged and said her mother, despite knowing about the sexual harassment of the daughters, was helpless as she was also subjected to domestic violence and harassment, SI said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-booked-for-raping-daughter/articleshow/78325233.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One held for attempting to rape minor in Alwar||ALWAR: A 47-year-old man was arrested in Alwar’s Neemrana police station area for attempting to rape a 4-year-old girl of Nepalese origin. DSP Neemrana, Lokesh Meena said, “The accused stayed in the same building as the child’s family who are migrant workers. On Thursday, the accused saw the girl while she was playing on the terrace and took her to his room with alleged intention to sexually assault her.” The minor girl, however, was saved when her mother found her with accused when she went to look for the child. The accused absconded from the spot, but was arrested by the cops on Thursday late night. The girl’s medical examination was done by a three-member panel. A case under Pocso Act was registered against the accused who was the caretaker of the building where they all stayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-held-for-attempting-to-rape-minor/articleshow/78325211.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Green activists write to govt over jumbo deaths at Hathigaon||JAIPUJR: Green activists have written to government officials following the death of four elephants in Hathigaon in the last few months. The activists alleged that the jumbos at Hathigaon, which are suffering from various ailments, are not being treated well. The staff and mahouts have refuted these claims and said the elephants underwent regular check-ups along with 24-hour vet at Hathigaon. The letter written by activist Mariam Abuhaideri from NGO Help In Suffering said, “Following the death of four elephants (numbers 24, 64, 99, and 132), I decided to visit Hathigaon and see for myself the condition of the elephants and to offer solutions where needed so we can avoid such unfortunate instances in future.” The letter also questioned the responsibility of the forest department towards the health and wellbeing of the animals. Meanwhile, vet and mahouts responsible for the health of the elephants refuted these claims. Dr Neeraj Shukla, who conducted the autopsy of the animals said, “The elephants had infection in the colons due to indigestion as they were not getting the same level of exercise as they did prior to lockdown. The elephants are medically checked twice a year by a board set up by the forest department.” The deceased elephants were all over 40 years old and the average life of an elephant is between 70 and 80 years though their working lives are till 60 years. “Owners of these animals treat the elephants as members of their own families. The claims of the elephants being ill-treated are completely false. The jumbos are source of our livelihood and we do everything possible to ensure that they remain healthy,” Balu Khan, officer bearer in Mahout Association at Hathigaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/green-activists-write-to-govt-over-jumbo-deaths-at-hathigaon/articleshow/78325227.cms||---
September 26, 2020||---||Will make major changes if back in saddle: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday welcomed the Election Commission’s decision to hold the assembly polls in three phases and promised many new things to the poor and youths of the state, if voted back to power. Addressing a press conference, Nitish said he would implement ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’. The JD(U) president also said it would be good to complete the election process before Diwali. He took the opportunity to promise mega skill centres in all the 38 districts and one tool room in all the nine divisions to provide necessary entrepreneurship training to the youths. He said more schemes for youths would be announced when the Saat Nischay Part-2 takes a final shape. If voted to power again, his government would open a separate skill and entrepreneurship development department under the ‘Yuva Shakti- Bihar Ki Pragati’programme, Nitish said, adding all ITIs and polytechnics would be brought under the new department. Under ‘Sashakt Mahila-Saksham Mahila’ programme, participation of women would be increased in all wings of the government by providing more quota and opportunities to them. He said women belonging to all social groups would be provided financial assistance of Rs10 lakh for entrepreneurship development. Its Rs5 lakh would be subsidy and rest Rs5 lakh as loan without interest on the pattern of the existing SC/ ST Udyami Yojana in the state. Nitish also said each woman graduate would be provided Rs50,000 in place of the existing Rs25,000. Similarly, an unmarried woman passing Intermediate examination would be provided Rs25,000 in place of the existing Rs10,000. Under the ‘Har Khet Ko Paani’, the state government would provide irrigation water to each farm land and solar street lights in each village. Besides, there would be solid and liquid waste management plants in each village. “More veterinary hospitals with modern facilities will be opened in villages to take care of ailing animals and pets,” Nitish said. Under ‘Swachh Shahar-Viksit Shahar’, there would be proper arrangements for treatment of solid and liquid waste to maintain cleanliness in the urban areas. Multi-storey buildings would be built in all municipal corporation or nagar panchayat areas to provide housing facilities to the urban poor. People living on footpaths would be provided necessary facilities of housing in such multi-storey buildings. Shelter homes with necessary modern facilities would be opened in urban areas for old-age people without own home. ‘Moksh Dam’ with the facility of electric crematorium would be set up at all important river fronts so that people get better facilities for performing the last rites of their near and dear ones. Besides, a storm water drainage system would be developed in all towns and cities so that there would be no problem of waterlogging in case of heavy rain. New roads would be constructed in rural areas to link the village roads with the nearby state and national highways, he said. Similarly, in urban areas, bypass roads would be constructed in all towns facing traffic jams. Sufficient number of flyovers would also be constructed in all district towns to make them congestion free. Nitish said necessary health facilities would be provided to all people by opening more hospitals in rural areas. He said more details of the programme would be announced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/will-make-major-changes-if-back-in-saddle-nitish/articleshow/78325264.cms||Madan Kumar
September 26, 2020||Patna||Will make major changes if back in saddle: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday welcomed the Election Commission’s decision to hold the assembly polls in three phases and promised many new things to the poor and youths of the state, if voted back to power. Addressing a press conference, Nitish said he would implement ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’. The JD(U) president also said it would be good to complete the election process before Diwali. He took the opportunity to promise mega skill centres in all the 38 districts and one tool room in all the nine divisions to provide necessary entrepreneurship training to the youths. He said more schemes for youths would be announced when the Saat Nischay Part-2 takes a final shape. If voted to power again, his government would open a separate skill and entrepreneurship development department under the ‘Yuva Shakti- Bihar Ki Pragati’programme, Nitish said, adding all ITIs and polytechnics would be brought under the new department. Under ‘Sashakt Mahila-Saksham Mahila’ programme, participation of women would be increased in all wings of the government by providing more quota and opportunities to them. He said women belonging to all social groups would be provided financial assistance of Rs10 lakh for entrepreneurship development. Its Rs5 lakh would be subsidy and rest Rs5 lakh as loan without interest on the pattern of the existing SC/ ST Udyami Yojana in the state. Nitish also said each woman graduate would be provided Rs50,000 in place of the existing Rs25,000. Similarly, an unmarried woman passing Intermediate examination would be provided Rs25,000 in place of the existing Rs10,000. Under the ‘Har Khet Ko Paani’, the state government would provide irrigation water to each farm land and solar street lights in each village. Besides, there would be solid and liquid waste management plants in each village. “More veterinary hospitals with modern facilities will be opened in villages to take care of ailing animals and pets,” Nitish said. Under ‘Swachh Shahar-Viksit Shahar’, there would be proper arrangements for treatment of solid and liquid waste to maintain cleanliness in the urban areas. Multi-storey buildings would be built in all municipal corporation or nagar panchayat areas to provide housing facilities to the urban poor. People living on footpaths would be provided necessary facilities of housing in such multi-storey buildings. Shelter homes with necessary modern facilities would be opened in urban areas for old-age people without own home. ‘Moksh Dam’ with the facility of electric crematorium would be set up at all important river fronts so that people get better facilities for performing the last rites of their near and dear ones. Besides, a storm water drainage system would be developed in all towns and cities so that there would be no problem of waterlogging in case of heavy rain. New roads would be constructed in rural areas to link the village roads with the nearby state and national highways, he said. Similarly, in urban areas, bypass roads would be constructed in all towns facing traffic jams. Sufficient number of flyovers would also be constructed in all district towns to make them congestion free. Nitish said necessary health facilities would be provided to all people by opening more hospitals in rural areas. He said more details of the programme would be announced later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-make-major-changes-if-back-in-saddle-nitish/articleshow/78328983.cms||Madan Kumar
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Last Mukundra big cat will be shifted to zoo||JAIPUR: Country’s third tiger reintroduction programme at the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) seems to have ended in a failure as the last surviving tigress, MT-4, will be shifted to the zoo, leaving the reserve ‘tiger-less’. As no signs of recovery could be noticed in the injured tigress MT-4, the forest department is contemplating shifting the tigress to the Kota zoo. Field director, MHTR, SR Yadav told TOI, “A team of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has been called to shift the tigress under its expertise. The tigress needs to be kept in captivity where X-rays and other tests can be done easily.” The tigress was tranquillised and treated for soft muscle tissue injury on left triceps and front paw on September 10, due to which it was limping. If the big cat does not recover it will be shifted to captivity for better healthcare. The tiger count, which had risen to six in June, including the newborns, is now down to zero, jeopardizing the reintroduction programme. Experts believe, this is a premature death of the tiger reserve in the state, which occurred due to poor management strategies which brought the situation back to square one. Activists refuted the territorial fight theory and suspected that the big cats died due to the disease caused by a virus or bacteria. Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist, said, “Timely intervention was required to learn the root causes after the death of two big cats earlier this year. Senior microbiologists and veterinary doctors should have been called at that time to collect the vital evidences. Territorial fighting theories weaved by the forest department were baseless and mislead the actual investigation.” As the forest department continues to grope in the dark about the actual reasons of the deaths, environmentalists have alleged that no proper investigation to find out the presence of the virus or any other disease was carried out in the reserve. As there might be presence of a virus, a detailed ground examination of the tiger reserve is also being demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/last-mukundra-big-cat-will-be-shifted-to-zoo/articleshow/78325237.cms||Ajay Singh
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizamabad byelection on October 9, result on October 12||HYDERABAD: Byeelection to the Nizamabad Local Authority Constituency (MLC) will be held on October 9. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced that polling will be held from 9am to 5pm and results will be declared on October 12. Model code of conduct will come into effect immediately in the constituency, the Commission said. The ECI had issued notification for fill up the vacancy on March 12, 2020 following the disqualification of sitting member R Bhoopathi Reddy. Three candidates, including former MP of Nizamabad and KCR’s daughter Kalwakuntla Kavitha from TRS, Vaddepally Subash Reddy from Congress and P Laxmi Narayana from BJP filed their nominations. The polling was supposed to be held on April 7, but the ECI postponed it for 45 days in view of rising number of coronavirus cases and nation-wide lockdown. “The commission has taken inputs from the chief electoral officer of Telangana and has now decided to conduct bye-election to the Nizamabad Local Authority’s constituency,” the ECI said. The elected candidate term ends in March 2022. In view of Covid-19, the ECI said during the polling, every person should wear a face mask and all entry areas of halls, rooms and premises should be sanitised. “The election authorities have to conduct thermal screening, and sanitisers should be made at all the locations and social distancing should be maintained as per the guidelines of the Centre and state government. Adequate number of vehicles should also be made available for movement of polling and security personnel,” Praful Awasthi, undersecretary of ECI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nzb-byelection-on-oct-9-result-on-oct-12/articleshow/78325251.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||‘Laboured’ bid to mop up revenue backfires||LUCKNOW: After a flood of complaints of faulty surveys by commissioned agencies, the state labour department was recently forced to put on hold a notice for the recovery of 'labour welfare cess' served on house owners in five districts. The recovery notices were to be served on those houses which had been constructed after 2009 in Lucknow, Kanpur, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. But agencies hired for the job in 2015-16 sent notices indiscriminately to even those who had constructed their houses well before 2009. It led to chaos and the labour department was overwhelmed by complaints. When some 'high and mighty' of the state bureaucracy and judiciary, too, were served these notices, the department was forced to take note of the commoners and an order was issued to put the recovery notices on hold. Principal secretary, labour, Suresh Chandra told TOI he has received complaints of faulty notices and advised the survey agencies for doing “due diligence” before serving any notice. In order to raise a corpus fund for the welfare of the construction labourers, the state in 2009 had passed an order that whosoever is constructing a building in municipal limits or within the purview of the development authorities or the UP Housing and Development Board ,the owner of the house will have to deposit 1% of the total cost of the building with the department in form of labour welfare cess. This corpus was to be used for the welfare of the construction labourers. In view of Corona-induced lockdown when the pressure to mop up revenue mounted, the department asked the agencies to expedite their survey work. Under pressure, they did an aerial survey of five cities and compared the present maps of these cities with the pre-2009 ones.Thereafter, notices were served for the recovery of taxes from the owners of the buildings which were spotted after 2009 during the aerial survey. Two of the labour department officers camped in western UP to supervise the recoveries. “It was a ridiculous exercise as the survey agencies did not confirm their findings with the municipal corporation, development authority or the UPPCL, to check whether my building had actually come up after 2009," said a retired IAS officer, who has also been served a notice for his Gomatinagar residence which was built in 2005. The notice served to him has been withdrawn after he approached the higher-ups in the department. However, there are thousands of people in five cities who have been slapped with similar notices despite owning houses which came up much before 2009. They are making rounds of the office of the labour inspector to withdraw the notice. The principal secretary, labour, said that the department was planning to get the construction of a house verified with the municipal, district and the development authorities. “We have decided not to carry out and expand this exercise to the entire state and would work on some other modes to implement it," he added. The five survey agencies hired for the job in 2015 were paid a huge sum -- Rs 14.6 crore for Lucknow, Rs 15.8 crore for Kanpur, Rs 18.4 crore for Meerut and Ghaziabad and Rs 13 crore for GB Nagar. The labour department has targeted ro recover about Rs 133 crore from Lucknow, Rs 70 crore from Kanpur, Rs 74 cr from Meeerut, Rs 34 crore from Ghaziabad and Rs 433 crore from GB Nagar. However, the actual recovery was between 2% (Ghaziabad) and 50% (Kanpur). "Some of these agencies do not even have experience and expertise for carrying out such a gigantic exercise," said the vice-chancellor of a university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/laboured-bid-to-mop-up-revenue-backfires/articleshow/78325990.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 26, 2020||Chennai||SPB: The man who took our breath away||CHENNAI: In the end, all the prayers – from friends, celebrities and fans alike – were not enough to bring the voice, loved by millions, back to life. Sripathi Panditharadhyula Balasubrahmanyam, with more than 40,000 songs in 16 languages to his credit in a career spanning almost five-and-a-half decades, has gone silent forever. He was 74. Balu for some, SPB for many, his was a voice for all seasons and all regions. With no formal training in classical singing, he went on to conquer the hearts of millions, even wowing connoisseurs of classical music. Making his debut in Telugu in 1966, he quickly added Kannada to his repertoire before going on to rule Tamil for decades. Malayalam naturally got appended to his versatility. By the late 1970s, SPB was literally running from one studio to another, belting out hit after super hit, as music composers waited patiently. Then came ‘Sankarabharanam’, a Telugu film directed by his cousin and Dada Saheb Phalke awardee K Viswanath. Tuned by K V Mahadevan, the songs for the movie, based on an ageing Carnatic singer, became the rage. The naturally gifted Balu, with a few lessons from M Balamuralikrishna, went on to win his first National Award for best male playback singer. The north was still sceptical. That changed in 1981, when director K Balachander’s ‘Ek Duuje Ke Liye’, remake of his own Telugu super hit ‘Maro Charithra’, marked the Bollywood debut for Kamal Haasan and SPB. The songs, tuned by Laxmikant-Pyarelal, became instant hits and won him his second National Award. ‘Sadma’ and ‘Saagar’ sustained SPB’s prowess, though Kamal moved back south. The arrival of Sooraj Barjatya and his ‘Maine Pyar Kiya’ in 1989 endeared SPB to the GenNext, while Barjatya’s next – ‘Hum Aapke Hain Koun’ – consolidated his status. “He is such a wonderful person, very versatile and unassuming. He would compliment people from the heart,” said 86-year old Mitta Janardan, who played the sitar for SPB’s very first song – in Telugu film ‘Sri Sri Mariyadha Ramanna’ (1966). “He has not changed in these many years and spoke to me as recently in June. He has actually become a better singer,” said Janardan, a disciple of maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar. SPB’s stint in Mumbai can be divided into the pre and post ‘Maine Pyar Kiya’ phases. During the first phase, his voice was used primarily for films starring actors from the south — like Kamal Haasan, Rajinikanth and Chiranjeevi — besides Dharmendra, Vinod Khanna and Jeetendra in remakes of films from south. The success of ‘Maine Pyar Kiya’ made him a permanent singer for Salman Khan in his early formative years, their combination being considered on a par with the Rajesh Khanna-Kishore Kumar pair. Most of SPB’s songs in the 1990s were for either Anand-Milind or Raamlaxman. Though many of them had Salman Khan in them, he sung for others too. SPB ruled Bombay (Mumbai) for almost a decade, sometimes recording 15-16 songs a day, a number which gradually reduced. In 2013, after a long hiatus, the legend made a comeback with the popular title song for ‘Chennai Express’ – ‘Nikal Na Jaaye Chennai Express’. But, Balu toh nikal gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-the-man-who-took-our-breath-away/articleshow/78323418.cms||D Govardan
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cops going slow on cases against lawmakers: FGG||HYDERABAD: Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has accused Telangana police of not cooperating with a special court trying criminal cases against MPs and MLAs. It has demanded the state government cooperate with the court for speedy disposal of cases against the lawmakers. Of 17 MPs in the state, 10 have cases pending against them, while 67 of the 119 MLAs are facing criminal cases. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said, “Some cases are 10 years old and heinous offences. In the Telangana cabinet, seven ministers, including the chief minister, have cases pending against them.” He alleged, “Though 300 cases are pending against MLAs and MPs, only 118 cases were transferred to the special court. Police are not cooperating with the court in prosecution and producing witnesses. Judicial officers said police inspectors are neither attending court nor producing witnesses.” The FGG secretary alleged that in majority of police stations, the station house officers (sub-inspectors or inspectors) were being appointed on the recommendation of local MLA or MP. “In such a situation, police officers will work in favour of the accused politicians and weaken the case. Conviction in these cases will not be possible,” he added. The Supreme Court ruling in cases against MLAs and MPs for quick disposal would not be implemented if state government and police department fail to cooperate with the special court trying these cases, he said. BJP MP Soyam Babu Rao has 52 cases against him, while Congress MP A Revanth Reddy 42. Similarly, BJP Telangana president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar is an accused in six criminal cases. Congress MLA Komatireddy Venkat Reddy faces 14 cases, TRS MP Nama Nageswara Rao and MIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi five cases each Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy and TRS MP BB Patel also have cases against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-going-slow-on-cases-against-lawmakers-fgg/articleshow/78325305.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Depression, anxiety among students amid fears careers may fail to launch||NEW DELHI: Bhanu Vishnoi had an elaborate plan post-graduation from Delhi University’s Kirori Mal College. The 21-year-old geography student had offers from three universities in the United Kingdom, but in March Covid-19 crossed the borders into India and his plans went for a toss. His foreign admission deferred to 2021, the disappointed Vishnoi is angst-ridden and confused today. Vishnoi is only one among thousands of youngsters whose mental health has been impacted by the pandemic. With admissions to foreign universities deferred, placement offers withdrawn, job openings closed, there aren't too many positives at the moment for the young graduates. “I was accepted at the universities of Manchester, Edinburgh and Leeds. On my request to defer my admission, Leeds has shifted me to the January intake and Edinburgh to September next year. It’s going to be a one-year gap,” Vishnoi gloomily told TOI over the phone from Jodhpur, Rajasthan. TimesViewCovid-19 has adversely impacted mental health globally. In today’s hypercompetitive world, students too are feeling the pressure. To minimise its effect, colleges should employ trained counsellors, and those that already do should enhance such facilities to cope with the increased load. Students should be actively encouraged to seek help.The youngster doesn’t have much to do at home — except add to his stress every day. “Everyone in the family is constantly giving me advice on what to do. My parents tell me to find a government job. I keep giving them reasons why I don’t want to do that. With no friends around, I am having a difficult time coping with life,” Vishnoi said. Had DU conducted the online open book examinations on time, a Hindu College student, who preferred not to be named, would have attended online classes in a US university. “If I was able to get the exam transcript by August 15, I could have begun my online classes,” he said. “Now everything is gone. There have been days when I haven’t slept worrying about my future. Hearing my parents pushing me every day to opt for the civil services exams is another headache.” To distract himself from his woes, he is interning at a law firm and volunteering as a teacher with an NGO. The pressure under which such students are living is well reflected in a survey conducted by International Labour Organisation titled ‘Youth & Covid-19: Impact on jobs, education, rights and mental well-being’. It established that 50% of people aged 18-29 years were flirting with anxiety and depression, 17% already having succumbed. An MBA student at Jamia Millia Islamia shared with TOI how Covid had affected him. Two years ago, when he started the MBA course, he was hopeful of a well-paying job. “Now I find there is no placement help from the university when it’s already tough to find employment in the current economic environment,” the young man said. “Many of my friends haven’t got hired because of the sudden demand for the few jobs being offered or because they cannot produce their university marksheets.” Unable to cope with the anxiety, he had to seek professional help. Journalism student Nameera Nawaz too needed professional help, but didn't have the money to go through it. She chose instead to return to Delhi since staying jobless at home in Meerut was taking a mental toll on her. “After spending so much money and time, we are in a situation where there are no jobs available. My search every day ends in nil success,” mumbled Nawaz. Her friend Manisha Gulati, who too graduated from Jamia, felt that a job would have been a liberating experience for her. “There is a lot of pressure at home. Parents aren’t always understanding,” Gulati said. “A job would have been a way to leave home and be independent, physically and financially. Now I am burdened with worries about my career.” Naved Iqbal, a student in Jamia’s psychology department, noted how concerns have changed over the months. “At the start of the pandemic, students were worried about getting infected by the novel coronavirus. Now, when they realise how much the economy has been affected, the students are tense about whether they will ever be employed,” said Iqbal. Medical students face the most apprehensions in this period. Satendra Singh, who teaches at University College of Medical Sciences, said, “The undergraduate students went home, but the postgraduates and residents had to be in the frontline against Covid. Their daily fears were about safety (PPE kits) and transport. Interns with comorbidities like diabetes felt vulnerable.” The undergrads also worried about safety on returning to college even as online lecture fatigue took a mental toll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/depression-anxiety-among-students-amid-fears-careers-may-fail-to-launch/articleshow/78325279.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 3,827 new Covid-19 cases, red zones up to 2,124||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 3,827 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking its tally to over 2.64 lakh, while 24 fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,147. The city’s infection tally stands at 2,64,450, while there are 30,867 active cases. There are a total of 2,124 containment zones in the national capital. Health minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with medical directors and superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing. A total of 59,134 tests were conducted the previous day, officials said, adding that of the total tests 20% were done using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 80% tests involved Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). “The case positivity rate in Delhi is 6.47% at present,” said an official. In the last one month, the active cases have more than doubled – in the last 25 days, Delhi has reported more than 88,000 new cases of Covid-19 averaging nearly 3,500 cases daily. The number of active cases in the state, which stood at 14,626 on August 31, has gone up 30,867. The impact of increase in active cases is clearly reflected in the increased rate of occupancy of hospital beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in Delhi. Latest data shows 6,919 (44%) out of 15,797 Covid beds are occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds with a ventilator and without ventilator is 63% and 77% respectively. Total 18,096 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3827-new-cases-red-zones-up-to-2124/articleshow/78325318.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 patients selling bhaji-pav’||VADODARA: A councillor of the opposition Congress sparked a major concern by alleging that Covid-19 patients were moving around freely. Congress councillor Jaha Desai, from the ward one, of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) claimed in a recent general board meeting that a man who had a bhaji-pav outlet and a handcart selling pani-puri in the Chhani Jakatnaka and Chhani had tested positive for Covid-19 recently. He claimed that this man went to his outlets despite testing positive. “I have also received a complaint about a Covid-19 patient who used to go to buy vegetables and other necessities regularly himself. There is no system in place to keep a check on such persons,” Desai added. VMC’s medical officer (health), Dr Devesh Patel, said that with the large number of cases in the city, it was not possible to keep a watch on such persons. “Patients have to be responsible and those staying around should remain alert. The police can also take action if it gets specific complaints,” he said. Desai’s election ward has not only witnessed a large number of Covid-19 cases, three of the four corporators elected from the ward too have tested positive. Desai is the only elected representative from the ward who has not tested positive so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ncov-patients-selling-bhaji-pav/articleshow/78322447.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Panchkula: Diabetic man dies, 157 down with disease||PANCHKULA: A man died of Covid-19 and 157 tested positive in Panchkula on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the 49-year-old man, a resident of Bir Ghaghar, Panchkula, was suffering from acute diabetes. Of the 157 positive cases, 15 are from Sector 20, 13 from Sector 15, 9 from Pinjore, 8 from MDC-5, 6 from Sector 21, five cases each from sectors 8, 16 and 17, four cases each from sectors 7, 10, 19, 25 and Kalka, three cases from MDC-4, two cases each from Sector 6, 11, 12, 26 and 28, and one each from Bir Ghaggar, Karanpur, Kot, Marranwala, MDC-6, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, sectors 2, 18, 24 and 27. Panchkula’s toll tally has reached 77 and the case count now stands at 5,550.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pkl-diabetic-man-dies-157-down-with-disease/articleshow/78322201.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Team sent to retrieve bodies of Maoists on HC order||Hyderabad: To implement the high court order to retrieve the dead bodies of three Communist Party of India (Maoists) to perform re-post mortem examination, Bhadradri-Kothagudem police have sent different teams of policemen into the interior forest area to bring the dead bodies. Fearing the risk of Maoists attacking the police, utmost care is being taken by police to reach out the interior places with the support of armed Greyhounds commandos, since there is no proper road connectivity to those tribal villages. The three Maoists who died during exchange of fire were identified as Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) commander Sodi Jogaiah, 25, a resident of Krishnarampadu of Charla, Dalam member Mandakam Malli, 22, a resident of Chennapuram and LGS member Mandakam Mangi, 24, a resident of Kuknoor in East Godavari of Andhra Pradesh. After the encounter, police handed over the dead bodies to their respective families and they took it to their villages. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/team-sent-to-retrieve-bodies-of-maoists-on-hc-order/articleshow/78325317.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Will your web series not prejudice trial courts: High court asks Netflix||HYDERABAD: The two judges who saw the episode of Netflix series ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ based on Satyam Computers’ founder chairman B Ramalinga Raju said that they noted that the filmmakers used Raju’s quotation that he was “riding a tiger not knowing when to get off”. “You have used this in your title too,” the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy said, addressing senior counsel Neeraj Kishan Kaul, who was arguing the case of Netflix seeking permission to release the documentary on their OTT platform. Kaul argued at length against curbing freedom of speech of the creative writers and directors and said that courts have ruled against pre-release hurdles or pre-publication injunctions. “This will have a chilling effect because creative people get discouraged if there are threats of criminal and civil actions on expression and free speech. This is a case that resulted in a conviction based on Raju’s own confession and hence the question of we defaming him does not arise. He also spoke about books on published on Ramalinga Raju’s life. “Several such material was available in the public domain and we used such material,” he said. The bench told him that the conviction order was pronounced by a trial court that heard the main criminal case filed by the CBI. “But we were told that the cases pertaining to Sebi, IT and ED are still pending. Will not your film prejudice the minds of presiding officers of these trial courts?” the bench asked. Kaul said that he was aware of only the criminal court’s judgement and the material that was available in the public domain. “I am not aware of other proceedings or their current status,” he added. According to Kaul, Raju’s main objections to the release of the film are that he was not aware of the Netflix entry into picture, nor was he aware of the title of the documentary that branded him as ‘bad boy billionaire’. Kaul said the filmmakers interacted with Raju’s men and they were shown the details. “They saw the title and asked the filmmakers to balance both good and bad in their film but never asked them to stop the film production,” he said. The case will come up next week again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-your-web-series-not-prejudice-trial-courts-high-court-asks-netflix/articleshow/78323528.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 26, 2020||Goa||Poor demand sees fishermen avoid tuna catch||Panaji: Owing to the poor response received for tuna from the markets in Kerala, some fishermen have started to avoid catching this fish. Due to lack of interest among Goan consumers, this fish species is usually exported to Kerala. “This is the season for tuna catch, but since Goans don’t consume it much, we sell it through agents to Kerala. The rates of tuna have fallen drastically over the past few days as a result of which, we are not even able to cover the fuel cost of the vessels,” general secretary of the All Goa Purse Seine Boat Owners’ Association, Sebastiao Cardozo, said. The fish which would otherwise be sold to the Kerala market at Rs 100 per kg is now going at Rs 40. Moreover, with some of the fish markets closed in Kerala because of the pandemic, some agents are hesitant to accept large quantities of tunato be sold in the southern state, he said. “Each of our agents has 10 to 12 vehicles of fish stranded in Kerala. We are therefore forced to bring down the price and sell it for Rs 40 per kg. To avoid further loss, we have decided not to catch tuna as of now,” Cardozo added. Some fishermen, however, said that they may continue to catch the fish irrespective of the challenges. “The rates have lowered but that will not deter fishermen from netting the fish. We are handing the catch directly to the agents,” president of Cutbona Boat Owners Association, Savio D’Silva, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poor-demand-sees-fishermen-avoid-tuna-catch/articleshow/78325346.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 3.5 lakh security personnel to man election||PATNA: The state would require an estimated 3.5 lakh paramilitary and other reserve force personnel to conduct the assembly election in Bihar, which are to be held in three phases, according to state police headquarters. This would be the first time that such a massive deployment is estimated to be required due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is estimated to be more than three times the size of forces deployed in the five-phase assembly election conducted in 2015, as per police sources. A senior IPS officer, preferring anonymity, said several factors have changed drastically due to which the count of the requirement of force went up. “A presentation was given before ECI authorities on the count of forces required if polls are conducted in one, two, three or even in seven phases. The estimated requirement for the three-phased poll was around 3500 paramilitary companies which turn out to be around 3.5 lakh personnel. The actual decision on allocation is to be taken by MHA,” he said. He said authorities have been requested is to provide 10% additional paramilitary of the total required strength so that they could be kept as a reserve. “The concept is that they would be roped in as replacement if those in active duty are required to be isolated or quarantined in case of Covid-19 infection,” he said. Meanwhile, another headquarters source said that the count of polling stations has gone up from 65,367 which were in 2015 assembly election to 106526 in 2020 assembly election. "This massive increase in polling station due to the majorly for maintaining social distancing due to the overall scenario of Covid-19 has resulted that force requirement has gone up tremendously. Another factor is that a large number of districts would be going in polling at a time due to mere three phases,” a senior police officer said. Also, all 16 revenue districts affected with left-wing extremism, would go for polling together in the first phase which would also require, reinforced deployments, he added. In addition to the paramilitary deployment, state police strength is also around one lakh which would be used in three phases. As per headquarters sources, DG (Bihar military police) RS Bhatti had already got the strength of companies deployed in fields completed so that they can be mobilised as per need. MHA sources said that 726 companies of paramilitary and other reserve police forces, which turns to roughly around 72600 personnel, were required in 2015 assembly election held in five phases. In 2014 general election, the count of para-military forces infused in Bihar was 163.2 companies which are around of 16300 personnel while in 2019 general election, the state government has placed requirement of 180 companies or 18000 personnel of paramilitary forces held in seven phases. A monetary allocation of around Rs 122.37 crore has already been prepared by the state election department to meet all requirements of the CAPF deployment for the upcoming assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-5l-security-personnel-to-man-election/articleshow/78325313.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 26, 2020||Amritsar||Canada shifts bearded Sikh cops from frontline to desk duty, sparks row||AMRITSAR: A section of Sikhs in Canada has questioned the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) for allegedly removing bearded Sikh policemen from frontline policing and putting them on desk duties. World Sikh Organisation of Canada (WSOC) legal counsel Balpreet Singh told TOI, “The officers have been off frontline policing duties since March 31 due to their religiously mandated facial hair, as the RCMP says the N100 mask does not seal their facial hair.” He claimed wearing the mask is not mandatory and is left to the frontline officers’ discretion and becomes necessary only after an assessment of risk factors. Canadian Sikh body president Tejinder Singh Sidhu said the RCMP is the only police force in Canada that has refused to accommodate bearded Sikh officers. Stating that taking the Sikh officers off the frontlines is inappropriate and amounts to discrimination, Tejinder said they have tried to assist the affected RCMP officers and advocate on their behalf, but there is no response from the federal government. “The discrimination must end immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/canada-shifts-bearded-sikh-cops-from-frontline-to-desk-duty-sparks-row/articleshow/78325316.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Six succumb to Covid-19, 237 test positive in Mohali||MOHALI: Six patients died of Covid-19, 237 tested positive and 326 recovered in Mohali on Friday.  Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the casualties included a 70-year-old woman of Laru; a 50-year-old man of Banur; a 65-year-old diabetic woman of Issapur; a 57-year-old man of Mubarakpur; a 61-year-old woman from Kharar; and a 59-year-old man of Nayagaon with liver infection. The 237 positive cases included 77 from Mohali urban, 46 from Kharar, 40 from Gharuan, 37 from Dhakoli, 19 from Derabassi, three from Boothgarh, six from Kurali and five from Lalru. Mohali case count has risen to 9,368, including 2,603 active cases. To date, 6,586 patients have been cured and discharged. The district’s toll tally is 179.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-die-237-ve-326-recover-in-mohali/articleshow/78322208.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 claims woman’s life, leaves 244 infected in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: A 55-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, died in the city on Friday. The woman was a resident of Sector 56. The day also saw 335 patients getting cured and 244 testing positive. The recovery rate now stands at 77.38%.  Of the 244 new cases, 24 were from Manimajra, eight each from Sector 20 and Mauli Jagran and seven each from sectors 23, 39 and 40. The Chandigarh case count has mounted to 11,212, including 2,390 active cases, and the toll tally to 145. To date, 8,677 patients have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-claims-womans-life-leaves-244-infected-in-city/articleshow/78322203.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Platform by 18-year-old links employers with workers||LUCKNOW: A social impact venture by an 18-year-old commerce student has become a platform for connecting migrant workers with prospective employers to reduce the rate of unemployment in the current times of Covid-19. Launched by Akshat Mittal in June, Bharat Shramik is a Noida-based pan-India platform which has got more than 40,000 labourers registered in its database from all over the country. “About 500 might have got jobs also. We were not tracking this number initially,” said Akshat. “There was so much written about labourers going back to their home towns and walking on foot but the real problem was them losing jobs. I was shocked by the great labour crisis. There were factories and entrepreneurs restarting work but labourers had migrated. That was why I started Bharat Shramik,” he further said. While both unemployed workers and employers might be in the same area, they might not know about each other. Bharat Shramik acts as a connect between the two, using a simple multilingual IVR call-based registration process for workers through helpline number 8822022022 and a website for employers where they can search for suitable workers in their area. Employers can register on Bharat Shramik portal. More than 700 employers have registered themselves on the website. While employers are charged for premium services, basic services are offered for free. “We are partnering with various NGOs. Companies like L&T and NBCC have shown interest in Bharat Shramik and given us their requirement of workers,” said Akshat, who got guidance from his father Ashish Mittal, a startup mentor. Akshat’s first venture was at the age of 13. Called Odd-Even.com, it was acquired by carpool App Orahi later. With that, he became one of the youngest entrepreneurs in the world. “My aim is to make Bharat Shramik the largest platform for hiring blue-collar workers. The unorganised sector has never got such a platform before,” he added. Though the government is yet to acknowledge his effort, a few government officers have helped him. MLA from Odisha Rohit Pujari had also sought his help to aid labourers in his constituency in finding work. The database of Bharat Shramik has details of construction workers, drivers, cooks, daily wagers and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/platform-by-18-yr-old-links-employers-with-workers/articleshow/78326012.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Two from courier firm steal 60 phones, booked||LUDHIANA: The Salem Tabri police on Thursday booked two drivers of a courier company for allegedly stealing from its office 60 mobile phones that were to be delivered to customers. The accused have been identified as Ashok Kumar of Rohtak and Lallan Kumar of New Delhi. In his complaint to the police, Jagmohan Singh of New Vijay Nagar, who is manager at Blue Dart Express office at Jalandhar Bypass, said they had hired driver Ashok Kumar through Didar Transport Company, New Delhi. Ashok had started stealing valuables from the office and in March, they came to know of it and complained to the transport company, which sent Lallan as his replacement. Jagmohan alleged that soon after joining, Lallan started stealing mobile phones in cahoots with Ashok. The accused stole more than 60 mobile phones and other valuables from the office that were supposed to be delivered to customers, the manager alleged. Investigating officer from Salem Tabri police station ASI Jatinder Kumar said a casehas been registered against the accused and a hunt was on to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-from-courier-firm-steal-60-phones-booked/articleshow/78325320.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 280 crore push to skill development programme under the livelihood mission in UP||LUCKNOW: The Centre and the state have come together to make a fresh budgetary push of over Rs 280 crore to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay skill development programme under the state rural livelihood mission (SRLM). The mission has attained the status of being the key driving force in provisioning jobs for migrants who returned to the state following the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In a communique sent to rural development commissioner K Ravindra Naik, the rural development department has said that the state government has decided to release a grant of Rs 81 crore against Rs 122 crore released by the Centre. In fact, the Centre’s contribution amounts to 60% of the total funds allocated to the programme. Likewise, the Centre and the state government have released a sum of Rs 51 crore and Rs 34 crore, respectively to train people of the SC/ST category. SRLM has contributed majorly in providing jobs to migrants, especially women, through formation of self-help groups (SHGs). Officials said that the fresh budgetary allocation would help the state government in meeting the demands of the SHGs and executing various schemes under the mission. The total budgetary sum has been kept at the disposal of the rural development commissioner and the mission director of SRLM, who happen to be the key nodal officers in implementing rural employment and other development schemes in the rural precincts. The order stated that the released amount would not be used in one go but in phases as per the need. It further said that the funds may be spent as per the UP budget manual and financial handbook. Also, they may be used only after being authorised by a designated authority. The works done and the targets achieved with the help of these funds would be attested by rural development commissioner and the mission director of SRLM. The two officers would also be accountable for obtaining fund utilisation certificates. They would also be responsible for adjusting the interest incurred on the funds, if they are kept in any bank account. The department has also been asked to purchase material and equipment as per the rules laid down by the state government from time to time. At the same time, the department would be required to ensure that the works backed by the said budgetary allocation are not done from any other source. This, the order said, should be done to avoid duplicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-280-cr-push-to-skill-development-programme-under-the-livelihood-mission/articleshow/78326023.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||67% ‘Nirbhaya Fund’ unspent in Chandigarh||Chandigarh: The UT administration has utilised only 33% of ‘Nirbhaya Fund’, funds which were allotted for implementation of initiatives aimed at enhancing the safety and security of women in the country. In response to a question in Lok Sabha, women and child development minister Smriti Irani gave out state and UT-wise data of release and utilisation of the fund. The administration till date was allotted Rs 10.78 crore but utilised only Rs 3.61 crore. After the Delhi gang rape shook the nation in 2012, the Centre had announced a dedicated fund in its budget in 2013 aimed at enhancing the safety and security of women in the country. Under the fund, the proposed projects should have the features like direct impact on safety and security concerns of women. A senior UT official said the Nirbhaya Fund was established for supporting projects specifically designed to improve the safety and security of women. It is a non-lapsable corpus fund, administered by the department of economic affairs of the ministry of finance. The schemes and projects under the fund are either directly implemented by the ministries or departments of central government or through their implementing agencies, state governments and UT administrations, he added. Chandigarh was sanctioned budget under five schemes — Emergency Response Support System, Cyber Crime Prevention against Women & Children, One Stop Centre Scheme, Universalisation of Women Helpline Scheme and Central Victim Compensation Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/67-nirbhaya-fund-unspent-in-ut/articleshow/78322246.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 90 fresh cases in Ambala||AMBALA: Two people died of Covid-19 here on Friday, increasing the toll to 86, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “The two victims are a 56-year-old woman from Baldev Nagar, Ambala city, having diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease, and thyroid and she was kept on oxygen support and a 68-year-old man of Swamiya Mohalla, Ambala city, having diabetes and he was on a BiPAP support. Ambala's mortality rate is 1.12%”, said Dr Singh. “Ambala reported 90 fresh cases on Friday, increasing the tally to 7,579 with 1,121 active cases. As many as 33 cases were from Ambala city, 29 from Ambala Cantt, 12 from Chourmastpur, 11 from Naraingarh, two each from Barara and Mullana, and one from Shahzadpur,” said Dr Singh. As many as record 254 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 6,372 with the recovery rate of 84.07%, he said. “So far, we have collected 89,972 samples for Covid-19 testing in Ambala, of which, 70,293 are RT-PCR samples and 19,679 are antigen testing kit samples. In the district, we have collected 79,762 samples per 10 lakh population”, said Dr Singh. Meanwhile, two applications developed with the efforts of district administration and health department were launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-deaths-90-fresh-cases-in-ambala/articleshow/78322222.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||ED restrained from inspecting Punjab CM, son’s income tax records||LUDHIANA: A Ludhiana court on Friday stayed a lower court order allowing the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect some fresh records filed by the income tax department in three alleged tax evasion cases against Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh. On September 18, the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh while allowing an ED application had permitted the economic intelligence agency to inspect the fresh I-T records related to the cases of CM and his son on September 28. But, the court of additional district and sessions judge Atul Kasana on Friday admitted a revised petition by Raninder Singh against the lower court order and restrained the ED from inspecting the said I-T records. The court has adjourned the matter for October 1. Gurmukh Singh, the counsel for Raninder Singh, in the revised petition filed for the CM and his son against the lower court order, has argued that the September 18 order had been passed in contravention of the settled provisions of law. He said the ED is not even a party to the criminal complaint and as such, it has no locus standi to move such an application and that it adversely affects the rights of the revisionist. The counsel for Raninder also submitted that not even a notice was issued to the complainant prior to allowing the application in question, based on which the impugned order was passed. In an application filed by the ED in the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh, the agency had pleaded that it be allowed to inspect the documents filed by the I-T department in all the three ongoing cases against Amarinder Singh and Raninder Singh. In the application, the agency had contended that since the subject matter comes within the ambit of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999, it is authorised to investigate it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ed-restrained-from-inspecting-capt-sons-i-t-records/articleshow/78325322.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists call for Telangana bandh on September 28||HYDERABAD: CPI (Maoist) Party has called for Telangana bandh on September 28 in protest against recent killings of party workers. Eight Maoists were killed this month in the state in exchange of fire with police. On Friday, Maoist party’s Telangana state committee spokesperson Jagan issued a statement calling the encounters in Bhadradri Kothagudem and Asifabad district as fake. Condemning the encounter killings, the Maoist party leader called for a statewide bandh on September 28. Jagan demanded a judicial probe into the encounters and stringent punishment for politicians and police personnel involved. As per the statement of the Maoist party spokesperson, the eight Maoists, were picked up by police when they were meeting villagers or going to hospital for medical treatment and then killed after subjecting them to torture. The spokesperson also alleged that Greyhounds sub-inspector Aditya Sai Kumar, who according to police had died in AK-47 misfire during a combing operation in Channapuram forest area of Bhadradri Kothagudem district, was indeed a casualty of friendly fire from colleagues. However, Bhadradri Kothagudem police dismissed the allegations of Maoist party leaders as rubbish saying the SI lost his life when his trigger accidentally went off when he skidded while climbing down from a hillock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-call-for-state-bandh-on-september-28/articleshow/78326019.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Eying Rs 123 crore, civic body earns just Rs 99 crore in 5 months||CHANDIGARH: Cash-strapped municipal corporation (MC) has suffered a loss of Rs 24.41 crore from its own revenue resources in the first five months of the financial year, managing to earn Rs 99.24 crore out of projected Rs 123.66 crore till August 31. The accounts department of the civic body prepared the data to assess the financial position of the authority, submitting it to senior officers to take decisions by keeping all aspects, mainly committed liabilities, in mind. The finance department has already reduced the announced grant in aid (GIA) to the MC, making it tougher for it to meet its basic committed expenses. The report said the civic body has suffered losses in the departments of public health wing of the engineering department, booking branch, road, estate, sanitation wing, vendor cell, enforcement wing, fire department, Manimajra sub-office and horticulture. All these departments deal with direct public dealing – considered to major revenue earners. “It is a fact the MC has suffered a major financial loss during the first five months of the current financial year and it is all because of the coronavirus pandemic. The departments from where we earn good money were badly hit. We were unable to pressurise them because of genuine reasons, as all business and commercial establishments were earlier closed and are now moving at snail's pace due to the pandemic. The situation is not going to improve in the coming months. The civic body really needs additional money,” sources in the MC said. The civic body in its budget had kept Rs 296.79 crore from its own revenue receipt segments before starting of the current financial year in April. Sources said forget meeting the target, the MC will not be able to even come close to it, suggesting it will have to look for other means if it wants to run the civic body. Will ask UT for aid again: YadavMunicipal commissioner K K Yadav said they were trying their level-best to generate maximum revenue but unable to do much owing to multiple reasons. “We are largely depending on grant in aid by the UT administration. Since the financial condition of the MC is bad, we will again pursue our case for GIA before the administration, so that works related to public welfare at least can be done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/eyes-rs-123cr-mc-earns-just-rs-99cr-in-5-months/articleshow/78322240.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 26, 2020||Delhi||High-security plates: Web of requirements removed||NEW DELHI: The decision of Delhi government’s transport department to crack down on cars without high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers from next month has resulted in the number of people applying for HSRP going up from 200-250 a day to 3,000 bookings now. With many users complaining of technical glitches, the process of booking a slot for affixation of HSRP has, meanwhile, been shortened. Car owners, for the time being, will not need to upload scanned images of documents. OTP also will not be required. A public notice by the department on Tuesday had left a large number of car owners in a quandary over how to get a HSRP and colour-coded fuel sticker affixed. There are approximately 40 lakh vehicles in the city, registered before 2012, that don’t have HSRP and the number of cars that have fuel stickers is only around 3.5 lakh. The transport department has authorised 236 vehicle dealers in the city for affixation of HSRP and fuel stickers, for which the latter have tied up with approved vendors and created the website where slots can be booked - www.bookmyhsrp.com. Most car owners who have been trying to book a slot said that they have been unable to upload images of documents proving vehicle ownership and identity, while others said they didn’t receive an OTP after uploading documents, which is required to make payment and get slot confirmation. With an increase in the number of people trying to book slots, the requirement to upload documents and get an OTP has been done away with for the time being to cater to increased demand and ensure slots can be booked within one or two minutes. “However, the chassis number and engine number are required to be entered and it is highly recommended to keep the registration certificate (RC) and credit card, debit card, internet banking or UPI details in hand while making the booking,” said a spokesperson of Rosmerta Security Systems Private Limited, which is authorised to make HSRP and fuel stickers. “Vehicles already having valid HSRP can register for getting the colour-coded sticker at a cost of Rs100,” he said, adding that booking would start from September 28, Monday. “Vehicles registered in other states will have to get HSRP through authorised dealers of the brand of their vehicle in respective states,” he said. It takes 4-5 days for making the HSRP, which is delivered to the vehicle dealer, he said, adding that the customer has to go just once to the dealer during slotted time and get the HSRP affixed. “The process doesn’t take more than 30 minutes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-security-plates-web-of-requirements-removed/articleshow/78325341.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University admission 2020: 1st cutoff list on Oct 12, classes to begin from Nov 18||NEW DELHI: The undergraduate admissions at Delhi University will begin with the release of the first cutoff list on October 12. In a notification on the admission dates for merit- and entrance-based admissions, DU has also announced that the next academic session will begin on November 18. Admissions against each of the five cutoffs will take place in three days and continue till the beginning of the session. The university will conduct a special cutoff drive for reserved-category candidates from November 18 to 20. The entrance-based UG admissions will begin on October 19 and continue till November 13. Classes for postgraduate students will also begin on November 18, while the PG admissions will be held from October 26 to November 13. The university has been allowing applicants to edit their forms since September 12 and it will go on till October 5. In the wake of Covid-19, the admission process will be entirely online this year. Even the verification of the documents will be done remotely. So far DU has decided to release only five cutoffs, but there may be more lists to accommodate the high number of applicants. This year, with an extended period for registration, DU has got the highest-ever number of applicants at 3,53,919. TOI earlier reported that the DU administration had told the college principals that it was keen to start the process from October 12. “The administration asked us to prepare for the admission process as it will be completely online this year,” a principal had said. So far only St Stephen’s College has released its first list on September 16, with 99.25% being the highest cutoff for economics (honours) for Class XII commerce students. The high percentage has prompted many principals to opine that initial cutoffs will be higher than usual this year. Watch Delhi University admissions to start from October 12, session from November 18||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-cutoff-list-on-oct-12-du-session-from-nov-18/articleshow/78330339.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||4 of gang held in robbery, theft cases||Hyderabad: The North Zone task force team nabbed a gang of four who were found involved in robbery, snatching and theft cases. The accused were identified as Bollam Vamshi, the kingpin, and his associates, Kodanda Mohan, Musthipally Tarun, from Gandhi Nagar and Chinthakuntla Ramakrishna, from Musheerabad. The gang was involved in five cases of robbery, snatching, attention diversionthis year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-of-gang-held-in-robbery-theft-cases/articleshow/78325334.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers block Delhi highway, many shops open||MOHALI: The Punjab bandh call to protest the farm bills received partial response here on Friday, with many shops in different markets open and the Delhi highway blocked for three to four hours. Bharti Kisan Union (L) under the leadership of Karam Singh Baroli supported by around 200 farmers blocked the Delhi highway near Bhankarpur in Derabassi by placing combine harvester machines and tractors on the road. Protest were also held in Handesra, Kurali, Kharar, and Gharuan, where around 60 to 80 farmers blocked the highways. Farmers also protested outside Derabassi bus stand. Narinder Singh Shergill, AAP candidate from Kharar, led the protest at Kahnaur on Kharar-Kurali road and blocked the highway. Around 200 farmers blocked the airport road in front of Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara. Farmers raised slogans against the central government and burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Though the Mohali Beopar Mandal extended unconditional support to the farmers and announced only sale of essential commodities would be allowed, many shops of non-essential commodities were seen open in Mohali city. Mohali Beopar Mandal president Vineet Verma said, “We were approached by farmer unions for support. We gave our consent and decided to close all shops except essential commodities till 4pm today.” Shops in phase VII market were seen closed whereas at some parts of the market, shops selling readymade garments and shoes were open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-block-delhi-highway-many-shops-open/articleshow/78322268.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab university COE seeks Rs 15 lakh for better online exam infrastructure||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University controller of examination (COE) has sought around Rs 15 lakh for revamping infrastructure for conducting online examination from the finance department. A detailed plan has been submitted by the COE, mentioning the requirement that is needed to upgrade infrastructure on the campus. The university is conducting online exams for the final year students for the first time. A special control room has been set-up for conducting examination, but as the branch is planning to adopt online mode in the future, they have submitted a proposal to the finance department. Professor Parvinder Singh, COE, said his branch has asked the finance department that budget should be allocated for conducting online examination from this fiscal. He said with the development of infrastructure, affiliated colleges will also be asked to develop their system on the same lines for proper execution of the exams. He said at present the faculty has laptops and computers and a decision will be taken after the funds are released. He said if the university plans to shift to online mode of conducting exams, pattern of the question paper should then be revised. The university will have to create a question bank, wherein subjective-type questions would be more than objective-type questions. Lack of supervision was a challenge for the university authorities while conducting the exams online. The COE said open-book examinations will not be promoted by the university and they will need the required technology for better supervision. He said colleges cannot be asked to upgrade their system till the campus makes a model for it. After the release of the grant, a decision will be taken on all aspects. He said the online mode would also cut down the cost of conducting examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coe-seeks-rs-15l-for-better-online-examination-infra/articleshow/78325336.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab university to install machine for scanning answer-sheets||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University is planning to restructure the examination system for the next semester. Early declaration of results, cost cutting in expenditure and no physical involvement in handling answer-sheets are the three issues that will be taken care of by the controller of examination (COE). Under the new plan of the examination branch, a FireEye machine will be installed at the secrecy branch of the examination. This machine scans answer-sheets and creates a data of a student. The answer-sheets will be sent to the faculty for checking and when it is sent back, it will be filtered and marks will be tallied according to the norms of the university. After the installation of this system, results will be declared within two to three weeks which at present take four to six weeks. The project was mooted out in 2017, but got delayed due to various reasons. Till now, around 100 staff members of the examination branch had been making small packets of 20 lakh copies after they received answer-sheets. They would then tear the front page of the answer-sheet, which had a student’s roll number and name. They would then make packets and the same would be delivered to teachers for checking. After the teachers send the answer-sheets back, the staff would then tally the marks and prepare the result. Parvinder Singh, controller of examination, said in March, the tender for the fire eye system was to be floated as five to six teams were already working to install the project, but got delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. “But now, this machine is required as the work which was being done by over 100 staff members, will be done by two or three supervisors with the help of this machine,” he said. He said after reviewing the project, it was found that around Rs 75 lakh, which was spent annually the examination secrecy, would be cut down to minimal. The whole system would be under a close CCTV circuit to be monitored by the higher officials. He said the university had to outsource a firm for packaging of answer-sheets every year, which was a matter of concern considering the secrecy of the examination. After installation of this machine, the examination branch won’t need to hire staff from outside. He said students would benefit with this as results would be declared early. “The branch is targeting that before the next semester examination, this project will be executed by the university,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-to-install-machine-for-scanning-answer-sheets/articleshow/78325330.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||After fresh guidelines, schools in Chandigarh to be reopened for 2 more classes||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department issued fresh guidelines on Friday for calling two more senior classes, IX and XI, to the school from Monday. It has also been decided that 100% staff will start working in the school education and higher education department in Sector 9, district education office in Sector 19 and RUSA office in Sector 42 from Monday i.e. September 28. The staff ratio was cut down to 59% after the education offices became Covid-19 hotspots. Classes X and XII will have their session from 9 to 11.30 in the morning, while the batches of IX and XI will sit from noon to 2.30pm. Teachers will stay in the school from 8.30am to 2.30pm. Three consecutive days of absence will require certificate from a government doctor. The new schedule is to bring uniformity to the reopening. District education officer Alka Mehta said after visiting various schools: “They follow a staggered schedule. For a uniform and streamlined process, they must follow the new instructions.” Principals, heads, and teachers in charge will also have to attend the school daily for complete working hours. Students’ attendance remains voluntary. The school will call half the teaching staff on one day and the other half the next day. The groups will alternate. The primary and middle schools will also follow this 50% model. Elementary teachers will continue to conduct online classes from the school. All online teaching from school will be under supervision. Made for safety, the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are not flexible. The department will review its instructions in due course. In UT schools reopened on September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-fresh-guidelines-schools-to-be-reopened-for-2-more-classes/articleshow/78325348.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 160 crore water project turns unlucky for third time, unable to attract bidder again||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has not received any bidder for its 24x7 water supply project in Manimajra in its third attempt that had seen the authority allow a joint venture raising hopes the offer would be lapped up. “After no bidder applied for the project, a fresh tender has already been advertised. It will open in the first week of October. Those interested have been given sufficient time to participate in the new process. The terms and conditions remain the same,” said an official. Sources in the Chandigarh Smart City Limited said though they held a pre-bid meeting last time, where a good number of bidders had raised queries that were settled, nobody showed any response. “Since this is a first of kind project, bidders might take some time. As the authority has allowed two companies to come together to participate in the bid, we are hopeful of finding a suitable bidder this time,” an official said. The Rs 160cr project has two components — capital work and installation of water metres. There are 13,700 water connections in Manimajra and all will be covered under the project, according to the records. Decreasing the non-revenue water (NRW) or reducing water leakage from the 50% to 15% is one of the crucial segments of the project. After the allotment of the works, the successful contractor will have to finish the work in one-and-a half years, according to the tender conditions. The authority will also lay pipes inside the houses of residents to prevent contamination of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-160cr-water-project-turns-unlucky-for-3rd-time-unable-to-attract-bidder-again/articleshow/78325344.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||HC issues notice to T over LRS||Hyderabad: A division bench of Telangana high court comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on Friday issued notice to the state asking it to explain its stand on a host of issues raised by Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy against the state’s latest layout regularisation scheme (LRS). The bench gave the state two weeks time to file its affidavit and tagged the case along with a similar PIL filed by Forum for Good Governance (FGG). The MP’s counsel P Panduranga Reddy told the bench that it was the state and its authorities who played a spectator role all these years and allowed people to purchase plots in such unauthorized layouts. Now they are trying to penalise innocent people with penal charges for the mistakes committed by the authorities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-issues-notice-to-t-over-lrs/articleshow/78325349.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chennai||City crosses 1,000 cases again, testing at its highest in Chennai||CHENNAI: For the second consecutive day, Chennai’s fresh cases crossed the 1000-mark on Friday as Tamil Nadu reported 5,679 new infections and 72 deaths. The state’s case tally had reached 5,69,370, with 46,386 active infections. The cumulative toll has touched 9,148. A total of 93,002 people were screened, and 94,877 samples were tested, which are highest so far in one day. Chennai, which had daily new cases hovering at 900 for 21 days between September 3 and 23, recorded 1,193 cases and 18 deaths on Friday. The city saw its peak incidence of 2,393 cases on June 30. Its neighbours added 671 new cases with Chengalpet reporting 277, Kancheepuram 165 and Tiruvallur 229. The 11 northern districts together added 2,748 and 39 deaths. Cuddalore reported 235 cases, Tiruvannamalai 173, Villupuram 162 and Vellore 125. All eight districts in the western region reported more than 100 cases with Coimbatore adding 661 new infections. This took the region's new cases to 1,771 on Friday and the total active cases to 13,965. Salem reported 297, Tirupur 158, Erode 151 and Dharmapuri 148. The region reported 23 deaths. The new cases in the 10 southern districts saw a marginal increase to 562 compared to 537 reported on Thursday. This took the region’s active cases to 5,650. Kanyakumari reported 86 cases, which was the highest in the region on Friday, followed by Tirunelveli 77 and Madurai 71. Ramanathapuram reported the lowest in the region at 17 cases. The region reported five deaths. The eight districts in the central region added 591 new cases taking the total active cases to 5,280. Thanjavur reported the highest at 150 followed by Tiruvarur at 139 and Trichy at 107. Perumbalur recorded the lowest at 17. The region reported 5 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-sees-1k-cases-again-testing-at-its-highest-in-state/articleshow/78323590.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Call hostellers home, Panjab university to tell parents||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University is going to inform parents of all the hostellers residing on the campus to call their wards back home for their safety as Covid-19 cases are increasing at an alarming pace. In a direction, which the dean student welfare (DSW) office issued to all the wardens, it was stated that the authorities are facing problems for arranging food for hostellers and in case of any mishap, the authorities concerned will not be responsible. Records revealed that a total of 104 students, including 100 boys and four girls, are residing on the campus at present. There are 20 international students, who will not be asked to leave the campus due to non-availability of flights to their respective countries. The notice also stated that students, who are appearing in the exit class exams, will be asked to leave the hostel after the completion of examination. Out of four girls, who are staying in the hostel, one is from Bihar and the other three are international students. From the past one month, the authorities are trying to get the hostels vacated as neither of them is paying the mess fees nor do they have any reason to stay back on the campus. Sukhbir Kaur, DSW, said in the past fortnight, cases among the hostel staff had been reported and it had become difficult for the authorities to handle it. She said the authorities were trying to make arrangements for travel for students. She said their main concern was that the university was becoming a hot spot as every department had reported cases. She said there was no scope to open the campus for at least more than a month and therefore, the wardens were asked to inform parents so that they could ask their wards to come back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-rise-in-cases-pu-to-ask-parents-to-call-their-wards-back-home/articleshow/78322305.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Three-point strategy to check stubble burning in Mohali||MOHALI: The Mohali administration has prepared a three-point strategy to check stubble burning in the district. “With paddy harvesting expected to pick up momentum in the next fortnight, the administration has three-pronged strategy in place,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. He said, “We are focusing on awareness generation coupled with in-situ and ex-situ stubble management. Stringent action will be taken against the erring farmers.” To nudge the action against stubble burning, awareness vans have been launched which are going from village-to-village and making people aware of the adverse effects of stubble burning. The vans are also generating awareness regarding stubble management machinery available in the district. Posters, pamphlets, wall paintings, demonstration plots and anti-stubble burning announcements from local gurdwaras are also being done.  There are 1,700 stubble management machines in the district. The stubble management machinery is being provided on rental basis to farmers through 67 cooperative societies and 29 custom hiring centres in the district. Besides, there are 75 combines with super straw management system and 4,000 harrows for stubble management. “Through the in-situ crop residue management scheme, 107 new machines are also being given to societies and farmers. We expect to successfully tackle stubble management with these machines,” said Dayalan. “We have formed rapid response teams and appointed village-level nodal officers, who will monitor the area under jurisdiction and report stubble burning, if any,” said the DC. He said they had been trained to use the ATR Mobile App through which they will share on-the-spot-action taken. Response time has been fixed and it is mandatory for every officer to update action taken in the stipulated period. “Immediate response to the fire incident resulting in quick slapping of penalties on erring farmers will deter others to follow the suite,” said Dayalan. The other punitive actions include FIRs and red entry in the revenue record of the farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-point-strategy-to-check-stubble-burning-in-mohali/articleshow/78325351.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GMR to divest Kakinada SEZ stake to Aurobindo Realty||HYDERABAD: Infrastructure major GMR group is divesting its entire stake in Kakinada SEZ Ltd (KSEZ) to Aurobindo Realty & Infrastructure Pvt Ltd (ARIPL) for a consideration of Rs 2,610 crore. The transaction is subject to regulatory and other statutory approvals. As part of the deal, GMR Infrastructure Limited’s (GIL) wholly owned subsidiary GMR SEZ and Port Holding Limited (GSPHL) will sell is entire 51% equity in KSEZ to Aurobindo Realty, a privately held firm promoted by some of the Aurobindo Pharma promoters. GMR Group informed the bourses on Friday that it has already signed definitive agreements for the KSEZ stake sale as part of which the 100% equity stake of Kakinada Gateway Port Limited (KGPL) held by KSEZ will also be transferred to Aurobindo Realty. The deal consideration, which also includes the sub-debt in KSEZ, will see GMR get Rs 1,600 crore on the deal closing date and the remaining Rs 1,010 crore over the next 2 to 3 years depending upon certain agreed milestones. While KSEZ is putting up a port based multi-product special economic zone project at Kakinada in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, KGPL was granted concession by the AP government to set up a greenfield commercial port in Kona village of East Godavari district. The latest stake sale comes about two months after GMR completed the strategic stake sale of 49% in its airports arm, GMR Airports Ltd (GAL), to France’s Groupe ADP for over Rs 9,800 crore as part of efforts to reduce debt. GIL had last month also announced a restructuring exercise to spin off its non-airports business (energy, EPC, urban infrastructure) into a separate entity called GMR Power & Urban Infra Ltd, leaving GIL as a listed airports entity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gmr-to-divest-kakinada-sez-stake-to-aurobindo-realty/articleshow/78323630.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Two courier company’s drivers booked for stealing 60 phones||Times News Network Ludhiana: The Salem Tabri police on Thursday booked two drivers of a courier company for allegedly stealing from its office 60 mobile phones that were to be delivered to customers. The accused have been identified as Ashok Kumar of Rohtak and Lallan Kumar of New Delhi.In his complaint to the police, Jagmohan Singh of New Vijay Nagar, who is manager at Blue Dart Express office at Jalandhar Bypass, said they had hired driver Ashok Kumar through Didar Transport Company, New Delhi. Ashok had started stealing valuables from the office and in March, they came to know of it and complained to the transport company, which sent Lallan as his replacement.Jagmohan alleged that soon after joining, Lallan started stealing mobile phones in cahoots with Ashok. The accused stole more than 60 mobile phones and other valuables from the office that were supposed to be delivered to customers, the manager alleged. Investigating officer from Salem Tabri police station ASI Jatinder Kumar said a case under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the IPC has been registered against the accused and a hunt was on to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-courier-companys-drivers-booked-for-stealing-60-phones/articleshow/78322331.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools welcome West Bengal’s November reopening plan||KOLKATA: City schools have reacted positively to the TOI report that the government was planning to reopen the schools in November. “It’s great that the government is planning to reopen the schools after the Puja. Most parents do not want to send their wards to schools now. Hopefully, by November, things will improve,” said Jessica Surana Gomes, principal of Loreto Entally. La Martiniere secretary Supriyo Dhar said: “We are thankful. At this stage, we need to be watchful of the situation and not rush into re-opening.” “Many will travel to school by shared transport and that is where they will become more susceptible,” said Loveleen Saigal, principal of Birla High School. The school was centre for NEET, where 450 candidates took the test. Same is the case for DPS Ruby Park, where more than 850 candidates appeared for NEET this time. Both DPS Ruby Park and DPS Howrah said that they would wait for further instructions from the state government and will prepare themselves accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-schools-welcome-states-nov-reopening-plan/articleshow/78323618.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Students win ISRO accolades||Hyderabad: Total 41 students of the Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions won the national level competition conducted by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Apart from the Indian Institute of Technology, National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and other Olympiads, the students of Sri Chaitanya proved their mettle in the science and technology oriented competitions as well. Speaking on this occasion, Seema, academic director of Sri Chaitanya attributed students' victory to the integrated techno-syllabus formulated with the amalgamation of ICSE, CBSE and state syllabi and the target oriented programmes. The ISRO competition was conducted completely online as physical travel of the students needed to be avoided under the current scenario. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-win-isro-accolades/articleshow/78325366.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Dwarka society fined Rs 1 lakh for groundwater use||NEW DELHI: After Delhi Pollution Control Committee served a show-cause notice to a housing society in Dwarka for allegedly extracting ground water without permission, the latter has claimed that Delhi Jal Board granted it permission in 2018 to extract up to 40 kilo litres per day (KLD) through the existing tubewell following an order from National Green Tribunal. The secretary of Gayatri CGHS Limited claims that the DPCC notice imposing environmental compensation of Rs 1 lakh is not based on facts. The representative of the society, located in Dwarka Sector-9, said that they received a show-cause notice dated July 23 on September 23. The notice (a copy of which is with TOI) said that the compensation was being imposed for extracting groundwater illegally without permission. It added that DJB, vide its email in June, had informed that the borewell of Gayatri CGHS has been sealed for illegal extraction of groundwater. However, the society members said it had been sealed in 2018 and then reopened. Anish Balachandran, organising secretary, federation of CGHS Dwarka Limited, said, “The tubewell was sealed in 2018 and we went to NGT where we won the case. DJB gave us permission in 2018 to extract 40 KLD of groundwater from the existing tubewell. No tubewell or borewell was sealed this year.” He added he has emailed DPCC on receiving the notice. “We have asked DPCC to declare the show-cause notice as null and void, and withdraw it with immediate effect as it disregards facts,” the organising secretary said. Despite repeated attempts, officials from DPCC were unavailable for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dwarka-society-fined-rs-1l-for-groundwater-use/articleshow/78325372.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Pre-primary schools to discuss NEP||PANAJI: Privately-managed independent pre-primary schools across Goa will be holding a meeting on Saturday to discuss their future in view of provisions of the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020. As per the NEP, pre-primary education will become part of the formal education system. However, there are a number of pre-primary schools in Goa, which stand alone and are not part of a primary school. These schools state that their future is currently uncertain in light of the NEP. “Recently, NEP-2020 has been approved by the Cabinet of the Central Government, which is well appreciated by educationists all over India. For the first time ever, the pre-primary section has been proposed to be included in the formal education, under the purview of New Education Policy. However, as there is no clear-cut message about the fate of independent private pre-primary schools, many such schools are apprehensive about their existence,” said Vijay Shetti, who runs one an independent pre-primary schoolShree Niketan in Porvorim. Shetti is also the secretary of the All Goa Government Recognised Unaided Schools’ Association(AGGRUSA). He has appealed to all such pre-primary school owners to join an online deliberation to be hosted by AGGRUSA on this subject on September 26. Office bearers of AGGRUSA will be present for the meeting, he said. “AGGRUSA is holding its annual general body meeting on Saturday at 4pm at Fr Agnel Central School, Pilar. Members can also attend virtually online. Online link will be sent to members separately. Those interested have to contact AGGRUSA president on 9822132182 or secretary on 9834768976 for prior registration. A google form will be forwarded for registration,” Shetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pre-primary-schools-to-discuss-nep/articleshow/78325404.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||‘Make results of MSW, MHRM admission tests public’||VADODARA: Senate member representing MS University’s Faculty of Social Work has demanded that the faculty make public results of written test, group discussion and personal interview conducted for admission to courses like masters of social work (MSW) and masters in human resource management (MHRM). The written tests for admission to these two programmes was conducted online on September 20. Senator Kapil Joshi on Friday raised this demand in a representation to MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas. “In most institutions, such results are publicly announced and are accessible to the public including candidates appearing in the admission tests. Not doing so indicates that a scope for manipulation in the merit list is created purposely to facilitate undeserving candidates with pressures from VIPs or for corrupt practices,” Joshi said in his representation. “Time and again, these loopholes have been used to manipulate results. It reduces the credibility and reputation of the faculty and university,” he said, adding that in the past such events have brought a bad name to the institution. Joshi demanded that if the faculty authorities are not willing, the university authority should insist that the results are displayed and declared in public “to reduce injustice and corrupt practices”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/make-results-of-msw-mhrm-admission-tests-public/articleshow/78322468.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Clean SLATE: No login and no course content of many departments of Lucknow university||LUCKNOW: Several departments of Lucknow University are still unable to use SLATE — a learning management system that promises smooth online classes — even a week after its launch only because the data to create login IDs of teachers and students has not been fed in the system. In some cases, even the course content and time table of some departments has not been uploaded. A TOI reality check revealed that departments like English, social work, sociology, law, fine arts, geology and commerce have not been able to conduct classes on SLATE because of teething issues. While LU authorities said the departments did not provide data of teachers and students on time, the latter alleged they were asked to provide information at a short notice. “Teachers were asked to send data just two days before the inauguration. LU should have waited for the portal to be fully ready before launching it,” said a faculty of the social work department, claiming not a single class has been held on SLATE so far because none could access it. A professor in English department said he did login, but the message ‘not avilable’ flashed on the screen when he clicked on course content. Similar problems were cited by teachers of geology, sociology, fine arts and law departments. Harshit Gupta, BCom student, said, “Our classes are being held on a video conferencing app as SLATE is not accessible.” Anjali Singh, a BA student, said, “We have been trying to use the new portal for days in vain.” LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “Departments did not send information on time. In many cases, email IDs of students were wrong. We are resolving the issues and have expedited the data feeding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/clean-slate-no-login-no-course-content-of-many-depts/articleshow/78326043.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Record-shattering monsoon is Goa’s wettest in a century||PANAJI: This monsoon has broken the record to become the wettest in a century. On Friday, days before the season closes on September 30, the total rainfall touched 162.1 inches. The last time the state neared this figure was in 1961 when 160.9 inches was recorded. The normal rainfall at this stage is 115.2 inches, which means the state has already received a surplus of 41%. “As per available data, this is the wettest season of southwest monsoon over Goa since 1920,” scientist with the India meteorological department (IMD) Panaji, Rahul M said. However, he said that rainfall records in the past were based on data collected from fewer centres. “We have a total of 13 stations, but in 1961 we have data of only five stations. It has only been a decade that we are calculating the state average rainfall based on data from 13 stations,” he said. In 2019, the state received 155.3 inches, a rainfall 33% higher than normal. It had resulted in unprecedented flooding and disruption of normal life. This year’s unique pattern of rainfall, boosted by effective systems in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal in the second phase, yielded massive rainfall. “The monsoon was normal or in its active phase throughout the season. In past four months, only on a single day on September 2, none of the 13 centres recorded any rainfall,” the scientist said. “This year being the La Nina year, its effect may peak in December, but it has already started affecting our Indian southwest monsoon. Most of the meteorological sub divisions in the subcontinent, especially Goa, have recorded exceptionally heavy rains,” meteorologist and retired chief scientist, National Institute of Oceanography, M R Ramesh Kumar said. The wettest day of the season was on June 17 when 5.4 inches was recorded. Tuesday morning was the second wettest day. IMD, Panaji, recorded 5.2 inches of daily average rainfall. It was the wettest day of the season in unique fashion as all 13 centres had recorded rainfall over 3.9 inches. The other wet days of the season were July 3, which received over 4.6 inches, and August 11 when 5 inches was recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/record-shattering-monsoon-is-goas-wettest-in-a-century/articleshow/78325362.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 26, 2020||Chennai||Few takers for trains from city to Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram||Chennai: Hardly 50% of the seats got booked in sleeper class and AC III tier on Chennai-Thiruvananthapuram Superfast and Chennai-Mangalore Superfast trains in the first four hours after bookings opened on Monday. While it picked up later in the day, there were 250 to 300 berths unsold at the end of the day. The trains used to have a long waitlist in the pre-Covid days. Availability of seats shows that booking has been sluggish and only about 60% of the approximately 800 seats were sold till Friday evening. The demand is, however, high for trains to Chennai from Thiruvananthapuram and Mangalore, hinting that people are returning to Chennai when services are resuming. From Thiruvananthapuram, only 193 seats were available on sleeper class and 137 seats available on AC III Tier. From Mangalore, 146 berths were available on sleeper class and 88 berths in AC III Tier. A railway official said patronage will pick up in the coming weeks and that demand will be high during weekends. Railways may introduce more trains within the state and also connect cities in other states in the coming weeks. Three other inter-state specials — Trichy-Howrah via Chennai Egmore on Tuesdays and Fridays, Chennai-Chhapra on Mondays and Saturdays and Chennai-Delhi GT daily Express — are popular. The train to Howrah is fully booked on all classes for travel this week while the train to Chhapra is highly popular. A service that was operated on Monday was full, said an official. The Delhi train too has good patronage though Rajdhani special is also being operated. The Chennai-Delhi train is full on weekdays this week and had only nine seats available on sleeper class, 41seats in AC II tier. P Edward Jeni, secretary, Kanyakumari District Railway Users’ Association (KDRUA), said, “Travellers want trains from Nagercoil to Mumbai and Nizamuddin. Several are waiting to travel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/few-takers-for-trains-from-city-to-mangaluru-thiruvananthapuram/articleshow/78323632.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Fresh electoral rolls for graduates’ constituencies||Hyderabad: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has ordered for de-novo preparation of electoral rolls of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates’ constituencies of Telangana legislative council. All persons whose names were included in the existing list will have to submit a fresh application in prescribed form-18. Chief electoral officer (CEO) Shashank Goel has said that every application by a person seeking enrolment in graduates’ constituency must be accompanied by authenticated copies of requisite documents or certificates duly authenticated by one of the following the designated officer, additional designated officer, gazetted officer of the district concerned or a notary public. A mere reference to an entry in the existing electoral roll will not be taken into account for determining the eligibility of a person for enrolment in the electoral rolls. A person who has been a graduate of any university in the territory of India for at least three years before the qualifying date (November 1, 2020), and is a resident in the respective graduates’ constituency is entitled for registration. Applications can also be filed online through CEO website or can be submitted to the designated officers in person. According to the schedule, process of fresh enrolment would begin on October 1 and final publication of electoral rolls will be completed by January 18, 2021. Last date of submitting applications is November 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fresh-electoral-rolls-for-graduates-constituencies/articleshow/78325396.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chennai||‘Rent paid by developer to flat owners not free money’||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (TNREAT) has rejected claims of a developer over an incomplete joint venture project in the city and allowed the land owners to take over their property to finish the stalled housing project. The tribunal also underscored that rent paid by the developer to the owners, for accommodation during the construction period, was ‘not free money’. The matter pertains to a project by Green Avenue Homes and Gardens at Anna Nagar, for which the promoter entered a development agreement with five flat owners in 2012 and paid Rs 8 lakh each as rent for their accommodation during the construction period. But the project is pending at stilt stage till date and the owners moved Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) last year. The regulator directed the owners to proceed with the project, which the developer has now appealed against. In an order delivered on Wednesday, TNREAT observed that the promoter can’t cite financial crisis, which is an internal issue between the developer and its creditors, for not finishing the project. “Rs 8 lakh paid to each flat owner is only a part of the deal and not free money and doesn’t make a valid argument,” it added, refusing to interfere with the RERA order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rent-paid-by-developer-to-flat-owners-not-free-money/articleshow/78323657.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘Be cautious with immunity boosters’||Nagpur: Herbal churan and pills, household remedies, Vitamin C tablets, and Zinc supplements — these are just a few medicines many of us must be consuming daily to keep Covid-19 away. But how safe and effective it is to take such medicines without thinking about safety and effectiveness? After all, every individual is different, and one particular medicine may not suit all. “Medicine is like a double-edged sword,” said Dr Ganesh Dakhale, professor, department of pharmacology, AIIMS-Nagpur, while sharing valuable information about safe use of medicine to minimize side-effects in the context of Covid-19. “If not taken correctly, medicines may cause harm to the patient. All drugs, including herbal drugs, have the potential to do harm,” he said. “Advocates of these medicines will say that herbal medicines have originated from nature, so they have no adverse effect. But evidences from various scientific studies report that each medicine including herbs has potential to cause side-effects as well as making one prone to drug interaction. After all, most of the herbal medicines are complex mixtures of multiple active ingredients,” said Dr Dakhale. In current pandemic scenario, more people are doing self-medication with one or more drugs. They are taking various nutraceuticals, herbal remedies, decoctions and vitamin supplements to boost immunity. “Safe use of medicine mainly focuses on four important aspects — correct medication, correct dose, correct duration of treatment and correct cost. To ensure this, even if you are having herbal medicines, don’t have them without consultation with experts of that therapy,” said Dr Dakhale. Even experts of Ayurveda agree. “Each body has its own system of immunity,” said Dr Nitin Awasthi from Baidyanath group. “According to Ayurveda, there are six types of prakriti (natures) of body and each prakriti has its own protection system. So, medicines and their doses could be different. Better to consult doctor before starting any such medicine,” he said. As far as the modern medicine is concerned, various drugs are being used in India for the treatment of Covid-19. Many drugs are repurposed, means they are used for treating Covid though have been approved for some other indication, like Hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, zinc, Vitamin C, Vitamin D etc. “As far as Covid-19 is concerned, none of the medicines is proven treatment. Most are still undergoing clinical trials or studies and have been approved for “emergency use” or as an “off-label” drug during the pandemic. Though Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had given permission to use certain drugs like Remdesivir or Favipiravir for emergency use in Covid, but its safety is yet to be proven completely. Therefore, strict monitoring for side-effects is advised through Pharmacovigilance programme of India,” said Dr Dakhale. How to get best medicine from doctor - Be honest with your doctor regarding your symptoms, contact history, history of travelling - Keep a list of all the medicines, vitamins, minerals, and herbs you use - Share information about comorbidities you have - Tell your doctor about alcohol, tobacco or drug addiction, if you have - Tell the doctor about previous drug reaction and allergies Checklist for drugs - Name of the drug; never use drugs from an unlabelled container - Expiry date - When should it be taken, before or after meal? - How frequently to take it? - How to take it? (with water/milk) - For how many days to take it - In case you develop any new symptoms, consult the doctor immediately - Take prescribed medicine until it’s finished or until your doctor says it’s all right to stop - Do not take medicines prescribed for another person or give yours to someone else (Source: AIIMS Nagpur, department of pharmacology)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/be-cautious-with-immunity-boosters/articleshow/78323694.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandikota backwater floods villages in Kadapa dist||Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh government’s order to store 23tmc of water in Gandikota reservoir has resulted in inundation of villages in Kadapa district yet again. With backwaters of the reservoir entering Tallaproddatur village in Jammalamadugu mandal, people were asked to vacate the houses. Surprisingly, the displaced villagers have not been provided shelter by the authorities. Expressing dismay at the official apathy, Jana Sena Party functionary Bolisetty Satyanarayana said no rehabilitation had been provided to residents of SC & BC colonies. “As the water level reached 15 tmc, excess water entered the colonies. The residents were caught unawares. For the government, these people are non-existent,” he said. Satyanarayana moved the high court on behalf of the victims, raising the issue of official apathy. “The case hearing was posted for Friday. But, Justice Rakesh Kumar was on leave and we came to know that it will be heard now on September 29,” he said. He said the reservoir should not be filled beyond 12tmc. He said Jana Sena and TDP have been protesting against storage of water in the reservoir as the backwaters always flood the nearby villages. Social activist K Jayashree said villagers were shifted out to some relief centres where there are no facilities. “There are no washrooms and no electricity. The local MLA just came and asked the villagers to vacate,” she said. “Due to the release of excess water, ration, food provisions, books and household stuff are getting wet. Some of the villagers are residing in marooned houses,” said Jayashree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandikota-backwater-floods-villages-in-kadapa-dist/articleshow/78323656.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Good news in grim times: Ludhiana best in Covid cure rate||LUDHIANA: After witnessing a sharp decline in Covid-19 hit rate, Ludhiana has now registered a marked improvement in the cured percentage rate, which is the best compared to other districts of the state, suggests an official data. According to the state Covid bulletin released on Thursday evening, the percentage of cured patients for Ludhiana on the day was 87%, highest in the state. Ferozepur with 84% cure rate was at the second spot, while Patiala and Sangrur districts with 82% shared the number three position. Ropar district was at the bottom of the chart with a cured percentage of 58%. Ludhiana’s 87% cure rate was 10% more than the state’s percentage for the day. The latest figure marks 38% improvement in such rate in the district from July 9 when the percentage was 49%, with only 611 Covid patients declared cured out of total 1,248 cases. By July 31, the district’s cure rate had increased to 61%, with 1,973 of the 3,211 patients declared cured. Improving further, the figure had reached 66% on August 15 when 4,304 patients had recovered out of the total 6,560 patients and to 74% on August 31, with 8,079 of the total 10,884 patients walking out of the hospital. By September 6, the cure rate had risen to 80%, when 9,472 of the overall 11,863 patients were declared cured. As per the data, the figure stood 85% on September 14 when 11,738 of the 13,806 patients had recovered. Although on September 17 the figure slipped to 83% but regained the 85% mark on September 19 before rising further to 87%. Following the rise in cure rate, health department officials said they hope for things to improve further in the days ahead. “The highest cured percentage is good news and indicates that the peak of pandemic has passed. We are hopeful that the number of new cases will decline and the cured percentage will increase further,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. “Due to extensive sampling and contact tracing, we detected maximum number of patients and they have been cured. Apart from Level I and II, there is also improvement in the facilities for Level III patients and they are also recovering. All these factors have resulted in the increase in the cured percentage rate,” he said. Another senior officer of the department said they request the residents to follow all Covid-related safety norms, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and going out only if necessary. Turn for the better (till Sept 24) District Cured% Ludhiana 87% Ferozepur 84% Patiala 82% Sangrur 82% Fatehgarh Sahib 81% Jalandhar 80% Amritsar 77% Recoveries in September Date Cured 1 75% 2 77% 3 77% 4 78% 5 79% 6 80% 7 80% 8 79% 9 80% 10 81% 11 82% 12 82% 13 84% 14 85% 15 85% 16 86% 17 83% 18 84% 19 85% 20 86% 21 87% 22 87% 23 87% 24 87%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/good-news-in-grim-times-ludhiana-best-in-covid-cure-rate/articleshow/78322370.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 26, 2020||Goa||With zero checks, Goa’s entry policy country’s most lax by far||PANAJI: Ever since the Centre announced Unlock 4.0 on August 4.0 on August 30, Goa has emerged as the state with the most lax entry policy. While most states, including BJP-ruled ones, have retained some form of control in the wake of the pandemic, Goa has completely stopped any kind of monitoring at the state’s entry points. A few residents of Calangute got a clear indicator of the state dropped its guard when a youth from Mumbai, with a home quarantine stamp, showed up for a haircut opposite the Calangute post office a week ago. The youth, who drove down to Goa and was staying at an unregistered guesthouse, fled after locals began to question his presence. “I noticed a stamp on his hand, and the barber and I began questioning him,” said Calangute-based hotelier Fraser Noronha. “The 20-year-old was supposed to be quarantined in Mumbai, and we were shocked that such people are roaming freely.” According to state-wise guidelines issued by private airlines and uploaded by various state governments, states such as Assam, Manipur, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Rajasthan continue to conduct Covid-19 tests at entry points, while Andhra Pradesh conducts random Covid-19 tests, particularly on senior citizens and children under 10. Guidelines show that states that have stopped testing at the entry points continue to conduct thermal screening on arriving passengers, something that Goa does not do. “Thermal screening and testing is conducted only for international passengers,” said a Goa Airport official. Apart from Goa, Karnataka and Bihar too have lax entry policies. With Goa being within driving distance of Mumbai and Bengaluru, many have jumped at the opportunity to drive down or take a short flight to Goa. While pandemic tourism may bring comfort to the hospitality sector, the move has not gone down well with locals. Social media has been abuzz with appeals to residents of other states not to visit Goa as the state’s health care sector is already stretched thin. Last week, seven crew members of a production company owned by a top Bollywood filmmaker and talk show host tested positive for Covid-19 while shooting a movie in Goa. “Cases are shooting up drastically,” said lawyer Harshal Desai in a tweet. “Government hospitals are full, and private hospitals are up to commercialising Covid19 treatment. I urge chief minister Pramod Sawant to restrict the inflow of tourists or have a testing mechanism at the borders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-zero-checks-goas-entry-policy-countrys-most-lax-by-far/articleshow/78325400.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 26, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Daily spike crosses 2,000 in Rajasthan for 1st time||Jaipur: For the first time, the state breached the 2,000 mark for single-day Covid-19 spike, reporting 2,010 new infections on Friday.  This brings the overall tally to 1,24,730. As many as 15 persons died too, taking state’s toll to 1,412. For the past eight days, the state has been setting daily records in fresh Covid cases, which shows no signs of abating. Jaipur continued to remain the worst-affected, reporting the biggest single-day jump of 425 new infections, crossing the 400 mark for the first time. Active cases in the city too touched a new high of 7,020 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/daily-spike-crosses2k-in-raj-for-1st-time/articleshow/78325408.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab government asks factory owners to get their workers tested||LUDHIANA: In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the industries department has reiterated that businessmen get their employees tested. In a letter issued to all the business associations and industrial houses on Wednesday, Mahesh Khanna, general manager (GM) of District Industries Centre, asked them to get the tests, which were free of cost, done at the earliest. To address their major concern that what happens in case workers are found positive, the GM has made it clear that no factory would be declared a containment zone. However, there is a mixed response to mass testing, as some factory owners have started getting their workers tested while others are still refraining from it. Speaking to the TOI, Khanna said, “The district administration has set the aim of getting 100% testing done to contain the virus spread. The tests being done by us are free of cost and the administration has assured that no factory will be declared a containment zone if some positive cases are detected. We again request factory owners to come forward and send us suitable date and time when they would like us to organise a camp at their units. We have also launched a Google form using which the businessmen can submit their consent for tests and also book a date.” Rahul Ahuja, chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab, who organised first such camp in his factory a few days back, said, “Every businessman must understand that it’s our duty to assist the government and the health authorities in getting 100% testing done in Ludhiana. We must not hesitate in getting our workers tested. We can also get ourselves and our family members tested free of cost in a safe environment. When authorities have made it clear that in case of positive cases neither the unit will be shut down nor any action will be taken against owners, then no businessman should hesitate.” According to industrialist Avtar Singh Bhogal, who organized a camp on Thursday at his factory, “Close to 200 persons were tested by a team of experts. To motivate my workers, I got myself tested first and would like to assure all my fellow industrialists that testing is easy and prompt, and reports are also given quickly. All factory owners should come forward for it to ensure the safety of their workers, who are like their family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-asks-factory-owners-to-get-their-workers-tested/articleshow/78322388.cms||Mohit Behl
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Woman, son held for kidnapping girl, 16||LUDHIANA: The police on Friday arrested a woman and her son for kidnapping a 16-year-old girl from her house in a Ludhiana village. The incident occurred on the night of September 23, when the accused, along with their accomplices, barged into the house of the girl, created ruckus and kidnapped her. Those arrested have been identified as Abhishek, 19, a factory worker and his mother Manisha, 47, of the village. Their accomplices are on the run. The minor’s mother said in her police complaint, “Abhishek would often stalk my daughter. Many times, the area residents intervened and asked him to stop following her. On the night of September 23, Abhishek, his mother, sister and five accomplices barged into our house. They were armed with sharp-edged and blunt weapons. They created ruckus, thrashed me and my husband and kidnapped our daughter.” Thereafter, the family informed police. Investigating officer ASI Palwinderpal Singh said, “The girl was recovered from the house of a relative of the accused on Thursday night. On Friday, Abhishek and his mother were arrested. The rest of the accused are on the run. A case has been registered under sections 365 (kidnapping), 452 (house trespassing), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-son-held-for-kidnapping-girl-16/articleshow/78322378.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Hospitals can’t force patients to deposit cash before treatment: Tope||Nagpur: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday directed the authorities to take stringent action against private hospitals for exploiting patients. “Hospitals can’t force patients to deposit cash before treatment, its violation of rules, and registrations of those violating rules should be withdrawn,” he said here after a two-day tour of Vidarbha on Friday. Speaking after a review meeting with public representatives and government officials, Tope directed them to increased beds for Covid patients immediately in Nagpur. “Instead of setting up a jumbo facility, we will increase beds in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) by 400 to 1,000 and by 300 to 400 at AIIMS,” he said. Totally, the plan is to have at least “1,200 to 1,500 new beds with the help of private hospitals, Western Coalfields Limited and railways”, said Tope. The minister expressed shock at the poor preparedness of the hospital for Covid-19. Doctors here were expecting some words of encouragement and praise as they have been working since the last six months. TOI learnt that Tope was not happy as only 600 beds were Covid ready even though GMCH has a capacity of more than 1,700. Drawing a comparison with government hospitals and Covid centres in Mumbai, the minister apparently said, “No work is happening here”. A senior official of GMCH, who did not want to be named, told TOI that the hospital copped the blame for the failure of the city administration. “The health department failed in developing facilities in other government hospitals and the NMC could not maintain its own hospitals,” he pointed out. Food and drug administration minister Dr Rajendra Shingane said that there would be no shortage of Remdesivir injections and oxygen in the state. “By end of this month, pharma companies have assured to produce 1 lakh doses of Remdesivir. There is a shortage as all doctors now prescribe it rather drugs like paracetamol. We’ve asked the home ministry to take action against those hoarding life-saving drugs and selling it at high rates.” Ruling out any possibilities of lockdown or janata curfew, Tope said the government didn’t want economic activities to suffer and “self-discipline and awareness was must to stop the spread of deadly virus”. “Rising number of cases and deaths can’t be said as a government's failure. Even developed countries like Britain and France are witnessing the second wave of Covid-19. Aggressive contact tracing and testing is needed for the hour where we’re lacking. On an average, 15 persons should be traced and tested behind one patient, but we’re at five,” he added. On the DMER notification of posting postgraduate students from the city in Mumbai and Pune, Tope said medical education minister Amit Deshmukh had assured him that maximum would stay in Vidarbha. Tope added that the government had on Thursday capped plasma prices at Rs5,500 and for high resolution CT (HRCT) scan at Rs2,000, Rs2,500 and Rs3,000 as per machine’s capacity. “We’ve covered over 11 crore people under our flagship scheme ‘Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana’ where 20 packages of cashless facility is being offered. The authorities are directed to spread awareness about this scheme and ensure that there shouldn’t be any complaints from patients” he said. Calling on patients to lodge complaints in case any hospital insists on payment by cash, Tope, who was accompanied by home minister Anil Deshmukh, directed divisional, municipal commissioners and the collector to regularly visit the hospitals to monitor the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hospitals-cant-force-patients-to-deposit-cash-before-treatment-tope/articleshow/78323702.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 26, 2020||Goa||Massive Covid spike coming in Sep-end, Oct, warns Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that Goa will see the worst phase of the pandemic towards the end of this month and in October. At the Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, all 227 beds are filled. “There are no beds (free) today,” he told TOI. “We will go up to 300 beds.” Besides the three full-fledged Covid-19 hospitals — the South Goa district hospital and ESI hospital in Margao, and the sub-district hospital in Ponda — some other state-run ones, like GMC, North Goa district hospital in Mapusa and Hospicio, Margao, that also admit Covid-19 patients, have already run short of beds. Three private hospitals are also treating Covid patients, but they have fewer than 100 beds between them. While Goa’s testing has dropped drastically since August, the number of positives has remained the same, and sometimes higher. Goa’s positivity rate is already among the highest in the country, with around 32% of all tests returning positives. This, even though most tests conducted are antigen tests, which have a high percentage of false negatives. Rane’s statement of an October peak assumes significance in the light of the state’s already-crumbling healthcare infrastructure. TOI had reported on Wednesday that an expert panel said that Goa’s Covid cases may peak in October. The prediction was made as part of a national-level data model by the government of India, with IIT-Goa contributing local research. On Friday, Goa saw 724 recoveries, bringing its active caseload down to 5,614. With this, the recovery rate has risen to 80%, with over 25,000 persons having recovered since the pandemic began. The state also saw 519 new cases and three mortalities, taking the death toll to 387. Of three deaths, two patients — a 54-year-old man from Curchorem and a 65-year-old from Raia — were declared brought dead to hospital. A 63-year-old man from Moira, who was detected with Covid-19 pneumonia at the time of his admission at GMC, died after four days of treatment. The state government has repeatedly asked people to immediately get tested if they experience Covid symptoms so that treatment can be started at the earliest and maximum efforts can be made to save lives. GMC dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals Dr S M Bandekar said that despite the appeal, people delay treatment. He said nothing much can be done when the infection has aggravated in the system. Porvorim crossed the 400-mark on Friday, becoming the second centre after Sakhali (412) in the district. In Panaji, 22 more cases were reported, taking its total to 339. Siolim’s tally rose to 213. In South Goa, Margao continued to lead with 454 active cases, followed by Vasco with 355. Ponda and Dharbandora, which experienced a spike since the beginning of last month, have been able to control the spread to an extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/massive-covid-spike-coming-in-sep-end-oct-warns-rane/articleshow/78325411.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chennai||Humans away, jackals, birds happily cohabit at Pulicat||CHENNAI: Jackals have been found sharing feed with migratory birds such as painted storks at the Pulicat bird sanctuary, about 50km from the city. Wildlife range officer G Subbiah told TOI there was a good population of jackals (Canis aureus) on the half-a-dozen islands in the sanctuary. The islands, originally with the Tamil Nadu government, were handed over to Isro after a rocket-launching facility was set up. Banned to visitors, they are just small sand formations that are submerged during flooding, Subbiah said. Nature Trust founder K V R K Thirunaranan, who saw about 14 jackals on one island during a recent visit to the sanctuary to record arrival of migratory birds, said earlier, just 2-3 jackals were seen at a time in Pulicat. “This is the first time so many jackals have been spotted in one place in the sanctuary,” he said. Subbiah said the lack of humans and the large number of Prosopis juliflora (seemai karuvellam) trees, under which they can dig burrows, have helped the jackals on the islands. The islands are also home to a few spotted deer on which the jackals prey. “This is how the ecological balance is maintained,” said Thirunaranan. The jackals also feed on the fish in the backwaters of Pulicat lake and on the unwanted life forms emptied from nets by fishermen. Naturalist T Murugavel said in the early morning hours he had seen a few jackals near the Kudri tank, where they hunt for the waders (small migratory birds) that flock to the sanctuary this season to breed. Once, even during the late evening hours, Murugavel and his team members heard the howling of jackals. “I have seen them in Pulicat in the morning, afternoon, evening and heard them howling in the late evening hours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/humans-away-jackals-birds-happily-cohabit-at-pulicat/articleshow/78323690.cms||P Oppili
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||After IFFI, film buffs keep KIFF fingers crossed||KOLKATA: The 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) has been postponed to January 2021. Now, all eyes are on the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF). Diverse entries from various parts of India have already been submitted to the festival for the competitive section. According to Raj Chakrabarty, who was the chairman of 25th KIFF, selection committee and jury members are busy watching the entries now. “As of now, we are definitely keen on going ahead with the festival. We are hoping that our chief minister will show us the way so that we can follow all the norms and ensure that KIFF happens according to schedule,” Chakrabarty said. Talks have begun on the centenary tributes to legendary Italian director Federico Fellini, actor Bhanu Bandyopadhyay and sitarist Pt Ravi Shankar.  “The standard of Indian entries in the competitive section is quite high despite the challenges of a lockdown. We have watched some 50 Indian entries,” said director Sudeshna Roy, who is part of the selection committee of Indian language and Indian panorama entries at KIFF. The jury members of the Indian language entries include Judhajit Sarkar, Satrajit Sen, Papaiya Adhikari, Haranath Chakraborty, Prabhat Roy, among others. “From tribal rituals to controversies inside a convent – the Indian language entries have explored very interesting subjects. Watching these films also gives an idea about the kind of subject Indian makers are exploring and the way they are experimenting with form and content,” said Sen. Subhrajit Mitra has sent his “Avijatrik” for three competitive sections of KIFF. “My film’s plot takes off from where Ray’s Apu trilogy had ended and narrates the story of Apu and his six-year-old son, Kajol,” Mitra said. An interesting Marathi entry is Ananth Mahadevan’s “Bittersweet”. “My film takes an incisive look at human rights and the fight for survival in an extraordinary environment that is a dead end for women sugarcane cutters,” said Mahadevan, whose “Mai Ghat: Crime No 103/2005” had won Best Film at 25th KIFF last year. Another entry is by Shantanu Sen titled “Water Burial” that looks at a ritual prevalent among some tribes. “This ritual involves the last rites where the bodies of the deceased are chopped into pieces and then thrown in the river,” said a source. Deepesh T’s Malayalam film titled “Aquarium” is also an applicant. “The movie is about life in a Christian monastery where sisters live. It is extremely bold and controversial. The film is visually stunning,” the source added. Biswajit Bora’s Assamese film titled “Belcony Bhagwan” is also an applicant. “The hard-hitting and visually stunning film is set in a remote village. It narrates the story of why a family has to carry a corpse on a cycle for cremation,” the source added. Besides, a Haryanvi-Hindi film called “Laila Aur Satt Geet” is also in contention. Directed by Pushpendra Singh, the film is part allegory, part ethnographic study, and part feminist fairy tale, using the narrative device of seven local folk songs to describe the protagonist – Laila’s inner and outer worlds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-iffi-film-buffs-keep-kiff-fingers-crossed/articleshow/78323732.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 26, 2020||Meerut||35-yr-old's body found in room after 5 days||Bijnor: Body of a 35-year-old man was found in a closed room in Bijnor’s Chahshiri area on Friday. The incident came to light only after the neighbours complained of a foul smell.The deceased, Mahendra Pal, worked as a labourer. According to the cops, the body had been in the room for as long as five days.Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said, “Mahendra was addicted to alcohol. Police have registered a case and a probe is underway. The body has been sent to the district hospital for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/35-yr-olds-body-found-in-room-after-5-days/articleshow/78322407.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 26, 2020||Chennai||SP Balasubrahmanyam wore many hats, from singer to actor||CHENNAI: In a career spanning more than 50 years, S P Balasubrahmanyam wore many hats – singer, actor, dubbing artist, director, composer and producer – with almost effortless ease, but the one that fitted best, say colleagues, was that of a perfectionist. Legend has it that SPB sang ‘Ilaya Nila’ for ‘Payanangal Mudivathillai’ (1982) 16 times just so the guitarist could perfect his notes. On another occasion, says composer Vidyasagar, he went on recording a song well past midnight, against his policy of not singing past 8pm, only because he felt he could not match S Janaki who had sung the other part of that duet. This despite the composer and technicians telling him that each take was perfect. The song, from ‘Karna’ (1995), went on to become one of the more popular duets in Indian cinema. SPB’s dad, a famous ‘harikatha’ exponent, wanted him to become an engineer, but SPB had something else in mind and was participating in music competitions when singer S Janaki encouraged him to pursue it professionally. He did and the rest, as they say, is history. When Ilaiyaraaja and Gangai Amaran, who became professionally known as the ‘Pavalar Brothers’, landed in Chennai from Theni to eke out a living, SPB, who had by then made a mark, took them around on a scooter, introducing them to producers. Kollywood, which till the early 1970s was dominated by directors sticking to conventional methods of movie-making, experienced a sea-change when director P Bharatiraja, the maestro (Ilaiyaraaja) and SPB came up with films full of rural locales, romantic scores and a voice that was said to have tilted the thinking of ‘roadside Romeos’. One of the few who could address Ilaiyaraaja on ‘vaa da, po da’ (endearingly irreverent) terms, it was SPB who managed to break the ice in the relationship whenever there were problems.. In 1981, when ‘Paadum Nila Balu’ appeared in front of the camera to sing ‘Andhi Mazhai Pozhikaruthu’ for Kamal Haasan’s ‘Raaja Paarvai,’ the actor’s 100th film, fans went berserk. ‘Sigaram’, for which SPB scored the music, did not reap dividends financially but won critical acclaim for its bold subject and songs. Rajinikanth’s ‘Thudikkum Karangal’ (1983) was another movie where his composition stood apart. Straddling different film industries, he had to record songs at breakneck speed. SPB once recorded 16 songs in a day in Hindi, upping it with 19 Tamil songs in a day, before finally registering a record-breaking 21 songs in 12 hours for Kannada composer Upendra Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-wore-many-hats-from-singer-to-actor/articleshow/78323718.cms||Neeraja Ramesh
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Chinta Yoga Hemanth was offered cash to part ways with wife||HYDERABAD: Minutes before Chinta Yoga Hemanth was murdered allegedly by his wife’s maternal uncle Yugender with the support of hired assailants, Yugender offered money to Hemanth to part ways with his wife Avanthi Reddy, investigators who probed the murder told TOI. When Hemanth did not comply to his demand while being abducted, Yugender strangulated him. Avanthi and Hemanth met each other 10 years back and had been in a relationship for the last four years. Both their families reside in the same neighbourhood in Chandanagar. Though there was stiff resistance from her parents, she defied her parents and married him. “When my parents came to know about our relationship, they confined me inside the house for seven months. They even made me quit my job. Finally, one day I escaped from my house and contacted Hemanth using a passer by’s mobile phone,’’ Avanthi told media. Later, they both went missing. Avanthi’s parents meanwhile lodged a missing complaint at Chandanagar Police Station indicating that they felt Hemanth and his family orchestrated the disappearance. “As Hemanth was not available, our family members were harassed by police who kept asking us about the whereabouts of Avanthi,’’ Hemanth’s father Murali Krishna said. According to him, the couple got married at the sub-registrar’s office and were in hiding until they got their marriage certificate. Later, they went to Cyberabad Police Commissioner VC Sajjanar and informed him about the difficulty they were facing. After which the CP told Chandanagar Police that since Hemanth and Avanthi were adults, the police should not interfere. Accordingly, with both families called to the police station, the parents were told the same. Avanthi told police about her wish to stay with Hemanth. A few days later, her parents asked her to transfer all their properties which were registered under her name back to them. Suspecting that they might face trouble if they resided in Chandanagar along with Hemanth’s parents, the couple secretly shifted themselves to TNGO colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hemanth-was-offered-cash-to-part-ways-with-wife/articleshow/78323721.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Meerut||Four criminals with Rs 25k reward each arrested in police encounter||Meerut: Four criminals carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 each were arrested after an encounter with police in Baghpat's Bilauni area on Friday. Two of them were injured. Countrymade weapons and stolen mobile phones were seized from their possession.The arrests were a part of the ongoing 'Operation Clean', launched by the district police. Giving details, Abhishek Singh, Baghpat SP, said, “In Bilauni area of Baghpat, a police encounter took place with four criminals on two bikes. They tried to flee the moment they saw police checking vehicles. Police chased them and one of the bikes skidded, throwing off the two men on it. They opened fire at the police, who returned fire. Two of the four accused were injured. The other two accused were arrested later." Singh added, “It has come to the fore that they were involved in theft and loot cases. All four have been arrested and sent to jail.” It is also being investigated whether they are linked to any gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-criminals-with-rs-25k-reward-each-arrested-in-police-encounter/articleshow/78322409.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 26, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Withdraw farm Bills’: Protesting farmers block roads across Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Farmer organizations on Friday blocked roads at many places across the district in protest against the contentious farm Bills passed by the Parliament recently. In Ludhiana, farmers staged sit-ins at Ladowal toll plaza on Jalandhar-Delhi national highway, Khanna, Samrala on Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Ludhiana-Ferozepur road, and Gill village near Ludhiana-Sangrur state highway. They raised slogans against the Union government. There were reports of protests in Machhiwara, Jagraon, Payal and Raikot, too. While addressing the agitators, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) Balbir Singh Rajewal urged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to immediately convene a special session of the Punjab Assembly and pass a resolution not to implement the farm Bills in the state. “The Prime Minister is favouring the corporates. The anger of the farmers will not subside till these agriculture Bills are withdrawn. Today, the whole country is standing with the farmers. It is difficult to stop their agitation now and trains will be stopped indefinitely from October 1. We will meet the President and file petitions in the Supreme Court against it,” he added. General secretary of BKU (Lakhowal) Harinder Singh Lakhowal said, “The bandh call against the government’s anti-farmer policies received a good response, with the general public too supporting us. We will continue to protest till the government takes back these laws.” Members of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also staged protests at many places across the district in support of farmers. Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), too, had appealed to people to support farmers and make the bandh call a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/withdraw-farm-bills-protesting-farmers-block-roads-across-dist/articleshow/78322395.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Teachers write scripts, but DD project stuck||PANAJI: Even as students in many parts of the state continue to struggle to access online classes due to poor internet, the proposal floated by educationists to telecast teaching videos on Doordarshan is still in its nascent stages. Many teachers who had been roped in for the project had prepared scripts for the recording, but they are still awaiting a call to carry out the actual recording. While online and offline teaching efforts by schools will continue, the telecast of recorded teaching videos was meant to act as supplementary material. It was thought that students, who lack internet connectivity or cannot afford smartphones, could at least access the lessons on television. A survey carried out earlier this year by the directorate of education had found that, unlike smartphones, over 95% school students had access to television and Doordarshan. A state school education official said that the process of signing a MoU with Doordarshan is currently on. “Talks are on with Doordarshan,” the official said. “The recorded lesson videos will be telecast for two hours daily. The state will pay for a one-hour time slot and the second hour will be provided by Doordarshan free of charge. The telecast is expected to begin before October 15. The recording of the videos and their telecast will take place simultaneously.” However, sources said that finances are believed to be among the constraints due to which implementation of the project is lagging behind. Meanwhile, the directorate of higher education, which too had begun the planning around the same time, in July, has already recorded hundreds of lectures and is set to launch its own Youtube channel on October 5. College students will access the videos from the Youtube channel. Already, videos covering more than 40% of the syllabus are ready. “Students of Class X and XII are forced to come to school despite the rising Covid cases as they do not have a smartphone,” said the head of a school from Ponda taluka. “For many parents of students in my school, Rs 10,000 for a smartphone is a sum they cannot afford. They have started sending students to school from September 21 as a result. But we have told them we cannot accept students if they come by public bus due to the risk involved for everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-write-scripts-but-dd-project-stuck/articleshow/78325418.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||What did you get by killing Hemanth: Avanthi to her parents||HYDERABAD: Inconsolable and crestfallen, Avanthi questioned her parents as to what did they achieve by killing her husband Hemanth. Both Avanthi and her mother-in-law were heartbroken. At one point of time, on seeing Gachibowli inspector Srinivas and a few other policemen at Osmania General Hospital (OGH), Avanthi poured out her emotions about how she and Hemanth’s parents were pained about the torture Hemanth had to go through. Everyone at OGH were moved on seeing this. “Had I known that my parents will resort to such an extreme step, I would have not married for the safety of Hemanth. This is a disaster which my in-laws and I can never overcome throughout our lives,’’ she said. Avanthi said that her parents’ actions only defamed them in society. Avanthi and Hemanth were acquainted for a period of six years before they got into a relationship for four years. After she married Hemanth, her parents had asked her to return all the properties that they had written in her name previously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/what-did-you-get-by-killing-him-avanthi-to-her-parents/articleshow/78323733.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||IIT stir: Women of Melauli block road to prohibit land surveyors’ entry||VALPOI: Hundreds of Melauli locals, mostly women, on Friday blocked the road leading to the village to prohibit the entry of government officials from demarcating land for the proposed IIT-Goa project. However, the government officials did not turn up. From Wednesday, officials of the land survey department had commenced demarcating land for the IIT project at Shel-Melauli village in Sattari taluka. The residents decided that henceforth they would not allow any government official or surveyor to enter the village to demarcate land for the project. The villagers also demanded a reply from chief minister Pramod Sawant and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane regarding to the construction of the IIT project. The agitated locals demanded that the panchayat hold a gram sabha at the earliest. “We educated our children with the income we derived from our agricultural lands, and now if the government wants to take over our properties, then kill us first,” said an elderly woman. Unnati Melekar, a local, said that the villagers have submitted representations to several authorities, but till now they have not received any reply. “If the chief minister and health minister visit this spot and see the ground reality, they will realise whether this place is suitable or not to construct an IIT,” Melekar added.  “Don’t threaten us. We will not allow anyone to construct the IIT in our village. We are ready to get arrested,” Melekar said. On Thursday, the villagers had submitted a memorandum to the Sattari deputy collector, Rajesh Ajgaonkar, stating that demarcation of land for the IIT project at Melauli be stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-stir-women-of-melauli-block-road-to-prohibit-land-surveyors-entry/articleshow/78325448.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chennai||Officials wary of dengue, Covid-19 double infections||CHENNAI: As the number of Covid-19 cases increases, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) officials are watching with great concern and preparedness the possibility of patients getting Covid-19 and dengue together. Recently, deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia was diagnosed to have the double infection of Covid-19 and dengue. This is especially a concern as Chennai is delicately placed in between the finishing spells of south-east monsoon and onset of north-east monsoon. Now is usually the time when the number of dengue cases sees an upward swing, say officials. The city has, however, witnessed less than 20 dengue cases so far. GCC officials have instructed that those who have Covid-19 symptoms and other symptoms such as joint pain should be tested for dengue as well with a simple blood test, a senior official said. The usual symptoms of Covid-19 are sore throat and high fever along with loss of sense of smell and taste. The Covid+dengue combination is very potent, say GCC officials. “To counter Covid-19, one has to have good immunity. Whereas dengue brings down the platelet count, which decreases the overall immunity,” a senior official said. GCC has already swung into action as far as dengue is concerned; all the domestic breeding checkers (DBC), who were diverted for Covid-19 related work, have been brought back to check breeding spots and homes for dengue mosquitoes and larvae. Intensity of fogging has also been increased; the number of vehicle-mounted fogging machines has been increased from 36 to 82, while 200 additional portable fogging machines have been added to the fleet of 250 machines, say officials. People have been advised to check collection of fresh water in drums, buckets or in coconut shells as dengue mosquitoes breed in fresh water. Garbage removal from open plots and closed houses has been ordered so that there is no water accumulation on such pieces of waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/officials-wary-of-dengue-covid-19-double-infections/articleshow/78323724.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Noida||Noida: Cybercrime up by 600% in 2 years, and most cases unsolved||NOIDA: Cybercrimes have seen a spike of over 600% in the past two years. As many as 2,500 cases of cyber fraud have been registered in the city till the end of August this year, out of which 90% cases are pending investigations, cyber police said. While police officers blame lockdown and the surge in internet usage due to the Covid-19 pandemic as the main reason for the spike in numbers, cyber police said many people get conned by fraudsters online despite being aware of the risks. “We have been regularly asking people to stop falling prey to fraudulent callers who ask for your personal data and then use it to defraud you, but every now and then, we hear the same story,” said inspector Baljeet Singh, cyber cell. Even though the government and Noida police are investing in training police and other officials on handling cybercrime cases, most of them are not being resolved successfully. “Our investigations do not lead to conviction or even arrests because these crimes take place on the web. For every one cyber criminal that gets caught, 100 others go free. In most of the cases, the accused people operate from a different district or sometimes country,” he said. Singh added that another problem they face while investigating cyber fraud cases is the non-cooperation of banks and platforms where these frauds occur. “By the time they share the data of the account to which the money was siphoned off, the suspects have already cashed it and become untraceable. Many times, we successfully collect solid legal evidence and even verify the identity and location of the criminal, but the arrests don’t happen because we lack the legal power to arrest the person, as they are out of our jurisdiction,” the inspector said. “We have to request the police to pitch in and help us locate a criminal. The change we need is that we should be able to command them to take certain actions if needed and they should be made liable to follow, because ultimately, the case needs to be solved,” he said. The Noida cyber cell is also battling a shortage of manpower — it has only about 13 personnel to deal with thousands of complaints of cybercrimes. Before the commissionerate was set up, it had only seven personnel. “There is an urgent need to update resources and add more policemen so that cybercrime is given as much importance as other big crimes like murders and robbery,” an officer from the cell said. This year, a total of 1,110 cases of cyber fraud were reported till August in which people were defrauded using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) method — a caller posing to be a bank employee usually asks for the one-time password (OTP) sent to the victim, along with his/her credit/debit card number. After getting the details, money from the victim’s bank account is transferred to another account via UPI. Around 800 cases of frauds through social media have also been reported, in which the most common modus operandi is to create a fake social media profile of a person and later ask his/her family and friends for immediate fund transfers stating some kind of emergency, mostly medical. Apart from this, as many as 115 FIRs have been filed after people were cheated on the pretext of jobs and loan offers. In other cases, fraudsters have befriended a person on social media and later, duped him/her by asking for money on various pretexts. Watch Why cybercrime has skyrocketed in Noida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cybercrime-up-by-600-in-2-yrs-and-most-cases-unsolved/articleshow/78326080.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Pay MSP to farmers while procuring crops: Andhra Pradesh CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to ensure that every crop is procured through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). He also asked them to safeguard farmers’ interests by paying minimum support price for the crops. The officials were given a target to procure 62 lakh metric tonnes of paddy against the total production of 93.61 lakh MT in the Kharif season. The chief minister, who reviewed crop procurement during a review meeting on Friday, said RBKs will serve as paddy procurement centres in the near future. He instructed officials to display the MSP of each crop at RBKs and educate farmers on the crops that need to be avoided and ways to maximise the yield for more profits. The state government procured crops like maize, corn, jowar, onion, tomato, banana and tobacco during the previous Rabi season by spending Rs 3,200 crore. The CM instructed officials to purchase Rs 3,300 crore worth of crops this Kharif through the market intervention fund and help farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pay-msp-to-farmers-while-procuring-crops-cm/articleshow/78322071.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hubballi||Protesters block traffic on highways in Davanagere||DAVANAGERE: Activists and functionaries of the Communist Party of India and the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) joined hundreds of farmers from the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) to protest what they claimed to be the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the state and central governments in Davanagere on Friday. Members of the Kisan Congress Unit too participated in the demonstration wherein tires were burnt and movement of heavy vehicles were blocked on the National Highway-48 bypass. The protest, which is one among the many being held across the state, sought to exert pressure on the Centre to roll back the amendments to farm bills, which they believe will leave the ryots in a very vulnerable position. Meanwhile, another group of farmers blocked vehicular traffic on NH-50 – the Solapur-Mangaluru Highway – near Hiremallanahalli where the protest was led by activist Hucchavvanahalli Manjunath. It was not until police rushed to these spots and pacified the protesters that traffic, which ground to a halt for half-an-hour, resumed on the two highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/protesters-block-traffic-on-highways-in-davanagere/articleshow/78326167.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Meerut||Haryana youth's body found in trunk of abandoned car||Meerut: Body of a man bludgeoned to death was found in a car trunk late on Thursday night in Baghpat district. The deceased has been identified as Jitendra (25), a resident of Sonipat district in neighbouring Haryana. Local residents of the area alerted the police after they spotted an abandoned car on a dirt road near a college in Daula village within limits of Singhavali Ahir police station. When a team of cops from Singhawali Ahir police station in Baghpat reached the spot, they found the body of the youth in the trunk of the car. His face was smashed with a blunt object.According to Baghpat police, the police are in touch with the family of the deceased and two teams have been formed to solve the case. The motive of the murder is yet to be ascertained. "The youth has been identified as Jitendra, a resident of Sonipat district. The body was lying in the trunk of the abandoned car. A team of forensic experts has examined the car and evidence has been collected," police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/haryana-youths-body-found-in-trunk-of-abandoned-car/articleshow/78322415.cms||Piyush Rai
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||No negative marks in PSC departmental tests||Amaravati: In a relief to state government employees, the government on Friday issued a GO removing negative marks in departmental tests to be conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC). However, the pass marks have been increased to from 35 to 40 (out of 100). Employees had demanded the removal of negative marks in the online test that is mandatory for to be eligible for promotions. President of the AP state government employees federation K Venkatrami Reddy met the chief minister a fortnight ago and requested the CM take a decision on the issue as many employees struggle to clear the departmental tests only because of the negative marking system. He thanked the CM for taking the decision within a fortnight after their representation. Last year, only around a dozen school teachers cleared the test out of the nearly 2,000 that appeared for the test. “In fact, the departmental test in accounts management, salary management and treasury affairs is not part of the regular duties of over 90% of employees. These subjects have been made mandatory despite the fact that they would not help the employees in discharging their duties,” said S Ramakrishna, MTF state president, suggesting that the government could instead include subjects directly involved with employees’ work. Following representations from the employees federation, the CM directed the APPSC to submit a report on the issue. In his report, the APPSC secretary confirmed that the introduction of negative marks had resulted in a lower pass percentage. Following the report, the government issued the GO. Over one lakh employees in ward and village secretariats have been waiting for the removal of negative marks as their services will be regularised if they clear the departmental test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-negative-marks-in-psc-departmental-tests/articleshow/78322051.cms||Samdani MN
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Brahmotsavams: Malayappa Swamy blesses devout from Surya vahanam||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy blessed the devotees on Surya-Chandra Prabha vahanams in connection with the annual Brahmotsavams at the hill temple in Tirumala on Friday. Malayappa Swamy was seated atop the golden Surya Prabha and taken to the mandapam adjacent to the sanctum sanctorum on Friday morning. Garlands made of red coloured Ixora flowers adorned the processional deity. With the belief that one gets long life and is relieved of all illness by witnessing the Surya Prabha vahanam, devotees watched the vahanam proceedings live on Sri Venkateswara Bhakti channel. Malayappa Swamy blessed the devotees on the Chandra Prabha vahanam procession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/brahmotsavams-malayappa-swamy-blesses-devout-from-surya-vahanam/articleshow/78321365.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Next hearing on Dammalapati’s plea posted to September 29||Vijayawada: The high court on Friday posted hearing on the implead petition, moved by an advocate in former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas’s petition, to September 29. The court had earlier asked Srinivas and the state government to file their response to the petition. While Srinivas sought more time to file response, the government told the high court that it has already moved a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s interim orders. The government further said that the SLP is likely to come up for hearing before the apex court next week and it does not intend to file any affidavit in the present matter. Advocate Mamata moved the high court seeking to implead her in the petition moved by Srinivas. Mamata also sought for modification of the high court order in the matter. The high court on Friday recorded the government’s version and allowed the request of Srinivas for more time to file his affidavit. The matter will be heard again on September 29. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/next-hearing-on-dammalapatis-plea-posted-to-september-29/articleshow/78322006.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Amaravati||New liquor policy: All existing liquor stores in Andhra Pradesh to continue||VIJAYAWADA: The government in its liquor policy announcement on Friday decided to continue all existing liquor stores in the state. It was also decided to open elite walk-in liquor malls based on requirement — without increasing number of stores. The government has continued most of the guidelines prescribed in the old policy. The government had earlier announced that the number of liquor outlets will be reduced in a phased manner as part of its policy decision to implement complete liquor prohibition across the state. The government specifically mentioned that no liquor shop should be set-up enroute Tirupati railway station to Alipiri bus station. It was also mentioned to implement apex court guidelines to not set up liquor shops within 500 meters of national and state highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/new-liquor-policy-all-existing-liquor-stores-to-continue/articleshow/78328573.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Amaravati||Government schools in Andhra Pradesh see spike in enrolments post infrastructure upgrade||AMARAVATI: The state government’s efforts in revamping public schools has revived interest among parents in securing admissions for their wards. The school education department has directed headmasters to launch online admission process and support parents seeking admissions. In a recent report to district educational officers (DEOs), the school education commissioner said that 2.47 lakh new children have enrolled in different government schools in across the 13 districts. While students in government schools are certain to continue in the coming academic year, authorities are overwhelmed at the new enrolments. In new trend government schools are attracting students from private schools. “We are expecting the government schools to get nearly five lakh enrollments in the current academic year and it is sure to go up in the coming year,” said S Ramakrishna, Municipal Teachers Federation (MTF) president. In the last one decade, students from government schools were switching over to private schools due to inadequate infrastructure and faculty. The situation worsened in the last five years when the TDP government closed 4,000 government schools and merged many single teacher schools with nearby schools citing shortage of students. The YSRC government launched several schemes to promote public schools including conversion of schools to English medium, financial assistance under Amma Vodi, uniform, books, shoes, belt and improved menu under mid-day meal programme. Under Nadu-Nedu, many government schools are readied with modern facilities to outsmart corporate educational institutions. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed that each classroom should have superior furniture, fan, light and green chalkboard. All schools are equipped with drinking water and washroom facilities with running water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-schools-in-ap-see-spike-in-enrolments-post-infra-upgrade/articleshow/78321423.cms||Samdani MN
September 26, 2020||Chennai||UGC’s new schedule leaves colleges in city confused||CHENNNAI: The University Grants Commission’s new academic calendar for first year students has left city colleges confused, as many colleges started online classes for freshers a few weeks ago. The new calendar, meanwhile, has asked colleges to wrap up admissions by October 31 and start classes from November 1. The colleges, following a schedule released earlier, completed admissions in August and started online classes in early September. With the current academic year (2020-21) being an election year for the state, colleges don’t see how exams can be conducted in March 2021 (suggested in the schedule) as many colleges would function as vote counting centres. “We may not be able to follow the UGC’s new academic calendar as we began online classes for first year students a month back, following the previous schedule,” said Thomas Amirtham, principal of Loyola College. As per UGC guidelines, a minimum of 90 working days or 450 hours of teaching are needed per semester. The college has divided the classes into synchronous virtual classes and asynchronous virtual classes. “Around 60% of our syllabus will be covered through synchronous virtual classes (live classes) and 40% through asynchronous virtual classes (self-study mode). This way, we will be able to cover 450 hours of learning before December,” he said. The college will also function as a counting centre during the general election. “Being an election year, it is difficult to conduct exams during the March, as suggested in the academic planner issued by UGC,” Thomas added. Principals of city colleges demanded that the state government customize the academic calendar to suit the situation here. Madras Christian College principal Paul Wilson said the college also began online classes for first year students last month. “We expect to hold the semester exams in January for first year students,” he said. He further said parents may not be willing to send the students to campuses even if colleges reopen on November 1. Ethiraj College for Women principal S Kothai said the academic calendar may not be applicable to Tamil Nadu. “We have started online classes for UG students and it will continue even in October. We are waiting for a direction from the state government,” she said. Guru Nanak College principal M G Ragunathan said the state government had issued the direction to end admissions by September 30. “Most colleges have started online classes for first year students. The UGC’s new academic calendar cannot be applied to colleges in our state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ugcs-new-schedule-leaves-colleges-in-city-confused/articleshow/78323750.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Meerut||Missing 7-year-old murdered, body thrown in sewer; uncle, 2 others arrested||Meerut: The body of a seven-year-old boy who went missing on Thursday night was found in a sewer near his house in Saharanpur's Qutubsher area on Friday. The boy's uncle and two others have been arrested.Following the missing alert at the local police station, senior superintendent of police S Channappa himself reached the spot and led the search operation for the missing boy, the son of a local trader.On suspicion, three suspects were detained later in the night. After a brief interrogation, the body of the missing child was fished out from Kishanpura sewer. His mouth was taped. According to the sleuths investigating the case, the child may have been strangled though the post-mortem report is awaited. An ongoing family rivalry is said to be the motive behind the murder. "The accused, Shoib, was the person last spotted with the child before he went missing. When we interrogated him, he spilled the beans, telling us about the the entire conspiracy to kidnap and murder the child," said Vinnet Bhatnagar, Saharanpur SP (City)Shoib claimed that was aided by two of friends from Delh -- Shadan and Shadab. They came to Saharanpur after Shoub offered them money. "All three have been arrested and sent to jail," police said. Police said Shoib worked as an air-conditioner mechanic in the national capital and has criminal antecedents, which is being probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-7-year-old-murdered-body-thrown-in-sewer-uncle-2-others-arrested/articleshow/78322420.cms||Piyush Rai
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Mom, two kids killed in road accident||Tirupati: A mother and her two children were killed in a road accident along the Bhakrapet ghat road near Tirupati on Friday. According to Bhakrapet SI M Ravi Nayak, P Jamuna, a resident of Gollapalli village in Yadamarri mandal, was on her way to Bhakrapet when a speeding tractor coming in the opposite direction rammed into her vehicle near the Bhakrapet ghat road. While Jamuna (30) and her son Deepak (8) were killed on the spot, her daughter Meenakshi (12) died while undergoing treatment at the SVRR government hospital in Tirupati. Bhakrapet police have registered a case and are investigating the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mom-two-kids-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/78321438.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||New liquor policy: All existing liquor stores in Andhra Pradesh to continue||VIJAYAWADA: The government in its liquor policy announcement on Friday decided to continue all existing liquor stores in the state. It was also decided to open elite walk-in liquor malls based on requirement — without increasing number of stores. The government has continued most of the guidelines prescribed in the old policy. The government had earlier announced that the number of liquor outlets will be reduced in a phased manner as part of its policy decision to implement complete liquor prohibition across the state. The government specifically mentioned that no liquor shop should be set-up enroute Tirupati railway station to Alipiri bus station. It was also mentioned to implement apex court guidelines to not set up liquor shops within 500 meters of national and state highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-liquor-policy-all-existing-liquor-stores-to-continue/articleshow/78322028.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||New liquor policy: All existing liquor stores in Andhra Pradesh to continue||VIJAYAWADA: The government in its liquor policy announcement on Friday decided to continue all existing liquor stores in the state. It was also decided to open elite walk-in liquor malls based on requirement — without increasing number of stores. The government has continued most of the guidelines prescribed in the old policy. The government had earlier announced that the number of liquor outlets will be reduced in a phased manner as part of its policy decision to implement complete liquor prohibition across the state. The government specifically mentioned that no liquor shop should be set-up enroute Tirupati railway station to Alipiri bus station. It was also mentioned to implement apex court guidelines to not set up liquor shops within 500 meters of national and state highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-liquor-policy-all-existing-liquor-stores-to-continue/articleshow/78328572.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Meerut||Police in Bijnor declare Rs 25,000 reward on absconding nagar palika chairman||BIJNOR: Two days after a local court issued a non-bailable warrant against Kiratpur nagar palika chairman and three others for their alleged involvement in cow slaughtering, police have announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on any information which leads to their arrest. According to the police, the process for property attachment of the accused will start if they fail to produce themselves in the court. A court in UP’s Bijnor district on Tuesday issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against the nagar palika chairman and three others after they didn’t appear before it in connection with a case of alleged cow slaughter registered against them. The case against Mannan was registered soon after six persons were arrested during a police raid at a farmhouse in Kiratpur last week. They were allegedly slaughtering a cow in the farmhouse owned by chairman Mannan. Police said four more accused, including Mannan, are absconding and efforts are on to arrest them. According to Bijnor’s superintendent of police Dhatamveer Singh, “After NBW against the accused, a reward of Rs 25,000 has been announced on the absconders. If they don’t surface now, their property will be attached soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-in-bijnor-declare-rs-25k-reward-on-absconding-nagar-palika-chairman/articleshow/78322424.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 26, 2020||Kozhikode||ESZ protest: 6 arrested for bid to assault DFO||Kozhikode: Six people, including a Congress leader, were arrested on Friday in connection with a case involving alleged bid to assault Kozhikode divisional forest officer M Rajeevan at Thamarassery on Tuesday. The arrested are Karshaka Congress district secretary Biju Kannathara, Ashraf Korangad, Jasil Puthuppadi, Fasal Karat, Niyas and Baby Thomas. Police arrested four people on Friday early morning from their homes and two other accused surrendered at the police station. They have been booked under sections 143, 147, 341 and 353 of the IPC. They were produced before the Thamarassery court and released on bail. The incident happened when the DFO had gone to Thamarassery to assuage the concerns of the residents of Kattippara and Puthuppadi panchayat over the draft notification to declare ESZ. The accused, who were protesting against the draft notification declaring ecologically sensitive zone (ESZ) around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary, blocked the DFO in front of the Thamarassery forest range office. Meanwhile, UDF on Friday said police was trying to trap its leaders under false charges. KPCC vice-president T Siddique alleged that the DFO was trying to politicize the issue by siding with the left parties. A coordination committee of farmer organisations along with political parties and the Church has been demanding withdrawal of the draft notification to declare eco-sensitive zone around Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/esz-protest-6-arrested-for-bid-to-assault-dfo/articleshow/78320268.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||App developed to help kidney stone patients||Mangaluru: Covid-19 has triggered a need for digital health and technological solutions, which further utilised tele-medicine to tackle the challenges. To address one such area of healthcare, a group of faculty and students from inter-disciplinary departments of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) have launched a mobile app called Urostentz. It facilitates the clinicians to enter the details of their patients who have undergone ureteric stenting for kidney stones. The app subsequently can send automated reminders to patients for their scheduled date of stent removal. The Urostentz app will also track the stent-related symptoms and help in grading the severity of symptoms, and providing assistance to patients. Dr B M Zeeshan Hameed from KMC Manipal and Nithesh Naik from Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), resident Dr Milap Shah, department of urology and students Rahil Hussein Beary from KMC, Pranav Shekhar and Aakif Budnar Kunjibettu from MIT have developed the smartphone mobile application. It is currently available on android and as a web app, and will soon be launched on the iOS platform. It was launched in December 2019 and has gained popularity after the pandemic. The app was invented at their startup Curiouz TechLab Private Limited, incubated at the Manipal Government of Karnataka Bio incubator. Professor Bhaskar Somani from the University of Southampton is the advisor for this global application and project. Nithesh Naik told TOI that it is difficult to visit hospitals for patients due to the pandemic. In such scenarios, the app exclusively assists the clinicians and patients with kidney stones. “This app is designed to facilitate the clinicians to enter the details of their patients who have undergone ureteric stenting for kidney stones. It subsequently can send automated reminders to patients for their scheduled date of stent removal. The app also tracks the stent-related symptoms and helps in grading the severity of symptoms, and providing assistance to patients.” The basic aim of the app is to provide digital remote assistance during the pandemic, help reduce the burden on clinicians and unnecessary hospital visits of patients, thereby reducing the risk of infection. It also provides facility for two-way clinician-patient communication, which has proven to be very useful during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/app-developed-to-help-kidney-stone-patients/articleshow/78322432.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur GGH gets new 20KL oxygen plant||Guntur: A new oxygen plant was installed at Guntur Government General Hospital (GGH) on Friday. The new 20KL plant will allow GGH to fix 50 more ventilators in the Covid-19 ward in addition to the 50 ventilators currently operational. The existing ventilators operate with the help of a 10KL oxygen plant at GGH. GGH superintendent Dr N Prabhavati said, “The new plant will go a long way in providing treatment to critically-ill patients even after Covid-19 is contained.” The Centre had dispatched several ventilators to major public healthcare institutions in the state for the effective management of Covid-19. It took the Andhra Pradesh Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC), the nodal agency for civil and engineering work in hospitals, nearly over two months to complete the process. The superintendent has also set her eyes on strengthening basic infrastructure and facilities for patients. Dr Prabhavati has directed all heads of departments to see to it that all patients receive the best treatment. She also decided to provision additional facilities in the casualty wing where patients will be screened before being routed to special wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-ggh-gets-new-20kl-oxygen-plant/articleshow/78321384.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘Once in uniform, family was secondary, nation was dad’s only passion’||Nagpur: Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) martyred assistant sub-inspector Naresh Badole’s younger daughter, 20-year-old Pradnya, wants to walk in her father’s shoes and join the forces to serve the motherland. Badole had been gunned down by two bike-borne terrorists near Srinagar airport a day ago. His last rites were performed by daughters Pradnya and Mrunal, along with others, at Digdoh crematorium on Friday. Badole had been posted in Jammu and Kashmir at least once earlier since he joined the force as a constable in 1989. “There wasn’t a single day when he would not make a video or phone call for us. We were his world, until he wore the uniform. Once in uniform, then the family would become secondary and nation would become his topmost priority,” said Pradnya, recalling that he wanted her to become an officer. “It was my father’s dream to see me as an officer, for which I shall strive,” she said. “I believe my father died but he must have saved many lives too, now and also in the past, as terrorists do not come to kill only individual personnel,” she said. Pradnya, third-year student of electronics and telecommunication engineering, and her elder sister Mrunal, final-year student of computer science at Pune, stood as supports beside their mother Pramila as she burst into sobs. She was unable to control herself when the tri-colour on her husband’s coffin was handed over to her by a CRPF personnel during the guard of honour ceremony. Senior CRPF officials, city police officers and people’s representatives like MP Kripal Tumane and MLA Sameer Meghe paid homage to the martyr before three rounds were fired in the air during the rituals. State home minister Anil Deshmukh visited the martyr’s family home early in the day. CRPF officials said an injured Badole had been rushed to Srinagar Army hospital, where he was declared dead. His body was flown into the city late on Thursday night. Pradnya said, “We heard he sustained a bullet in his chest and another on the head. On an earlier occasion, father had sustained a bullet injury on his leg too. There was an injury mark on his head too.” “It had become routine for us to get tense and try to find out his well-being after seeing some terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir on television screens. We had grown up seeing him serve at critical postings, including at least twice in Jammu and Kashmir, in Punjab and the North East too,” Pradnya said. After Badole’s mortal remains arrived at their residence at Pandurang Layout in Digdoh, followed by last rites at the crematorium, the two daughters sat holding their mother outside the house meeting relatives. “All we can hope is that there is better provision of bullet proof jackets and fire cover, so that terrorists can’t find it that easy to rob a family of it’s father,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/once-in-uniform-family-was-secondary-nation-was-dads-only-passion/articleshow/78323776.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 2 lakh cases pending in Andhra Pradesh high court: Law minister||VIJAYAWADA: While more than two lakh cases are pending before the AP high court, about 5.8 lakh cases are pending with lower courts as on September 17, Union minister for law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a written reply to a question by Parimal Natwani, Rajya Sabha member from AP, during the recent Parliament session. The minister said AP notified 42 grama nyayalayas (rural courts) in 2020, adding that no rural courts were established in the state before 2020. On the effect of Covid-19 on the pendency of cases in courts, Prasad said directions have been issued from time to time by the respective high courts to subordinate courts under their jurisdiction for hearing of urgent civil and criminal matters in virtual or physical mode depending upon local conditions. A new software patch and court user manual has been recently developed for Covid-19 management, he said, adding that the tool is helping in smart scheduling of cases and effective management of overcrowding in courts. As many as 15.32 lakh cases have been disposed by district courts between March 24 and September 13, the minister informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-2l-cases-pending-in-high-court-law-min/articleshow/78321992.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada's Gandhi Hill readies for an ahimsa-themed facelift||VIJAYAWADA: Gandhi Hill, one of Vijayawada’s most prominent monuments, is slated to get a facelift soon. Situated in Tarapet, the monument was built as a memorial to Mahatma Gandhi, who visited Vijayawada a number of times in course of the freedom struggle. The monument, maintained by the Gandhi Hill Foundation, is expected to be taken up by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC). The civic body has decided to develop the monument as a ‘Swadeshi Heritage Landmark’ to attract tourists. The ‘Gandhi Stupa’ at the top of the hill is lined with quotations of the Father of the Nation. The monument also boasts of a large library with thousands of books on the Mahatma. The VMC has come up with a master plan to develop Gandhi Hill. The overall 19 acre hill will have 10 acres of green cover while the remaining area will be renovated. As per the master plan, an ‘Ashoka Stupa’ will come up behind the Gandhi Stupa. Further, a tourist train service with a 300 metre-long track will also be developed that will give tourists a beautiful glimpse of Vijayawada’s cityscape. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said, “We have prepared a master plan with an estimated cost of Rs 14.2 crore. Around Rs 2 crore has already been sanctioned and a detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared. “The tender process will start soon. A planetarium will be developed along with an amusement zone and a food court. Everything on the Gandhi Hill will be on the theme of ‘ahimsa’ (non-violence),” the VMC commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gandhi-hill-readies-for-an-ahimsa-themed-facelift/articleshow/78321348.cms||Venu Lanka
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||SP Balasubrahmanyam lent his voice to heroes for 5 decades||BENGALURU: Acclaimed playback singer PB Sreenivos had once described thespian Rajkumar as ‘Nayakara Gayaka, Gayakara Nayaka’ (hero of singers and singer of heroes). The only other person who lived up to the description was singer and actor SP Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away on Friday after about a month’s battle with Covid-19. SPB, as he was affectionately called, started singing for Kannada films in 1967 with Nakkare Ade Swarga and sang for most heroes over five decades. Though born in AP, he wanted to be a Kannadiga in his next birth. He lip-synched to Rajkumar in two songs of Kannada film Muddina Mavayya, where he played the main role. The combination of the two legends with a sort of reversal of roles was a treat for fans of both. Before Rajkumar started singing, Sreenivas was his singing voice — the duo was described as Sharira and Shaarira (body and voice). While Balasubrahmanyam sang for all other heroes in Kannada, he did not associate with Rajkumar since Sreenivos was synonymous with him and the actor himself later began singing for his films. SPB sang for Rajkumar when he rendered ‘Illi Aaduva Maathu Kannada’ in CID Rajanna and his rendition perfectly matched the legend's acting prowess. Although his collaboration with Rajkumar was limited to a couple of background songs, the duo sung a 'male duet' for the film Apoorva Sangama. In the hit number, SPB is the playback for actor Shankar Nag,who played the younger brother of Rajkumar. SPB’s young and energetic baritone came as a refreshing replacement for the mellifluous voice of Sreenivos. What made him stand out was his ability to match the actor’s voice and mannerism. He sang for almost all Kannada heroes ranging from Srinath and Vishnuvardhan to Ambareesh and Shivarajkumar. “He skillfully used to mix mimicry into the song. He would ask who was the hero and what was the sequence. It was like an actor reprising the sequence with elan. Be it romance or pathos or devotional, he injected life into the song,” said filmmaker SK Bhagavan. No other singer, except Sreenivas in combination with Rajkumar, could win hearts of Kannada film connoisseurs like SPB did. This was because of his immaculate pronunciation and faultless diction. SPB used to say Kannada was close to his heart though Telugu was his mother tongue. “I don’t know what the bond is. I have sung for many other language films, but the love I received from Kannadigas is a measure higher. If you ask me which is my favourite language as far as singing is concerned, the answer is Kannada,” SPB had said. He had sung last in Kannada for a yet to be released film, Shakuntala. The song ‘Ide Naadu…Ide Bhaashe.. Endendu Nannadagirali..’ from Thirugu Baana was special. “Elelu Janumave Barali...Ee Mannali Naanu Huttuve… Thanu Kannada, Mana Kannada, Nudi Kannadavaagirali..’ (Even if I take the seventh birth, I will be born in this soil. Let my body, mind and speech be Kannada) goes on the song. May his wish come true.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/spb-lent-his-voice-to-kannada-heroes-for-5-decades/articleshow/78323832.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 26, 2020||Surat||Surat firm’s innovation to sweeten diabetics’ life||SURAT: India’s ‘cardiac stent’ capital - Surat - has once again come to the rescue of diabetics who also suffer from coronary artery disease (CAD). A special stent designed by city-based company Concept Medical has come as a major relief for such patients in Europe, which has specially certified its use in patients of CAD with type II diabetes and heart attack. Explaining the innovation, Concept Medical’s MD and CEO, Manish Doshi, said, “In several patients with type II diabetes and coronary heart disease, there is as recurrence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) like heart attack, stroke and restenosis (narrowing of unblocked artery after operation). This abluminal drug-eluting stent DES + will considerably reduce the chances of recurrence.” The recurrence happens for several reasons, one of them being the medicines administered patients not reaching all the affected parts. Chief marketing officer Parth Doshi said these new stents are ushering in a new drug delivery system for diabetic-cardiac patients as they enable medicines administered to them to reach each and every affected part. “Currently available stents in the market have a drug coated only on their metal surface and not on the balloon. Thus, they address only about 14-16% of diseased area of the affected artery. Whereas the patented coating technology of ‘Abluminus DES+’ enables coating of the drug on both the stent as well as the balloon surface and effectively addresses about 80% of the diseased area of the affected artery,” he claimed. Hospitals in European countries have started using these stents after the company received the mandatory CE marking, which permits manufacturers to sell their products as they are found compliant with European health, safety and performance standards. In fact, the Drugs Control General of India (DCGI) has also approved the use of these new stents for patients with diabetics who have suffered heart attacks. Following encouraging results in European countries, the company has launched, what it claims to be, one of the world’s largest trials of this stent named ‘abluminal drug-eluting stents (DES)+. As many as 3,000 patients in 25 countries spanning six continents have been engaged in the trial. According to an estimate, there are 425 million diabetic patients in the world and 40% are diagnosed with CAD. Prof. Antonio Colombo at Italy’s Maria Cecilia Hospital, who enrolled a patient, said: "We have been blind to diabetics, almost neglecting that you need something more useful for this population. Now we acknowledge that this population deserves special treatment". In 2018, Concept Medical was granted "Breakthrough Device Designation” from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for MagicTouch PTA (percutaneous transluminal angioplasty), a sirolimus drug-coated balloon (DCB) catheter, for the treatment of peripheral artery disease in below-the-knee (BTK).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-firms-innovation-to-sweeten-diabetics-life/articleshow/78323238.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s railway hospital chugs in change in Covid management||VADODARA: TO WALK FREE OF COVID’S GRIP in itself is a joy that perhaps can be scarcely expressed in words alone, but the moist eyes of 54-year-old Vikramsinh Rana had another tale to tell on Tuesday. With a lump in his throat, as he walked out of the Divisional Railway Hospital (DRH), Rana, a Covid-19 positive patient who got cured, was overwhelmed by the unrelenting efforts that he witnessed at the hospital. Then, what was so different in DRH? The answer is TLC (total loving care). Besides the necessary medicines, what flowed ceaselessly here was the morale-boosting efforts on part of its caretakers, irrespective of their professional roles. From books, games to movies, and more, the patients weren’t left alone by the enthusiastic staff who matched their patients, step by step, trying their best not to let the zeal sap. Such acts forged a bond of trust, respect, and deep mutual understanding between both sides. The hospital was designated as a Covid hospital in June and has since been admitting positive patients. Till September 15, it had treated 453 patients, of whom 370 had recovered while 32 had to be transferred elsewhere. Smita Biju, who works with a city-based private university spent nine days at the hospital. “After the initial fear subsided, I almost instantly felt at home in the hospital’s pleasant atmosphere. The doctors and nursing staff are on their toes, caring, attentive and always encouraging patients to discuss their condition, be it discomfort of symptoms that they may have missed out on,” she said. “The mental condition of Covid patients has been discussed a lot. We, therefore, devised our ways to keep patients happy — a vital element for in their recovery too. From music to cable television, to all-time hit movies, we wanted the patients to enjoy, their stay” said chief medical superintendent (CMS) Dr Brahm Prakash. Covid-19 nodal officer and additional CMS, Dr Krishna Kumar said, that patients too formed groups among themselves and became friends. “They started inspiring other patients, giving them confidence which became a major asset for us in helping them recover fast,” he said. Word of mouth publicity about their invaluable work made the hospital sought-after among city police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-railway-hospital-chugs-in-change-in-covid-management/articleshow/78323110.cms||Sachin Sharma
September 26, 2020||Chennai||Rafi, the singer SPB idolised||CHENNAI: SPB had millions of fans across languages and genres, each one swearing that his/her favourite was the singer’s best, but he himself followed Mohammed Rafi with devotion, almost to the other side of idolatry. Time after time, on platform after platform, he never forgot to mention the influence of Rafi’s magical voice on his singing. During an audition with his mentor-composer S P Kodandapani, SPB loved to recall, he preferred not to sing anything from Telugu, his mother tongue, but chose the unforgettable ‘Jaanewalon zara, mudke dekho mujhe’ from ‘Dosti’ (1964). Kodandapani was impressed, the youth got his chance and a journey began. Over the years, as his own career grew beyond his wildest dreams, his obsession remained intact. His wife, he once said, banned him from listening to Rafi’s songs after seeing him cry uncontrollably, mesmerised by the sheer quality. While being careful not to copy the veteran and chart out his own path, Rafi remained “the ultimate” for SPB, even as he acknowledged the versatility of such singers as Manna Dey, Mukesh, Kishore Kumar, Ghantasala, T M Sounderarajan and K J Yesudas. The effortless ease with which Rafi flitted from zany numbers for the likes of Shammi Kapoor to soulful melodies and classical thumris had SPB shaking his head in admiration. The classic S D Burman-tuned ‘Din Dhal Jaye, Haye’ from the Dev Anand-Waheeda Rehman starrer ‘Guide’ (1965) was a particular favourite, so much so that he would often let the word ‘haye’ run over his tongue before declaring that no one could do it like Rafi. Gushing over the way Rafi had rendered ‘Tere mere sapne’, also from ‘Guide,’ SPB also never tired of speaking about ‘Kal raat zindagi se mulaqaat ho gayi,’ under Naushad’s baton, from the Rajendra Kumar-Waheeda Rehman starrer ‘Palki’ (1967). During his days of struggle, he would say, Telugu music director Master Venu played the Rafi gem over and over again and promised to give the youngster a chance if he could perfect that tune, particularly the ‘pallavi’. SPB, in all humility, replied that he had no desire to try and sing like that and that he considered himself fortunate just to listen to it. In a recent TV show hosted by Sonu Nigam, SPB spoke of how Rafi’s mellifluous “Dewaana Hua Badal” (Kashmir ki Kali, 1964), particularly the line ‘Yeh dekh ke dil jhooma’, made him shed tears. One of his many regrets was that he was never able to spend quality time with Rafi, let alone sing alongside him, save an occasion when, during a break at a Chennai recording studio, he ran to the great man, touched his feet, blurted out a ‘namaste’ and scurried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rafi-the-singer-spb-idolised/articleshow/78323737.cms||Sitapathi Rao
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘People using unsafe water for drinking, cooking’||AHMEDABAD: The state government had tested 6.30 lakh water samples between 2013-14 and 2017-18 and had found that 18.3% of them were not potable. Of the total samples, 4.3% had excess fluoride, 11.9% has excess nitrate, and 3.06% had excess TDS (total dissolved solids). In its report for the year ending March 2018, the CAG stated that 78 habitations were checked during a verification drive and 188 water samples were tested. In all, 54 of the samples were found unfit for drinking due to chemical contamination. Of the 188 samples, 40 were collected from Rural Water Supply Schemes and eight were found to be contaminated. The report stated that of the 54 unfit samples, 41 had fluoride and nitrate beyond permissible limits. Yet, the contaminated water was being used for drinking and cooking as the people in the area have no alternative sources. The report stated that of the 6.30 lakh samples tested, the ones that had high levels of nitrate came from the districts of Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Banaskantha, Panchamahal and Vadodara. Samples that had high fluoride levels came from Chhota Udepur, Dahod, Banaskantha, and Kheda. The report said the laboratories were to inform the authorities including the gram panchayats concerned about the results. Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board and WASMO (Water and Sanitation Management Organisation) were required to make gram panchayats aware of the health hazards of using contaminated water. They were also responsible for marking unsafe sources of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-using-unsafe-water-for-drinking-cooking/articleshow/78323946.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala should test more and trace more: Experts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the state goes past another milestone of crossing 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, health experts have suggested that the state should increase the number of tests to find out more positive cases such that we can expect a declining trend in the caseload by October-end. More cases will come out if more tests are done now. Up to 10,000 cases per day should not be viewed as a panic situation. It is always better to detect more cases to contain the spread. “If we are going with the present pace of testing like more than 50,000 testing a day, the caseload will peak till mid-October. It is always better to increase the tests as it can detect more cases. If we can collect at least 85,000 samples a day, it would be good for the state. Detecting 10,000 cases a day is all set to happen soon,” said Dr Arun N M, internal medicine expert. The Unlock 4.0 should not be seen as a reason for the increase in the caseload. “The life has to move on. Hence, we cannot shut everything for long and sit at home. What we have to do is detect as many cases and isolate them such that it can prevent further spreading. Socialising should be prevented. In the name of celebrations people are still socialising without following Covid protocols, which is a matter of concern,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who was formerly with WHO. “When we detect more cases by increasing the tests, we should also adopt the policy that all are not put in hospitals. Soon the state will witness a major crisis with both the government and private hospitals filled with more patients if we continue to admit everyone to hospitals. Test more, detect more and isolate them at their homes. Keep hospitals only for the needy, then only we can overcome the crisis,” said Dr A S Anoop Kumar, critical care medicine expert, Baby Memorial Hospital, Kozhikode. The experts are hopeful that a dip in Covid is persisting in the country and it will have a reflection in the state too. “Record number of samples is being sent for testing in the country now. So let us wait and watch hopefully,” said Dr Arun. Health minister K K Shailaja is of the view that this peak was expected post-Onam. Now, the people have to support prevention measures. “Socialising without any precautions, the ongoing protests on the streets, all can further worsen the situation. We cannot come out with more restrictions any more. Hence, precaution is the key,” Shailaja said. “Panicking is not the solution. The government should use the special powers if there is an emergency situation and take over all the private hospitals if there is need for more ventilators and ICUs. The private sector is not being fully utilised by the government even now,” said Dr S S Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/test-more-and-trace-more-experts/articleshow/78323784.cms||Rajiv G
September 26, 2020||Chennai||Corporation to cut staff doing fever surveys||CHENNAI: With containment zones removed, Greater Chennai Corporation now plans to dilute anti-Covid measures in the coming weeks. The corporation has stopped cordoning off houses and streets and now it plans to reduce fever surveillance staff. About 12,000 fever surveillance staff and 2,500 focus volunteers were hired for Covid duty. TOI had reported that contracts with the NGOs that undertook Covid work in slum areas were not renewed. By reducing the number of surveillance workers and extra staff hired for Covid duty, the corporation wants to cut its salary bill. It wants to focus on enforcement by deploying its existing staff. “Necessary awareness is there among public,” said an official. “We have stopped marking containment zones as case count is not high like in earlier months. As on Friday, there are 812 streets with active cases with the most in Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Ambattur and Anna Nagar.” City health officer R Jagadeesan told TOI that the corporation has not ruled out the peak. “We still have to wait for the incubation period to end. We are prepared and have not reduced testing. All zones have mobile vans and regular samples are collected from market area and other commercial areas. Focus has shifted to workplaces and so we will reduce volunteers based on the need,” he said. Other routine Covid work such as fever clinics, testing close contacts of infected, taking them to screening centres and Covid care centres will continue. “Conferences and meetings to monitor other non-Covid work has begun. Each zone has a target to collect Rs 2 lakh in fine from public for violation of Covid rules,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-to-cut-staff-doing-fever-surveys/articleshow/78323807.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala should test more and trace more: Experts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the state goes past another milestone of crossing 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, health experts have suggested that the state should increase the number of tests to find out more positive cases such that we can expect a declining trend in the caseload by October-end. More cases will come out if more tests are done now. Up to 10,000 cases per day should not be viewed as a panic situation. It is always better to detect more cases to contain the spread. “If we are going with the present pace of testing like more than 50,000 testing a day, the caseload will peak till mid-October. It is always better to increase the tests as it can detect more cases. If we can collect at least 85,000 samples a day, it would be good for the state. Detecting 10,000 cases a day is all set to happen soon,” said Dr Arun N M, internal medicine expert. The Unlock 4.0 should not be seen as a reason for the increase in the caseload. “The life has to move on. Hence, we cannot shut everything for long and sit at home. What we have to do is detect as many cases and isolate them such that it can prevent further spreading. Socialising should be prevented. In the name of celebrations people are still socialising without following Covid protocols, which is a matter of concern,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who was formerly with WHO. “When we detect more cases by increasing the tests, we should also adopt the policy that all are not put in hospitals. Soon the state will witness a major crisis with both the government and private hospitals filled with more patients if we continue to admit everyone to hospitals. Test more, detect more and isolate them at their homes. Keep hospitals only for the needy, then only we can overcome the crisis,” said Dr A S Anoop Kumar, critical care medicine expert, Baby Memorial Hospital, Kozhikode. The experts are hopeful that a dip in Covid is persisting in the country and it will have a reflection in the state too. “Record number of samples is being sent for testing in the country now. So let us wait and watch hopefully,” said Dr Arun. Health minister K K Shailaja is of the view that this peak was expected post-Onam. Now, the people have to support prevention measures. “Socialising without any precautions, the ongoing protests on the streets, all can further worsen the situation. We cannot come out with more restrictions any more. Hence, precaution is the key,” Shailaja said. “Panicking is not the solution. The government should use the special powers if there is an emergency situation and take over all the private hospitals if there is need for more ventilators and ICUs. The private sector is not being fully utilised by the government even now,” said Dr S S Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/test-more-and-trace-more-experts/articleshow/78328121.cms||Rajiv G
September 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Prove authenticity of holy relic, Kanthapuram told||Kozhikode: The EK faction of Sunnis has suggested to the leader of the rival AP camp, Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliyar, that he could end all debate on the authenticity of the holy hair of Prophet Muhammad in his possession by proving that it is original. In a video on his Facebook page, Abdul Hameed Faizy Ambalakkadavu, secretary of Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS), said Sunnis believe the holy relics of the Prophet have certain peculiarities. “Among them is the belief that the holy hair cannot be burned, nor will it create a shadow when set against a light source,” Faizy said, adding that these were attested by a document published by the Kanthapuram group. Faizy said Kanthapuram can prove the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, who said the holy relic is just a body waste, wrong by putting the relic to test. He added that if it is really the holy hair of the Prophet it will not burn when set on fire. “This will be an opportunity for Kanthapuram to prove the authenticity of the hair in his possession. Moreover, large sections of non-Muslims will be attracted to Islam seeing that it is the true religion,” he said. Faizy said even CPM leader T K Hamza had made such a suggestion in the past. “The EK faction will extend all help to conduct such a test and if proved successful, it will be a boost to the unification of the two Sunni groups,” he said. The SYS leader reminded that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb carried out similar tests on the holy relic that was recovered after a heist at Hazratbal mosque. The fresh debate was ignited by the CM’s comment, which was made at a press conference. Vijayan said he stands by his earlier position on the issue. Kanthapuram planned to construct a grand mosque in Kozhikode to preserve the holy relic. All sections of Muslims, including the EK Sunnis, had come out against the move. While other Muslim groups took a different stand, EK Sunnis said the Prophet’s hair is indeed a holy relic, but the one Kanthapuram had with him was not genuine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/prove-authenticity-of-holy-relic-kanthapuram-told/articleshow/78320301.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||3 Covid deaths, more recoveries than new cases in Amravati||Amravati: In a relief, the number of recovered cases surpassed the number of new Covid-19 cases in the district on Friday. While 313 patients were declared as recovered, 217 new cases were added to the tally. Recoveries have now reached 9,479 while the caseload increased to 12,233. The day also reported three Covid-related deaths as against six each in the last couple of days. The toll has reached 262. A civil surgeon office report said that two men (40 and 60) from Jamthi village in Murtijapur tehsil of Akola district and Nandgaon Khandeshwar respectively and a woman (60) from Mujaffarpura died during treatment. There are now 2,492 active cases that include 1,467 at Covid hospital, 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 1,013 in home isolation in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-covid-deaths-more-recoveries-than-new-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/78323805.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chennai||My Ponmalai pozhuthu with SP Balasubrahmanyam||CHENNAI: When I got ‘Ithu Oru Ponmalai’ for ‘Nizhalgal’ in 1980, I was a bit hesitant as I was a newcomer. Director Bharathiraja broke the good news that "our Balu" will sing it. S P Balasubrahmanyam was a busy man, juggling between studios, and we waited 3-4 weeks before he made it. A man who usually finished in a take or two, was struggling till five takes. Finally, when SPB said ‘take 6’, ‘fix it,’ everything fell in place and I too got fixed in the Tamil film industry. A 40-year-old journey that was enriching for both of us began. On Ceylon Radio, the same song was number one for 52 weeks. ‘Nizhalgal’ did not reap dividends financially but for SPB and me, it made all the difference. The legend came late to recording studios, since he had to shuttle between them, but would apologise to all — from tea boy to sound engineer — saying ‘sorry, kanna’. Some singers parrot what the music director says, while others sing like a cuckoo with improvisations. SPB was like a cuckoo. In ‘Kaaman koyil siraivaasam kaalai yezhundhaal ha hah… parigaasam,’ from ‘Panivizhum malarvanam’ (‘Ninaivellam Nithya’), the ‘ha hah’part was his contribution. Whichever language he sang, people thought it was his mother tongue. Whenever a lyric impressed him, he would look at me and say ‘you are romantic at heart’. He fondly called me a ‘dictator.’ A man who sang 10-15 songs a day never stopped to compliment his peers and juniors. I want to be updated with the latest taste in lyrics in other languages, and SPB shared with me all that was currently popular. (As told to Neeraja Ramesh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/my-ponmalai-pozhuthu-with-spb/articleshow/78323788.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Neera unit in Bantwal to get a new lease of life||Mangaluru: The neera unit set up in Bantwal, under department of horticulture, is likely to get a new lease of life after the government proposed to hand it over to a farmer producer organisation (FPO) or a coconut cooperative society. The move comes after the unit started in 2011-12, became dysfunctional from 2016. Neera is a sweet sap extracted from the inflorescence of coconut palms. The department of horticulture has planned to give the facility to run on contract basis to any interested farmer organisation. Department sources said the tender procedure is under process and various rules are getting ready for the contractual agreement. “Once it is approved from the head office in Bengaluru, the tender will be invited,” said a source. A few months ago, zilla panchayat CEO R Selvamani had decided to hand over the unit to the Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society. HOPCOMS had bought time to conduct a survey to prepare a business feasibility report but did not give any feedback. The neera unit, which boasted to be the first in the state, was operational in 2011. It was started in association the department of horticulture, Bantwal taluk, Coconut Development Board and Palakkad Coconut Producers Company Limited. In 2014, it started rolling out chilled Neera products through HOPCOMS in Mangaluru market. On an average, the unit procured 2,000 litres of neera per day but eventually stopped operation in 2016. Sources said the department of horticulture will not give the unit to any individual or private entities or business houses. Pradeep D’Souza, senior assistant director, department of horticulture said the unit in Bantwal was a ‘trial’ facility and not a full-fledged one. “It was not stopped in 2016 as well. Now, we are planning to hand it over to an interested FPO or cooperative to run it. The tender and other details are getting finalised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/neera-unit-in-bantwal-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/78322464.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 26, 2020||Nashik||2 arrested for assaulting cops||Nashik: Adgaon police have arrested two people for assaulting a police patrolling team in the Vrundavan Nagar area in the wee hours of Thursday. The suspects have been identified as Akash Govind Rathod (22) and Tushar Ravindra Sawant (19). Police said when the two policemen were passing the Vrundavan Nagar area, the two suspects were moving suspiciously in the parking space of an apartment at around 2.45 am. When the police enquired about the reason for their movement, the suspects started arguing. Rathod held one of the policemen by his collar and heckled him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-for-assaulting-cops/articleshow/78321414.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha Covid tally nearing 4k-mark, toll reaches 106||Wardha: The district reported 118 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the caseload to 3,986 and toll to 106 on Friday. Recoveries reached 2,008 after 65 patients were discharged during the day. The deceased included a 69-year-old man from Selu, two men (80 and 60) from Wardha and a 48-year-old man from Hinganghat. Highest 71 new cases came from Wardha, 21 from Hinganghat, seven each from Deoli and Selu, five each from Arvi and Karanja, and two from Samudrapur. Currently, 1,872 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-covid-tally-nearing-4k-mark-toll-reaches-106/articleshow/78323819.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Open-air theatre to host first show after lockdown||KOLKATA: New Town will host its first post-lockdown live event at an open-air theatre in Nazrul Tirtha this Sunday with all precautionary measures. The event will have a musical performance by music composer and singer Santanu Basu and singer Brishtilekha Nandini. The event entry is free and based on a first-come-first-served basis. Basu said the theme of the musical event is ‘Bhalobashar Gan o Bhalolagar Gan’. “It will be our first live event post lockdown. When Hidco chairman Debashis Sen called me to perform, it felt like a great opportunity after spending a long time behind closed doors. Though work was on even during the lockdown, it was mostly done from our homes and performances were through mobile phones. The connect with the live audience, which we singers all crave for, had been missing for the last six month,” Basu said. “It is a wonderful feeling and a golden opportunity to perform before a live audience after such a long time. For us, direct communication with the audience is what we want and we are thankful to Hidco for giving us the opportunity,” said singer Brishtilekha Nandini. The 90-minute programme will have five musicians apart from Basu and Nandini. During the last few months, Hidco has periodically organized video conference-based online cultural events from Nazrul Tirtha and Rabibdra Tirtha to give some relief to the residents from boredom.  “The connection between an artist performing on stage and the appreciation from the audience creates an atmosphere, which cannot be delivered through online shows,” said a Hidco official. A ‘Poetry Evening’ has also being planned at Nazrul Tirtha open air on October 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/open-air-theatre-to-host-first-show-after-lockdown/articleshow/78324607.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Woman dies, 2 daughters fight for life in attack by kin||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old woman died and her two daughters were critically injured after a relative launched a murderous attack on them at their Ekbalpore home on Friday. The accused, Sultan Ansari (25) from Rajabagan area, then walked down to the nearest police station and surrendered himself. The incident took place on Dr Sudhir Basu Road, located opposite Bodyguard Lines, around 12.45pm on Friday. Police said the deceased, Akida Khatoon (45), was the wife of Haroon Rashid, a cleric at a mosque in central Kolkata. Their daughters have been identified as Shagufta (20) and Taiba (17). Ansari, the step-maternal cousin of Rashid, is suspected to have wanted to marry one of the girls. “Ansari offered tuition for a living. Ansari’s and Rashid’s families have been involved in a dispute for a long time. But on Friday morning, Ansari apparently came over to their place to talk to Akida so that the differences could be settled,” said DC (Port) Syed Waquar Raza. “Rashid was at the mosque. Their conversation suddenly turned ugly and it is suspected that the accused picked up a blunt object and attacked Akida and her daughters.” Joint CP (crime & traffic) Santosh Pandey said the accused walked out of the house—leaving the three bleeding —and went to the Ekbalpore police station. “Ansari said he had attacked and killed three from a family but refused to give us the address,” said an officer. The cops traced the house and went inside to find the three women lying bleeding. “All three were alive and we took them to SSKM Hospital. Khatoon was declared dead at the SSKM emergency. Her two daughters are fighting for their lives in the ICU,” said an officer from the homicide wing. Ansari was arrested. In the evening, chairman of the KMC board of coordinators Firhad Hakim visited the spot. “The accused himself surrendered to the police. All angled will be investigated,” he said. “Ansari, who has been charged with murder and attempt to murder, has remained silent about his motive. We are surprised that no one from the area could hear the victims’ cries. Though many had gone out to offer Friday prayer, we think there are certain gaps that we hope to fill once the forensic team visits the place and we manage to record the daughters’ statements,” said an officer. Besides cops from the Ekbalpore police station, the special unit of Port police and detective department are probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-2-daughters-fight-for-life-in-attack-by-kin/articleshow/78323821.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Covid toll 135, 202 new cases in Chandrapur district||Chandrapur: The Covid-19 caseload jumped to 8,911, as 202 new cases were detected on Friday. The district also reported six deaths and discharge of 142 patients on Friday. The deceased included a 61-year-old woman from Babupeth, a 42-year-old person from Sister Colony, and a 50 year-old person from old city in Chandrapur, along with a 42-year-old person from Ballarpur and a 65-year-old person from Kothari. The toll now stands at 135, while the recoveries have reached 5,193. There are 3583 active cases in district. The first day of janata curfew in the district evoked good response. While markets remained closed, the streets wore deserted look. Emergency services like banks, petrol pumps, hospitals and medical stores remained functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-toll-135-202-new-cases-in-chandrapur-district/articleshow/78323826.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Average salary offered up by 16% at Birla Institute of Technology placement||HYDERABAD: Even as Covid-19 casts a shadow on the second phase of campus placements, 88 per cent students of Birla Institute of Technology (BITS), Pilani campus in the city were hired by top companies. The average salary increased by 16 per cent, to Rs 15.72 lakh this year from Rs 13.48 lakh last year,” said Balasubramanian. The first phase of campus placement commenced at BITS, Pilani (Hyderabad) in August last year and went on till December, 2019. The second phase that commenced in January, 2020 bore the brunt of Covid-19 and subsequent nationwide lockdown. A total of 656 students were recruited by top firms, a minor fall of four per cent compared to last year when 684 students were hired. “The numbers took a small hit owing to the lockdown, as interning students had to rush back to their homes in the middle of their internship tenure resulting in opportunity loss. In terms of the number of companies who hired, there was a minor drop of three percent as 194 companies came forward compared to 202 last year,” said G Balasubramanian, chief placement officer (India and Dubai). “I was placed in Service Now as a software engineer in August last year. Following the lockdown, I was scared that I may lose the opportunity. Surprisingly, not only was my offer intact but my package was revised following the digital transformation that occurred post the lockdown,” said Karri Srikanth, a BTech student whose package was revised from Rs 26 lakh to Rs 34 lakh. BITS attracted top companies such as Microsoft, Amazon, Micron, Qualcomm, Intel, Reliance Industries to name a few. An international offer in robotics was also made from Polybee at 70,000 Singapore dollars. Microsoft India Development Centre offered the highest domestic compensation of around Rs 43 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/average-salary-offered-up-by-16-at-bits-placement/articleshow/78323823.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 26, 2020||Kochi||Jacob Job exonerated of all charges against him||Thrissur: Former police commissioner of Thrissur Jacob Job said that he was exonerated of all charges that were levelled against him during the investigation in the Chandrabose murder case. He said that the government has regularized the pay and allowances during his period of suspension from Feb 28, 2015, to March 18, 2016 and it was based on the GO dated Aug 9, 2020 after an enquiry report was filed. Job said he was reinstated on March 18, 2016. “I was exonerated of the charge that I attempted to scuttle the investigation in favour of beedi tycoon Muhammed Nisham, the accused in the Chandrabose murder case. The case was registered at Peramangalam police station in Thrissur city,” said the officer who joined the police service in 1981 and won the President’s police medal in 2011. Earlier, vigilance enquiries failed to find substantial evidence of financial transactions between the suspended commissioner and Nisham. Job was suspended on February 28, 2015, following allegations that he had a secret meeting with Nisham when the latter was remanded in custody in Chandrabose case. Job was transferred first as SP of Pathanamthitta soon after the allegations surfaced and suspended later. The vigilance court had ordered a probe against the officer based on the petition by social activist PD Joseph. The allegation was that Job, who was the then commissioner, was closeted with Nisham three times during police custody for around 90 minutes in the absence of other investigating officers and they struck a deal then. The then VACB director Shanker Reddy had said that there was nothing wrong in the commissioner questioning the accused in police custody. He had ordered a further probe to find whether there was a change in the attitude of the commissioner towards the murder case after the controversial meeting. Nisham had roughed up and later knocked down Chandrabose (48) at the entry gate of Sobha City, with his Hummer for not opening the gate properly on Jan 29, 2015. Chandrabose succumbed to his injuries at a hospital 19 days later. Nisham is now serving life sentence at Poojappura central jail in Thiruvananthapuram. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacob-job-exonerated-of-all-charges-against-him/articleshow/78320314.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports over 2,300 new Covid cases, 10 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday reported 2381 new cases and 10 deaths, even as the state announced that 1.5 lakh patients have so far recovered from the virus. In the last 24 hours, 2021 people have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 1, 50,160, while the toll reached 1080 and the number of infected cases stood at 1,81 627. According to the bulletin released by the health department among the 30,387 active cases, 24, 592 are under home isolation. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continued to have the highest number of cases with 386 followed by Ranga Reddy (227), Medchal Malkajgiri (193), Nalgonda (132), Karimnagar (119) . Narayanpet had continued to be at the bottom of districts with caseload with just 12 cases. Least number of cases were found in Komarambheem Asifabad (13), Adilabad (13), Mulugu (15) and Janagoan (23). Warangal Urban district has shown decline in numbers with only 83 cases. The district was having more than 100 daily cases in recent times. The asymptomatic infections are 70 percent (1, 27, 139 cases), while the symptomatic caseload is 30 percent (54, 488). The health department tested 57, 621 samples (total 2741836) and reports of 1659 samples are awaited. The samples tested per million reached 73, 851. The state has 17 RT PCR, CBNAAT, TRUENAT testing centres in government facilities and 43 centres in private.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-over-2300-covid-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/78323828.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||KMC truck runs over College Sq Puja member||Kolkata: A key organizer of the College Square Durga Puja died after being hit by a KMC gardening department’s truck on Friday morning. The accident happened around 9.20am when the victim, Subir Modak (69), a resident of Surya Sen Street, was walking inside College Square. “He was hit by the truck near the main gate opposite the University of Calcutta. The driver of the truck fled after the accident. We have sought the help of the civic body to trace the driver,” said a police officer. The victim, who was returning home from the College Street market, went to College Square to check the progress of pandal decoration work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-truck-runs-over-college-sq-puja-member/articleshow/78323858.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||After 6-month hiatus, Telangana govt unlocks Hyderabad’s parks & clubs||HYDERABAD: It’s finally shutters up for Hyderabad’s lung spaces and nightlife, both of which have been shut for the last six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the city’s clubs and bars opened its doors to patrons on Friday evening itself, urban parks, including the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park (KBR), will be accessible to morning walkers from Saturday onwards. Visits to the Nehru Zoological Park will be allowed from October 6, announced Allola Indrakaran Reddy, minister for forests, environment and justice. Reddy is said to have earlier approached Union minister Prakash Javadekar to open up urban forest parks in view of public health at a meeting of forest and environment ministers from all states. In its order on clubs and tourism bars in the government allowed them to open with immediate effect, but directed permit rooms to stay closed until further orders. It also rolled out a list of conditions to be followed by these establishments. These include installing of ‘non-touch infra red thermometers/thermal screening at the entrance’, following ‘proper queue management and hygiene conditions’ and thorough sanitisation twice a day. It also banned gatherings, musical events and use of dance floors. “We welcome this move and thank the government for supporting us during this unprecedented crisis. The industry can finally get back on its feet now,” said Dheeraj Melwani, president, Hyderabad Restro-Lounges Association. He added: “We have already re-organised our premises to abide by social distancing norms and will follow all other rules prescribed by the government.” Parks under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits would open their gates on Saturday, said additional commissioner (urban biodiversity wing) of GHMC, V Krishna. “Residents can catch a breath of fresh air at Indira Park, Jalagam Vengal Rao Park and other such parks in GHMC jurisdiction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-6-month-hiatus-t-govt-unlocks-hyds-parks-clubs/articleshow/78323834.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Delimitation of civic wards unlikely ahead of GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Anomalies and improper geographical distribution of municipal divisions that exist in GHMC are likely to continue. While the Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) and GHMC authorities have started preparations for the elections, there are no indications from the state government on taking up delimitation of divisions (wards) in the state as the exercise will take at least three to four months. As of now, GHMC has 150 wards. There has been a demand from the political parties and people to increase it to at least 200 and take up delimitation to provide fair representation from all parts of the city. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar, however, said no decision has been taken on delimitation of the wards. S Chandrasekhar, RTI activist and founder-member of IAC volunteers’ association, said the government has created 23 new districts, dozens of new mandals and revenue divisions for administrative convenience and to benefit the people. “Why don’t they (government) go for delimitation of wards for the same public cause,” he sought to know. Katari Srinivas Rao, former state president of Lok Satta, who has been fighting for delimitation of wards, said the outskirts of Hyderabad are rapidly developing with thousands of colonies coming up where more focus is required for developing infrastructure. “But, the government seems to be in no mood to increase the divisions. Many divisions, which had 60,000 to 70,000 voters in the previous GHMC elections, have now one lakh voters each,” he told TOI. He said in the core city areas, rise in the number of voters is expected to change slightly, especially in thickly-populated areas. “Of the 150 wards, nearly 40 to 45 are in the Old City which have just 100 square km area. Whereas, the rest of the GHMC, which has 520 sq km, there are 100 divisions. This anomaly needs to be rectified immediately,” Srinivasa Rao explained. There are also demands for changing geographical boundaries of divisions. At some places, problems arose for people and the government as some of the divisions come under two assembly constituencies, two municipal circles and even two municipal zones. “In Begumpet, one side of the road falls (towards HPS) under Kukatpally circle and zone and the opposite road is in Begumpet circle and Secunderabad zone. Some colonies in Begumpet come under Sanathnagar assembly constituency and other colonies in Secunderabad assembly segment. This is leading to coordination problems. Residents are confused as to whom should they approach to resolve their grievances,” former minister and senior Congress leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy told TOI. Twelve municipalities were merged with the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad to form GHMC 13 years ago with an intention to develop these areas. Though new settlements are coming up, there has been no focus on municipal circles surrounding the city, BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delimitation-of-civic-wards-unlikely-ahead-of-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78323837.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||No water supply in 535 government schools||AHMEDABAD: Under the National Rural Drinking Water Programme (NRDWP) it was decided that by the year 2017 all the government schools were to have access to safe drinking water, but despite release of funds there were 535 schools where no work was taken up. The CAG report of social sector stated that Water and Sanitation Management Organisation (WASMO) conducted a survey of schools in 2015-16 and found out of 3,000 schools, 2,000 did not have definite source of drinking water. A fund of Rs 12 crore was released between 2015 and 2017 for providing drinking water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-water-supply-in-535-govt-schools/articleshow/78323928.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: India’s first private cryogenic rocket engine unveiled||HYDERABAD: After emerging as India's first private company to have successfully test fired an upper stage rocket engine, Hyderabad-based space-tech startup Skyroot Aerospace has now unveiled the country's first privately developed, fully indigenous cryogenic rocket engine that runs on cryogenic rocket propellants liquefied natural gas (LNG) and liquid oxygen (LOX). The company tweeted this achievement on Friday. “The engine, a scaled up version of which will be used as an upper stage engine for its under development Vikram-2 launch vehicle, has been named Dhawan-I as a tribute to Indian rocket scientist Satish Dhawan on his 100th birth anniversary,” said Naga Bharath Daka, co-founder & COO of Skyroot. “Dhawan-I is a 100% 3D-printed cryogenic engine with regenerative cooling. This is first among a series of engines being planned with various thrust levels,” said Pawan Kumar Chandana, CEO of Skyroot Aerospace. Pointing out that Dhawan-I is first among a series of engines being planned with various thrust levels by the Hyderabad-based startup, Chandana said that after having successfully completed many tests to check the fuel flow and structural integrity, the company is now building a dedicated test facility for test firing the engines it is developing. “LNG (>90% Methane) is a clean burning, low cost, highly reusable and safe cryogenic fuel which is also ideal for longer duration deep space missions carrying satellites or humans and is perfectly aligned with the long-term vision of Skyroot to offer affordable and eco-friendly space transportation,” Chandana explained. Skyroot, which was founded in June 2018 by former ISRO scientists and has a 40-member team, recently became the first private sector player in India to successfully conduct an on-ground test firing of its upper stage rocket engine Raman, named after Nobel Laureate CV Raman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-1st-private-cryogenic-rocket-engine-unveiled/articleshow/78323842.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 550 infected mothers delivered at Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital since May||HYDERABAD: Gandhi Hospital has taken the maximum load of Covid-19 infected women’s deliveries. The team of gynaecologists at Gandhi Hospital have performed deliveries for 578 infected women. Around 400 of the deliveries were C Section procedures. While most babies delivered were Covid-free, five of them contracted the infection but are now healthy. “We have conducted 179 normal deliveries. The most difficult and memorable experience for us has been conducting C Section on an infected woman who weighed 115 kg,” said Dr Mahalakhsmi, head of Gandhi Hospital gynaecology department. Sutanbazar Maternity Hospital also has performed 1,500 deliveries on an average every month since the onset of Covid-19. “About 100 of the women were Covid-19 infected. We get referrals from districts as far as Adilabad, that too most complicated cases,” Dr Rajaylakshmi Katam, hospital superintendent said. Both hospitals did not have not more than 20 doctors to perform the deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-550-infected-mothers-delivered-at-gandhi-since-may/articleshow/78323853.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 317 fresh Covid cases||AURANGABAD: The district reported 317 fresh Covid-19 patients by Thursday late night, taking the total number of active cases to 6,142. With this, the total number of Covid cases rose to 32,089. As many as 25,054 patients have recovered from the contagion in the district so far. Three Covid deaths were reported at the government medical college and hospital by Thursday late night, taking the death toll to 893  The fresh cases include 95 patients who tested positive through antigen testing carried out by mobile swab collection units in urban areas while 52 cases were traced in the rural parts of the district. The deceased include a 55-year-old woman from Khuldabad, a 78-year-old man from Navyug colony and a 63-year-old woman from Paithan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-317-fresh-cases/articleshow/78325479.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Machine can do 4k tests a day||Hyderabad: Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Friday said that with the addition of COBOS 8800 machine at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), the state will be able to conduct up to 24,000 RT PCR tests every day. After launching the machine at NIMS, the minister said, “Currently we are able to do 20,000 RT PCR tests, the state of the art machine will have an additional capacity of 3,500 to 4,000 tests every day which will take our capacity to conduct tests to 24000.” The machine can simultaneously do TB , HIV and Covid- 19 tests. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/machine-can-do-4k-tests-a-day/articleshow/78323873.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||GWSSB incurred operational losses of Rs 2,506cr in 5 years||Ahmedabad: The Comptroller and Auditor General has observed that the Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage Board (GWSSB) incurred an operational loss of Rs 2,506 crore in the five years between 2013 and 2018. The CAG in its report for the social sector ending on March 2018 stated that GWSSB issued charges for potable water supplied to gram panchayats, nagarpalikas and municipal corporations. The GWSSB issued the bills on a quarterly basis but did not follow them up after issuance. The report stated that thus, due to inadequate follow-up the percentage recovery of water charges was only 7.6% during 2013-18. The recovery ranged between zero per cent in gram panchayats in Dahod and 10.1% in Porbandar. The CAG also observed that the figures of the closing balance of outstanding recovery of the year did not match the opening balance of the succeeding year and GWSSB did not take any action to reconcile the difference. The CAG noted that the principal secretary stated that the proposal for providing subsidy to the consumers and gram panchayat for water charges is under consideration of the government. The report also observed that no metering system existed to measure the quantity of water supplied to the gram panchayats. GWSSB raised the bills to gram panchayats on the basis of estimated population of the concerned gram panchayat and not on the basis of the water supplied. The CAG observed that most of the tail-end villages of the scheme were not getting water or got very low quantity of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gwssb-incurred-operational-losses-of-rs-2506cr-in-5-years/articleshow/78323905.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wooden mosque, golden opportunity||AHMEDABAD: In the coming few semesters, the students of Cept University with the Centre for Heritage Conservation (CHC) will have a unique classroom — one which dates back to the Mughal era! Rather than on the college campus, the students will be schooled in early Gujarat architecture and limestone work at the wooden mosque at Tankshal ni Pol. This is one of the few surviving wooden mosques in Gujarat. The CHC of Cept University has signed an MoU with the Ahmedabad Sunni Muslim Waqf Committee (ASMWC) for initiating the conservation process and retaining the site for three years. Aptly termed the ‘Conservation Site School’, the initiative aims at adopting a heritage structure in the city which is architecturally and culturally significant, and then infusing life into it. Prof Jigna Desai, the executive director of the CHC, said that the idea is inspired by some European initiatives. Under such programmes, heritage sites are adopted by communities or institutions for a brief period for restoration, creating awareness, and above all revitalizing them through a slew of activities. “Ahmedabad being India’s first Unesco World Heritage City, the ‘Conservation Site School’ becomes extremely relevant for preservation efforts,” said Prof Desai. The CHC has already launched a fundraiser on an online platform for restoration and aims to generate Rs 20 lakh. Till Thursday, the initiative had raised close to Rs 40,000. This fund will be used to restore the structure and introduce community activities. The planned activities at the site will include structural assessment by non-destructive methods, workshops on traditional building material and techniques, exhibitions, workshops and seminars for conservation, and training of craftspeople. These activities will be led by the CHC team. Prof Desai said that Ahmedabad should be at the vanguard of people-led conservation efforts and revive the sites that are culturally, socially, and architecturally important. “We envision it as a continuous process. After three years, we have a few other sites in mind where a similar initiative can help conserve our invaluable heritage,” she said. Rizwan Qadri, the chairman of ASMWC, said that the committee has 32 mosques, of which the Tankshal mosque is the only wooden structure. “It was an organic partnership between us and Cept University,” he said. “Involving students and local residents in conservation and maintenance will go a long way in ensuring the place’s longevity and restoring it for posterity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wooden-mosque-golden-opportunity/articleshow/78323897.cms||Parth Shastri
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||GMDC pulled up for avoidable losses||AHMEDABAD: State-run Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation (GMDC) received flak from the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) over deficient monitoring of mining activities at the company’s lignite as well as bauxite projects and resultant avoidable losses. “Deficient monitoring turnkey mining agreements system resulted in avoidable loss of Rs 104 crore in 10 cases, undue benefit to contractor of Rs 21 crore in two cases and arbitration claim of Rs 107 crore in one case,” the auditor stated in its report on public sector undertakings for the year ended March 2019. With regard to the core mining activities conducted by the company through contractors, the auditor, said, “The standard terms for rate fixation in turnkey lignite mining agreements were not finalised even after more than 10 years. The audit also observed deficiencies in the system for tendering and awarding of turnkey lignite mining agreements that had resulted in avoidable loss of Rs 17.7 crore.” Deviations from the terms of turnkey mining agreements also resulted in extra expenditure of Rs 23.3 crore in one case, undue benefit of Rs 23.3 crore in another case and additional payment of Rs 1.4 crore in one more case, the auditor noted. According the report, GMDC, in one case, acquired land of Rs 13.7 crore before completing the preliminary assessment of viability of a project. GSECL, too, gets flak The auditor also pulled up another state PSU — Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Ltd (GSECL) — for delayed commissioning of coal handling plant and insufficient space for stacking the coal, which resulted in avoidable payment of demurrage charges of Rs 14.1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gmdc-pulled-up-for-avoidable-losses/articleshow/78323911.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Goa teachers award winners declared||PANAJI: The awardees for the state best teachers’ honour were announced on Friday. Special educator at Panaji’s Disha School, Avinash Parkhe, and Amita Dessai of government primary school Agonda are awardees at the primary school level. Teacher of government high school Mencurem, Gopal Sawant, teacher at government high school, Nagargao, Valpoi, Nanda Majik and art teacher at SKK High School, Keri, Ponda, Shrikrishna Vaze will be receiving the honour at secondary school level. Head of the special school St Xavier Academy at Old Goa, Sr Monica Coelho, and the head of government high school Morpirla, Quepem, Maria Miranda are awardees in the high school head category. Vithoba Bagli of Shree Kamleshwar high secondary school, Korgao, Pernem will also be honoured. He has initiated many water conservation initiatives in Pernem. Principal of Shree Damodar Higher Secondary School, Margao, Rajeev Desai will be awarded in the higher secondary school principal category. Desai has taken up many projects to build scientific temperament among his students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-teachers-award-winners-declared/articleshow/78325519.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar inaugurates ambulance scheme||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday inaugurated an ambulance scheme funded by gram panchayats and to be run by them collectively Pawar inaugurated the first 51 of the 97 ambulances that have been ordered. These ambulances are expected to be in service as early as next week, depending on clearances from the Pune regional transport office. The ambulances, costing about Rs14 lakh each, have been manufactured by Tata Motors at its Chakan plant. The ambulances will ferry Covid-19 patients to hospitals in rural areas of the district. These ambulances are not part of the existing 102 or 108 ambulance schemes. They will be deployed through local officials, including block and taluka officials, local police, and elected members and officials of individual panchayats. The deployment will be done through an ambulance helpline number, displayed in individual villages. Each of the ambulances is equipped with a stretcher and a bed, along with oxygen support. The ambulances also have provisions for intensive care unit and ventilator. “There are many points of contacts for ambulances in every village, including elected members, police patils, local officials, and even volunteers, through whom they will be put to work. They will be run by staff from local primary health centres. The scheme is unique in that it is a product of grassroots governance, and will be owned by the villages themselves,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad. Prasad added that the ZP will bear some expenses for the ambulances, such as driver and fuel costs, till March 31, 2021, amounting to about Rs 2.5 crore. “We already have enough ambulances for ferrying Covid-19 patients to hospitals. Now, we are more than prepared in case the number of hospitalisations rises in rural areas. After March 31, if the situation improves, we will attach these ambulances to the 102 ambulance scheme, used for pregnant women and children, as the existing ambulances under the scheme already need replacement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-inaugurates-ambulance-scheme/articleshow/78323852.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Inadequate staff results in drop in contact tracing||Kolhapur: Officials of the district administration have expressed concern over the drop in contact tracing of Covid-19 suspects in Kolhapur. According to them, the large number of involvement of ground health staff in conducting door-to-door survey under “My Family, My Responsibiliy” campaign is one of the reasons for inadequate staff available for contact tracing. On Friday, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti ordered the authorities to seek help of other organisations in conducting door-to-door survey for contact tracing. “For every Covid patient, at least 15 contacts need to traced. It is a sure shot way to stop the further spread of the contagion. In both exercises, our aim is the same, but, in contact tracing, the focus is on containment zones. In order to overcome the shortage of staff, we have asked private doctors and local activists to provide us with the details of people with Covid-like symptoms so that we can trace them collect swab samples and send the for testing,” Kalshetti said. He also said that since ever since the unlock process has begun, very few people follow locksown rules. “We will, however, ensure that shops and other establishments in containment zones remain closed and that the movement of locals in restricted to a large extent,” he added. Meanwhile, colleges in the district have approached the administration extending a helping hand for conducting Covid-related surveys. On Friday, Kalshetti welcomed NCC and NSS students of Shahaji College who have voluntarily decided to join hands in the survey. Kalshetti said that he is being approached by such institutions to provide surveyors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/inadequate-staff-results-in-drop-in-contact-tracing/articleshow/78325510.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mindspace, Jubilee Hills just 6 minutes apart now||HYDERABAD: With the inauguration of Durgam Cheruvu Cable Stay Bridge and new flyover (Jubliee Hills Road number 45), the distance from Mindspace to Jubliee Hills has been reduced to around 2.5 km and the commuting time brought down to just six minutes. TOI accompanied a government vehicle which drove over the cable stay bridge post inauguration. There was hardly any traffic on the bridge due to restrictions in place keeping in view the pandemic and the average speed of the vehicle was 30 km per hour. When TOI used the traditional route to reach Jubliee Hills from Mindsapce (via Madhapur-Jubliee Hills Road number 36), it took 20 minutes and the commuting distance was 4.5 km. The bridge which will make commuting from Jubilee Hills to Madhapur faster was inaugurated by MAUD minster KT Rama Rao. Union minister G Kishan Reddy was the chief guest, several TRS leaders including Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan participated in the event. Coveted ‘Army Ceremonial and Symphony Band’ of the Indian Army performed to mark the opening of the cable stay bridge. “The band performed to express solidarity with Indian soldiers posted along the country’s borders and the GHMC’s sanitation workers who are corona warriors,” said MAUD principal secretary Arvind Kumar. After the event, the minsters and officials used the stay bridge and headed towards Jubliee Hills. The buildings and medians in and around the vicinity of the bridge were illuminated. Several denizens thronged the bridge and took selfies during the event. A stage was set near the bridge, but minster KTR did not speak due to the rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-bridge-brings-mindspace-jubilee-hills-closer/articleshow/78323901.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Commuters will have to wait for joyride on bridge||Hyderabad: Even though the Durgam Cheruvu cable stay bridge was inaugurated with fanfare on Friday, commuters were not allowed on it. The bridge will be closed for commuters on Saturday and Sunday, too. “As the bridge is newly constructed, we want to restrict heavy vehicle movement on weekends. Will the restriction continue in future has yet to be decided,” said DS Lokesh Kumar, commissioner, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). For commuters, rain and traffic restrictions played spoil sport. Traffic snarls were seen at Mindspace Junction and Doctors Colony in Madhapur. This was amplified by barricading of multiple roads, including the ones towards Durgam Cheruvu gate. The roads were closed to ensure seamless VIP movement. Some commuters, who wanted to go for a ride on the new bridge, were unhappy as cops send them away. “Why can’t the commuters be altered about traffic restrictions beforehand? When it has been inaugurated, it should be thrown open for people,” said a commuter after a cop stopped her from using the bridge. GFX: We used 428 metric tonnes of high-tensile strand, 26,600 cubic metres concrete, 4,800 metric tonnes of steel and 287MT stay-cables —Larsen & Toubro The cable stayed bridge portion is 435m long, including the approaches at both ends. Bridge is 25.8m wide with a total of 52 stay cables The approach viaduct and solid ramps are 309.8m long with 1.8m wide footpaths on both sides The cables were procured from Germany, everything else is sourced from India Project cost: Rs184 crore Durgam Cheruv Cable Stayed Bridge will reduce traffic congestion at Jubilee Hills Road Number 36 and Madhapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commuters-will-have-to-wait-for-joyride-on-bridge/articleshow/78323933.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Mimi attends cabby identification parade||Kolkata: Actor and Jadavpur MP Mimi Chakraborty on Friday afternoon went to the Presidency Correctional Home and attended a 30-minute test identification parade for the taxi driver, Laxman Yadav, who allegedly harassed her near Ballygunge Phari 11 days ago. “As I am the complaint, I had to help police. I had to find time and come here to identify the accused. I have my statement at court and on Friday, I attended the TI parade,” Chakraborty said. “We will place the charge sheet soon,” said an officer from the southeast division. Gariahat cops said Chakraborty’s identification, along with her statement, would make for crucial evidence. “We will now seek the court’s permission to record the statements of witnesses,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mimi-attends-cabby-identification-parade/articleshow/78323954.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Court finds man guilty of joining IS||KOCHI: The special court for considering cases of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Kochi on Friday found Thodupuzha native Subahani Haja Moideen guilty in the case relating to his travel to join the Islamic State (IS) and to wage war against Iraq, a nation in alliance with India. The court would pronounce the quantum of sentence on Monday. Moideen (36) was found guilty for offences, including criminal conspiracy under 120 B IPC, waging war against Asiatic power in alliance with India under 125 IPC, for being a member of a terrorist organization under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) Section 20, committing offence relating to membership of a terrorist organization under Section 38 UAPA and supporting a terrorist organization under Section 39 of the UAPA. On the other hand, he was found not guilty for an offence under Section 122 of IPC for collecting arms and ammunition to wage war against India. During the final hearing, Moideen submitted that he believes in peace more than in violence. He urged the court to consider his age and family situation while deciding on the quantum of punishment. He also told the court that he did not wage war against India or any other country. He deposed before the court that he was ready to accept the verdict of the court, however, the final judgement is made by almighty God. Senior prosecutor for NIA Arjun Ambalapatta submitted before the court that he has no remorse for his actions and should be given maximum punishment of life imprisonment under Section 125 of IPC and Section 20 of UAPA. He added that Moideen wanted to do jihad in India before he went to Iraq and joined IS. Violent videos of IS activities were recovered from him, he said. Sources said that NIA judge P Krishnakumar has prepared a comprehensive judgment that runs to 122 pages and 210 paragraphs. The court also discussed 14 points to conclude why the accused was found guilty. The court has found that the statements of witnesses were corroborated by digital, scientific and oral evidence and it supports the finding that the accused had fought for IS. “The accused had transgressed to the soil of IS-occupied Iraq with his proved motive to join IS, he had actually started to abet war led by IS against Iraq, an Asiatic power in alliance with Government of India,” the court observed. The court, however, also found that the evidence available was not sufficient to constitute ‘preparation to wage war against the Government of India’ which was the essential ingredient of the offense under Section 122 IPC. Moideen was arrested in 2016 after NIA busted a group named Ansar-ul-Khilafah Kerala, which followed IS ideology, from Kanakamala in Kannur. His case was split and a separate chargesheet was filed since he allegedly went to Iraq.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-finds-man-guilty-of-joining-is/articleshow/78320355.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Grants worth Rs 11,897 crore surrendered||AHMEDABAD: Taking note of the surrender of substantial amount of grants by different state government departments, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) pointed out that as against the provision of Rs 13,297 crore under 21 sub-heads, the grants worth Rs 11,897 crore were surrendered in 2018-19. The surrenders were exceeding Rs 100 crore and more than 50% of the total provision for a particular sub-head. “The departments which made substantial surrenders were agriculture, farmers welfare and co-operation, education, finance, home, roads and buildings, urban development and urban housing, social justice and empowerment,” CAG said in its report on state finances for the year ended March 31, 2019. In case of four sub-heads, 100% surrender totalling Rs 8,510 crore was made, the auditor further observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grants-worth-rs-11897-crore-surrendered/articleshow/78323934.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||117 candidates from 2016 can’t contest GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Of the 1,333 candidates who contested the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation in 2016, around 117 are not eligible to contest the civic polls this time. The Telangana State Election Commission has disqualified them from contesting municipal elections for three years after they failed to submit the details of their election expenditure. As per election commission norms, poll expenditure by the candidates has to be submitted within 45 days from the date of result, and failure of it draws disqualification, said Vishnu Prasad, joint secretary of the state election commission. Disqualified members include a few from main political parties such as TRS, Congress, BJP and TDP, but a majority are independents. The disqualified candidates cannot contest elections up to July 18, 2022. In 2009, 400 candidates were disqualified for not submitting poll expenditure in GHMC elections. “Any serious candidate whose has been given B-form by the party should ensure all rules of the election commission are followed,” K Krishna Saagar Rao, chief spokesperson of BJP, Telangana State. “Despite instructions from the party to submit election expenditure, some have not complied due to lack of seriousness.” TRS and Congress leaders too said those who are not serious about their political future give a miss to the rules. However, candidates have the option of going to the high court, and if they get a stay order on the disqualification, they can contest elections. But if they lose the case in the court after winning the poll, they would be disqualified. Municipal corporations of Khammam and Greater Warangal, which are expected to go to polls after GHMC elections, had last time seen 93 and 84 candidates respectively being disqualified for not submitting poll expenditure. While the disqualification date of 93 candidates from Khammam civic body is up to August 7, 2022, the candidates from Greater Warangal municipal corporation cannot contest an election up to June 28, 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/117-candidates-from-2016-cant-contest-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78323984.cms||Roushan Ali
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||NIDians want fees cut, deadline pushed back||AHMEDABAD: The masters course students at National Institute of Design (NID) have approached the senior authorities to reduce the fees and extend the deadline for payment of fees keeping in mind the pandemic situation. September 25 was the last day for payment of semester fees of Rs 1.65 lakh. A student on scholarship told TOI on condition of anonymity that his family had multiple Covid-19 cases in July. “We thus faced financial issues. We have scarce income for past couple of months and thus paying Rs 1.65 lakh at a go was not possible for me,” said the student. Another student asked how could the fees be justified when they are using their own resources for study at home. “When we requested the institute for extension, they gave four days’ extension which seemed a joke,” said the student. In response to the query by TOI, Rekha Nair, registrar of NID stated in email that considering the pandemic situation, the institute is only charging the tuition fee component from the students and has also facilitated to pay the fees in two instalments per semester. ‘All other charges have been deferred until the classes resume on campus. There has been no special hike in the fees for this year,’ read the email, adding that the institute also offers financial assistance to ‘needy, deserving and meritorious students’ according to the institute’s norms. The students said that the institute had promised to pay for their internet bill but there is no clarity on the issue so far. Issues raised by the students include deadline extension for fees payment, delay fee hike and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nidians-want-fees-cut-deadline-pushed-back/articleshow/78323967.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shortage of mental healthcare staff in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report for the year ending March 2019 says that while a minuscule percentage of the state government’s health budget has been allocated for mental health services, there is an acute shortage of mental healthcare professionals in the four hospitals for mental health (HMHs) and district mental health programme (DMHP) units established in all 33 districts. The CAG report, which was tabled in the Gujarat assembly on Friday, states that the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 enacted by the central government, had not been enacted in Gujarat until May this year. Commenting on rehabilitation, the CAG report observes that as of March 2019, 131 patients – 79 male and 52 female – fit for discharge from HMHs for one to five years, were languishing in hospitals for mental health as the state has not established any rehabilitation centre for mentally ill people either on its own or in collaboration with NGOs. According to the National mental Health Survey, 2015-16, 7.4 % of the state’s population over 13 years of age in Gujarat, suffer from one or more mental disorders, the report notes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shortage-of-mental-healthcare-staff/articleshow/78323976.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Five more Covid deaths in Yavatmal, toll 246||YAVATMAL: The district reported five more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 246. The deceased included two men, 42 and 55, from Yavatmal city, man (46) from Ralegaon, a 65-year-old woman from Pusad and a 68-year-old woman from Wani. The district also reported 78 new cases, taking the caseload to 7,923. The number of recoveries reached 6,387 after 17 patients were discharged on Friday. Now, Yavatmal has 1,290 patients under treatment. Out of them, 611 are admitted to hospitals and Covid care centres while 679 are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-more-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal-toll-246/articleshow/78323952.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Concerns over 60% positivity rate at private labs in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The number of swab samples testing positive at private laboratories in Kolhapur is almost triple than the government labs, raising a cause of concern among the authorities. Officials said that around 50%-60% of the swabs collected by the private labs have tested positive over the past few days, as against just 20% swabs testing positive in government labs in Kolhapur district. Overall, the positivity rate in the state is also 20%. The results from the private labs are being looked at with suspicion as a major chunk of the daily cases are being confirmed from these facilities. For instance, on Thursday, 1,444 swabs were tested by RT-PCR method in government’s labs, out of which, 208 tested positive. On the other hand, 655 swabs were tested in the five private labs, out of which, 376 swabs tested positive. Another 43 people tested positive by antigen rapid test. A senior district health official, requesting anonymity, said, “The trend of the more swabs testing positive in private labs than the government lab is being observed for the last few days. We will wait to observe the trend for some more days before going for any drive or action.” The positivity rate has been in the range of 25% to 35% for the last couple of months. “We expect it to drop below 10% as more people develop immunity. We will seek the data from the private labs about the tests done. Also, there are issues related to the contradictory test results,” the official said. Most of the five private labs are located in Kolhapur city. The private doctors refer the people with symptoms to these labs. Currently, the staff of the labs arrives at the private clinics to collect the swabs. Some labs even provide the test report online. The private labs share the daily swab collection and test reports to local authorities, which are then compiled along with reports from government labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/concerns-over-60-positivity-rate-at-private-labs/articleshow/78325522.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolhapur||915 new cases reported across Satara district, 32 deaths||Kolhapur: A total of 915 new cases of Covid-19 along with 32 deaths were reported across Satara district on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 33,987 along with 1,032 deaths. According to a health official, Satara tehsil was on top once again for registering the maximum number of new cases i..e 322, out of which over 200 were from Satara town. “Patkhal and Panmalewadi villages recorded 28 and 10 cases, respectively. In Karad tehsil, as many 149 people tested positive for the contagion. Out of the 149, Karad got 49 cases, while neighbouring Umbraj and Masur added six and nine cases, respectively,” he said. “Phalan tehsil also reported 82 patients and 33 of them were from Phaltan town. Patan tehsil added 245 cases, while 50 were found positive in Koregaon tehsil. Mahabaleshwar and Panchagani got 14 and 7 cases respectively,” he added. Out of the 32 deaths reported on Friday, nine are women while 25 are men. “At 8, Satara tehsil recorded highest deaths closely followed by Karad which registered seven deaths. Koregaon recorded five deaths while remaining were reported from other parts of the district,” the official said. “Till now, a total of 23,215 people have recovered from the contagion. There are 9,740 active patients in various,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/915-new-cases-reported-across-satara-district-32-deaths/articleshow/78325516.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops told to escort couple to Uttar Pradesh||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered Valsad police to escort a couple to Uttar Pradesh and asked Gujarat police to communicate to UP police to provide protection to the couple, if it is necessary, because the couple faced threats due to their inter-caste marriage. The HC ordered full protection to the couple because they are from different castes, and their marriage was not acceptable to the woman’s family. While the woman was scared of her family members because of her decision to get married to a man from different caste, the man also left his job in Vapi town and decided to shift to his native place, Prayagraj. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria lamented the caste scourge while dismissing the father’s request for daughter’s custody. The court noted, “…suffice to note that issue of caste looms large over the human relationship with strong biases and conditionings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-told-to-escort-couple-to-up/articleshow/78323950.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Remdesivir is not for all, use with extreme caution: Doctors||PUNE: Experts have now called for cautious use of antiviral drug remdesivir in Covid-19 patients with underlying liver and kidney problems. The drug’s emergency use authorization also demands liver and kidney function tests be carried out before its intravenous administration in at-risk patients. Experts said the drug may cause liver toxicity in those with chronic liver diseases and since it’s mainly cleared via the kidneys, should not be used in patients with poor renal function. The drug’s use is contraindicated (to be used with caution) in pregnant and breastfeeding women. “As per guidelines, it is an absolute contraindication to use remdesivir if the baseline of liver enzymes values (liver function test) are more than five times the upper limit of normal,” said Ruby Hall Clinic’s hepatologist, Vineet Shah. Critical care expert Subhal Dixit said repeated requests for remdesivir from patients' relatives have placed doctors under immense pressure. "One needs to select the right patient and check values from baseline liver function test (RFT) and the renal function test (RFT) before use. But relatives, despite counselling, continue to believe patients are being deprived of the drug. And this has made our work difficult. Remdesivir cannot be used on everyone with Covid-19,” Dixit said. Liver enzyme levels are monitored through days one, three and five of a remdesivir course, which is adjusted or withheld according to values. “Similarly, if a Covid patient’s kidney parameters such as creatinine (a waste product) ejection are deranged, then remdesivir should not be used at all. But if the patient is already on regular dialysis and if her/his condition warrants use of the drug, we discuss the course with a nephrologist,” Dixit said. Data from severe cases treated using remesdivir — published in the New England Journal of Medicine in April — shows that hepatic (liver) enzyme increase was the most common adverse event — in 23% of patients. However, Covid-19 itself is a known trigger of acute kidney impairment. “The real challenge is that severe Covid can cause damage to the liver or kidney. So without more trial data, it is unclear just how much we need to worry about liver toxicity,” said specialist Kapil Borawake. In women, experts said remdesivir should be used cautiously during pregnancy and after delivery. “It’s an experimental drug; studies have not looked into use during breastfeeding,” Dixit said. Remdesivir is poorly absorbed when given orally so infants are unlikely to take in large amounts of the drug from breast milk. But if the drug is used during breastfeeding, experts said infants should be monitored for diarrhoea, rashes and changes in liver or kidney function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remdesivir-is-not-for-all-use-with-extreme-caution-docs/articleshow/78324085.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Sharbari friends, kin demand probe||Kolkata: Relatives of deceased fashion designer Sharbari Datta, her friends and a member of the Women’s Commission met additional CP at Lalbazar on Friday and requested for a probe into her death. Datta was found dead in the washroom of her Broad Street home. Doctors said stroke was the reason for her death. Post mortem ruled out foul play. But friends and relatives continue to press for a probe, alleging certain apprehensions she had about her well being. The pandemic made her go into depression. “Her shop was shut, her production halted and without any occupation, the loveless situation was gnawing at her,” a friend said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sharbari-friends-kin-demand-probe/articleshow/78323998.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Phase 2 of CCP’s pay-parking initiated, 9 zones notified in Panaji||PANAJI: Corporation of the City of Panaji’s (CCP) second phase of pay-parking has been initiated with the North Goa collector notifying nine new zones on Friday. The pay-parking zones include the entire EDC Patto complex which has been handed over to CCP to manage. CCP has already floated the tender to appoint a pay-parking contractor after which it will mark the parking slots. It is only after this that the phase II of the pay-parking system will be implemented. The notified parking fees are Rs four for two-wheelers for four hours and Rs 20 for cars for an hour. Beyond four hours, two-wheeler owners will have to pay Rs 8 for upto 12 hours and Rs 15 for 12-24 hours. Four wheelers will have to pay Rs 15 for every additional hour beyond the first one hour, the notification said. Parking slips will be valid for any other parking slot in the state capital for the particular time slot. When on duty, pay parking attendants and the contractor will have to wear a uniform, display ID cards and carry a certified copy of the rates. The first phase of pay-parking was implemented in Panaji on February 15 after a Rs 1.6 crore pay-parking contract was signed between CCP and the contractor. Though CCP moved to initiate phase II in April, the process was kept on hold due to the lockdown. Since the first lockdown was imposed, vehicular traffic has reduced in the state capital and the existing pay parking contractor has witnessed a 60% drop in parking fees. CCP has agreed to return Rs 6 lakh to the parking contractor for the 45 day lockdown period. On June 23, CCP wrote to the North Goa collector asking for phase II to be notified. The pay parking fees will be applicable on all days and for 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phase-2-of-ccps-pay-parking-initiated-9-zones-notified-in-panaji/articleshow/78325535.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hazira blaze smokes out ONGC’s lax safety standards||Ahmedabad: Flash fires that broke out in the small hours of Thursday at Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC’s) gas processing plant in Hazira have yet again put safety standards of the country’s top oil and gas company under the scanner.About 300 accidents have been reported from ONGC facilities in Gujarat in which 30 people, most of them contract workers, have died over the past five years.The Prime Minister’s Office was in touch with the state administration for hourly monitoring of the Hazira fire, said sources. Earlier, when Narendra Modi was the Gujarat chief minister, he had expressed his concern about safety measures at the ONGC facilities in the state, said a government official.The Hazira blaze happened exactly a year after another major fire in the company’s gas processing plant at Uran killed four people.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior ONGC official said the Hazira accident could have exploded into a major disaster. He said the 40-year-old plant gets sour gas with very high hydrogen sulfide content from the ONGC’s gas basin in Mumbai High. Hydrogen sulfide is highly toxic, he said. “Fortunately, the fire was brought under control in time. Otherwise it would have led to a colossal calamity given the dense population in and around Surat,” the official said.The ONGC has been operating in Gujarat for over six decades. The company discovered the first oil reserves in the state at Lunej in September 1958. The state contributes more than 85% to the company’s overall production from onshore fields.But the number of accidents, both minor and major, at the ONGC’s fields and installations in Gujarat has grown at a rapid pace. In May last year, a major fire broke out in South Kadi field near Ahmedabad, killing six contract workers.In April 2015, another fire in Olpad near Ankleshwar claimed 12 lives. In the same period, at least five persons died in Mehsana in separate accidents.All the cases have called into question the ONGC’s safety standards. All its units are surrounded by heavily populated areas and industries. In many places, the ONGC’s onshore oil and gas fields have been encroached upon by villagers and farmers. One can even see livestock tied to exploration wells in some cases, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hazira-blaze-smokes-out-ongcs-lax-safety-standards/articleshow/78337014.cms||Maulik Pathak
September 26, 2020||Noida||West UP stir reaches Delhi border as protests rage||GURUGRAM/NOIDA: Responding to the nationwide bandh called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) against the contentious farm bills passed last week, large groups of farmers and commission agents flooded the streets in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, blocking highways and the rail routes around the capital, and disrupting traffic till late afternoon. In Haryana, where the demonstrations swelled on Friday, thousands of farmers and over 30 farmers’ bodies agitated against the ‘anti-farmer’ policies adopted by the Centre from 10am. While the protests were peaceful in parts, effigies of senior BJP leaders and copies of the farm bills were burnt in some areas, and scathing slogans were raised against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) blocked Triveni Chowk on Ladwa road at Radaur in Yamunanagar, where Congress MLA Bishan Lal Saini joined protesters in burning effigies of BJP and coalition ally JJP leaders. BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni addressed agitators in Pinjore, Barwala, Naraingarh, and Shahabad. In Ambala and some other villages, peasants put up banners at entry points prohibiting entry of BJP and JJP leaders, who form the ruling alliance in the state. In Hisar, farmers gheraoed the residence of cabinet minister Anoop Dhanak and shouted anti-BJP slogans. They pledged to intensify the protest unless the Centre passes a law that gives sovereign guarantee on the MSP and grievance redress system in case of the defaults. “This is the tipping point. The entire nation is standing up to demand guaranteed MSP (minimum support price) for the food-givers of the country. This will only get bigger. Modi and his friends must get this straight,” said Mewat-based farmer leader and member of AIKSCC Ramzan Choudhary. Demanding a constitutional guarantee that they will get the right price for their produce, hundreds of farmers in places like Rohtak and Yamunanagar marched on highways and blocked railroads for hours. As many as 20 trains were either cancelled or rerouted till Saturday. Villagers from Bhaini Maharajpur camped on the Delhi-Hisar part of the NH-9, putting it out of bounds for motorists. On Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh, farmers protested at Noida gate and UP Gate in hundreds, blocked from progressing into the capital by Delhi Police, which had heavily barricaded the borders. The farmers, who had congregated from various parts of West UP, disrupted traffic flow for almost four hours. Atop tractors and cars, they shouted slogans like “Modi teri tanashahi nahi chalegi,” accusing the Centre of trying to help “capitalists and industrialists”. Agitating villagers from Jewar and Dankaur took over the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and moved towards Noida in waves. To avoid chaos, traffic police started diverting commuters going from Noida to Delhi via the DND loop, leaving many drivers confused. Traffic was also thrown out of gear at the Chilla border in east Delhi. “If they don’t allow us to enter Delhi, we will not allow anyone from Delhi to enter either. We will do a ‘chakka jam’ on all four sides of Delhi, and supply of milk, vegetables and food will be stopped. We have given a memorandum to this affect,” said Pawan Khatana, state spokesperson and Meerut mandal president of BKU-apolitical. “If a farmer gets to know that his produce will fetch a better price in Karnataka, how will he transport his produce to Karnataka?” he asked. Several kilometres of the Delhi-Meerut expressway were completely choked. Sanjay Mishra, a resident of Shastri Nagar who was on his way to Meerut, had to turn back as protesters did not allow him and many others to pass through. “Even though there was heavy presence of police force, no attempts were made to free up the expressway,” alleged Mishra. At Bhowpura and UP Gate where traffic was frustrating slow for about two hours, the protesters relented only after the administration officials made several requests. “The protesting farmers submitted a memorandum to the President through the district magistrate, and only after that they ended the protest which lasted for about two hours,” said Shailender Singh, ADM city. A senior Delhi traffic police officer said heavy deployment was made at the border areas in anticipation of the protest moving into Delhi. “A similar arrangement with fewer people will be made at the Delhi border on Saturday as well to ensure no untoward activity takes place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/west-up-stir-reaches-delhi-border-as-protests-rage/articleshow/78326123.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Delhi||Statins may reduce risk of severity of Covid-19 by 50%||NEW DELHI: Can statins – cholesterol-lowering drugs — help reduce severity of the disease in Covid-19 patients? At least two recent studies, published in American Journal of Cardiology (AJC) and The EMBO Journal, support this theory. Statins are widely available and cheap, costing around Rs 5 to Rs 50 per tablet, depending on the dosage. The AJC study published on September 15 analysed the outcome of a study of 170 patients hospitalized for treatment of Covid-19 at UC San Diego Medical Centre in California, US. It showed use of statins prior to admission was associated with a more than 50% reduction in risk of developing severe Covid-19. Coronavirus outbreak: Follow live updatesThe researchers concluded that statin use was also associated with a considerably faster recovery. “There is some biologic plausibility for a protective role of statins in Covid-19 through known anti-inflammatory and immune-modulator effects as well as via upregulation of ACE2 and direct effects on the virus,” the ACJ study noted. The EMBO study, which has been accepted for publication after full peer review, analysed the biologic or chemical events responsible for or associated with the effect observed. The researchers found that the CH25H gene, which is involved in cholesterol and lipid metabolism, had anti-coronavirus activity. It blocked the process of fusion of the virus that causes Covid-19 with the cell membrane. Read Also‘Sunshine’ Vitamin D may be Covid shield, curb severityMUMBAI: There is growing evidence that Vitamin D could help in the fight against Covid-19. Local doctors — and studies from other countries — say adequate levels of the Sunshine Vitamin, as it is called, could protect one against Covid or reduce its severity among infected patients. A studyStatins act by removing cholesterol from blood vessels. Dr Anoop Misra, chairman of Fortis C-Doc Hospital, said the cell membranes in our body have cholesterol. “The second study elucidates how statins may help in removing cholesterol from these membranes which blocks the fusion of the virus with the cell membrane, thus blocking its entry,” he said. “This is a very important study. Most heart patients and even diabetics take statins regularly and the research shows that taking the drugs regularly may reduce severity of infection even if they get Covid-19,” Dr Misra added. Coronavirus pandemic: Complete coverage Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, department of medicine at Max Saket, said even a modest reduction in mortality from an inexpensive and widely available drug would be very helpful. “Patients with Covid-19 have an increased risk of cardiovascular complications and thrombotic events. Statins are known for their anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic and immunomodulatory effects. They may have a potential role as an adjunctive therapy to mitigate endothelial dysfunction and dysregulated inflammation in patients with Covid-19 infection,” he said. There is no cure for Covid-19 as yet. A vaccine to prevent the disease is also not available. In such a scenario, repurposing of existing drugs is being seen as the best shot to reduce morbidity and mortality due to the viral illness which has affected millions globally. Though many drugs have been repurposed to treat Covid-19, a major success in this field has been achieved with the use of a steroid called dexamethasone. Watch Cholesterol-lowering drugs Statins may reduce risk of severity of Covid-19 by 50%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/statins-may-reduce-risk-of-severity-of-covid-19-by-50/articleshow/78340978.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Extend time for voting mode opinion: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress members led by its election committee chairman Marri Shashidhar on Friday met state election commissioner (SEC) C Partha Sarathy, but did not submit the party opinion on preferring elections to GHMC through ballot boxes or EVMs. Congress raised doubts whether it has already been decided to hold elections on the ballot paper and referred to GHMC making arrangements to train its staff in ballot box polling. The party demanded that SEC extend the last date for seeking opinion of political parties and should provide the pros and cons of the options. - Roushan Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extend-time-for-voting-mode-opinion-cong/articleshow/78324043.cms||Roushan Ali
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Delay in clearing cashless files holding up beds: Hosps||Nagpur: Private hospitals that have reluctantly begun extending cashless services to Covid patients say delay in getting approval from insurance companies is holding up discharge of patients even after they are fit to go. This, in turn, is affecting bed availability for the next patient, though there is a long queue. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) has also taken up the matter with the high court-nominated committee chaired by mayor Sandeep Joshi. Cash payment by the patients remains the most preferred mode for hospitals, which say the amount can be reimbursed from insurance companies. In some hospitals, even cashless patients are being insisted to pay a part of the amount in advance. They can later get a refund once the cashless treatment is approved. Hospitals say the delay caused is on part of third part administrators (TPAs) — the agencies which form a link between insurance companies, the insured and hospitals. Under cashless system, after the patient is recommended to be discharged, the hospital puts up a proposal for approval of the bill to TPA. Hospital sources say the whole process takes 8 to 10 hours or more. This often extends the patient’s stay by a day. Till then, a bed remains blocked for the next Covid patient. The matter was also taken up with the NMC by the hospitals. Dr Anup Marar of Orange City Hospital said, “At the time of discharge, insurance companies raise queries which the already-stressed clinician is expected to answer. This delays final sanction and leaves both the outgoing and the next patient to be taken in frustrated. It has been suggested that insurance companies must form a dedicated cell to clear the cases.” K Sujatha of Wockhardt Hospital said the delay in settling cashless cases has affected the bed turnover. Things can be done on a fast track basis due to the pandemic situation. “In our hospital, the average time taken by TPA is around five hours for a patient. There is further scope of speeding up,” she said. As TOI talked to representatives of four TPAs, they said it takes time if the queries are not answered by the hospital. Otherwise, it does not take more than a couple of hours to clear the case. TPA sources said despite limitations, hospitals are coming up with high bills and almost half of it is rejected in the claim. Citing their own figures, officials of a PSU insurance company said as much as 40% of the cases put up with them were under the cashless mode, which shows that preference remains reimbursement mode. The officials accepted that it takes around 24 hours to clear the cases. Charges of the extra day is borne by the insurer. Insurance companies said private hospitals are not keen on cashless because they have to answer to each of the queries. Under reimbursement, it is between the insured and the insurance company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/delay-in-clearing-cashless-files-holding-up-beds-hosps/articleshow/78324022.cms||Shishir Arya
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||No housing scheme for salt workers: CAG||AHMEDABAD: The CAG in its report stated that despite Rs 35 crore lying unused, the government has failed to launch a housing scheme for salt workers. The CAG stated that there was lack of holistic approach for taking up welfare schemes. The report stated that the salt workers make temporary huts or shelters during their stay in remote locations having harsh weather conditions and even after lapse of over five years no housing scheme was launched for them. The industries and mines department has laid standard terms of salt leases in October 2010, but there is no condition in the lease that lease holders should provide proper houses and medical facilities to salt workers. The report states that due to lake of planning and co-ordination among departments no water supply scheme was planned in Surendranagar. The Vira-Sanghad Water Supply Scheme in Kutch district and Vallabhipur Zone Water Supply Scheme (VZWSS) and Bhavnagar-Ghogha water supply scheme (BGWSS) in Bhavnagar district failed to supply the envisaged water to salt workers. In Amreli district, there was no water supply scheme for salt workers. The health services to salt workers were affected due to bad roads in Bhavnagar. Similarly, the salt workers in Patan, Morbi, and Kutch districts are also affected as roads in salt producing areas were not maintained properly. In the absence of medical health units along with vacant posts of medical staff health care was provided once or twice in a month in various villages of salt workers in Morbi and Patan. Also no medical camps were held in Bharuch and Amreli districts during 2014-19. While most of the salt clusters in villages are covered under Integrated Child Development Services (ICDs), the clusters located in the desert areas in Patan, Amreli, Surendranagar and Kutch Districts were left out of lCDS. In Patan, take-home ration was provided weekly to the children of salt workers in the desert areas through special vans, however, no such facility was provided in Amreli, Surendranagar and Kutch. According to various study reports, hygiene is a serious issue for salt workers as toilet facilities are normally not available at salt pans. Due to lack of proposals, the issue of sanitation was almost left uncovered for salt workers. Further, there was no coverage of salt workers under the Swachh Bharat Mission launched by government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-housing-scheme-for-salt-workers-cag/articleshow/78324028.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Nine arrested in IPL betting racket bust||KOLKATA: The IPL season has just about begun and the anti-rowdy section of the detective department has already smelled out organized betting rackets operative across Kolkata. The ARS raided guest houses and residences at Salt Lake, Dalhousie, Jadavpur and on Park Street and arrested nine people. Seventeen mobiles, 14 laptops, three TV sets, a car and Rs 1.5 lakh in cash were seized from them. “We received information that during matches involving Rajasthan and Bangalore and those in which players like, Virat Kohli and K L Rahul featured, several people in the city were placing cricket bets from different parts of Kolkata. Accordingly, ARS officers raided places across Park Street, Sector V in Salt Lake, Hare Street (Dalhousie), Burtolla and Jadavpur. Four cases under cheating and criminal conspiracy of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of West Bengal Gambling & Prize Competition Act have been registered against the nine arrested. The accused were produced in court on Friday,” said joint CP Santosh Pandey. “More raids are on.” The first arrests were made at Park Street from where three persons were rounded up. “We have found some repeat offenders from last year,” said an officer, saying the Kolkata’s match with Mumbai set the course for the bookies. While betting in Kolkata is not new, the fact that punters were ready to play out large amounts at the beginning of the tournament amid the pandemic surprised investigators. Police said a couple of the accused had links with rackets active in Mumbai and Ahmedabad. They were investigating whether the two were part of the nation-wide notorious “dabba phone” gang or merely played on game apps with money, but not exactly had connections with match-fixing. “The rate of odds on the teams originates outside India in ‘dabba-phone’ cases.  For gaming apps, the rates are decided on multiple apps. The rates keep fluctuating with every fall of wicket and runs scored,” said a source. Police suspected this gang had links with Baguiati and Posta betting circles that were busted in IPL spot fixing case last year. “The accused operated via sub-bookies,” said an officer. “Most betting was limited to individual players and overs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/9-arrested-in-ipl-betting-racket-bust/articleshow/78324097.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC AGM: Just 102 of 192 councillors let in||AHMEDABAD: During the municipal corporation’s general board meeting held in person at Tagore Hall on Friday, of the civic body’s 192 councillors, only 22 from the Congress and 80 from the BJP were allowed to participate. Councillors who had not had their Covid test done and negative status verified were not allowed to enter the meeting. The annual general board meeting of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, held physically, was delayed by six months this time due to the pandemic. Jamalpur-Khadia MLA and councillor from Jamalpur, Imran Khedawala, was not allowed entry. Khedawala said the state assembly was going on and he had already got the Covid test done. “On Friday, in order to highlight the issue of bad roads I went to the board straight from Gandhinagar, but the mayor refused me entry stating that I have not got my test done. I had got myself tested on Sunday, but the mayor refused to acknowledge the test, and said that I had not got myself tested along with other councillors,” Khedawala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-agm-just-102-of-192-councillors-let-in/articleshow/78324074.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers scale up protest in Haryana||GURGAON/NOIDA: Responding to the nationwide bandh called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) against the contentious farm bills passed last week, large groups of farmers and commission agents flooded the streets in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, blocking highways and the rail routes around the capital, and disrupting traffic till late afternoon. In Haryana, where the demonstrations swelled on Friday, thousands of farmers and over 30 farmers’ bodies agitated against the ‘anti-farmer’ policies adopted by the Centre from 10am. While the protests were peaceful in parts, effigies of senior BJP leaders and copies of the farm bills were burnt in some areas, and scathing slogans were raised against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) blocked Triveni Chowk on Ladwa road at Radaur in Yamunanagar, where Congress MLA Bishan Lal Saini joined protesters in burning effigies of BJP and coalition ally JJP leaders. BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni addressed the agitators in Pinjore, Barwala, Naraingarh, and Shahabad. In Ambala and some other villages, peasants put up banners at entry points prohibiting entry of BJP and JJP leaders, who form the ruling alliance in the state. In Hisar, farmers gheraoed the residence of cabinet minister Anoop Dhanak and shouted anti-BJP slogans. They pledged to intensify the protest unless the Centre passes a law that gives sovereign guarantee on the MSP and grievance redress system in case of the defaults. “This is the tipping point. The entire nation is standing up to demand guaranteed MSP (minimum support price) for the food-givers of the country. This will only get bigger. Modi and his friends must get this straight,” said Mewat-based farmer leader and member of AIKSCC Ramzan Choudhary. Demanding a constitutional guarantee that they will get the right price for their produce, hundreds of farmers in places like Rohtak and Yamunanagar marched on highways and blocked railroads for hours. As many as 20 trains were either cancelled or rerouted till Saturday. Villagers from Bhaini Maharajpur camped on the Delhi-Hisar part of the NH-9, putting it out of bounds for motorists. On Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh, farmers protested at Noida gate and UP Gate in hundreds, blocked from progressing into the capital by Delhi Police, which had heavily barricaded the borders. The farmers, who had congregated from various parts of West UP, disrupted traffic flow for almost four hours. Atop tractors and cars, they shouted slogans like “Modi teri tanashahi nahi chalegi,” accusing the Centre of trying to help “capitalists and industrialists”. Agitating villagers from Jewar and Dankaur took over the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and moved towards Noida in waves. To avoid chaos, traffic police started diverting commuters going from Noida to Delhi via the DND loop, leaving many drivers confused. Traffic was also thrown out of gear at the Chilla border in east Delhi. “If they don’t allow us to enter Delhi, we will not allow anyone from Delhi to enter either. We will do a ‘chakka jam’ on all four sides of Delhi, and supply of milk, vegetables and food will be stopped. We have given a memorandum to this affect,” said Pawan Khatana, state spokesperson and Meerut mandal president of BKU-apolitical. “If a farmer gets to know that his produce will fetch a better price in Karnataka, how will he transport his produce to Karnataka?” he asked. Several kilometres of the Delhi-Meerut expressway were completely choked. Sanjay Mishra, a resident of Shastri Nagar who was on his way to Meerut, had to turn back as protesters did not allow him and many others to pass through. “Even though there was heavy presence of police force, no attempts were made to free up the expressway,” alleged Mishra. At Bhowpura and UP Gate where traffic was frustrating slow for about two hours, the protesters relented only after the administration officials made several requests. “The protesting farmers submitted a memorandum to the President through the district magistrate, and only after that they ended the protest which lasted for about two hours,” said Shailender Singh, ADM city. A senior Delhi traffic police officer said heavy deployment was made at the border areas in anticipation of the protest moving into Delhi. “A similar arrangement with fewer people will be made at the Delhi border on Saturday as well to ensure no untoward activity takes place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-scale-up-protest-in-haryana/articleshow/78325602.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Madurai||Bogus votes: Poll officer’s plea against punishment dismissed||MADURAI: Observing that election is the touchstone of the democratic process, Madras high court dismissed the plea moved by an employee who sought to set aside his punishment for permitting 26 bogus votes to be polled in a booth leading to the wrong candidate being declared elected in the 2006 assembly election in Dindigul district. Petitioner A Jegarajan was posted as election officer in a polling booth at Thirumalairayapuram in Aathur assembly constituency. Since 26 bogus votes were polled at the booth, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against him and penalty imposed by the disciplinary authority in 2007. The petitioner's appeal and review were dismissed by authorities in 2010 and 2013 respectively. A criminal case was also registered against him at Oddanchatram police station in 2006 but the Dindigul JM-I acquitted him in 2009. Hence the petitioner moved HC Madurai bench in the 2014 challenging his punishment order. Justice R M T Teekaa Raman observed that all is not well with the order passed by JM who stated that the alleged offence could not have been committed by the accused without the cooperation of others and hence chosen to acquit the petitioner. There was a minor contradiction of the witnesses and non-marking of the EVM before the court. The petitioner, a government servant appointed as election officer, appears to have colluded with one political party and in an attempt to favour him had allowed 26 voters to be recorded in EVM. The judge observed that according to the evidence of departmental witness, 26 voters have not even come to the booth. Due to the misdeeds of petitioner, one person got benefit and he was declared as elected. The judge observed that merely because he was acquitted in a criminal case does not automatically entitle him to be discharged in the departmental proceedings since the proof required was different in either case. The departmental proceedings against the petitioner were not only for the offence under sections of the People Representatives Act, 1951, but also for dereliction of the duty and violation of rules under Tamil Nadu Government Servant Conduct Rules, 1973. Hence, the judge said that the punishment imposed cannot be termed as excess, and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bogus-votes-poll-officers-plea-against-punishment-dismissed/articleshow/78324068.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power, infrastructure get most of government investment in Gujrat||AHMEDABAD: Power and infrastructure sectors in Gujarat have received a major thrust when it comes to investments made by the state government in state public sector undertakings (SPSUs), states Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG)’s report on the public sector undertakings for the year ended March 2019. Gujarat government’s total investments in its 87 SPSUs stood at Rs 2.49 lakh crore as on March 31, 2019. Of the total SPSUs, 16 are inactive. “The thrust of SPSUs investment was mainly in the power and infrastructure sector as the percentage share of investment in infrastructure sector to total investment was 35.8% (Rs 89,499 crore) in 2018-19 as compared to 32.4% in 2014-15,” said the report, which was tabled in the state assembly on Friday. The share of power sector in total investment was 42.7% (Over Rs 1 lakh crore) in 2018-19, which increased from 42% in 2018-19. According to CAG, the active SPSUs registered a turnover of Rs 1.48 lakh crore according to their financial statements as on September 30, 2019. There are 10 SPSUs in power sector and their turnover recorded continuous increase over previous year and stood at Rs 1.09 lakh crore. As against this, the investment in 10 power sector SPSUs was Rs 1.06 lakh crore. All the state-run power sector companies earned profit of Rs 1,085 crore. “GoG infused funds in the form of equity and loans in only three power sector SPSUs. The return on investment (RoI) from the three PSUs based on historical cost ranged between 0.46% and 0.87% during the period from 2014-15 to 2018-19,” the report added. Losses of 15 SPSUs bigger than profits of 44 units Out of total 61 active SPSUs, 15 SPSUs incurred losses of Rs 2,569 crore during 2018-19. As against this, the net profit of 44 SPSUs remained at 2,487 crore. The government made investments in 61 SPSUs and the return on investment from these companies ranged from negative 18.9% to 0.7% during the period from 2014-15 to 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-infra-get-most-of-govt-investment/articleshow/78324111.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur dist registers 502 cases, 6 deaths||Kolhapur: Solapur district on Friday registered 502 fresh coronavirus cases, including 68 from the city, along with six casualties. While the number of cases in Solapur rural have swelled to 23,104, the city has witnessed 8,185 patients so far. The death toll of the city stands at 466 while rural parts have recorded 633 casualties. According to officials of the district administration, at present, Solapur rural has 7,227 active patients while the city has 976 active cases. As many as 6,743 people have been discharged from various Covid care facilities in the city while 15,244 have been discharged from rural parts of the district. Meanwhile, Malshiras tehsil in the district continues to record high number of patients. On Friday, the tehsil registered 102 cases, taking the total number of active patients to 1,278. The tehsil has recorded 71 deaths so far. Barshi and Pandharpur tehsils, on the other hand, reported 70 and 78 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-dist-registers-502-cases-6-deaths/articleshow/78325548.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC stays attachment of Penna Cements shares till October 5||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has stayed attachment of Penna Cements owner P Pratap Reddy’s shares by authorities till October 5. Referring the matter to the debt recovery tribunal (DRT) in Hyderabad, the court also directed Pratap Reddy not to sell or mortgage the shares to others in the meantime. Saying that the court was not inclined to hear the matter at this stage, a bench comprising Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud said if Pratap Reddy files any fresh application seeking more time, the DRT should dispose it of by October 5. Earlier, the DRT had directed Pratap Reddy to furnish Rs 77 crore towards security or face attachment of 1.36 crore Penna Cements shares he is holding. Aggrieved by this, Pratap Reddy approached the high court challenging the DRT order. His counsel P Vikram said Pratap Reddy was only trying to settle the dues through the one-time settlement (OTS) route and was seeking time to do so. Pratap Reddy also urged the court not to invoke the personal guarantee he gave to Laxmi Vilas Bank (LVB) for availing loan to raise the Anrak aluminium project. He had taken Rs 3,000 crore from various banks for the project. Due to various reasons, the project did not attain finality in the last one-and-a-half decades. Pratap tried to settle the dues with banks and his one such attempt with SBI ran into rough weather. With the LVB case coming to the fore seeking dues of Rs 150 crore from Pratap Reddy, an asset reconstruction company was entrusted the task to recover it. The asset company recovered a portion of this money. However, with Pratap seeking longer periods to repay the OTS amount, the asset reconstruction company approached the DRT and sought enforcement of OTS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-stays-attachment-of-penna-cements-shares-till-october-5/articleshow/78324141.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 26, 2020||Goa||HC slams cops for shoddy probe in minor’s suicide||PANAJI: Expressing concern over “shoddy” and “insensitive” investigation by Goa Police involving sexual offences against women and children, the high court ordered the director general of police (DGP) to conduct an inquiry against the force for lapses in a 2006 case relating to abetment of suicide of a minor girl. “There is real danger of investigating agencies gaining an impression that this is tolerable or that this is the new normal,” a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar observed. The accused, George Thomas Kuruvilla, Shyam George, Suraj George and Lexata Mascarenhas were prosecuted by the trial court. In 2018 the accused were acquitted by the children’s court of charges of alleged abetment of suicide and sexual assault. They were convicted for keeping a minor without the government’s permission. The children’s court also directed them to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI) of one year each and fine of Rs 1 lakh each was imposed. The HC reduced RI to simple imprisonment of three months. The HC also acquitted Shyam George since it found that he was studying aeronautical engineering from August, 2006 to January, 2007 in Pune and the girl expired on December 14, 2006. One of the accused, Lexata expired before the conclusion of the trial. “Of late, we noticed that there is a certain element of casualness, insensitivity and at times, even apathy in such investigations, when in fact, utmost vigilance and sensitivity is the need of the hour. If lapses in investigation, as have taken place in this matter, are left unprobed, there is real danger of repetition of such lapses,” the bench stated. The court noted that due to lapses in probe it becomes increasingly difficult for the courts to convict or sustain the conviction of perpetrators of such crimes. Such enquiry must be held and concluded as expeditiously as possible and in any case within a period of six months, the high court said. The prosecution case found four accused; physically, emotionally and sexually harassed the minor girl, who was residing with them since 1996 in Sangolda, to commit suicide in December 2006. The court also observed that prima facie the deposition of PI Narayan Chimulkar was sufficient to give an insight into the casualness and insensitivity of the investigations into a serious matter where suicide was committed by girl .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-slams-cops-for-shoddy-probe-in-minors-suicide/articleshow/78325559.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Hold political meetings online’||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court on Friday rejected an application filed by the Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel for temporary lifting of a bail condition prohibiting him to leave Gujarat so that he could attend important political events in Delhi and brief his lawyers in the Supreme Court. Earlier this year, the court had imposed the condition that Patel cannot leave Gujarat without prior permission from court while granting bail after his arrest for skipping court hearings in the 2015 sedition case. Rejecting Patel’s request, additional sessions judge B J Ganatra said that he is a political leader and if he feels like meeting and consulting with other leaders and for this a meeting is required, it is advisable to arrange online meeting or virtual meeting in this time of corona. The court also noticed that Patel had not supplied any schedule of meetings that he had to attend. The court also observed that Patel could not say whether there is any election declared in the country. The court also did not accept Patel’s argument that he needed to brief his lawyers about pending Supreme Court cases. It said that he had not supplied details about listing of his cases. The court made it clear that Patel can go out of the state and the court would permit, if it finds the reasons genuine for his visits. Moreover, the court refused to accept the assurance given by Patel’s advocate that he would not breach any bail condition and remain present during court proceedings. The court said that it has full respect for the lawyer as an office of the court, but he cannot take guarantee for his client’s behaviour. Patel is facing a trial for sedition charge for the violence that took place during the Patidar reservation movement in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hold-political-meetings-online/articleshow/78324152.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||IPS officer takes over as Margao SDPO||MARGAO: IPS officer Sahil Sarangal on Friday took charge as subdivisional police officer (SDPO) of Margao. With Sarangal’s appointment, Quepem SDPO Kiran Poduval has been relieved of the additional charge of Margao. Sarangal, a 2017 batch IPS officer of joint AGMUT cadre, is designated as assistant superintendent of police (ASP). Poduval held charge of Margao SDPO, which consists of Margao town, Maina Curtorim, Colva and Cuncolim police stations, for nearly three months. He held an iron grip over the law and order situation in Salcete and succeeded in reining in anti-social elements by stressing on enhanced police boots on the ground during day and night. Sources say extensive patrolling by inspectors in their respective jurisdictions was effectively enforced by Poduval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ips-officer-takes-over-as-margao-sdpo/articleshow/78325585.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Centre urges Pune to improve contact tracing from 10 per patient||PUNE: The Centre has asked the state government officials, especially the Pune administration, to ramp up Covid-19 contact tracing. Pune region has been registering sharp spikes every week and officials have struggled to take the contact tracing ratio above 1:10 — 10 contacts per patient. Times ViewThe rising daily cases — presently around 17,000 in the state — poses a big challenge for the authorities to step up contact tracing to 20 people per infected person as against the current 10 or less. Contact tracing apps are available, but citizens cite privacy issues not to use them. The state needs to be aggressive in its approach to break the transmission of the infection.According to guidelines, the ideal value should be at least 20 contacts traced and tested per confirmed case. The districts of Pune, Thane, Kolhapur, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Chandrapur and Nagpur are now some of the worst-hit regions with the lowest contact tracing numbers. The Pune divisional commissioner’s office said while Pune district's figures were below 10 until last week due to a massive surge in cases, officials in the district have reached an average of 12 contacts in some parts. One official said local authorities have been asked to trace eight high-risk immediate contacts and at least 12 low-risk individuals. “The issue is low-risk contacts because many infected people have moved about a lot,” the official said. Experts said with curbs being lifted all over the country, states should do everything they can to ensure contact tracing — one of the most vital measures during an outbreak — is kept up. R Jotkar, an expert in public health measures, said door-to-door surveys will help find “hidden cases”. He said, “Many people fear quarantine, hospital admissions and treatments costs. These door-to-door surveys will indeed reach out to everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centre-urges-pune-to-improve-contact-tracing-from-10-per-patient/articleshow/78324174.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 26, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks promotion for practitioners of Indian medicine||MADURAI: The Madras high court directed the state government to pass final orders in a proposal sent by the commissioner of municipal administration seeking time-bound promotion with salary hike to Indian medicine practitioners on par with the allopathy medical practitioners. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by 15 medical practitioners,of Indian medicine such as siddha, ayurveda, unani and homeopathy, who are working under the municipal administration department. Taking into consideration the request of the petitioners, the commissioner of municipal administration had sent a detailed request-cum-recommendation to the secretary of municipal administration and water supply department. Since the proposal sent in the year 2016 was not considered yet, the petitioners moved HC Madurai bench. Justice R Suresh Kumar disposed of the petition by directing the secretary of municipal administration and water supply department to take a decision on the proposal and pass final orders within a period of three months. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-promotion-for-practitioners-of-indian-medicine/articleshow/78324110.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Discrepancies in GST registrations||AHMEDABAD: In the latest report that has been tabled in the Gujarat assembly, the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) has highlighted discrepancies in approval of application for registration of taxpayers under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. According to the report, discrepancies were noticed in the approval of 60% applications — 678 of the 1,130 test cases. “Lack of validation of mandatory key fields in the GSTN system compounded by the general ignorance of the applicants resulted in incomplete applications being uploaded for GST registrations. However, the absence of due verification by proper officer within the time frame prescribed in the act/ rules resulted in the registrations being issued without valid documents,” the report mentioned. CAG clearly pointed out in the report that registrations under the GST regime were granted without due verification of the application and documents in support of the declarations made by applicants in their applications. “This may have enabled an applicant to obtain registration without proper verification and hence, to be considered as a legal supplier, entitling him to collect tax from customers, claim input tax credit and utilize the same,” mentions the report. A slew of fake billing scams that have been reported in Gujarat, involving operation of various shell companies which exist based on illicitly obtaining GST registrations. The illicit claiming of input tax credit has led to a major tax evasion, thus denting revenues of the state exchequer. The jurisdictional offices of the assistant commissioner of state tax (ACST) in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Kalol and Jamnagar, have assured that since the matter pertains to technical issues, it will be taken up with higher authorities and the GSTN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/discrepancies-in-gst-registrations/articleshow/78324187.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Withdraw agricultural bills, farmers tell Centre||COIMBATORE: Farmers staged a protest in front of the district collector’s office on Friday, demanding the Union government to withdraw the three farmers’ bills passed by Parliament. The Centre had recently passed the farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) bill, 2020, the farmer (empowerment and protection) agreement of price assurance and farm service bill, 2020, and the essential commodities (amendment) bill, 2020. Su Palanisamy, district president of Tamil Farmers’ Association, said, “The bills are against the welfare of both the farmers and the public. It was passed without seeking opinions from farmers. What is the necessity to pass the bills with such an urgency at a time when the country is in a crisis situation? The bills should be withdrawn immediately.” Pointing out that the bills were in favour of corporate companies, he said the Union government should instead implement the recommendations of the MS Swaminathan panel. Expressing their support , trade unions, including AITUC and LPF, participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/withdraw-agri-bills-farmers-tell-centre/articleshow/78324137.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Corona fails to slow down cop, twice||NAGPUR: Head constable Laxman Shende, who tested positive twice for Covid-19 in less than four months, is an example before the society reeling under corona scare. Despite co-morbidities and once having been in ICU, Shende’s zeal for work hasn’t slackened. Resuming work for the second time, Shende and his team busted the dreaded gang that had robbed a loco-pilot, Sachinkumar Verma, on September 14 near railway club in Guards’ Lines. The robbers had stabbed Verma and fled with his cash, mobile phone and vital documents. Shende, despite being on medications and strict diet to prevent infection for a third time, worked hard with his team members head constable Sameer Shaikh, constables Pramod Shaniware and others to round up five goons including one, Rahul Bahadure, from Wardha. Bahadure, having 10 offences against him, was the one who had stabbed Verma. “We did not have much support from CCTV or any concrete clues. The detection was based on human intelligence,” said Shende who attends work after taking his medicines for flu and fever. Tehsil police under Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar, inspector Dileep Sagar and sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh had managed to detect the armed robbery due to the efforts of Shende’s team and their field work. “Bahadure is a hardened goon. Our latest arrest Shaikh Akbar in the case also has at least 10 cases. Akbar’s elder brother was the main accused in the murder case of Vasantrao Naik slums some years back that had created a major furore in the city,” Bhandarkar said. Apart from Bahadure and Akbar, police also arrested Shubham Bhagat, Mohd Imtiyaz and Manish Chavan. Police also recovered some cash, documents and two two-wheelers used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-fails-to-slow-down-cop-twice/articleshow/78324180.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 26, 2020||Madurai||HC stays order quashing tender notification of Palani temple EO||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Friday stayed the order of a single judge who quashed the tender notification issued by the executive officer/fit person for housekeeping works at the Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple in Palani in Dindigul district. A division bench of Justices K Kalyanasundaram and T Krishnavalli passed the interim order while hearing the appeal by the executive officer (EO) who sought to set aside the order of the single judge’s order on September 22. The appellant stated that the person who filed the writ petition does not have any locus standi to challenge the tender notification issued by the temple since he is not a contractor. The petitioner’s claim that he is a public spirited person interested in the affairs of the temple may not be ground for filing a PIL petition without locus standi. Only an aggrieved person has locus standi for filing such writ petition challenging the notification. The issue in the writ petition was filed on the correctness of the EO issuing a tender notification. The appointment of EO was not the subject matter of the writ petition. No law restricts the period of fit persons appointed till the constitution of board of trustees. It was stated that no such boards were constituted for any temples in the state. The appointment of fit person was not merely a stop gap arrangement but with an idea to have such fit person till the constitution of board of trustees. It was also stated that there was no provision that bars the appointment of EO as a fit person. It was stated that the housekeeping works comprise works like cleaning the temple, rope car station, winch station, giri veedhi road, rooms and other institutions maintained by the temple. Such kind of housekeeping work requires a manpower of nearly 325 people everyday which is difficult to get on a voluntary basis regularly. The work also requires machines and accessories which are provided through the tender. Hence, the housekeeping tender should not be seen as a counterpart of ‘Uzhavara Pani’, a service which is done by devotees. Since the above grounds were not taken into consideration, the appellant moved the court seeking to set aside the order of the single judge and also sought to grant interim stay on the order. In the writ petition filed by T R Ramesh, the single judge had quashed the tender notification saying it has been issued by an official who is standing on thin ice. The judge also asked the state government to take steps to constitute a board of trustees for Palani temple as early as possible since the same was not constituted for over nine years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-stays-order-quashing-tender-notification-of-palani-temple-eo/articleshow/78324124.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Madurai||Bail granted for salon owner booked on usury charges||MADURAI: Madras high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to a salon owner who was booked on usury charges. Justice V Bharathidasan granted anticipatory bail to C Mohan, a resident of Melamadai in Madurai. Mohan was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his relief work during Covid-19 lockdown. A case was registered against him by Anna Nagar police under Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act. The prosecution stated that the petitioner had demanded exorbitant interest from a person who had borrowed money from him. Since the petitioner had demanded exorbitant interest even after the complainant repaid the money which he borrowed, he lodged a complaint against the petitioner on September 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-granted-for-salon-owner-booked-on-usury-charges/articleshow/78324158.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Post grad admissions at varsity to end on Sept 30||PANAJI: Goa University said that the admission process for master’s programmes will end on September 30. Selected candidates have been told to contact the university or affiliated colleges by September 28 to pay the seat confirmation fee of Rs 5,000. Spot admissions will be held for any seats left vacant and students have to get in touch with the institutes by September 28. However, these are open only to students who have appeared for GU-ART 2020-21 and will be filled based on the order of rank at the qualifying test. “Based on Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) rounds, schools/departments on Goa University campus and affiliated colleges have admitted candidates as per the ranking for various PG programmes offered at single location and via counselling,” Goa University officiating registrar Radhika Nayak said. While students allotted seats at colleges will pay the fees at their respective institutes, those who have got a seat at the GU campus will have to pay it online through the Goa University Management System. “September 30 shall be the last date of admissions for allotment of seats,” Nayak has said. The registrar has told colleges not to invite students on campus and not to conduct any physical admission rounds in view of the pandemic. Colleges have been told to collect seat confirmation fees by 1pm on October 3 and to send the list of students to Goa University by October 5. Students who have not appeared for GU-ART in a particular subject will not be considered for seat allotment, Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/post-grad-admissions-at-varsity-to-end-on-sept-30/articleshow/78325579.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||83-year-old dies in prayer room fire||Kolkata: A 83-year-old woman, a resident of New Alipore, died under mysterious circumstances on Friday morning. The woman, Gauri Dasgupta, who used to live on the ground floor of a five-storey building in the P Block, was found with severe burn injuries by her servants around 5.35am. The place in her flat, where she used to offer pujas, caught fire. The woman was rushed to the SSKM Hospital where she was declared brought dead. Her son is settled in the US. A fire tender doused the flames within 15 minutes. “Prima facie, we have found that the woman died due to an accidental fire. She was offering pujas early in the morning when the incident took place. We suspect that she was trying to light something for the pujas, leading to the fire. The initial post-mortem report too has indicated an accidental fire. We have not found any foul play so far,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/83-year-old-dies-in-prayer-room-fire/articleshow/78324195.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||District sees single-day high of 661 cases||COIMBATORE: The district on Friday recorded the highest number of fresh covid-19 cases in a day, when it declared 661 people positive for the infection. Though 517 people got discharged on the same day, the number of active cases stood at an all-time high of 4,801. The district also recorded six more deaths taking the toll to 408. The cases continued to be spread across the district, with no specific cluster. One of the reasons behind the spike in positivity rates and cases was also attributed to people sometimes submitting nasal swabs at multiple labs. “Some people who are found positive by one lab, are in denial and give another swab at another private lab and are again found positive. That gets accounted as two cases for us. Some people who are found positive at government labs, want to retest themselves at a private lab, again leading to duplication of cases,” said a health department official. Health department officials appealed to the public to mention all their clinical symptoms or reasons for testing in the ICMR form, so that can be considered when declaring someone positive. “The RT PCR test on a nasal swab’s sensitivity is only 66%, so if a patient is borderline positive but symptomatic, we have to declare him positive and recommend the right treatment. So, people should fill the form correctly,” the official said. On Friday, the department of medical services and public health called representatives from both private labs and government hospital laboratories to discuss an ideal cycle threshold (CT) level that can declare a person positive for the virus as per the RT PCR test. This was part of the director of public health’s instruction to form a committee to study this issue and come out with clear guidelines. All the laboratories insisted that different manufacturers’ kits sensitivity and thus their recommendation on CT cut offs vary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-sees-single-day-high-of-661-cases/articleshow/78324119.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Four bullets, two empty cartridges found in airport washroom||COIMBATORE: Four bullets and two empty cartridges were found in the Coimbatore International Airport’s restroom on Friday. A cleaning staff had found them in the men’s restroom near the security checkpoint around 10.30am, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector S K Soni said in a complaint to the Peelamedu police. “A 7.62mm caliber ammunition, two 9mm bullets and a .380mm bullet were found in the western toilet. Two empty assault rifle cartridges were also found.” CISF handed them over to the Peelamedu police, who registered a case under section 102 CrPC (power of police officer to seize certain property). CISF officers are checking CCTV footage from the area. A passenger might have dumped them in the toilet before security check, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-bullets-2-empty-cartridges-found-in-airport-washroom/articleshow/78324183.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Kidnapping of minister’s PA: 7 more suspects picked up||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur police made further headway in the kidnap of personal assistant of animal husbandry minister by nabbing seven more suspects on Friday. With this, nine people have been secured in connection with the case. However, police are yet to arrest any of them. The suspects are being interrogated at an undisclosed location, police sources said. M Karnan, assistant of Udumalai Radhakrishnan, was kidnapped by a five-member gang from the MLA’s office in Udumalpet on Wednesday, but was abandoned after two hours. Karnan said he was kidnapped due to political rivalry and said the gang snatched his gold chain, ring and mobile phone. Police rounded up two suspects within 24 hours and based on the information they provided, secured seven more. Senior police officers were tight-lipped about the developments, maintaining that they would disclose details once the interrogation is over. “We are progressing in the right direction,” said an officer. According to police sources in Tirupur, though the motive for the kidnap is under interrogation, it has emerged that the kidnappers were known to Karnan. “The suspects were all familiar with each other for years. Karnan also knew them since they were from the same locality. One of the suspects was also close to AIADMK functionaries in Udumalpet,” said an officer. Police said that three were from Pudukottai district working in Udumalpet and were friends of the remaining suspects, who were from Udumalpet. Meanwhile, Udumalai Radhakrishnan reached Udumalpet from Chennai on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kidnapping-of-ministers-pa-7-more-suspects-picked-up/articleshow/78324193.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong chalks out protest plan against farm bills||Hyderabad: Congress cadre along with their counterparts from the Left parties and farmers welfare associations staged a protest demonstration on Friday as part of a nation-wide agitation against the farm bills passed by the BJP government at the Centre. Former AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as anti-farmer and said Congress members would go to the doorstep of farmers in rural areas to explain about the anti-farmer bills passed by the central government. Dozens of activists participated in the protest held at Ayakaar Bhavan in the heart of the city. The protesters demanded immediate revocation of the bills. Party leaders and workers participated in the sit-in at district and assembly constituency headquarters as well. The Congress has also decide to organise an online campaign “SpeakUpForFarmers” on September 26, state-wide protest on September 28, Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas on October 2, state-level kisan sammelan on October 10 and a signature campaign from October 2 to October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-chalks-out-protest-plan-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78324206.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Dhangar activists stir for ST status||Aurangabad: Members of the Sakal Dhangar Samaj staged demonstrations in front of the district collectorate office on Friday demanding the government to grant them scheduled caste (ST) status. Donning traditional attire, the activists said that the state government was not serious about granting ST status to the community, forcing them to resort to drum beat agitation. The activists led by Ravi Vaidya said that their demand also include a Rs 1,000 crore package for the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dhangar-activists-stir-for-st-status/articleshow/78325590.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||LRD recruitments again face challenge! Now from men||AHMEDABAD: The calculation of quota seats for the Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) posts has once again come in question, this time with more than 300 male candidates approaching the Gujarat high court challenging government’s decision to lower down cutoff marks and to appoint all women candidates on 2,485 supernumerary seats. On allegations of “reverse discrimination” against men as mentioned in the petition filed by 187 male candidates, Justice A C Rao on Friday issued notice to the authorities and sought reply by October 6. The petitioners have requested the HC to quash the LRD recruitment process that was initiated in 2018, and to direct the authorities to start it afresh with proper calculation and fixing of cutoff marks so that meritorious candidates do not suffer. Petitioner’s advocate Anand Yagnik submitted that recruitment of more than 12,000 Lok Rakshaks was in violation of the judgment that the HC passed after quashing the controversial clauses in August 1, 2018 government regulation, which denied proper reservation rights to women. As many as 5,227 women candidates have been appointed after lowering the cutoff marks at the fag end of the recruitment process that too after final selection list was published and only appointment letters were to be issued. The lawyer alleged that a communal reservation was adopted and subsequently in the name of undoing what was done, marks were lowered down which is absolutely illegal and unconstitutional. He further argued that 2,485 supernumerary posts were created only for women candidates, which is reverse discrimination. The petitioners have questioned change in rules of the game at the fag end by lowering cut-off marks, creating supernumerary seats etc., but not following proper quota rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lrd-recruitments-again-face-challenge-now-from-men/articleshow/78324216.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bareilly||Boy, 5, sexually assaulted and killed, uncle booked in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 5-year-old boy was sexually assaulted and later killed allegedly by his uncle in Bareilly’s Bahedi area. The child’s lifeless body, with his throat slit and private part mutilated, was found in a sugarcane field on Thursday evening, hours after he went missing. On Friday, the post-mortem examination report confirmed that he was sexually assaulted before being killed. An FIR has been registered for the murder, unnatural offences and under the POCSO Act on the basis of a complaint by the boy’s father. The accused, who hails from Uttarakhand, is a minivan driver. He was living with his family in the area for the last seven years. The family initially thought that the child was kidnapped for ransom. Multiple teams have been deployed in the area and one has been sent to Uttarakhand to arrest the accused. SSP Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “The boy was sodomised and killed with a sharp knife. We are searching for the accused everywhere and soon he will be in our custody. The accused knew the victim’s family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-5-sexually-assaulted-killed-uncle-booked-in-bareilly/articleshow/78321613.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Ticlo: Industries dept meddling in GIDC||PANAJI: While refuting allegations about corruption, Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) chairman Glenn Ticlo admitted that government interference has affected the functioning of the corporation. Ticlo said that he had failed to get the state government’s cooperation which makes it difficult for him to work. Ticlo said that several files and policy decisions taken by the GIDC board remain stuck with the government and in doing so, Ticlo reaffirmed the grievances raised by the industry, particularly Goa State Industries Association (GSIA). “There is too much of interference from the department, from the government,” said Ticlo. “It becomes very difficult for me to work.” A furious Ticlo was responding to allegations raised by GSIA president Damodar Kochkar who had lambasted GIDC and the state for the slide in Goa’s ease of doing business rankings. However, while responding to Kochkar, Ticlo lent credence to some of Kochkar’s statements. Ticlo said that ease of doing business is not the sole responsibility of GIDC. “If any of our files go to the government, they should be cleared immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ticlo-industries-dept-meddling-in-gidc/articleshow/78325599.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Madurai||300kg ganja seized, 7 held in Dindigul||MADURAI: The Dindigul district police, on Friday, seized 300 kg of ganja and arrested seven people in connection with smuggling of the banned contraband. Police officials from Dindigul said that they received a tip that ganja is being smuggled from Andhra Pradesh through Dindigul to a neighbouring district. During a vehicle check on Thursday night, a team deployed at Thangammapatti check post in Vadamadurai police limit found ganja stuffed into gunny bags in a van The police also arrested seven accused identified as K Krishnamoorthi, 28, M Sonaimuthu, 31, M Barani, 33, N Yuvaraj, 33, G Jaishankar, 24, B Raghavan, 27, and V Pandiappan, 52.  In another incident, 58 kg of ganja was seized and two people were arrested at Navaarpatti junction in Madurai districton Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/300kg-ganja-seized-7-held-in-dindigul/articleshow/78324191.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Amma not to celebrate b’day this yr||Coimbatore: There will be no celebrations to mark the 67th birthday of Mata Amritanandamayi Devi on September 27, said Swami Amritaswarupananda Puri, vice-president of Mata Amritanandamayi Mutt.In a statement, Amirtaswarupananda said traditionally the birthday would be celebrated as a festival of selfless service, with thousands thronging the mutt. Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mata Amritanandamayi Mutt has announced that there will be no celebrations.Instead, the day would be observed globally as a day of prayer for world peace and harmony. “Amma’s followers from the 193 United Nations-member countries have pledged to observe Sunday, September 27th, from 6am to 1pm with spiritual chanting and meditation to pray for universal peace and for the world to overcome these difficult times,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/amma-not-to-celebrate-bday-this-yr/articleshow/78324201.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Sero survey set to start next week in PCMC limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic administration will begin its very first serological survey from next week, with around 5,000 citizens set to undergo a blood-based test to help the administration gauge the prevalence of the infection in the industrial town. The initiative is a collaboration of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital. According to the principal investigator, Atul Dafale from D Y Patil hospital, they have identified the clusters in the twin towns and the exact locations where the survey would be carried out, while the landmarks of clusters were being identified. He said once the earmarking process was over, the serology test would start with around 10 teams surveying the slum and high-rise areas across the eight zones in the PCMC limits over the course of one to two weeks. “Citizens from age 12 and above would be able to participate in the survey. Once the sample size is achieved, the research studies would take around 15-20 days for publication,” Dafale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sero-survey-set-to-start-next-week-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/78324198.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for duping mill owner of Rs 21 lakh in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The district crime branch police have arrested a 32-year-old man for cheating a spinning mill owner of Rs 21 lakh. Police identified the accused as N Sundarapandian, of Silukuvarpatti in Dindigul district. An investigation officer said the accused had in 2019 bought 150 bundles of cotton yarn from 54-year-old D Soundararajan, who owned a spinning mill at Narasimmanaickenpalayam on the outskirts of the city, by promising to pay him online. When Sundarapandian refused to pay after receiving the yarn, Soundararajan lodged a complaint with the district crime branch police, who registered a case and arrested the former. Sundarapandian was booked under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by publicservant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating) and 464 (making a false document) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-duping-mill-owner-of-rs-21l/articleshow/78324176.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Calangute ryots hope for bumper yield||CALANGUTE: While many farmers across the state are staring at losses as paddy fields have been damaged from incessant rain this year, farmers in Calangute are looking at a bumper harvest when harvesting machines are their disposal in the first week of October. Calangute panchayat said that more than 11 lakh sqm of land has been cultivated with paddy and vegetables in Calangute this year, after the local body encouraged villagers to cultivate fallow fields, especially with tourism coming to a grinding halt due to the pandemic. Over the years, farmers in this tourist hot-spot had abandoned their agricultural fields to take up tourism-related businesses. “There is not much damage to the fields in Calangute because the seedlings were planted early,” said Rudresh Joshi, former zonal agricultural officer (ZAO), Mapusa. In June Joshi had organised a camp for farmers in Calangute and 350 farmers registered for ‘Krishi cards’ and taken paddy seedlings. Another 650 families had taken home-kitchen garden kits with five different types of vegetable seeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-ryots-hope-for-bumper-yield/articleshow/78325592.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Madurai||Homage paid to SPB in Madurai city||MADURAI: Actors, musicians and public paid homage to legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam in Madurai on Friday. The sudden demise of the singer was a shock to many, and songs of the late singer were played in many places. Members of the Tamil Cinema Actors Association led by the secretary C M Vinoth, short film director J Victor among others lit candles and garlanded the photograph of the singer and paid tributes. Members of the Madurai District All-Music Teachers’ Association paid tribute to the legend at Ellis Nagar. Anga Idimulanguthu Thenmangu Seenu Kalai Kuzhu president M Srinivasan said that this was an irreparable loss. His songs have been sung by millions, and it also help many to make a livelihood, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/homage-paid-to-spb-in-madurai-city/articleshow/78324203.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Southwest monsoon likely to begin retreat from October 3 in Maharashtra||PUNE: The southwest monsoon is set to exit from the extreme parts of northwest India around September 28 with a delay of almost a fortnight. Weather models with India Meteorological Department (IMD) have indicated that its exit from Maharashtra could be near normal to marginally delayed in some locations. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI, “As per extended range forecasts, the monsoon is likely to withdraw from about 45-50% areas of Maharashtra by October 8. Extended range forecasts have further indicated that monsoon may exit almost all of Maharashtra by around October 15, and that its withdrawal from Pune and Mumbai could occur during the second week of October.” Normally, the monsoon withdraws from most areas of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh and some parts of east UP and west Madhya Pradesh, by October 1. Kashyapi said Pune and Mumbai could have almost a simultaneous withdrawal by the end of second week of October. “This means that withdrawal in these cities could be slightly delayed by a few days, as the normal withdrawal date for Mumbai is October 8 and that for Pune is October 9 (as per the newly released monsoon withdrawal dates by IMD),” he said. He said rainfall activity in Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha is likely to start reducing significantly after September 27, but not so much in Konkan. Rainfall is likely to reduce over Konkan by October second week, which is when monsoon withdrawal may occur there. Meanwhile, several parts of the state have received heavy rainfall for the past two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sw-monsoon-likely-to-begin-retreat-from-oct-3-in-maha/articleshow/78324277.cms||Neha Madaan
September 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hygiene lessons for vendors soon||Bhubaneswar: Throwing caution to the winds, people have started crowding street food vendors in the city again. But, amid the pandemic, are the vendors adhering to the safety and hygienic standards? Doctors said eating cold and uncovered food increased exposure of people to the coronavirus. But there is hope, too. All street food vendors will soon get online lessons on maintaining hygienic standards of food. Vendors who don’t have access to smartphone or other gadgets to receive the e-training will be called in batches and imparted the lessons offline. The initiative is part of The Eat Right Movement of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), said a Bhubaneswar Municipal Commission (BMC) officer. City health officer, BMC, B K Mishra said, “Under the programme, all street food vendors will be taught about ensuring safety and hygienic standards of food. Even restaurants and fruit vendors will be covered under this programme in phases as their needs differ.” Doctors said people are prone to catching the coronavirus by eating unhygenic street food. Items like gupchup, chat, samosa, alu chop, dahi vada and fruit juice are being sold without minimum safety measures. People are seen crowding vendors without maintaining social distancing norms and consuming food which is cold and exposed to the elements. “Most street vendors are not conscious about selling hygienic food. So it is very risky to eat such food as the cases of coronaviurus are showing a rising trend. Most city vendors do not possess hygiene certificate from the civic body,” said Krutibas Parida, medicine specialist. Manpower crunch has prevented the BMC from launching a crackdown on unhygienic food sellers. There is only one food safety officer in BMC and he is doubling up as the officer for Khurda. “Due to staff crunch, checking food safety of vendors is not 100%. There is scope for further improvement,” admitted the city health officer. Under the Eat Right Movement, experts and agencies that have expertise in measuring food safety standards will be roped in to impart classes to the vendors. Medicine specialist Bijay Mishra said, ”Maintaining food safety is a big issue, particularly during a pandemic. Street vendors do not maintain even minimum hygiene, let alone maintaining heightened hygiene in the wake of coronavirus.” To improve public health in India and combat negative nutritional trends to fight lifestyle diseases, FSSAI launched ‘The Eat Right Movement in 2018. But the movement could not be launched in many states in right earnest due to different issues. During the time of the launch, food industry, public health professionals, civil society and consumer organisations, influencers and celebrities came together on a common platform and pledged to take concrete steps to amplify The Eat Right Movement in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hygiene-lessons-for-vendors-soon/articleshow/78324272.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Coonoor gets Amma mobile PDS shop||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district got the first Amma mobile PDS shop on Friday. The government had earlier sanctioned 11 Amma mobile PDS shops for the hill district. District collector J Innocent Divya launched the first mobile shop that is attached to the ration shop at Bharathinagar at Coonoor on Friday. The mobile PDS shop will cater to 99 families at Forestdale and Shanmuga Nagar, which are located a little away from Bharathinagar. The service would be available on the first and third Saturdays of every month. “If people are not there on those days, they have to monthly ration from the PDS shop directly,” Divya said. The remaining 10 Amma mobile PDS shops would be allotted to various areas in the district, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coonoor-gets-amma-mobile-pds-shop/articleshow/78325603.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Will ensure best treatment for Covid-hit personnel, says police commissioner||PUNE: The city’s new police commissioner, Amitabh Gupta, on Friday said the authorities were taking all efforts to ensure best treatment for all Covid-19 infected personnel in the department. Gupta was interacting with reporters for the first time since taking charge as the Pune police chief on September 20 and against the backdrop of the death of an assistant sub-inspector on Thursday, This was the seventh casualty among the Pune police personnel. Gupta said, “A total of 125 police personnel are being treated for Covid-19 and many of them have been placed under home isolation, while a few are in hospitals. We are taking a daily review of their health status and will provide them with apt medical care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-ensure-best-treatment-for-ncov-hit-personnel-says-police-commissioner/articleshow/78324249.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Madurai||Schools gear up to welcome back students in Madurai district||MADURAI: With the state government giving permission to partially reopen schools for Class X to XII, schools across Madurai district have started preparing to welcome back students, even if not for regular classes. Though both government and private schools welcome the move as a necessity, headmasters and teachers are sceptical of the reception from parents. “At least for Class X and XII, who are preparing for board exams, it is necessary for students to come to school and clear doubts with teachers. Though we have asked students to learn from home using textbooks and video material, in some subjects it has been difficult for them to grasp concepts,” said the headmaster of a corporation school. However, he admitted that it may not be possible to ensure participation of all students and none would be forced to come. “Especially for students who come from faroff places, parents would definitely be concerned about safety during travel. Even otherwise, many parents are calling up with concerns of safety. We are assuring them the best we can,” she added. Tamil Nadu Government Higher Secondary School Headmasters’ Association, Madurai also welcomed the government decision to partially reopen schools. “Students are also eager to come since their parents have all returned to work. If schools are not reopened, it will turn into a huge disadvantage for government school students who will be taking board exams. We will ensure implementation of all Covid-19 precautionary measures,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. In some private schools which have been holding online classes, principals and teachers are looking to continue with them and allow students to come to school only if absolutely necessary. Schools are confident of ensuring Covid-19 safety precautions on the campus. At Madura College School (MC School) and Sethupathi Higher Secondary School, the management has already made preparations to accommodate students by maintaining social distancing and other safety precautions. In each classroom, only 10 benches are being arranged and students are set to come only in batches. “Disinfection will be done at regular intervals. At the entrance to the school, there are facilities for hand washing kept ready. Students will have their temperature checked on entry. Further, automatic hand sanitiser dispensers are also installed in all classrooms for students to use when entering and exiting,” said M Ravi, headmaster, MC School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-gear-up-to-welcome-back-students/articleshow/78324243.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Another woman dies in New Alipore||Another resident of New Alipore’s P-Block was found unconscious inside the bathroom of her flat around 11.30pm on Friday. The woman, Dipali Basu (78), who lived on the second floor of a four-storey building, was taken to SSKM Hospital, where she was declared dead. “Her death was due to a stroke. There was no foul play,” said police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/another-woman-dies-in-new-alipore/articleshow/78324265.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 tally crosses 3,500-mark in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Covid-19 tally crossed the 3,500-mark in the Nilgiris, where 137 new cases were reported on Friday. The district has seen 3,501 cases, of which 2,676 patients recovered and were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 76.4%. As many as 802 active cases are treated at health facilities. While 15 patients are being treated at ESI hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 152 patients are monitored in home quarantine. The remaining active cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, besides five care centres in the district.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-tally-crosses-3500-mark-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78324211.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Meerut||Spouses of ‘newly-married couple' create ruckus at police station||Muzaffarnagar: A ruckus erupted at a police station in UP’s Muzaffarnagar on Friday when a couple, who were already married, reached there with a high court order declaring them as married and asking police to provide them security. Soon, the spouses of the couple also reached the police station, alleging that they had been betrayed.According to police, Irfan Ahmad, who is in his 20s and a father of two children, fell in love with Muskan, who was also married and a mother of a child. They lived in the same locality.A few weeks ago, they left their homes and got married in a court. They also obtained a protection order from Allahabad high court citing danger to their lives as “they had married against the wishes of their relatives.”As the two couples started fighting, it became difficult for the policemen to control the situation.The first wife of Irfan, Rukhsar, said, “I want my husband back at any cost. I will not let him stay with another woman. He betrayed me and I will go wherever he will go.”Talib, the husband of Muskan, was also distraught but confident of getting his wife back.“Irfan is not a good man. I will not give up until I get my wife back.”But police followed the court order and took away the newly-married couple where they wanted, away from their warring exes.The lawyer of the couple, Sachin Kumar, said, “My client Irfan had approached the high court for police security. And he got it.”Nagar Kotwali police station in-charge, Manoj Kumar, said, “Following the court order we have provided security to the couple and sent them where they wanted to go. The couple told us that they already divorced with their previous partners.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spouses-of-newly-married-couple-create-ruckus-at-police-station/articleshow/78321653.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Allow Siruvani dam to store water to full capacity, state tells Kerala||Coimbatore: The water level in the Siruvani reservoir was maintained at 44.61ft for the fifth consecutive day on Friday, despite incessant rainfall in its catchment areas, as the Kerala government didn’t want the water level to touch the full reservoir capacity of 49.53ft.It is to be noted that after the 2018 floods, the Kerala government had decided to reduce the storage capacity of the reservoir by 5ft. An official with the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) said, “After dropping to just a few feet above the dead storage capacity in summer, the water level started to increase gradually after catchment areas received incessant rainfall. When the water level touched 44.61ft on Sunday, the Kerala irrigation department opened the reservoir’s sluice gates. Since then, the water level has been maintained at 44.61ft.”On Tuesday, TWAD officials had requested the Kerala irrigation department officials to allow the water level to reach the reservoir’s full capacity, stating the water was used only for drinking purposes. “They said they would inspect the reservoir at the earliest and submit a recommendation to their government,” the official said.The state government has also held talks with their counterparts in Kerala at the political level.“Had the sluice gates not opened, the water level would have touched the full reservoir capacity three days ago. By increasing storage capacity by 5ft, we would get an additional 122million cubic ft water and it could be used to supply drinking water for 25 to 30 days,” the official said.About 101 million litres per day (MLD) water is withdrawn from the reservoir and 90MLD of it is supplied to the corporation limits.N Karthik, DMK MLA from Singanallur, said, “Reduction in storage capacity means the city will have to do with less water. And we would be facing water shortage in the summer. To prevent it, the state government should take necessary steps to fill the water to the full capacity of the reservoir.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-siruvani-dam-to-store-water-to-full-capacity-state-tells-kerala/articleshow/78324235.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Muthannankulam water floods houses at Palanisamy Colony||Coimbatore: Water from Muthannankulam flooded 10 houses at Palanisamy Colony near Ponnaiyarajapuram on Thursday.Waterbodies in the city are filling up following incessant rainfall. When Muthannankulam almost touched its full capacity, officials opened the sluice gates to release excess water into the outlet canal around 11pm on Thursday. Water started to enter houses within 30 minutes, residents said.“As the canal was blocked near Palanisamy Colony with water hyacinth and debris, water started to flow into our houses. We alerted the city corporation, but workers reached the spot about two hours,” said CN Nareshm, a resident.Attempts to unclog the canal was initially unsuccessful, said N Chinnasamy, another resident. “At last, they had to break open a portion of the road near the footbridge to ensure uninterrupted flow of water,” he said. “The city corporation had laid foundation stone to reconstruct a footbridge in January. But the project was put on hold due to Covid-19 pandemic situation. We hope that the corporation will restart construction at the earliest.”Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian inspected the place on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/muthannankulam-water-floods-houses-at-palanisamy-colony/articleshow/78324228.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: 3,695 recover & almost as many test positive in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 3,628 Covid-19 cases and marginally more recoveries (3,695) on Friday, pushing its tally and cured count above 2.6 lakh and 2.2 lakh, respectively. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 1,621, the Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 856 and 1,151 were added in the rural and the Cantonment parts. When it comes to fresh recoveries, as many as 1,256 patients were discharged in the PMC limits, while 1,318 patients were declared cured in the PCMC areas. PMR recorded 95 deaths on Friday, including 39 in the PMC limits, 23 in the PCMC limits and 33 in the rural and Cantonment areas. With this, the toll in PMR has increased to 6,127. The active cases in the region dropped to 41,926 on Friday, including 24,582 patients being admitted at various hospitals and 17,344 patients in home isolation. About 14,274 samples were tested in the region on Friday, which pushed total sample testing above 11 lakh. A PMC report revealed that 17,773 active patients were under treatment in the city. Of these, as many as 949 patients were at critical stage. Health officials said 6,142 tests were conducted in the PMC limits on Friday, pushing total sample testing in the city above 6 lakh-mark. The PMC’s total caseload reached 1.38 lakh on Friday evening, while total discharges surged to 1.17 lakh. In case of PCMC limits, its tally of positive cases reached 74,116 and total discharges surged to 65,132.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3695-recover-almost-as-many-test-positive-in-pmr/articleshow/78324223.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 26, 2020||Madurai||Psychologist pitches for counselling in all stages of Covid-19 treatment||MADURAI: Psychological counselling is very important in the treatment of Covid-19, and it is important in all three stages, detection, during treatment and after discharge, as the disease takes its toll on the mental health of the patients badly, said leading psychologist and state nodal officer for police mental health, Dr C Ramasubramaniam. In this respect, he welcomed Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan’s decision to seek the help of psychiatrists to help treat Covid-19 patients right from the time when the disease outbreak was reported. As nodal officer for police wellbeing, his organisation, the MS Chellamuthu Trust, had helped 2,810 police personnel throughout the state with the help of 150 councillors. ``If there is any severe depression among the patients it is brought to my notice and we begin treatment directly,’’ he said. Similarly, the trust has also counselled 500 Covid-19 patients in Madurai including those who underwent treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital. He said that 60% to 70% of Covid-19-affected people were mentally affected, and were taken care of through counsellors. ``What we noticed was that 1% of these patients were severely depressed and suicidal, and we were able to rescue them through timely action,’’ he said. It is not just the patients but their families have also needed counselling. Immunity is important for preventing the disease, but it is a proven fact that stress and anxiety can lead to decreased brain immunity and consequently body immunity. There are people who are developing obsessive disorders, due to fear of death through the disease. Obsessive cleaning and fear of contamination are common problems which if not addressed properly could lead to serious mental health problems. Many who are reckless go into shock when they contract the disease. Even after a patient recovers there are cases, where the family accuses him for putting them at risk and also for their financial difficulties. Societal stigma is another problem. This is when counselling is very important, as otherwise the person who undergoes physical, sensory and emotional isolation, could become suicidal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/psychologist-pitches-for-counselling-in-all-stages-of-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/78324231.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra not to implement farm bills without legal review: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the recently passed farm bills would not be implemented in Maharashtra without a legal review. “We stand by the farmers and their demands. We will not implement anything that is not in their interest. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) opposes the bill and we will discuss it with Congress and Shiv Sena, the two allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government,” he told TOI. Pawar said the state was studying the legalities of the bills. He felt the bills were passed in a “hurry”. He said, “In Maharashtra, many farmers’ associations have hit the streets against the bills. An all-party meeting will be convened in the state to discuss the bills cleared by the Centre.” The NCP veteran said one has to understand why farmers across the country were protesting against the bills. “The current provisions in the legislation will not go down well with farmers and rob them of the minimum price guarantee mechanism,” Pawar said. State Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said his party would also oppose implementation of the bills. “Politics should be kept aside and the contentious bills should be opposed. Congress has reached out to Shiv Sena and NCP on the issue. Both the parties should join us in opposing the bills,” he said. Describing the bills as “anti-farmer”, Thorat said the Congress would on September 28 submit a letter to the governor opposing the legislation. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were passed by the Upper House through voice vote despite objection from the Opposition. In Maharashtra, several farmers’ associations have been staging protests against the farm bills and their agitation has been supported by the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Congress, NCP and the All India Kisan Sabha. In Kolhapur, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana’s Raju Shetti has burned a copy of the legislation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-not-to-implement-farm-bills-without-legal-review-ajit-pawar/articleshow/78324318.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 26, 2020||Goa||‘People criticise when they don’t get benefits’||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday lashed out at the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) for alleging that he failed to keep his promise of improving ease of doing business in the state, and that the government was making “life more miserable” for entrepreneurs. “People have the habit of criticising everything when they do not get benefits, and that is the trend,” Sawant said. “I will ask for a review by the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC).” After Goa’s rankings in the ease of doing business rankings slipped to 24 from 21, Sawant had promised to improve the business environment in the state. The association also led a scathing attack on the functioning of the GIDC, and said “corruption has scaled new heights” in the corporation. “Under-the-table rates are being fixed for every routine service,”GSIA president Damodar Kochkar had said. “They (GIDC) have even fixed their commission for allotment of new plots in various industrial estates.” “What happened to the chief minister’s promise about a meeting to improve ease of doing business in Goa? Like all other political assurances, this too seems to have been forgotten. It looks like the industry is also at the bottom of his priority list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/people-criticise-when-they-dont-get-benefits/articleshow/78325608.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||CM bats for more electric vehicles in Goa||PANAJI: The Union government has sanctioned 100 electric buses for the Kadamba Transport Corporation under Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) scheme. Reacting to this announcement made by Union minister for environment and forests, Prakash Javadekar, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that in next three years, most of the buses running in the state should be electric ones. Sawant said that statistics have shown that with the rise in the number of vehicles in the state, there’s been a rise in the air pollution level. “If pollution is to be reduced, it is necessary to move to electric buses and electric vehicles,” he said. Commenting on the lack of interest towards the tender floated by KTC for the purchase of electric vehicles, Sawant said that state government has to take a policy decision to introduce electric vehicles. Transport minister Mauvin Godinho said, “The first electric bus will arrive by November and we will be able to commission the first 25 buses by December or January. These are financed by the Centre so we don’t have to spend much on their purchase.” KTCL officials will be going to Hyderabad on September 28 for inspecting the first vehicle. “After we approve the design and structure, the bus will be ready by November-end, following which production will start. ,” KTCL general manager Sanjay Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-bats-for-more-electric-vehicles/articleshow/78325605.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Metro passenger count crosses 50,000 mark||Kolkata: Metro Railway on Friday clocked 50,740 ridership on the north-south corridor against 77,000 bookings. Another 128 people rode the East-West Metro, where e-passes are not required. The e-passes, downloaded from https://pathadisha.com/metro , help limit ridership to 400 at a time. In the pre-pandemic times, 3,000 passengers were allowed to board an eight-coach train on the north-south Metro at a time. The 8am-8pm timetable has been split into 12 slots for e-pass booking. Officials were happy that against 77,000 e-passes booked, 50,740 rode the Metro on Friday. When services resumed on September 14, 53,000 passes were booked though ridership was only 20,900. “The gap between the number of passes booked and the actual rides is narrowing and more genuine passengers are downloading the passes,” said Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state appointed to develop the “pathadisha Metro e-pass”. “We want to accommodate 1 lakh commuters daily, maintaining distancing. We will run six more trains on the north-south line from Monday and extend services from 7pm to 7.30pm as we realized many were unable to book slots towards the end of the day,” Metro Railway GM Manoj Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-passenger-count-crosses-50000-mark/articleshow/78324378.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 26, 2020||Pune||In Pune's Haveli tehsil, most villages now in grip of Covid||PUNE: Eighty five of the total 90 gram panchayat villages in Haveli tehsil now stand affected by Covid-19, showing the extent of the virus spread in rural Pune. Haveli is the biggest of the 13 tehsils in the Pune district and most of the affected villages are located close to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas. Excluding the urban areas, the Haveli tehsil has so far recorded 9,698 Covid-19 cases and 8,189 of these patients have recovered, while 1,302 are still under treatment. A total of 207 patients have succumbed to the virus in Haveli tehsil so far. “Increased public movement to and from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas has largely contributed to the surge in cases in the tehsil. But, the situation is gradually falling under control as some of the big gram panchayats, which had 100-150 active cases earlier, have just 40-50 patients now. We have made available adequate beds at our medical centres in the tehsil, which has a case fatality rate of 2.13%,” said Haveli’s block development officer Prashant Shirke. Haveli has big gram panchayats like Wagholi, Loni Kalbhor, Manjari Budruk, Uruli Kanchan and Loni Kand where population is in lakhs due to rapid urbanisation over the years. “We have set up Covid-19 swab collection centres and have been aggressively doing the testing for the last two months. Now, it is showing some positive results,” Shirke added. As per the tehsil records, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is 31 days. “Our current focus is to carry out aggressive testing and make available oxygen and ventilator beds to the critical patients” Shirke added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-haveli-tehsil-most-villages-now-in-grip-of-covid/articleshow/78324311.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 26, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 562 cases, central dists 591||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases continues to decline in the southern region as it reported 562 cases on Friday taking the tally to 1,08,807 cases, which include 5,650 active cases. The region also recorded five deaths pushing the toll to 1,823. Meanwhile, a day after registering a spike, cases dipped in the central region as it recorded 591 fresh cases taking the tally to 48,723, which include 5,280 active cases. The region also recorded five deaths taking the toll to 672. The highest number of Covid-19 cases in the south was reported in Kanyakumari (86), where the number of active cases remains at 895, just behind Tirunelveli (909), which has the highest number of active cases in the region. Tirunelveli district recorded 77 new cases, while Madurai saw 71 cases. Madurai still continues to have the highest number of overall cases in the region with 16,216 cases, which include 716 active cases. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Sivaganga (46), Tuticorin (46), Virudhunagar (42) and Ramanathapuram (17). Theni (481), Virudhunagar (337), Sivaganga (302), and Ramanathapuram (186) have less than 500 active cases in the region. The five Covid-19 deaths in the region were reported one each in Dindigul, Sivaganga, and Tenkasi, and two deaths in Madurai. With this, the toll in Madurai has climbed to 383, with a death rate of 2.4%, well above the state average. The Covid-19 death rate of the southern region is 1.7%. In the central region, the reason for the dip was the decline in the number of cases in Nagappattinam (35) and Pudukottai (66). However, cases in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Trichy continued to be above 100. Thanjavur recorded 150 cases followed by Tiruvarur (139). The district tally of Thanjavur is 10,181. With 107 cases on Friday, Trichy’s tally has climbed to 10,083 cases. The casualties were two each in Thanjavur and Pudukottai and one in Tiruvarur. As many as 42,771 people were discharged from various healthcare centres in the central districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-562-cases-central-dists-591/articleshow/78324286.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for impregnating minor girl near Pollachi||COIMBATORE: A 21-year-old man was arrested on Friday for raping and impregnating a minor girl near Pollachi. The Anaimalai police said the accused was a daily wage labourer. “A friend of the girl’s elder brother, he had befriended her. Eight months ago, he visited the girl’s house when she was alone and raped her. He then had physical relationship with her on several occasions,” an investigation officer said. A few days ago, the 17-year-old girl developed stomach pain and was taken to the government hospital in Pollachi, where she was admitted. “During check-up, doctors found she was seven months pregnant,” the officer said. The doctors informed the Anaimalai police, who received a complaint from the girl and registered a case against the rapist under Section 5 (l) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and arrested him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-impregnating-minor-girl/articleshow/78324284.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man, 34, booked for attacking dalit youth, using casteist slurs||COIMBATORE: Police booked a 34-year-old man on Friday for slapping a dalit youth and using casteist slurs on him at Pottikampalayam near Kundadam in Tirupur district. K Sathyamurthy of Pottikampalayam had attacked 21-year-old V Nandakumar of Pottikampalayam last Sunday, police sources said. “Nandakumar had been working as the driver of a goods autorickshaw owned by Sathyamurthy for the last three years. Last month, he quit his job on cordial terms and began working as a gardener at Navaneetha Krishnan Farm at Pottikampalayam. Sathyamurthy reached the farm on September 20 to confront Nandakumar. He scolded Nandakumar for quitting. Following a wordy quarrel, Sathyamurthy slapped Nandakumar and also abused him using his caste name,” a police officer said. Nandakumar filed an online complaint with the Tirupur district police, which was forwarded to the Kundadam police. Sathyamurthy was booked under sections 294 (b), 323, 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3(1) (r) (s), 3 (2) (V) of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Kundadam police inspector Vanithamani has launched an inquiry into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-34-booked-for-attacking-dalit-youth-using-casteist-slurs/articleshow/78324300.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Three booked for obstructing government servant’s work||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur district police registered a case against three people on Friday for not allowing a superintending engineer of the Tamil Nadu generation and distribution corporation limited (Tangedco)discharge her official duties at Eripalayam near Udumalpet. Police identified them as Vallinayagam of Teachers Colony at Rajapalayam, Muruganantham of Uralpatti in Udumalpet and Eswarasamy of Udumalpet. “Muruganantham had filed a petition under the right to information (RTI) Act after failing to get power connection to his farm land. After failing to get a reply, he visited the office of superintending engineer Tamilselvi last Tuesday along with the other two men and confronted her,” a police officer said. On Friday, Tamilselvi, who was accompanied by 40 Tangedco staff, reached the Udumalpet police station to lodge a complaint against the trio. They were booked under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-booked-for-obstructing-govt-servants-work/articleshow/78324326.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Avg wholesale onion price stabilizes at Rs3,200/quintal||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions at Lasalgaon APMC has stabilized at Rs 3,200 per quintal for the past three days. According to an APMC official, the average wholesale onion price is expected to be in the range between Rs 3,000 and Rs 3,200 per quintal for the next few days. “Currently, the onions coming to the market are summer onions harvested between March and April. There is no harvest for almost five-six months until the arrival of fresh kharif onions by mid-October. However, the incessant rains have damaged the kharif onions at large,” he said. Moreover, the farmers have already sold most of their stock and have limited produce in store right now. This has led to drop in arrival of onions, leading to rise in prices. At Lasalgaon, the average wholesale onion prices had increased from Rs 1,200 per quintal on August 28 to Rs 3,000 per quintal on September 14 due to drop in supply as compared to demand following damage to onion crops in South Indian states and Madhya Pradesh. The average wholesale onion price had crashed to Rs 1,900 per quintal in one day, on September 15, after the centre imposed a ban on export of the produce. Thereafter, the farmers had halted onion auction at all the APMCs in the district. The average wholesale onion price, owing to drop in supply, went up to Rs 3,800 per quintal on September 21. But of late the price have stabilized to Rs 3,200. On Friday too, the average wholesale onion price was recorded at Rs 3,200 per quintal. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,800 and Rs 4,200 per quintal, respectively. Around 6,500 quintal of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avg-wholesale-onion-price-stabilizes-at-rs3200/quintal/articleshow/78325606.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar nabbed with 20gm gold||Hyderabad: A man who had committed burglaries at Nacharam, Mallapur and Uppal areas was arrested on Thursday. The accused, M Samson, last night burgled a house near Apex hospital in Medipally. He was caught while trying to dispose stolen items. He confessed to having committed five similar offences. Police recovered 20 grams gold and 20 tolas of silver from his possession. A double cot, fridge and TV purchased using the money obtained from the sale of stolen property was also seized. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-nabbed-with-20gm-gold/articleshow/78324360.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 4.6 cr used for other purposes||Ahmedabad: Funds received for research and development by the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board were diverted for construction of office or even for installing lift in the office building, says CAG report. The CAG in its social section report observed that Rs 18 crore was received by GWSSB during 2013-18 for Research and Development. GWSSB reported an expenditure of Rs 15.9 crore. CAG observed that in five districts where checks were taken up, Rs 4.6 crore was utilized irregularly for works other than R&D. In Sabarkantha, Rs 37 lakh was used for installing a lift and even for painting the office building. Between 2016-18, Rs 22 lakh was used in Bharuch for renovation of division office. In Valsad between 2013 and 2018, Rs 1.5 crore was used on preparing a draft project report and a draft tender report for water supply schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-4-6-cr-used-for-other-purposes/articleshow/78324461.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Ban on onion export delays first CRT freight||Nashik: The ban on onion export has delayed the shipment of the first container from the container rail terminus (CRT) at Kherwadi of Niphad taluka in Nashik district. According to senior railway and Halcon officials, who are jointly working on starting the CRT from Kherwadi, their plan to get 45 containers for the first rake was almost on track, but it hit a hurdle after the export ban order by the Centre. “The railways decided to establish CRT at Kherwadi in August. A meeting was held with the stake holders as well as Halcon, which was to provide the first mile and last mile connectivity. It was planned to see at least one container moving out in September,” said an official from the Bhusawal division of the railways. About the plan to the ensure farmers, traders and industries benefit from the system, a senior officer from Halcon said he expects things to normalise soon for business to begin. Halcon is joint venture between the Hidusthan Aeronautics Limited and Container Corporation of India. It has air and sea cargo facility and Centre for Perishable Cargo for direct international air lifting from and to Nashik airport. “To begin with, we look at onion to help us get business and market here. Gradually, we will add banana, pomegranates, grapes and industrial goods. It is matter of time that we have the first rake starting from the facility,” the officer added. On why CRT would be preferred by exporters or transporters in the country, the officers said, “Once established, we will be able to start multi-modal transport for multi-commodity to get access to multiple ports using multiple shipping lines for exports. Multiple destinations for inland cargo services will be ensured to cut down on travel time of goods and also pollution on roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ban-on-onion-export-delays-first-crt-freight/articleshow/78325615.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||When SPB enthralled jawans||Udhagamandalam: Legendary playback singer SP Balasubrahmanyam’s last performance in the Nilgiris was in December 2013, when he motivated jawans undergoing training at the Madras Regimental Centre here with his live concert at the Wellington cantonment ground near Coonoor. “I have been longing for this kind of opportunity for nearly 50 years to sing for ‘real heroes’. I have sung numerous songs for reel heroes. Now, here, I am connecting myself with the service to the nation,” he said jawans then. “It is a great thing that our team, including S P Shailaja and Saran among others, received blessings from jawans, protectors of our nation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-spb-enthralled-jawans/articleshow/78325613.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Orissa HC seeks details of pending criminal cases against sitting & former MPs, MLAs||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court has issued a notice to the government seeking details of the criminal cases pending before courts across the state against both sitting and former MPs and MLAs. The HC issued the notice on Wednesday on a suo motu petition registered by the registrar (judicial) regarding special courts for MPs and MLAs in the state in pursuant to orders issued by the Supreme Court related to fast-track of the long- pending trial of lawmakers on September 16 and 17. Advocate General Ashok Kumar Parija accepted the notice on behalf of the state government. The HC expected the Advocate General to obtain instructions and file details of the criminal cases pending before different courts of all the districts of Odisha against sitting/former MPs and MLAs. The bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice BR Sarangi said, “The Registrar General of the high court shall also file an affidavit with regard to infrastructure, such as staff, building etc., provided for expeditious disposal of the criminal cases and ensure early completion of trial of such matters.” “He shall also mention the particulars of cases in which proceedings have been stayed by the superior court, this court or the court of sessions,” the bench further specified in its September 23 order, a copy of which was available on Friday. The HC posted the matter to October 19 for hearing along with the response from the state government.. On September 16, the Supreme Court had resolved to complete the criminal trials pending against sitting and former MPS and MLAs, which run to over 4000 across the country, in a time-bound manner. In an order published on September 17, the Supreme Court had asked the Chief Justices of high courts to come up with special benches for hearing long-pending criminal cases against politicians. According to the order, the Chief Justices of high courts were expected to come up with an action plan on the infrastructure and number of special courts required for exclusive trial of criminal politicians. The Supreme Court also expected the Chief Justices of high courts to submit their action plan based on the number of cases pending against MPs/MLAs in their respective states, the number of judges and their tenure, the number of cases assigned to them and the expected time of disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-seeks-details-of-pending-criminal-cases-against-sitting-former-mps-mlas/articleshow/78324373.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Repair roads with potholes in 8 days: Standing panel chief||Nashik: Standing committee chief Ganesh Gite on Thursday directed the civic administration to repair all the roads that are riddled with potholes within eight days. The directive was issued by Gite after the panel members complained about bad conditions of the roads in the city. Shiv Sena corporator Santosh Gaikwad had joined the General Body meeting of the NMC last week by sitting near a pothole. He had then raised the demand that the civic body should start repairing the roads in Satpur division that also housed an industrial estate of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). Around a fortnight back, mayor Satish Kulkarni had given an ultimatum of eight days to the civic officials concerned to repair the potholes, but nothing was done. The issue was again raised during the meeting of the standing committee on Thursday. The panel members asked the standing committee chairperson to take immediate steps for getting the roads repaired following which Gite issued the order. “We could not fill potholes due to bouts of heavy rainfall in the city for the past few days, but we have started the work now and potholes will be repaired shortly,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/repair-roads-with-potholes-in-8-days-standing-panel-chief/articleshow/78325612.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 26, 2020||Goa||First record of common krait with rare Leucism condition||Panaji: A first and rare case of Leucism in the venomous snake, common krait that genetically transformed it from its glossy blackish-blue or brownish- black hue to an unusual white colour has been reported from Goa. The dead specimen of this 129.7-cm long common krait, Bungarus caeruleus was found by the roadside in Porvorim nearly two years back (December 9, 2018). After a study for more than a year, Nitin Sawant, a herpetology researcher and assistant lecturer in Goa University and his project associate, Dikansh Parmar and Gangadhar Tambre confirmed its unique coloration as a case of Leucism. “This big-sized adult snake lacked melanin, a natural colouring agent. This is due to Leucism, an abnormal condition which makes the animals or their skin, hair, scales or feathers mostly white,” Sawant said. Leucism, as different from Albinism which also makes the eyes red or pink, doesn’t affect these organs. A few cases of albinistic snakes have been reported in Goa. The strictly nocturnal snake that eats other snakes was examined at the Goa University (GU) zoology department for its morphometric and taxonomic features. The finding was published recently in Herpetological Review, an international journal. “The unusual thing was that the black snake was completely white in colour. The white horizontal bands on its dorsal part towards the tail were not visible,” Parmar said. The study still continues in other aspects at GU campus. “At first sight, there may be only minor changes in some snakes and amphibians. But the scale count, pattern of scales and their size are key features for verification,” Sawant said. The snake’s or any wild animal’s colour is a natural camouflage for its survival. “But in this case, the Leucistic snake may have survived due to its nocturnal habits and less chances of encounters with humans and other diurnal species,” Parmar said. Researchers welcomed interest in herpetology in Goa. “This is a good sign, as it brings lesser known biodiversity into limelight,” Nirmal Kulkarni, a herpetologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-record-of-common-krait-with-rare-leucism-condition/articleshow/78325616.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 26, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers block Bengaluru highway in Mandya, traffic thrown out of gear||MANDYA/MYSURU: Led by activists of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), farmers on Friday from across Mandya descended on the Nalwadi Circle on the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway in Mandya district to protest the amendments passed to the farm bills by the Centre. The farmers also appealed to the state government against promulgating the proposed amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. The protesting farmers raised slogans against the state and central governments. However, owing to the protesters blocking traffic at the Nalwadi Circle, there was traffic pile-up on both sides of the highway, with vehicular traffic juddering to a halt for more than half-an-hour. Protests were also held at Srirangapatna, Maddur, Shivapura and Pandavapura taluks in Mandya district, with all agitators rising their voice against the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the state and Centre. The protesters warned of intensifying the agitation if the central government did not roll back the amendments to the farm bills. New labour laws draw flak In Mysuru, on the other hand, activists of the Joint Committee of Trade Union (JCTU) assembled at the deputy commissioner’s office to protest the passage of three labour laws that merge 25 previous legislations. The protesters cried foul over the manner in which the bills were pushed through the Rajya Sabha despite opposition parties and labour organisations voicing their apprehensions and reservations over the bills. The protesters said that the Centre must drop the following laws: Industrial Relations Code 2020, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 and Social Security Code, 2020 The protesters took exception with the laws being pushed through both houses of the Parliament without detailed deliberations. Moreover, they pointed out that the bills only considered the interests of the employers and not of the workers. The laws, they said, took away from workers any sense of security, thereby paving the way for more exploitation. “These laws will make the life of the labourers miserable,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-block-bengaluru-highway-in-mandya-traffic-thrown-out-of-gear/articleshow/78322654.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Cuttack||Orissa HC seeks details of pending criminal cases against sitting & former MPs, MLAs||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court has issued a notice to the government seeking details of the criminal cases pending before courts across the state against both sitting and former MPs and MLAs. The HC issued the notice on Wednesday on a suo motu petition registered by the registrar (judicial) regarding special courts for MPs and MLAs in the state in pursuant to orders issued by the Supreme Court related to fast-track of the long- pending trial of lawmakers on September 16 and 17. Advocate General Ashok Kumar Parija accepted the notice on behalf of the state government. The HC expected the Advocate General to obtain instructions and file details of the criminal cases pending before different courts of all the districts of Odisha against sitting/former MPs and MLAs. The bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice BR Sarangi said, “The Registrar General of the high court shall also file an affidavit with regard to infrastructure, such as staff, building etc., provided for expeditious disposal of the criminal cases and ensure early completion of trial of such matters.” “He shall also mention the particulars of cases in which proceedings have been stayed by the superior court, this court or the court of sessions,” the bench further specified in its September 23 order, a copy of which was available on Friday. The HC posted the matter to October 19 for hearing along with the response from the state government.. On September 16, the Supreme Court had resolved to complete the criminal trials pending against sitting and former MPS and MLAs, which run to over 4000 across the country, in a time-bound manner. In an order published on September 17, the Supreme Court had asked the Chief Justices of high courts to come up with special benches for hearing long-pending criminal cases against politicians. According to the order, the Chief Justices of high courts were expected to come up with an action plan on the infrastructure and number of special courts required for exclusive trial of criminal politicians. The Supreme Court also expected the Chief Justices of high courts to submit their action plan based on the number of cases pending against MPs/MLAs in their respective states, the number of judges and their tenure, the number of cases assigned to them and the expected time of disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/hc-seeks-details-of-pending-criminal-cases-against-sitting-former-mps-mlas/articleshow/78332274.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Create medical facilities for poor people on city’s outskirts: HC||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over poor people who couldn’t afford costly medical treatment, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed Maharashtra government to create medical facilities for them, preferably on the city’s outskirts. “The situation is becoming pathetic. In this background and keeping in view such future contingencies, time has come for the government to create all sorts of well-equipped medical and allied facilities, infrastructure and services under one roof,” a division bench comprising Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. “This is to save the life of a class of patients who can’t afford to have such services in private hospitals. Such requirements need to be made available at the government’s cost or at least at reasonable rates,” the bench added. While hearing suo motu PIL on TOI reports on beds shortage, where Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed as amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani, the judges made it clear that such facilities should be located in city’s outskirts, so that outstation patients don’t enter residential areas and can conveniently avail its benefit without disturbance of traffic congestion. “Nagpur is centrally located and well connected with facilities of transport and communication. The patients, not only from Vidarbha, but also from Madhya Pradesh and Chhatisgarh are availing benefits of medical facilities and services here.” While adding Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) representative Dr Anup Marar as a coordination committee member, the judges noted that admissions of Covid-19 patients in populated residential areas and their movements around, are some of the reasons for spread of virus. “The medical facilities and services in private hospitals are becoming a costly affair and those who can’t afford or fail to get timely berths, have to sacrifice lives or succumb to such inadequacies.” Regarding the proposed 1,000-bedded jumbo facility at Mankapur, the judges pointed out that after a pandemic, it’s likely to go waste. “Why should the possibility of augmenting or enhancing facilities at AIIMS, Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya, IGGMCH or GMCH be exploited. There is a proposal of IMA and Rotary Club in respect of Nagpur Nagarik Sahakari Rugnalaya and Mure Memorial Hospitals. We wanted the government and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to seriously consider this proposal and file an affidavit to that effect,” they said, while adjourning hearing till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/create-medical-facilities-for-poor-people-on-citys-outskirts-hc/articleshow/78324355.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Inebriated man in Jankipuram shoots self after tiff with wife on phone||LUCKNOW: A 32-year-old man shot himself with a country-made pistol outside his house following a tiff with his wife in Jankipuram on Friday. The incident was captured in a CCTV installed in the house. The deceased, Aslam Siddiqui, was an electrician and also owned e-rickshaws. Aslam lived in Sector 3 of Jankipuram with his children, Rehman (8) and Khushboo (6) and sister Sabina, while his wife Chandni (30) has been staying at her parents’ house in Gorakhpur since last December. Aslam’s father Sultan Siddiqui and mother Gulnaaz live in Lakhimpur Kheri. “Aslam was trying to coax his wife to return but she was reluctant. Due to this, Aslam used to remain depressed,” SHO, Jankipuram, Abhishek Tiwari said. In the CCTV footage, Aslam is seen holding a pistol and talking to his wife over the phone in an inebriated state outside his house. He is also heard telling his sister to go inside with the children. Police said as soon as the family members went inside, Aslam started abusing his wife on phone and before the neighbours could react, he fired at the windshield of his SUV and then shot himself on the chest. A police team reached the spot and rushed Aslam to KGMU’s Trauma Centre where doctors pronounced him dead. In February, Aslam was arrested after recovery of drugs from his possession but he later got bail. Police claimed that Aslam had affiliation to a political party currently in opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/inebriated-man-shoots-self-after-tiff-with-wife-on-phone/articleshow/78325617.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||‘Maths 1’ must subject in Class X for arts, commerce||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education had announced to schools earlier this year that from the academic year 2020-21 the option of ‘mathematics 2’ subject has been introduced for Class X students. The board had said that students who do not want to continue studying mathematics after Class X and those who do not want to pursue science stream after Class X can opt for ‘mathematics Level 2’. However, following the circular, the Board received a number of queries from institutions. The Goa Board following deliberations has now clarified that students who want to pursue arts or commerce stream with mathematics as a subject from Class XI will have to necessarily opt for ‘maths 1’ in Class X. “This office has been receiving queries, specifically whether by opting ‘Level 2’ students will be eligible to take admission in ITI course, polytechnic courses, commerce with mathematics, arts with mathematics. The matter has been examined by this office. It is clarified that students who do not want to pursue mathematics after Class X, may opt for ‘Level 2’,” Goa Board secretary Geraldina Mendes has said in a circular issued this week. The circular states that students who desire to pursue their studies in polytechnic courses after completion of Class X will have to necessarily opt for ‘Level 1’. “Students who desire to pursue ITI courses related to engineering subjects involving mathematics, after successful completion of Class X, will have to opt for ‘mathematics Level 1’, like science stream wherein physics, chemistry involves mathematics, besides mathematics being compulsory in Class XI. Students who desire to pursue arts and commerce with mathematics will have to opt for ‘mathematics Level 1’,” it has been clarified to schools. The Board had set a deadline of September 30 for schools to convey to it details of students who want to opt for ‘mathematics 2’ for the 2021 Class X board exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/maths-1-must-subject-in-class-x-for-arts-commerce/articleshow/78325611.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Water level in Mettur dam crosses 100ft, delta dists to get more water||SALEM: The water level in the Mettur dam crossed the 100ft for the first time in 102 days on Friday. Subsequently, the quantity of water released to the delta districts for irrigation purposes from the dam was increased to 20,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) from 18,000cusecs. Public Works Department (PWD) officials performed a special puja as the water level crossed the 100ft-mark for the 66th time in the dam’s 87-year-old history. According to them, the water level in the dam stood at 100.3ft on Friday evening. “The inflow is recorded at 35,000cusecs. We are also releasing 850cusecs water into the dam’s east and west bank canals for irrigation purposes in Salem, Namakkal and Erode districts,” said a PWD official. Last year, the official said, the water level in the dam had touched 100ft on August 13 and reached its full capacity of 120ft on September 7. After that, the water level in the dam was maintained above 100ft for nearly 308 days. This year, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had released water from the dam for irrigation purposes in delta districts on the traditional date of June 12, when the water level stood at 101.73ft. The water level, however, dipped below 100ft on June 16 as the inflow came down. Earlier, the dam had maintained water level above 100ft for nearly 427 days from August 4, 2005 to October 4, 2006. “After that, it was only in 2019-20 that the dam could maintain water above 100ft for a considerable long period,” the official said. He said the dam was likely to reach the full capacity of 120ft in the next few days. “For that to happen, catchment areas in Karnataka and the river pathways should receive continues rain.” AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP Chandrasekaran, PWD executive engineer Devarajan, assistant executive engineer Madhusudanan and other officials, among others, participated in the special puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-level-in-mettur-dam-crosses-100ft-delta-dists-to-get-more-water/articleshow/78324386.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Three Rajasthan natives land in police net with 755kg gutka||COIMBATORE: Three people were arrested for stocking around 755kg of banned tobacco products worth Rs 4 lakh for sales at a rental house at SIHS Colony near Singanallur here on Friday. The city police, who nabbed the trio with the help of the organized crime intelligence unit, have seized a car and two motorcycles from them. The Singanallur police identified the accused as V Dhalaram, 27, L Mullaram, 28, and B Mahendran, 25, all natives of Pali district in Rajasthan. A police officer said the three had taken the house at SIHS Colony on rent a few months ago. “They smuggled the tobacco products to the city from Bengaluru in a car and stocked them in the rental house in 30 gunny bags.” Sleuths attached to the organized crime intelligence unit, meanwhile, got a tip that the house was used to store banned tobacco products and alerted the Singanallur police. They jointly conducted raid at house and seized the tobacco products. The officer said the trio used to supply tobacco products to various shops in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-rajasthan-natives-land-in-police-net-with-755kg-gutka/articleshow/78324345.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nagpur||Event organisers seek end to restrictions on functions||NAGPUR: The wedding, events and exhibition organisers and allied service providers are tottering owing to Covid-19 induced curbs and claim to have suffered nearly Rs500 crore loss of business in the city driving thousands of families to financial distress. With no events allowed since March, the event management industry in the city that includes banquet halls, decoration, exhibitions and event managers has appealed to the government to allow relaxations in mass gatherings to revive the stalled sector. Representatives of the 14 associations including Nagpur Tent House Association, Nagpur Baggi, Tanga, Ghoda Chalak Malak Sangh, Vidarbha Generator Owners Association and Vidarbha LED Wall Association gathered at Samvidhan Square to raise their voice. They were demanding relief package for the industry and lifting the cap of 100 guests for any events. However, Sitabuldi police did not allow them to stage the protest. “Other sectors have been opened up with increase in relaxations but due to restriction on number of guests, we are not getting any business,” claimed president of the allied association Pankaj Gupta. Gupta added wedding service providers get bookings only for 60-90 days in a year. This year they did not get any business as the wedding season ended on July 1. November and December will see a few auspicious dates for such ceremonies, he said. Sachin R, one of the banquet hall owners, stated the limit of 100 persons for an event like a wedding was too low. “Wedding is one such event that attracts a large number of people,” he said. The associations met west Nagpur MLA and city Congress president Vikas Thakre with their demands. “All the associations are committed to follow the prescribed SOPs laid down by both central and state governments,” Gupta said. If proper relief is not given, it is likely people from 14 different trades would shut their shop for good, rendering thousands unemployed, the representatives said. “We request the government to increase the guest limit to 500 for the upcoming marriage season starting November. This will help people plan functions with clarity,” the representatives said and urged Thakre to raise their demands with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/event-organisers-seek-end-to-restrictions-on-functions/articleshow/78324472.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Cops drive home the safety message near Kasara, Ghoti||Nashik: The highway police, along with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), conducted a massive traffic awareness drive in the Kasara ghat section and on parts of the Mumbai-Agra highway under the Ghoti Traffic Aid Post (TAP) on Thursday. “The drive was undertaken on the instructions of additional director general (traffic) Bhushan Kumar as the highway is accident-prone,” said assistant police inspector Amol Valzade of the Ghoti TAP and superintendent of police (SP) Vijay Patil and SP Digambar Pradhan. The API said that motorists were sensitized about the drawbacks of lane-cutting, not using seat-belts or helmets and driving under the influence of alcohol. Officials of the NHAI, including project manager Rajesh Thakur, and officials and other senior officials of the highway police were present during the drive. “The Mumbai-Agra highway witnesses a heavy flow of vehicular traffic around the clock, thus increasing the chances of accidents. The Kasara ghat too witnesses many accidents. A total of 76 accidents were reported last year, but the number came down to 10 mainly because of the lockdown,” said Valzade. Valzade said that such drives will be conducted in the future as well. “A total of 19,000 motorists were fined for flouting traffic rules under the Ghoti TAP this year, which is the highest number in the last decade. This has also helped in reducing the rate of accidents,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-drive-home-the-safety-message-near-kasara-ghoti/articleshow/78325621.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter-state burglars held in Badangpet||Hyderabad: Meerpet police arrested two interstate house burglars, including a minor, in Badangpet are. Gold ornaments weighing 130 grams were recovered from their possession. The accused, Shaik Azhar from Dharga Road, Parbani in Maharastra along with the minor committed three burglaries this year alone in Meerpet limits. The minor offender was found involved in five similar crime from 2015 till last year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-burglars-held-in-badangpet/articleshow/78324447.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ex-Congress MLAs fancy their chances in MLC polls||HYDERABAD: Jockeying for the two graduates’ constituencies of the legislative council has intensified in Congress with former MLAs vying to bag the ticket. In all, 54 candidates from Congress have applied for the ticket to contest the two MLC seats falling vacant in March 2021. Twenty-nine candidates, including former minister G Chinna Reddy and ex-MLAs — Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy, SA Sampath Kumar, Kuna Srisailam Goud and Ram Mohan Reddy — have set their eyes on Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. Another 25 candidates, including former MLC Ramulu Naik, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan and TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, are seeking to contest from the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates’ constituency. Presently, the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat is held by the BJP and the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam by the TRS. The reason for the demand for the MLC seats going up is because of the victory of ex-MLA and senior Congress leader T Jeevan Reddy from Karimnagar-Medak-Adilabad-Nizamabad MLC constituency in March 2019. Jeevan Reddy had won by a majority of nearly 40,000 votes against the ruling TRS-supported candidate Chandrasekhar Goud. Also, TPCC working president A Revanth Reddy and former minister Komatireddy Venkat Reddy had won Lok Sabha elections in April/May 2019 after losing the assembly polls. “Several Congress leaders who had won assembly elections in 2014 had lost in December 2018 assembly polls. But, some of them won when they were again picked by the party high command to contest MLC and parliament elections,” said a senior leader. Vamshi Chand and Sampath said the elections to the graduates’ MLC constituency is a different ball game. Only qualified graduates and educated persons form the electorate in this election. There has been a lot of resentment among the government employees as the pay revision committee has been kept pending by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for more than two years. Students and unemployed are also upset with TRS. Teachers of private schools lost their jobs due to Covid-19 and the government did not help their cause, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-congress-mlas-fancy-their-chances-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/78324534.cms||Roushan Ali
September 26, 2020||Pune||Seven house break-ins in Pune's Kondhwa within a week||PUNE: Four persons sporting PPE kits struck at two flats, including one of a policewoman, of Shrikunj society near VIT College in Kondhwa this week but failed to find any valuables, while five more house break-ins were reported from Pratibha housing society near Iskcon temple in the same area since September 21. The burglars managed to flee with cash and valuables worth Rs25,000 from one of the five flats in Pratibha housing society, police said. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from the Kondhwa police said, “We suspect the involvement of the same gang in the seven burglaries because the modus operandi in all the cases is the same. Sharp weapons were used for breaking locks of safety and main doors for gaining access to the flats. The burglars also broke open the locks of cupboards. CCTV cameras have captured images of the same suspects in both the societies.” He said, “Large number of criminals and convicts involved in property offences have been released on emergency bail and parole because of the Covid-19 outbreak. We suspect that a gang of criminals involved in a series of burglaries have become active in Kondhwa and other parts of the city.” He said, “Witnesses have told the police that the four men wearing PPE kits had come in an Alto car to Shrikunj society. We are checking criminals on records, analysing footage of CCTV cameras and working on certain clues to establish the identity of the suspects.” Gaikwad said, “We have formed a team of detection branch for cracking the burglaries. We have intensified patrolling during day and night. We have started sensitising residents of housing societies to take care of their valuables, and ensure that security guards remain alert and CCTV cameras are working.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-house-break-ins-in-kondhwa-within-a-week/articleshow/78324405.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Caretaker held on charge of killing actor’s pet||PUNE: Ram Andre (48), the caretaker of former Bollywood actress Ayesha Jhulka’s bungalow at Tungarli in Lonavla, was arrested on Friday on the suspicion of killing one of her two pet dogs. Sub-inspector Baliram Sangle of the Lonavla city police said, “Based on the statements of the employees from the neighbouring bungalows and some articles seized from Ayesha’s bungalow, we arrested Andre. Post-mortem report had confirmed that the dog had died because of suffocation and not because of drowning. Our probe is on.” Sangle said Andre was produced before the Vadgaon Maval court in the afternoon. “The section enovked against him is bailable,” he said. Andre had called and informed Ayesha’s husband, Sameer Vashi, on September 13 that the pet dog — Rocky — had drowned in a water tank on the bungalow premises. A post-mortem, conducted the next day in Mumbai, revealed that the dog had died of suffocation and not because of drowning. On September 17, Ayesha had lodged an FIR against Andre for an offence under Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle or any animal) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/caretaker-held-on-charge-of-killing-actors-pet/articleshow/78324426.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Bainguinim plant appeal dismissed||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed an appeal filed by the Bainguinim Citizens’ Forum against the solid waste treatment facility being developed by the state government in the village. The Forum’s contention was that the project site is against the criteria laid down under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “As against the required distance of 200 to 500 metres from the habitation, in the present case, nearest habitation is only 35 metres away. Hospital is 239 metres away. School is 291 metres away,” the forum had stated. The NGT, however, while the dismissing the appeal has stated that the high court has issued direction for setting up the facility and that the state is bound by this obligation. NGT stated that all due processes were followed and that no fault was present in the environment clearance (EC) granted to the project. “The site in question was identified prior to 2006, as per applicable norms and land was acquired by the state accordingly, which was upheld by the court. The town and country planning was informed that buffer zone was to be maintained. Public hearing was duly held. There is nothing to show that any construction was pre existing when the site was selected,” the NGT has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-plant-appeal-dismissed/articleshow/78325623.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Carjackers flee with vehicle, cash after threatening driver||PUNE: Three men, who had hired a cab for Aurangabad, threatened its driver with sharp weapons and drove away with the four-wheeler after forcing the driver to encash his e-wallet amount of Rs10,000 at a fuel station in Wagholi on Wednesday. The driver, Kiran Kawade (32) of Urali Kanchan, lodged an FIR with the Lonikand police on Thursday evening. Assistant police inspector Keshav Wable said, “Around 7pm on Wednesday, one suspect contacted Kawade’s employer and booked a cab for Aurangabad, telling the vehicle owner to send the car to Wagholi. Kawade arrived and within half-an-hour, three men boarded and asked Kawade to make a halt near a housing society on Bakori Road to pick up two of their relatives.” The officer said upon reaching the spot, the trio threatened Kawade with sharp weapons and asked for his name. “When Kawade identified himself, the trio told him he was not the person they were looking for, but started demanding money. Kawade did not have cash on him, so they told him to contact his family and get the money transferred to his e-wallet.” Kawade then got his brother to transfer Rs10,000 . “After driving in Wagholi for a few hours, suspects stopped at a petrol pump and told Kawade to encash his e-wallet amount at the fuel station,” Wable said. The officer said after getting the cash, the suspects took Kawade’s cellphone and drove away in his car, abandoning the driver along the road. The police on Friday checked CCTV footage at the fuel station, howerver it was not clear, Wable added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/carjackers-flee-with-vehicle-cash-after-threatening-driver/articleshow/78324407.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 26, 2020||Goa||Tourism department teams to crack down on illegal trade in Goa||PANAJI: Once the draft rules for registrations of properties – villas, guest houses, flats - are finalised by the tourism department in October, dedicated department teams will start cracking down on illegal properties that haven’t legalised operations. Under the draft rules, registration has been made mandatory for all tourism-related trade activities in Goa, and even online aggregators who offer accommodation to tourists, have been brought under the ambit of the law. The window period to submit suggestions and objections to the draft rules closes by September end. Secretary, tourism J Ashok Kumar said once the rules are notified – which will be done in ten to fifteen days of October – an opportunity will be given to unregistered operators to register as per the new rules. “We have also simplified the process of registration for them. We are planning action against those who, even after being given an opportunity, fail to register,” said Kumar. Dedicated teams will examine each property on the ground and initiate action against those functioning illegally. “Besides, an on-the-spot option will be given to any erring operator to register,” he said, adding that action will be inevitable if any operator fails to register. Nilesh Shah, president of travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG), said many villas in the northern coastal belt of Goa are available for rent to tourists and guests without these accommodations being registered with the tourism department. “Many tourists choose to stay in a villa or a flat rather than booking a room in a hotel,” he said. Genuine operators – hotels among them - as a result, he said, face unfair competition but the government also loses revenue. The trade body has estimated that unaccounted inventory of rooms could be as high as 40%. The draft rules have been introduced following amendment to the Registration of Tourist Trade Act. Besides loss of revenue, the government is also unable to get correct data of tourists visiting the state as unregistered accommodations are left unaccounted for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-teams-to-crack-down-on-illegal-trade/articleshow/78325620.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops crack 2 year old case, arrest 2 for friend’s murder||Aurangabad: The MIDC Waluj police, who were working on a murder case lying undetected for the last two years, arrested the victim’s two friends on Thursday on the charges of bludgeoning him to death. MIDC Waluj police had come across a 27-year-old man’s dead body on the stretch between Ghanegaon to Nanded road on October 30, 2018. Later, he was identified as Bharat Alhad, a resident of Sirasgaon in Gangapur tehsil of the district. The deceased’s autopsy revealed that he was bludgeoned to death. This was followed by police sub-inspector VD Chaskar registering a case of murder against unidentified suspects. Inspector Madhukar Sawant, who led the team that detected the murder case, said that the suspects were on the run since the incident. Police presumed that the suspects might have fled to another city or town. However, the probe revealed suspects’ involvement, following which duos — identified as Amol Ghatole and Rakesh Choudhary — were rounded up from Ranjangaon in Pune. During the preliminary probe, they confessed that Alhad had purchased liquor on the day of the incident and that the trio sat in a deserted area for consuming liquor. It was while consuming liquor that Alhad began showering abuses for no reason. This resulted in a heated argument betwen the trio, followed by a brawl. The suspects confessed that it was in a fit of rage they picked up boulders lying there and smashed Alhad’s head and other body parts with it. Before they realized about their what had happened, he was already dead, they told police. , confessed the suspects. Sensing that this murder would result in to their arrest, duos fled from the spot and within days of the incident, even shifted to Ranjangaon MIDC and started working as labourers. The suspects were arrested on Thursday. Impressed by the detection, the team has been rewarded with Rs 15, 000 cash reward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-crack-2-year-old-case-arrest-2-for-friends-murder/articleshow/78325627.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||2.9 lakh vehicles illegally charged Rs 200 each||AHMEDABAD: The CAG has observed that RTO in the state between 2017 and 2019 collected Rs 200 each from 2.93 lakh vehicle owners for issuing smart cards after cancellation of hypothecation agreements. The CAG observed that the December 2016 directive of the ministry of road transport has stated that an additional fee of Rs 200 shall be charged except in the case of issue of fresh certification of registration after cancellation of hire purchase or lease or hypothecation agreement. However, in Gujarat, the CAG observed that the RTO department was charging Rs 200 for issuing smart card after cancellation of hypothecation. The CAG stated that on scrutiny of the data of 13 selected RTOs it was observed that in two financial years from 2017 to 2019 a total of 2.93 lakh vehicle owners had applied for updating smart cards and cancellations of hypothecation. The RTOs collected a fee of Rs 5.86 crore for issuance of new cards. The CAG stated that the non-mapping of provisions has resulted in the charges being collected. Moreover, it was also observed that in 4,104 vehicles in 12 RTO and ARTOs the number of seats had been entered as ranging from 14 to 999 though these vehicles did not have that many seats. Citing an example the report said that in Ahmedabad, Bharuch, Botad a car had a seating capacity of 14 to 999 while a three-wheeler goods vehicle which has only two-person seating capacity was sanctioned a seating capacity of 435 and 999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-9-lakh-vehicles-illegally-charged-rs-200-each/articleshow/78324516.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops arrest three, 20kg ganja seized||Hyderabad: Police on Friday nabbed three people for illegal possession of 20 kg ganja. The accused were identified as Shaik Samad Yakub Pasha, Tejavath Suresh and Mohammad Abdul Ajaz. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-three-20kg-ganja-seized/articleshow/78324509.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Congress readies party men for 2022 elections||PANAJI: The Congress convened a meeting of all the block presidents and convenors from the North Goa constituencies and urged them to gear up for the 2022 state assembly elections. State Congress president Girish Chodankar urged the party workers to live up to the expectations of the voters who are looking for a credible alternative to the BJP. Reconstitutions of the booth committees and the party’s social media team is also in the pipeline. The party has urged its block presidents to focus on local issues in order to earn the favour of voters. “Congress party cadre needs to live up to the expectations of the people to ensure that the corrupt and anti-people regime of BJP is pulled down completely in 2022,” said Congress president Girish Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-readies-partymen-for-2022-elections/articleshow/78325629.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Surat||Dramatic rescue of woman, teen trying to kill themselves||SURAT: A 30-year-old victim of domestic violence and a teenage boy facing parents’ opposition to his love affair were dramatically rescued after they attempted suicide by jumping into Tapi River in two separate incidents on Friday. The woman Kali Parghi, who lived in the slums in Utran and the boy Chetan Rathod were both saved in dramatic operations. While Parghi plunged into the river from railway bridge near Utran railway station at around 9am,, Chetan jumped the bridge in Amroli. Parghi, however, got stuck at the pillars of the bridge due to heavy water current in Tapi due to release of water from Ukai dam. A passer-by saw the woman struggling and informed the fire brigade. Fire officer of Mota Varachha fire station, Vijay Tiwari, said, “The woman was rescued with the help of ring buoy and ropes after a struggle of more than one hour. She was safely brought on the bridge.” But the matter didn’t end there and there was even more drama in store as the the woman escaped from the 108 ambulance called to take her to New Civil Hospital. “Within few minutes of putting her into the ambulance, the woman escaped from the spot,” Tiwari added. In the Amroli incident, Chetan jumped off the Savji Korat Bridge into the Tapi river. He, however, fell on the platform of the pillars beneath the bridge. A passer-by Kishore Lakhani spotted the boy who was was screaming for help. Lakhani contacted the fire brigade and he was rescued with the help of ring buoy and ropes. Chetan told the cops that he had jumped into the river to kill himself following his parents’ opposition to his love affair with a girl belonging to other caste. He was shifted to the New Civil Hospital for primary treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dramatic-rescue-of-woman-teen-trying-to-kill-themselves/articleshow/78322809.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Two gold chains worth Rs 1.5 lakh snatched at different spots||PUNE: Two gold chains totally worth Rs1.5 lakh were snatched in Kondhwa and Vishrantwadi on Thursday evening. In the first incident, bike-borne duo snatched a gold chain worth Rs90,000 from a 38-year-old woman near Talab masjid in Kondhwa around 6pm on Thursday. The woman in her complaint stated that she had stepped out of a jewellery store after purchasing silver ornaments and was about to cross the road when the two men on a motorcycle snatched her chain and fled. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from the Kondhwa police said, “The incident was captured on CCTV cameras. The motorcyclist wore a helmet, while the pillion rider donned a cap. The motorcycle lacked a registration number plate.” He said, “The woman raised an alarm, when a passer-by on a motorcycle chased the suspects, who managed to flee. They fled in the direction of Khadi Machine Chowk.” In the second incident, an unidentified man snatched a gold chain worth Rs60,000 from a 21-year-old woman near Vishrantwadi vegetable market around 6.45pm on Thursday. Sub-inspector Lahu Satpute from the Vishrantwadi police said, “The woman and her mother in-law were on their way home when a man came from the rear, snatched the former’s chain and fled in the direction of Dighi.” He said, “CCTV cameras in the area have captured his images. We are working on certain clues to establish his identity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-gold-chains-worth-rs-1-5-lakh-snatched-at-different-spots/articleshow/78324464.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kochi||Covid cases hit new-high of 6,477||Thiruvananthapuram: The state touched new-highs in daily Covid-19 cases, the number of testing and even in recoveries made, on Friday. In 24 hours, 56,057 samples were tested and 6,477 were confirmed with the virus while 3,481 recovered from the infection. There are 48,892 active cases in the state. While the total cases in the state have hit 1,60,933, the corresponding figure for September alone reads 85,548. Of the 636 reported to have died of Covid, 341 had succumbed this month. There were 22 deaths reported on Friday. Among the new cases, 6,221 were infected through contacts, including 80 healthcare workers and 10 coast guard personnel from Indian Naval Hospital Ship (INHS). The sources of infection are unknown in 713 cases. The deceased are George (69), Sadasivan (90) and Vavakunju (68) from Kollam; Karunakaran (85), A N Mukundan (57), Jasmine Zakir (39) and Cleetus (82) from Alappuzha; Jacob George (82), Akash (18), Manoj Stephen Thomas (57) & C J Joseph (65) from Kottayam; Muhammad Suneer (45), P P Davis (65) and Chandrasekharan (90) from Thrissur, Akbar Pasha (40) from Kozhikode, Sainuddin (58) from Malappuram; Rajesh (45), Kalamani (58), Vijayan (59), Thomas Cornelles (60) and Padmavathi (67) from Thiruvananthapuram, and Delbin (50) from Pathanamthitta. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of positive cases, 814, followed by Malappuram 784, Kozhikode 690, Ernakulam 655, Thrissur 607, Kollam 569, Alappuzha 551, Kannur and Palakkad 419 each, Kottayam 322, Kasaragod 268, Pathanamthitta 191, Idukki 114 and Wayanad 74. The cases infected through local spread was highest in Thiruvananthapuram, 794, followed by Malappuram 753, Kozhikode 676, Ernakulam 619, Thrissur 596, Kollam 552, Alappuzha 516, Palakkad 396, Kannur 353, Kottayam 320, Kasargod 251, Pathanamthitta 143, Idukki 97 and Wayanad 65. The healthcare workers who got infected are Kannur 19, Thiruvananthapuram 14, Ernakulam 9, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur & Kasaragod 6, Palakkad 5, and Alappuzha, Malappuram and Kozhikode 3 each. The capital also had the most recoveries in the day at 411, followed by Kollam 207, Pathanamthitta 120, Alappuzha 218, Kottayam 193, Idukki 69, Ernakulam 325, Thrissur 252, Palakkad 223, Malappuram 588, Kozhikode 472, Wayanad 79, Kannur 217 and Kasaragod 107. With 12 new areas demarcated as hotspots and 14 excluded from the list, there are 652 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-cases-hit-new-high-of-6477/articleshow/78322760.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Fisheries dept to step up patrolling along South coast||MARGAO: Following complaints by local fishermen that a number of vessels from Malpe in Karnataka have been found fishing close to the Goa coast using bull trawling and other methods, the fisheries department on Friday intensified its monitoring mechanism in the coastal waters. However, the department’s attempts at joint patrolling with the Captain of Ports and coastal police did not succeed owing to the rough sea conditions. To tide over the situation, the department is likely to use canoes to patrol the seas during the current rough weather. “We are monitoring the situation very closely. As the sea is very rough, we couldn’t go with our patrol vessels. However, fishermen from Colva have offered to assist us by providing their canoes, which may be used for patrolling,” director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro told TOI. Personnel of the fisheries department have been deployed at the Colva and Benaulim beaches to monitor any suspicious movement of fishing vessels. Traditional local fishermen voiced their disapproval over the failure of the department in reining in errant fishing trawlers from the neighbouring state from indulging in bull trawling and fishing by speed boats, which is banned. They are of the view that if such activities are allowed to go on unabated, it would, besides leading to destruction of marine resources, also affect their livelihoods. “The fish catch has already dwindled this season owing to which most of the ramponkars haven’t ventured into the seas so far. But allowing these vessels to resort to bull trawling and other means close to our coast will only destroy our livelihoods,” a ramponkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fisheries-dept-to-step-up-patrolling-along-south-coast/articleshow/78325625.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||Thieves steal CPUs from two ATMs||PUNE: Thieves struck at two ATMs in Dighi and Wadmukhwadi in separate incidents in the early hours of Thursday and stole their central processing units (CPUs). An officer from the Dighi police station said no cash was stolen from the two ATMs, which were unmanned. The two CPUs are worth Rs1 lakh, police said. Sachin Kalge (32) of Thergaon, assistant manager of an agency which manages ATMS of different banks in Pimpri Chinchwad, has lodged an FIR. The officer said the theft was discovered when the agency was alerted about the malfunctioning machines. “The prima facie probe suggests the involvement of people aware of the of the ATMS. He said that the suspects entered two the kiosks — at Maulinagar in Dighi and Vadmukhwadi in Charholi. “By using a duplicate key, they opened the cash dispensing machines and removed the CPUs,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-steal-cpus-from-two-atms/articleshow/78324490.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bhopal||E-exhibition on rock art a bridge between past & present||Bhopal: Stone art has always fascinated the art aficionados. Keeping this in view, IGRMS has put together a weeklong exhibition, Rock Art- A Shared Heritage, that is being streamed online. Speaking about this event, Dr Praveen Kumar Mishra, Director, IGRMS said, “Rock paintings, also called Petroglyphs, attract a vast range of audience as they allow you to converse with your past.” Garima Anand Dubey, the museum associate, said, “In the introductory gallery of IGRMS - photographs, some fibre cast models of rock art, stone tools and scull cap replica have been displayed.” Visitors get a virtual tour of 10 caves, to get up close with rock paintings of Mesolithic age. Staying away from real cultural events for months due to Covid-19 pandemic, this online exhibition has now evoked hunger to be close to such beautiful objects again, in many. Suvarna Gupta, a counsellor, said, “I’m proud of this heritage. For now I’m happy to watch the exhibition online, but I will make a pilgrimage to IGRMS as soon as visitors are allowed there for such events.” There are others, who find immense joy in collecting all things beautiful. For them, such exhibitions are unique moments to be cherished. Art connoisseur Mamta Agrawal, who belongs to this cadre, said, “Covid season has caused loneliness and stress. I feel such endeavours give people opportunity to find something beautiful to admire. I want my granddaughter Shriya to take inspiration from such tours before I can take her along with me to an exhibition, when pandemic is over. Thing of beauty, after all, is a joy forever.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/e-exhibition-on-rock-art-a-bridge-between-past-present/articleshow/78318473.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
September 26, 2020||Goa||Panels to approve subsidies for micro food processing||PANAJI: Moving ahead with the strategy to develop the micro food processing sector in Goa, the state government has constituted committees at the state and district level to approve subsidies for micro food processing enterprises. The industries department has also asked Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to prepare a project implementation plan and hand-hold micro food processing units. Meanwhile, Goa Institute of Public Administration & Rural Development (GIPARD) will conduct a baseline study in the state to identify viable products for the micro food processing sector under the ‘One District, One Product’ initiative of the Centre. As part of the Rs 10,000-crore PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM-FME), the Centre has adopted a one-district, one-product cluster approach. States have to identify food products for each district keeping in view the existing clusters and availability of raw materials. Under the scheme, credit-linked capital subsidy will be offered to self-help groups and farmers to set up food processing units or upgrade existing facilities. The two district-level committees in Goa will be responsible for approving applications for loan and subsidy to individual micro enterprises. The district level committees will also recommend applications for common infrastructures. The state-level approval committee (SLAC) for the PM-FME, which is chaired by the chief secretary will ensure effective implementation of the scheme. The SLAC will also be the approving body for surveys, capacity-building activities, clearing of subsidy proposals and allotment of seed capital to the applicants, stated under secretary for industries Fatima De Souza. Finance secretary, agriculture secretary, industries secretary and fisheries secretary are also members on the SLAC. The SLAC will have power to sanction project expenditure up to Rs 10 lakh on various activities. ICAR will preparing the project implementation plan and providing inputs for capacity building and research. In a notification, De Souza has stated said that ICAR will also provide inputs for branding and marketing of the identified product and provide mentoring support and hand-hold micro enterprises during the preparation of the detailed project reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panels-to-approve-subsidies-for-micro-food-processing/articleshow/78325640.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 26, 2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar directs officials to put Metro on fast track||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation to expedite work and ensure the Metro’s timely completion. On Friday, Pawar reviewed the underground work at the agriculture college depot and visited the sites where the Metro will integrate with the railway, city and state transport services. MahaMetro officials said the deputy CM also reviewed the proposed extension of the Vanaz-Ramwadi line till Chandni Chowk and Wagholi, which are likely to be taken up in the second phase. The civic administration has already commissioned detailed project reports both extensions. Pawar later visited the sites of depots at the agriculture college and Vanaz. He also inspected tunnelling work. ‘43% work in both corridors completed’ About 43% work has been completed so far on both Metro corridors — PCMC-Swargate and Vanaz-Ramwadi. Two tunnel-boring machines (TBMs) have been pressed into action. Of these, one TBM has excavated about 1.5km, while the other has dug about 1.3km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-directs-officials-to-put-metro-on-fast-track/articleshow/78324528.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad SP’s SOP to track missing children to be implemented across Maha||Aurangabad: Terming it to be the most effective mechanism for tracking missing women and children, Maharashtra police is all set to implement Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan’s designed standard operating procedure (SOP) comprising 72-column pro forma across the state. A senior police officer from the DGP office said that the decision to implement this SOP across the state was taken during the last crime review meeting, however, the pandemic has delayed its implementation by a few months. Already, considering the effectiveness of the SOP, a paper on missing and human trafficking work by Roushan was accepted in 47th All India Police Science Congress – 2019. The SOP designed by the young IPS officer, who is an IIT alumni, also includes hunting down the human trafficking networks as well as searching all the possible red light areas to find out every missing women or child. The officer has even provided some open source application tools clubbed with discreet tools to give them an advantage over the human traffickers. As per the national crime records bureau, each year Maharashtra reports highest number of missing children and women, a majority of whom end up in brothels situated in Delhi, Mumbai, Agra, Kolkata, Haryana and Punjab. Roushan told TOI, “Sensitising the policemen that even missing cases are as serious as murder, rape and dacoity is the key to effective implementation of the devised investigation mechanism in cases involving women and children.” The officer said that after being posted as additional superintendent of police Vasai-Virar of Palghar district in the year 2017, the then Konkan range’s inspector general of police Naval Bajaj tasked him to find out a solution to the ever-increasing number of missing women and children. As per the investigation process devised by him, a dedicated special squad should be formed at the police station level. “In each of the missing case, a 72 column proforma that covers all the possible aspects including mental, financial, psychological, social, personal, educational, physical details of the missing women or kid,” said Roushan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-sps-sop-to-track-missing-children-to-be-implemented-across-maha/articleshow/78325631.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 26, 2020||Kochi||Kozhikode sees hike in Covid positivity rate||KOZHIKODE: Positivity rate of active Covid-19 cases has registered a hike in the district forcing the administration to tighten restrictions. Briefing the media, minister A K Saseendran said the district has witnessed 2% growth in the positivity rate over the past two weeks. The minister said a total of 5,000 beds were kept ready and the number would be increased to 7,000 by month end. District collector Sambasiva Rao said that there was also an increase in symptomatic cases in Kozhikode. This will result in a rush in the first-line treatment centres and Covid-19 hospitals. It has been noted that the Covid-19 spread is increasing in areas such as harbours, markets and places where people gather more. A total of 32 rapid response teams (RRTs) have been formed to monitor these areas. Police would conduct searches in the entry and exit points in these areas, he said. The number of persons allowed in these areas will be decided by the respective RRTs. District medical officer Dr V Jayasree said asymptomatic patients could opt for isolation facilities at their houses themselves. There should be telephone, vehicle and other facilities at the house and ward-level RRTs should be informed about availing the home isolation facility. Meanwhile, a meeting convened mayor Thottathil Raveendran has decided to reconstitute the ward-level RRTs. As many as 690 people tested positive in the district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kozhikode-sees-hike-in-covid-positivity-rate/articleshow/78322778.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode sees hike in Covid positivity rate||KOZHIKODE: Positivity rate of active Covid-19 cases has registered a hike in the district forcing the administration to tighten restrictions. Briefing the media, minister A K Saseendran said the district has witnessed 2% growth in the positivity rate over the past two weeks. The minister said a total of 5,000 beds were kept ready and the number would be increased to 7,000 by month end. District collector Sambasiva Rao said that there was also an increase in symptomatic cases in Kozhikode. This will result in a rush in the first-line treatment centres and Covid-19 hospitals. It has been noted that the Covid-19 spread is increasing in areas such as harbours, markets and places where people gather more. A total of 32 rapid response teams (RRTs) have been formed to monitor these areas. Police would conduct searches in the entry and exit points in these areas, he said. The number of persons allowed in these areas will be decided by the respective RRTs. District medical officer Dr V Jayasree said asymptomatic patients could opt for isolation facilities at their houses themselves. There should be telephone, vehicle and other facilities at the house and ward-level RRTs should be informed about availing the home isolation facility. Meanwhile, a meeting convened mayor Thottathil Raveendran has decided to reconstitute the ward-level RRTs. As many as 690 people tested positive in the district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kozhikode-sees-hike-in-covid-positivity-rate/articleshow/78329960.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||Scrutinise claims for higher pension: EPFO to field offices||PANAJI: The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has warned regional provident fund commissioners not to agree to claims for higher pension and then subsequently challenge the same claims in court. It has asked its field and zonal offices to carefully scrutinise all claims for higher pension while also “effectively defending” petitions filed by EPFO subscribers before the respective high courts. Failure to follow the latest EPFO diktats will “invite appropriate administrative action” against regional PF commissioners, the instructions said. “A number of instances are noticed where field offices have first issued an affirmation of petitioners’ eligibility for higher pension and subsequently contested it in courts,” said additional central commissioner Jagmohan in a circular to all regional offices. “It must be kept in mind that once affirmation of a legal right is made, it becomes difficult to contest it subsequently. It is therefore directed that issue of any such statement or affirmation should he strictly avoided. Whenever issue of such a statement is a legal necessity, the same shall be issued with the prior approval of the zonal additional central commissioner.” The latest instructions pertain to claims raised by retiring employees who feel that they are entitled to 8.33% of their actual salary in pension irrespective of the ceiling of Rs 6,500 per month introduced in 2001. Several pensioners have challenged the payout made by the EPFO and have also filed writ petitions seeking higher pension. “The claims for higher pensions must be scrutinised carefully. Such writ petitions must be defended effectively. These matters must be defended with utmost seriousness under personal supervision,” the EPFO circular said. Regional and zonal PF commissioners have been asked to inform the EPFO headquarters immediately in case of an adverse judgement. “Compliance of instructions to the above effect shall be personally monitored by the zonal additional central commissioners and regional PF commissioners. Any deviation will be fully attributable to them and would invite appropriate administrative action,” said Jagmohan. All field and regional offices of the EPFO have been asked to submit a compliance report within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scrutinise-claims-for-higher-pension-epfo-to-field-offices/articleshow/78325694.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Delhi||DDA razes shanties on floodplain, hundreds left with nowhere to go||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday demolished illegal slums built on the Yamuna floodplain at the edge of Batla House dhobi ghat in Okhla. Nearly a thousand slum dwellers became homeless after bulldozers and earthmovers cleared over 2.5 acres of encroached land on the directions of National Green Tribunal. Surrounded by thick wild grass, the JJ colony came into being over 15 years ago when slum dwellers from opposite Jamia metro station congregated there. “It took us Rs 25,000 to erect this structure. We removed the wild grass and covered the swamp with concrete. But now, everything is gone,” said Akhtari, a domestic worker. Akhtari’s husband, a painter, lost his means of livelihood because of the pandemic. “The government has for long been telling us to stay indoors if we want to stay safe. Where are we supposed to go now?” she asked. She wasn’t home when her shanty was demolished. Her three children, the youngest being two-year-old Zainab, were inside the house when it crumbled against the weight of heavy machinery. “I managed to get my sister out. When my mother returned in the evening, we tried to retrieve some of our stuff, but everything was damaged,” said Akhtari’s eldest son, 11-year-old Tahseer. The residents claimed they weren’t given any notice about the demolition, which was denied by DDA. Officials of the land-owning agency said NGT had given them the order to free the Yamuna floodplain of all encroachments. “The land has well-demarcated boundaries in the form of bollards and walls. Despite this, the land was encroached upon and the jhuggis were built,” said an official. The matter was brought to the notice of DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain and discussed in detail in the last STF meeting. “We had given the slum dwellers repeated notices in the last five months. We cleared the encroachment with the help of a Delhi Police team headed by joint commissioner Devesh Srivastava,” said the official. Traces of the previous lives of the jhuggi dwellers were still visible, buried under the debris. Mattresses lay strewn amid the rubble, utensils were covered in dust, and tarpaulin sheets earlier used as roofs were spread on the ground for people to sit. There was no water and no means to cook. “The neighbourhood stepped up to provide us food and drinking water. But we have no roof over our head and it’s impossible to move elsewhere,” said Mohammad Munna, who transports furniture in his pushcart. For Munna, a native of Bihar, finding a new place for his family of five is impossible. The 34-year-old doesn’t have any relatives in Delhi and cannot afford to rent a place. With no rehabilitation plan by the government, he is scared of being pushed to destitution. “We asked around for rooms in the colony, but the minimum rent was Rs 5,000. We are daily wagers. We don’t have savings and cannot afford such high rent,” he said. The women were worried about lack of sanitation facilities as DDA had also pulled down the toilets constructed at the edge of the colony. “We have young girls who have been deprived of basic facilities,” said 35-year-old Akbari. Some people were also injured in the process. Iqrar Hussain had gone inside his house to fetch some papers when the walls were knocked down. A mirror fell on his left foot, resulting in a deep gash. “We had been living here for over a decade, but our lives were demolished within seconds. We have been told to clear our belongings, otherwise they will also be snatched away. Let them take everything. We don’t have anything else to live for anyway,” said the 54-year-old man. As the families tried to recover papers and valuables, they only came across carcasses of hens and goats buried under the rubble. “We kept them to consume and sell eggs for additional income. Since they were tied down, they couldn’t escape,” said 18-year-old Shahzadi, adding that their fate hangs in balance. Watch Delhi: DDA demolishes encroachment on Yamuna Flood Plains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-razes-shanties-on-floodplain-hundreds-left-with-nowhere-to-go/articleshow/78325763.cms||Anam Ajmal
September 26, 2020||Pune||Cash-strapped PMPML seeks urgent financial aid||PUNE: The city transport body on Friday made a dire prediction — it will fold up if it doesn’t get financial help soon. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has asked Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation for financial aid, claiming that it has no money even to buy fuel. Senior PMPML officials said this has been the worst year financially since 2007, when the transport body was formed. One official said there was no financial assistance from either civic body since the pandemic came into force, even though buses ran for essential services. PMC and PCMC are to bear operational losses incurred by PMPML on a 60:40 basis. “PMPML is owed more than Rs90 crore. We have a large fleet of CNG buses and depend on Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited, which is owed more than Rs40 crore. MNGL has warned it will snap supply if dues aren’t paid,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap said.  “Our survival has become a problem now. PMPML has no money to buy fuel and pay its staff,” Jagtap said. PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole told TOI that it was crucial for PMPML to be given aid. “It is the legal and moral responsibility of both corporations and the state government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cash-strapped-pmpml-seeks-urgent-financial-aid/articleshow/78324506.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 26, 2020||Goa||No takers: Government invites bidders to set up cyber forensic lab for third time||PANAJI: With no private bidders interested in setting up a cyber forensic lab-cum-training centre, the state government has invited bidders again — for the third time in two years. With a poor track record of solving cybercrimes, Goa police is making yet another attempt to get the proposed project off the ground. Last year, two tenders were floated by the state government, but they didn’t receive any bids. Later, the state government decided to set up the lab through a public sector undertaking (PSU). A senior officer said that since the police were not getting what they wanted from the PSU, they decided to float a fresh tender to set up the lab. The last date for submission of the tender document is September 29, and they will be open the next day. The officer said that if they fail to attract bidders, the submission date would be extended. Currently, the crime branch has a small lab set up under corporate social responsibility (CSR). An alarming 80% of all cyber crimes reported in the state have remained unsolved due to lack of infrastructure and cyber experts. The lab is expected to be set up under the cybercrime prevention against women and children (CCPWC) scheme, and may go a long way in helping Goa police solve the many pending cases by identifying or locating the accused. The Centre has approved Rs 1.4 crore for Goa police to set up the cyber lab. Investigations into cybercrimes, including financial crimes, require computer skills, mainly for on-site imaging and on-site analysis and tracking of leads. However, the lack of skilled manpower is a major problem. In December 2013, the state government had granted permission to set up a cybercrime cell in the state, and to recruit technical persons for the same. A year later, the same was operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-takers-govt-invites-bidders-to-set-up-cyber-forensic-lab-for-third-time/articleshow/78325674.cms||Murari Shetye
September 26, 2020||Vijayawada||FM meets Sitharaman, seeks release of funds||Vijayawada: In less than 24 hours of chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy’s two-day stay in the national capital, finance minister Buggana Rajendranath held separate meetings with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur. Buggana requested his counterparts at the Centre to release pending funds to the state, including balance funds for Polavaram project, devolution of funds under GST, funds promised for the seven backward districts, funds for Ramayapatnam port, Kadapa steel plant, Visakhapatnam-Chennai industrial corridor and others, besides extending industrial incentives. He also appraised the Union finance minister and her junior colleague about the impact of Covid-19 on the state exchequer. Jagan was initially scheduled to meet Sitharaman and give a representation seeking early release of pending funds. However, the meeting could not happen as he had to meet home minister Amit Shah for a second time during his stay in Delhi and deputed Buggana to complete the unfinished task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fm-meets-sitharaman-seeks-release-of-funds/articleshow/78303719.cms||Gopi Dara
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Over 29,000 deaths can be avoided if FP methods are adopted||LUCKNOW: The life of 3,777 women and 25,766 babies can be saved in Uttar Pradesh every year if eligible couples start adopting available family planning methods, according to an assessment of the family planning situation in the state. Citing data ahead of the World Contraception Day on Saturday, officials at National Health Mission, UP office, stated that 32% of maternal deaths and 10% of infant deaths can be averted if families adopt family planning methods which translate into saving of over 29,000 lives. It may be noted that an estimated 11,804 maternal deaths and 2.57 lakh infant deaths are reported in the state each year. Of them over 29,000 lives can be saved by adopting available family planning methods. About 3.98 crore persons in UP belong to the eligible couple category in terms of family planning activities. But there remains an 18.1% gap in providing the basket of choices which means that the system is not able to reach out to over 72 lakh persons. General manager, family planning, National Health Mission, UP, Dr Alpana Sharma stated that the number of lives saved will surely be more than 29,000 a year. “The estimate is based on the number of cases which are recorded in the system. However, a good number of lives lost are missed out as women head to the private sector besides falling in the trap of faith healers and quacks,” she said. Experts stated that unintended pregnancies were at the root of loss of maternal and infant lives. “Every second pregnancy in UP belongs to the unintended category. Over 31% women adopt abortion to end the unwanted pregnancy which underscores the need to improve abortion facilities,” they said. When contacted, additional mission director, NHM, Heera Lal said: “The state government is working hard to prioritise family planning. The current strategy includes focus on vulnerable populations such as migrant, young couples, adolescents and low income families, sensitizing self-help groups and community structures for behaviour change efforts.” The strategy also includes building the capacity of frontline workers for counseling and also strengthening the relationship between field staff like ASHAs and ANMs with panchayati raj institution, roping in the private sector. In addition to this the government is launching the 'Zaruri hai Bat Karna' campaign to increase awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-29000-deaths-can-be-avoided-if-fp-methods-are-adopted/articleshow/78325676.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 26, 2020||Goa||No hearing of mining case in apex court||PANAJI: The mining case, which could decide on the resumption of sector in the state, did not come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Friday, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. During the last hearing the case was adjourned as the formal order was not passed by the Chief Justice of India on the application moved by the state government to tag the states’ review petition along with the mining companies’ special leave petition (SLP). Twenty-six village panchayats from the state have approached the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the apex court had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire mining industry to a halt. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the high court dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-hearing-of-mining-case-in-apex-court/articleshow/78325677.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad city police to review work output of personnel||Aurangabad: The city police will soon start checking the actual working hours of the personnel across the hierarchy in a bid to ensure optimum work is done during duty period. “Before we crib about manpower crunch, I feel we should find out, if the existing policemen are working and performing as per their potential. And if they are not, then we should ensure that they do,” said police commissioner Nikhil Gupta, who recently took charge. Gupta has ordered for the accounting of man hours of every policeman in the unit. Senior police officers believe that this is for the first time anywhere in the state that an entire police unit’s man hours will be calculated. To begin with, Gupta has issued directives to all the officers heading police stations as well as various branches, including crime branch, special branch, traffic branch, economic offence wing, cyber crime branch, asking them to review every policeman, his or her effectiveness, output, and contribution to the policing in their current role. “Right from the commissioner of police to the last constable in the force is accountable. Basically, the idea behind accounting man hours is to ensure that every policemen works to the best of his or her capabilities for the given duty hours, without wasting time,” he said. Following the review, the officer plans to focus on increasing output from every individual policeman. “There are certain branches, where the policemen are done with their duties within three to four hours. We want their remaining duty hours to be utilized for effective policing,” said Gupta. The officer added that he wanted the personnel to also enjoy their weekly offs and other leaves with family and friends. As per the plans, authorities plan to utilize some management formulae in addition to the existing mechanisms available within the police department for strictly monitoring of the work done by every policeman. It will mandatory for the police sub-inspector and above rank officers to punctually record their work in the weekly diaries, while their subordinates’ contribution too would be taken on record in similar fashion. A senior police officer citing instructions from CP, said, “We have been asked to ensure that not a single policeman is left out from the review process. Once the system is in place, seniors will look in to these records on periodical basis and review them.” Senior officials said that the biggest question in the mind of the personnel is how frequently the assessments would be carried out to ascertain their contribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-police-to-review-work-output-of-personnel/articleshow/78325675.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Duo rob two at gunpoint in space of 2 hours in Vastrapur||AHMEDABAD: A pair of robbers seem to have had a free run in the tony Vastrapur area even as city police seem pre-occupied with their drive penalizing people at eateries for not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing. Two men on a scooter robbed two men at gunpoint in separate incidents, barely 2.3km apart, in the wee hours of Friday. A 27-year-old electrician from Gurukul, Dipan Patel, was robbed at gunpoint of valuables and cash worth a total of Rs 17,000 near Thaltej Crossroads by two men on a scooter. In his FIR, Patel, a resident of Bhagwati Apartments in Gurukul, said he had gone to a cafe on SG Road for refreshments on Thursday night. “I was riding my motorcycle from Pakwan Crossroads to Thaltej Crossroads on the service lane at around 2.15am. When I was near the statue of Lord Shankar (near the crematorium), I saw two suspicious men on a scooter. I parked my motorcycle near a cafe and they went past me, took a U-turn and then stopped their vehicle in front of mine,” Patel stated in the FIR. The man riding pillion then pointed a country-made pistol at me. “He told me to hand over whatever I have. I first gave them Rs 2,000 cash and they asked for my mobile phone which I also gave to them,” said Patel. They then checked Patel’s bag, found a power bank and took it. Patel said both of them were around 22 years old. Police officers said the duo then went to Vastrapur lake, where at about 4.15am they robbed a 25-year-old resident of Gota. The victim, Prabhukumar Yadav, who is originally from Ramgadh district of Jharkhand lives in Veer Savarkar Society and works for a private firm. He was robbed when he was sitting on the footpath with a colleague near a mall at Vastrapur lake. “I left office at 3.30am on Friday and as my colleague did not have her vehicle, offered to drop her to Thaltej. We decided to have a snack near Vastrapur lake. We found no shops were open, so we went near a mall at Vastrapur lake and were sitting on the footpath when two men on a scooter accosted us,” he said. “They told me to give them whatever we had. I first gave them about Rs 500 and they demanded our phones. I gave them mine and as my colleague began crying, they took my bag which had phone accessories and fled,” stated Yadav in his FIR. His colleague then called the police. Vastrapur police registered two cases of robbery and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/duo-rob-two-at-gunpoint-in-space-of-2-hours-in-vastrapur/articleshow/78324543.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Pune||No business for cabbies with most offices and all religious places shut in Pune||PUNE: Six months ago, Dattatrey Lakade’s three cars criss-crossed the city roads working for cab aggregators Ola and Uber. Then Covid cases started to rise. The lockdown was clamped, and his cars went off the roads. Lakade was forced to take up the job of a security guard at night to continue paying for the EMIs of his cars, while his wife took to selling vegetables to make ends meet. “I drive for Ola and Uber as well as use my cars as private cabs. There has been no business for the past few months. Now, I get only one or two trips daily. Since the last two months, I have been working as a security guard from 8pm to 8am. My wife has been selling vegetables for the past four months,” said Lakade, a resident of Pashan. Lakade’s predicament is shared by many cab drivers who have been forced to take up odd jobs. Their businesses have remained in the dumps even after the system of e-passes was withdrawn. “I used to drive for Ola and Uber, but now sell fruits and vegetables in my car. Following the unlock, I operated the cab for a fortnight but gave up,” said a Fatimanagar resident. Guru Katti, president, Swarajya Vahan Chalak Sanghatna, an association of cab drivers, told TOI that out of around 1.25 lakh cabs in Pune district, only around 20,000 are currently operational. “Earlier, many companies would rent cabs for their employees, but now most offices are either closed or have allowed a minimum number of employees to report for duty. The private on-call cabs are doing some business as people are booking them to visit tourist places. But religious places are still shut, impacting our business,” he said. Colonel Charanjeet Bhogal (retired), chief operating officer, Hinjewadi Industries Association, confirmed that cabs were not getting much business. “Less than 15% of IT employees are coming for work,” he said. A source in Ola said, “Though we don’t have any predictors, our recovery rate in Pune is around 50% when compared to the pre-Covid times. Around 80% of our drivers are active.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-business-for-cabbies-with-most-offices-and-all-religious-places-shut/articleshow/78324550.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 26, 2020||Pune||Push to crucial Chandni Chowk flyover project||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday told officials to speed up the work of Chandni chowk flyover, stressing that the state government would provide funds for land acquisition. He told the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the revenue department to complete the land acquisition on priority to prevent delay in executing the flyover project, which is expected to streamline traffic in the Chandni Chowk area. During a meeting on Friday with the officials from the PMC, National Highways Authority (NHAI), district administration and the state revenue department, Ajit Pawar told the PMC and the NHAI authorities to work in coordination to obtain necessary permissions from various government departments. He also reviewed the road widening work on the Nashik Phata-Moshi stretch of Pune-Nashik highway. Reviewing water resources projects in another meeting, Ajit Pawar told the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran to study a proposal to implement the drinking water supply scheme for the Mulshi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/push-to-crucial-chandni-chowk-flyover-project/articleshow/78324537.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Bill on borrowing limit passed amid Congress walkout||Bengaluru: A bill that enables the BS Yediyurappa government to relax a borrowing limit, which is tied to the state GDP, and seek Rs 33,000 crore was passed in the assembly on Friday after Congress walked out in protest. The Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill, 2020, allows the government to raise the limit from 3 per cent to 5 per cent of the state GDP. Leader of opposition Siddaramaiah strongly criticised the government’s decision to make additional borrowings, above those mentioned in the budget, to offset a revenue shortfall, and suggested it should instead cut committed expenditure by downsizing departments and removing redundant posts. He said increasing the borrowing limit to 5 per cent was a disastrous move as it would push the state into a debt trap. The limit should go up to only 3.5 per cent. “I urge the government to be prudent in terms of expenditure and avoid this extra borrowing otherwise the state will become bankrupt,” he told the house. In the 2020-21 budget, the state GDP has been projected to be Rs 18 lakh crore. At the 3-per cent limit, Karnataka could have borrowed up to Rs 54,000 crore. In the budget, the government proposed to borrow Rs 46,000 crore, which is nearly 2.5 per cent of GDP. Recently, the Centre said states can relax the fiscal responsibility limit and borrow up to 5 per cent of their GDP to cope with revenue losses they suffered during the Covid-induced economic slowdown. The Karnataka government decided to borrow Rs 33,000 crore. “The problem is that the government has never bothered to check the committed expenditure that goes to unproductive heads. The committed expenditure stands at 90 per cent of the revenue; the government cannot ensure development and welfare with the remaining 10 per cent. The main concern is that the borrowed money will also go into the committed expenditure of paying salaries and other purposes,” Siddaramaiah said. He said the state’s debt burden would double to Rs 92,000 crore if the government exhausted the 5 per cent borrowing limit as it had already proposed in the budget that it would seek Rs 46,000 crore. He said the government should instead cut costs by removing redundant posts. He gave the example of the agriculture department, which has a joint director and a deputy director in districts even though officers in the two positions do the same job. Siddaramaiah added an IPS officer of the SP rank was entitled to have seven to eight orderlies. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said the Centre was committed to paying Rs 11,234 crore towards GST compensation and Karnataka had already received Rs 7,000 crore. “We are confident of getting our dues from the Centre. We will also get Rs 5, 494 crore which the 15th Finance Commission has recommended to Karnataka,” Madhuswany said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bill-on-borrowing-limit-passed-amid-congress-walkout/articleshow/78326778.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Goa||MGP wrests dy chief’s post in Ponda body||PONDA: All’s not well in the BJP-backed Ponda Nagrik Samiti panel in the Ponda Municipal Council (PMC), as the MGP-backed Rising Ponda panel was able to wrest the deputy chairperson’s post for the first time. After the municipal elections in 2018, the Rising Ponda panel emerged as the largest group and had elected it’s chairperson. However, the MGP lost power over the council on August 13, 2019, after Madkai MLA and former PWD minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar was dropped as cabinet minister. On Friday, MGP-backed Amina Naik was elected as deputy chairperson of the PMC by defeating BJP-backed Anand Naik with 8-7 votes in the 15-member council. The seat fell vacant after Vishwanath Dalvi from BJP’s panel was elevated to the post of chairperson on August 28. Anand, Ponda MLA’s son Ritesh Naik and William Aguiar had been elected through the Congress-backed Ponda Citizens’ Progressive Front panel. However, the trio recently joined the BJP. With this, the BJP panel’s strength had increased to eight, as against seven members from the MGP panel, while the Congress panel was reduced to zero. “Athough the BJP was expecting Anand to win with nine votes as one MGP-backed councillor had supported them, interestingly two members of the BJP panel voted against him,” said the BJP Ponda block president Shantaram Kolvenkar, who is also a PMC councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-wrests-dy-chiefs-post-in-ponda-body/articleshow/78325680.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bareilly||In wake of Covid-19, national nutrition month to go digital||BAREILLY: In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the third National Nutrition Month will be celebrated in a digital way rather than the traditional way. According to the government's directions, efforts will be made towards improving the immunity of the malnourished families through ‘Nutri gardens’. Officials have been advised to plant saplings of nutritious plants such as ginger, turmeric, drumstick, vine, gooseberry and mint, among others, and must develop 'Nutri gardens' in every district. Land of government office campus, government schools, Anganwadi centres and Gram Panchayat premises would be utilised to develop these gardens. Shahjahanpur district information officer (DIO) Alok Yadav said, “The third national nutrition month will be celebrated digitally. The campaign is the mission of convergence of many departments to eliminate malnutrition. The main objective is to reduce the rate of stunting among children." At least 15 departments related to nutrition such as agriculture, child development, youth and sports, Ayush, housing and urban planning, skills development, information, manpower, social welfare, tribal welfare and minority welfare will jointly participate in the nutrition month to ensure its success. Yadav further said, “The state government has also issued guidelines to provide a cow each to the parents of under-privileged children. The cow will also be a source of income. The animal husbandry department has been directed to make it available by coordinating with the department of child development. The families will be given Rs 30 per day for the maintenance of these bovines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-wake-of-covid-19-national-nutrition-month-to-go-digital/articleshow/78322827.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Car driver tries to run over cop at Iskcon Bridge||AHMEDABAD: A sub-inspector of Satellite police was hit by a car on Thursday night when he signalled the driver to stop for routine checking. PSI A R Batham states in his FIR with Satellite police that the incident took place, when he along with six cops were deployed at Iskcon Crossroads at around 6.45pm on Thursday. “At that time, I saw a car coming from the side of Karnavati club and as the driver was speeding, I raised my hand and signalled him to stop. But he tried to run over me. He hit my right leg and I fell on ground and suffered injuries also on my right elbow,” said Batham. Batham was taken to an urban health centre in Jodhpur from where he was referred to a private hospital. When the cop went to the private hospital in Satellite, no orthopaedic doctor was available so he was rushed to another private hospital in Ambawadi. The doctor diagnosed fracture in his right leg, states the FIR. Later, a complaint of negligent driving causing injuries under IPC along with other relevant sections of Motor Vehicles Act was filed. Usually, in a case of road accident or any other traffic related offence, the case is registered with city traffic police. But in this case, the cops took the liberty to register the case at their own police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-driver-tries-to-run-over-cop-at-iskcon-bridge/articleshow/78324595.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||'Begin reopening schools in UP with trial classes for 10 days'||LUCKNOW: Though the state government will take a decision on reopening of schools in Uttar Pradesh by September 30, the Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) has submitted a proposal to the administration in advance, suggesting that the schools should be opened only if parents take the onus of a student’s health in writing. The proposal also includes tentative dates of reopening in a phased manner and standard operating procedures (SOPs) drafted by the association. The proposal, given to additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla by UPSA president Anil Agarwal on Wednesday, also suggested that the school should be given permission to run classes of 10th and 12th standards on a trial basis for 10 days before reopening institutions from class 6 onwards. The trial will help the school assess whether classes are possible with social distancing, said Agarwal. The SOPs include provision of holding classes in two shifts: 8am-11am and 12pm-3pm, doing away with morning assembly, barring entry of students without masks and ensuring that school authorities adhere to safety protocols. To check overcrowding, the SOPs recommend provisions like making circle marks on the ground at entry gates for students to stand. “We want to first run classes of 10th and 12th standards for 10 days on a trial basis from October 12. The experience gained from the trial will then be used to improve SOPs and start classes for 9th and 11th standard students from October 26. If all goes well, classes of 6th to 8th standard can be started from November 18. Initially, classes of only 2-3 hours should be held,” said Agarwal. He said certain restrictions will be imposed on students too. These include no borrowing of books, sharing of tiffin, moving out of the classroom in recess, no group activities, or even standing in groups before or after school hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/begin-reopening-with-trial-classes-for-10-days-association-of-schools/articleshow/78325707.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Since 2017, 825 families of 28 high-risk villages shifted to safer places: Uttarakhand government||Dehradun: Since 2017, over 800 families of 28 villages at risk-prone zones have been rehabilitated at safer locations, according to the state government. Following the 2013 mid-June deluge at Kedarnath, the then Congress state government had ordered a survey to find which villages of the hill state are most vulnerable to natural disasters. The report had revealed that Uttarakhand has 395 disaster-prone villages, of which 225 fall in the sensitive and 72 in hypersensitive category. From 2013 to March 2017, 11 families from two villages – four in Rudraprayag and seven in Chamoli district - were shifted to safer locations at a cost of Rs 37.50 lakh. Between 2017 and 2018, 177 families of 12 villages were relocated at a cost of Rs 6.63 crore. In 2018-19, the government used Rs 6.47 crore to shift 151 families from six villages and this year, 137 families of three villages have been relocated at an expenditure of Rs 6.04 crore. A majority of the relocations have been done at the hill districts of Bageshwar, Tehri, Uttarkashi, Pauri, Chamoli and Rudryaprayag. “While the previous government took three years to shift residents of two villages, we have shifted over 800 families from 28 disaster-prone villages in a span of three years,” urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said. Kaushik added that funds are regularly being disbursed to move people from vulnerable zones. “Priority is being given to the villages in the hypersensitive category. Land for resettlement is being identified and despite the restrictions this year, we are attempting to rehabilitate as many families as possible,” he said. Since the onset of monsoon on June 15 this year, as many as 67 people have died in natural calamities, 26 have been injured and three continue to be missing. Over 500 animals have died. Since mid-June, 359 buildings have been slightly damaged, 379 severely damaged and 123 have been completely razed. We were prepared for the situation. The government handed over Rs 354 crore to district magistrates, Public Works Department, director, Health and Urban Development Department, so the fund could be used to provide immediate assistance in the wake of a natural calamity. As a result, our response has been prompt. Officials concerned, including the chief minister, visited disaster sites and compensation was provided to the affected people,” Kaushik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/since-2017-825-families-of-28-high-risk-villages-shifted-to-safer-places-uttarakhand-government/articleshow/78321754.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 26, 2020||Goa||CAG must audit labour welfare board funds: GFP||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Friday, appealed to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India to audit the functioning of the labour department, particularly the utilisation of funds collected as part of the labour welfare board’s corpus. GFP, in a letter to the auditor general, alleged that board members were deliberately siphoning off funds meant for the welfare of building and other construction workers. “It is imperative that the large corpus of the welfare board be audited urgently so to resolve the issue as to how much amount was disbursed to LabourNet Services India Pvt Ltd and to examine all the material documents and accounts on record to verify how the fund is being used or misused by the authorities,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said. GFP MLAs Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Palyekar have also supported the party’s petition. GFP’s move comes just day’s after outgoing Goa Lokayukta P K Misra identified glaring irregularities and financial mismanagement of funds of the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and the labour and employment department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cag-must-audit-labour-welfare-board-funds-gfp/articleshow/78325729.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Despite curbs, devotees throng Kukke temple; sevas increased||Mangaluru: Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple, the richest endowment temple in Karnataka, is coping with a surge of devotees amid a rise in coronavirus cases. At least 20 temple staff have tested positive. Despite this, devotees are queuing up in large numbers. Famous for sarpa samskara/sarpa dosha puja and ashlesha bali puja, the temple, located 113km from the city, attracts devotees from far and wide. Puja is offered to Lord Subrahmanya merged with serpent king Vasuki. Faith puts this place the ultimate solace for salvation from any sort of ‘naga dosha’. Keeping this in mind, the temple authorities have increased the number of these sevas. A senior official of the temple management committee told TOI: “We’re struggling to make devotees see reason amid the curbs in place.” The temple offered 30 tickets each for sarpasamkara, nagapratishte seva and equal number for those wanting to perform ashlesha bali in two morning batches with the evening batch cancelled. The rush of people has forced the temple to rethink these numbers, the official said. The number of tickets for ashlesha bali has gone up to 75 from 30 in three batches. This allows 225 people to take part. With 3,107 online bookings for sarpa samskara pending, efforts are to clear this backlog before we allow fresh bookings, the official said. There will be strict ban of tirtha, the official said. “We have started giving ladoo prasadam to devotees in the interim,” the official said, adding it is now up to the devotees to respond. “The temple management have clear instructions to follow the SOP,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-curbs-devotees-throng-kukke-temple-sevas-increased/articleshow/78322104.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Nodal officers in Lucknow to monitor 16 districts with 100+ daily Covid-19 cases||LUCKNOW: To control the spread of Covid-19 in districts which have been reporting more than 100 cases daily over the past week, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has appointed nodal officials in 16 districts who will be preparing district-wise strategies to handle the situation. The nodal officers are of the level of additional chief secretary or principal secretary while a special secretary-level official and specialists from the health and medical education department have been asked to accompany the nodal officers to the districts to assist them. In a meeting with officials on Friday, the CM has directed the teams to immediately go to the districts allocated to them and prepare a strategy. They have been asked to present a report to the CM on their districts by Sunday. The nodal officers will have to return to Lucknow by Monday while the special secretary-level officials will have to camp in the districts for one week. The chief minister’s office will also be in contact with the officials for feedback and coordination. The CM has said that testing, tracking and treatment are crucial for preventing the spread of the virus. Nodal officers will have to work on increasing the number of tests in their districts and strengthen contact tracing. When a person is found infected, the CM said, then at least 10-15 of his or her contacts will have to be traced within 48 hours. Stressing on the need for better door-to-door surveys, the CM said that constant touch should be maintained with patients in home isolation to take updates about their health. For this purpose, integrated command and control centres should be strengthened. The CM has said that micro containment zones should be made where Covid-19 infections are found. In these areas, 100% testing should be carried out. High risk groups should be tested through RTPCR testing which should also form at least 33% of the total tests being done in any district. He said that while formulating a strategy for containment of the virus, officials should keep in mind that the recovery rate has to be improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nodal-officers-to-monitor-16-dists-with-100-daily-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78325715.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||HC revokes permission for Covid-19 advertisements, orders inquiry||The high court on Friday strongly pulled up the director of health and family welfare for misusing its July 15 order and permitting private parties to display advertisements along with Covid awareness publicity material across Bengaluru city and Bengaluru Rural district. Observing that it has no option but to revoke the July 15 order, the court also directed for an inquiry to be held against the director for the lapse. “The order dated July 15, 2020 was misused by the health department which permitted private parties to display advertisements though no such permission was granted by this court. Thus, these private parties were benefited by the generosity of the state... in apparent violation of provision of KMC Act 1976,” a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed. As per the order, a higher officer has to conduct an inquiry on why a private agency, M/s Wall Street Communication Ltd, was appointed to display hoardings and why the agency displayed advertisements of Meenakshi TMT, A1 Gold and True Floor among others. The court also directed the government to recover charges from private parties who displayed advertisements on the hoardings erected by Wall Street Communication .The BBMP has to communicate to the state government the tax payable by the parties within three weeks. In addition, the court sought information as to whether any money was spent either from government or BBMP funds towards display of Covid awareness campaign. The government was also directed to disclose whether any amounts were received from private parties like Meenakshi TMT, True Floor and other parties whose advertisements were displayed by M/s Wall Street Communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-revokes-permission-for-covid-19-advertisements-orders-inquiry/articleshow/78321951.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Medicos in two civic hosps to consult pvt docs for treatment||Nashik: With the two civic hospitals—Zakir Hussain and Bytco— grappling with scarcity of physicians, the municipal corporation here has decided to start tele-consultation with specialized doctors in the city. As part of this plan, doctors from these two hospitals will call up specialized private doctors for expert advice on how to treat Covid-19 patients. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav said they have already spoken to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik chapter, and that he was going to write to the private medical college hospital in the city to provide tele-consultancy to the doctors in the civic hospitals. Jadhav has requested the IMA Nashik to provide the list of specialized doctors with their phone numbers who can provide tele consultation. NMC does not have a single physician (MD medicine). NMC had floated an advertisements to recruit 10 MD (medicines) and 50 MBBS doctors. The civic body received response from only four MBBS doctors who have been recruited on a part-time basis at the two designated Covid hospitals but not from a single MD physician. “Getting tele-consultancy from specialized private doctors will help doctors in the two NMC-run hospitals to provide proper prescription in case of critical patients,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/medicos-in-two-civic-hosps-to-consult-pvt-docs-for-treatment/articleshow/78326189.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 26, 2020||Agra||Paralysed, arms useless, Dalit girl in Agra raped by 4 upper caste men critical||AGRA: A 19-year-old Dalit girl who was raped by four upper caste men 11 days ago has been left paralysed by the torture inflicted on her by them. The nature of her injuries has shocked doctors, who told TOI on Friday that it’s difficult to say if she will be able to survive. When the girl was hospitalised, an FIR was filed for attempt to murder and an arrest made. It was only a week later that she could manage to give her statement to the police — she had been raped by four dominant caste men. “Now, she is on a ventilator, her spinal cord severely injured, her legs paralysed and her arms partially so,” said Dr Fakhrul Hoda, head of neurosurgery at the hospital where she is being treated. Her pulse is low and she can barely breathe. “It is difficult to say anything right now.” The girl is the youngest of five siblings. They live with their 46-year-old mother, who runs a small dairy in a village in Hathras. On September 14, around 7.30am, they were busy collecting cattle feed. “Around 9am, I came home while my mother and sister stayed on,” the eldest brother said. Suddenly, her mother could not see her. “What had happened was that these four men came up from behind her, pulled her by the dupatta round her neck and dragged her into the bajra field. They raped her and left her there,” Sadabad circle officer told TOI. While she was being held down, she bit her tongue badly. As she was dragged, her spinal cord sustained severe injuries. The girl later said the men had threatened to shoot her family members dead if she told anyone she had been raped. When her mother spotted her — unable to move, crying — she called for help. “I got there and took her to the district hospital and filed a police complaint,” the brother said. Police have arrested three of the four men so far — Ravi Singh (35), Sandeep (20) and Lavkush (19). The fourth accused, Ramu Singh (26), is on the run, Hathras SP Vikrant Veer said. The girl’s eldest brother said the investigation could have begun sooner had their mother spoken up. “It was only later that my mother told us she had found my sister semi-naked,” the girl’s brother, who had filed the first police complaint, told TOI. “She was worried about the stigma. Besides, the suspects belong to the dominant caste.” Charges under the SC/ST Act have also been added. PAC forces have been deployed in the village. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/paralysed-arms-useless-dalit-girl-raped-by-4-upper-caste-men-critical/articleshow/78322859.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 26, 2020||Agra||Agra: AMC issues notice to 63,000 house tax defaulters||AGRA: Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) authorities have served notices on 63,000 defaulters, demanding payment of outstanding house tax. The property owners have been given two weeks' time to pay their dues. They have been warned that If they fail to do so, action will be initiated against them. According to the civic body officials, some of the property owners have not paid house tax over the past five years. The AMC area comprises 100 municipal wards. The total number of registered properties in the city is 3.50 lakh. Out of these, only 1.80 lakh properties are registered with the civic body. Only 45,000 property owners have so far paid their house tax AMC's tax department has identified 63,000 property owners who have not paid their house tax for more than one year. Final notices have been issued to them. According to sources, the civic body administration is all set to conduct a survey of residential and commercial properties to identify the tax evaders as well as the properties registered as residential but used for commercial purposes. For the current fiscal, the municipal board of councillors had set a target for recovering Rs 75 crore as house tax in the city. This is 15 crore more than the target set last year. Following the Covid-19 lockdown, no recovery of house tax was made for three months. Now, officials are trying all possible ways to improve the tax collection. Additional municipal ommissioner Vinod Kumar said, “We are focusing on the recovery of house tax. In the first phase, major defaulters are being targeted. In case they fail to pay, legal action will be initiated against them”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-issues-notice-to-63k-house-tax-defaulters/articleshow/78322850.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mumbai||Final report on AI plane crash at Calicut likely in January||MUMBAI: Unlike Indonesia, Ethiopia and Pakistan, India has stood out as the only country in recent years to not release a preliminary report within a month of a major airline accident. Fifty days ago, an Air India Express Boeing 737 aircraft overshot the table-top runway of Calicut airport and crashed, killing 18 people. To learn what went wrong on that fateful evening, pilots, passengers and other stakeholders will need to wait till January when a final report into Calicut crash is expected. A total of 193 countries, including India, follow aircraft accident investigation norms laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), a specialised agency of the United Nations. Under these norms, within a month of an accident, the investigating agency concerned should submit a preliminary report to ICAO. The final report comes later, within a year. Responding to TOI’s query on whether a preliminary report has been sent to ICAO, the ministry of civil aviation said: “As a matter of settled practice, within one month of an occurrence, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau sends it (preliminary report) for ALL occurrences which are notified to ICAO.” When asked specifically whether the Calicut preliminary report has been sent to ICAO and whether the said report will be made public, the ministry did not respond. ICAO in response to TOI query on whether India has submitted the Calicut preliminary report said: “While ICAO does maintain a public e-library of final reports, it does not contain preliminary reports.” A preliminary report typically contains basic factual and circumstantial information on an accident, information like what transpired during different stages of a flight, communication between pilots/ air traffic controller, technical problems with the aircraft if any, etc. Whether a preliminary report should be kept confidential or released to public is a decision that ICAO leaves to the country concerned. But transparency in accident investigation plays a significant role in preventing similar accidents, which is probably why, most countries make preliminary reports of fatal airline crashes public within a month of the accident. For instance, on June 24, Pakistan uploaded online its 21-page preliminary report into the May 22-Pakistan International Airlines crash that left 97 dead. Indonesia had made public a 78-page preliminary report on November 28, a month after Lion Air flight crash that killed 189. The report showed how the aircraft’s anti-stall system repeatedly pushed the aircraft nose down during climb, post take off. “A week after the Lion Air crash, Boeing had issued a service bulletin with instructions on how to handle the Boeing 737 MAX nose-down pitch problem. But for aviation regulators worldwide and pilots flying the Boeing 737 MAX, that Lion Air preliminary report uploaded online provided a thorough study into what could possibly go wrong,’’ a former Jet Airways examiner said. Five months later, on March 10, 2019, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed in Addis Ababa, killing 157 people. Three days after the crash, China, followed by other countries grounded the Boeing 737 MAX. On April 4, Ethiopia made public a 33-page preliminary report which showed that the Ethiopian pilots had followed Boeing service bulletin instructions released after Lion Air crash, but failed to stop the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft from plunging nose-down. “The Ethiopian preliminary report silenced the aviation industry insiders who were of the opinion that the global grounding of Boeing 737 MAX, just three days after Ethiopian tragedy was a knee-jerk reaction,’’ he added. Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert said: “Basic factual and circumstantial information on an accident is usually available within the first two to four weeks of the investigation. Withholding important safety data or overlooking known safety issues is detrimental to safety since they have the capacity to prevent accidents through awareness. The sharing and exchange of safety information is vital.” Keeping a preliminary report confidential goes against the very spirit of accident investigation. ICAO Annex 13 states that the sole that objective of an accident investigation shall be prevention of a similar accident. An accident investigation should not be carried out to apportion blame. India’s AAIB plans to release the Calicut crash final report in January. Meanwhile, over 20 flights continue to land daily on table-top runways like Calicut, Mangalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/final-report-on-ai-plane-crash-at-calicut-likely-in-jan/articleshow/78324669.cms||Manju V
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Adventure tourism to re-start from Sunday, state gives nod||Dehradun: After a gap of around seven months, the tourism ministry of Uttarakhand on Friday announced the re-start of adventure tourism in the state. The adventure tourism activities, one of the major tourism attractions in the state, will start from Saturday. Prior to that, guidelines will also be issued by the department concerned. According to the decision of the tourism department, adventure sports activities such as water sports, trekking, mountaineering, aero-sports, and camping activities for all tourists will start with immediate effect. To start adventure sports activities in the state, the head of the agency/adventure tour operator will have to submit the undertaking letter for necessary permission in the tourism department and offices of the concerned district administration. The owners of the adventure company/agency/tour operator must ensure that their employees are properly trained for the prevention of Covid-19 infection. Additionally, agency/adventure tour operators will also have to ensure proper implementation of necessary regulations such as thermal screening, social distance, face covering by mask/shield, and frequent hand washing. The district administration has been directed to set up a monitoring mechanism for smooth operation of adventure activities. Secretary Dilip Javalkar said, “Adventure tourism has a major contribution in the overall tourism industry of the state. We are confident that the reopening of adventure activities will benefit the state tourism industry. We expect full cooperation from all the concerned agencies. They will have to work with us as a team and ensure effective implementation of rules and guidelines to control the spread of the epidemic in the state.” Respiratory etiquettes had to be strictly followed during adventure activities, says the government order. This involves strict practice of covering one's mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly. As per the guidelines of ministry of home affairs, government of India, and the state government, the agency will also ensure proper cleaning of equipment used in adventure activities. During adventure activities, if a guest shows signs of Covid-19 infection, the agency/tour operator will immediately have to notify the nearest wellness centre and encourage the guest to seek medical consultation. In case of a violation, the district administration shall ensure enforcement of concerned sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adventure-tourism-to-re-start-from-sunday-state-gives-nod/articleshow/78321800.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Ride planned tomorrow to show kids 10-km cycling lane||Mangaluru: A 10-kilometre cycling lane connecting prominent places in the city has been identified, and cyclists are hopeful that Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) will implement the same. With schools expected to re-open by January, Team WE R Cycling, with the support of two other cycling clubs, Mangalore Bicycle Club and Mangalore Cycling Club, will organise a ride to familiarise schoolchildren to this route. On the occasion of World Car-free Week, supported by MSCL, a kids and family ride will be organised as part of Cycles for Change (C4C) challenge on Sunday. C4C, a Union government initiative, aims to inspire Indian cities to implement quick cycling-friendly interventions in the wake of the pandemic, with the support of residents and assistance from experts. The ride will take participants through the proposed pilot routes, which are expected to be developed as a dedicated corridor for cycling. Last year, wildlife conservationist and architect Niren Jain worked on making an intra-city motor vehicle free safe bicycle lane map for commuting regularly to work within Mangaluru city. Niren wanted cycling for regular commute, and since roads are totally unsafe and in the absence of dedicated tracks, there are hardly any people who cycle for a regular commute. Cycling clubs often dedicate themselves to reaching milestones, or as a means to stay fit and exercise during a holiday or early morning or late evenings. Sarvesha Samaga, president, WE R Cycling, said the lane identified will connect important points including the Mangaluru City Corporation building, several schools, Car Street, Central Market, railway station, Gujjarakere, and the river-front. The MSCL has plans to develop cycling tracks especially on the river-front, between Kulur and Sulthan Bathery. The aim is to spread awareness and familiarise routes that have less traffic. In this regard, a meeting with the officials of MSCL was also held recently, he said. At least 30 cyclists, accompanied by the senior members of the club, are expected to participate in Sunday’s ride from 7am to 8am, for which the starting and endpoint will be the Mangala Stadium entrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ride-planned-tomorrow-to-show-kids-10-km-cycling-lane/articleshow/78321789.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus transmission indicator in safe zone in UP||LUCKNOW: Health officials say that UP’s effective reproduction number, which is used to assess the extent of pandemic transmission and spread, has declined. On Friday, it had gone below 1 which suggests that on a macro scale, control has been achieved over the Covid-19 situation. “At present, state’s R-value stands at 0.9 which is also lesser than the national average of more than one. This means that we are in the safe zone at the moment,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Public health experts pointed out that R-value indicates that emphasis must be laid on ensuring that people follow preventive measures. Upholding the same, Prasad said: “This is a time for caution as it is apt opportunity for the virus to sow seeds for a second wave of the pandemic. Any carelessness and failure to adhere to guidelines can trigger a second wave of the pandemic,” said Prasad. Defined by experts as the average number of people infected by a single case at a particular time during the outbreak, R-value is a transmission indicator that helps in evaluating how fast a pandemic is spreading. Meanwhile, 4,519 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,78,000 on Friday. However, 6,075 persons were discharged. Prasad said: “for the past eight days now, the number of patients being discharged was more than those diagnosed.” He urged people to follow Covid-19 prevention protocol to save oneself from the pandemic. In addition to this, he said those diagnosed of the infection should stay alert and rush to hospital even at the slightest doubt. ACS, home and information, Awanish Awasthi said special efforts are being made to control the Covid-19 situation in the high burden districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-transmission-indicator-in-safe-zone/articleshow/78325718.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 26, 2020||Agra||SNMC runs out of ICU beds as active Covid cases now 986 in Agra||AGRA: With the increase in the number of active Covid-19 cases in Agra district to 986, on Friday evening, the city's health services have come under severe stress. More than 400 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district in the past four days. And the beds at SN Medical College's Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are all full of patients. Beds at the emergency ward also remain occupied. Patients are made to wait in the ambulance. The critical ones are being referred to private hospitals. According to the SNMC administration, a proposal to increase the number of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients has been sent to the state government. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “Now, we have started conducting TrueNet testing of patients, admitted in the emergency wards, thrice a day. After testing, patients found Covid-19 positive are being transferred to the Covid care centre. This has reduced occupancy at the emergency ward. We are making arrangements for additional ICU beds. A proposal has been sent to the state government." At present, there are 46 beds at the emergency ward and 60 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at SNMC, the only state government-run L3 facility for Covid-19 patients. And out of the 200-bed Covid facility at the government hospital, only 30 regular beds for non-critical patients are vacant. Moreover, private nursing homes and hospitals in Agra, it seems, have withdrawn from the fight against Covid-19, which is now spreading into the rural areas. So far, deaths of 123 Covid-19 patients have been reported in the district. Only five private nursing homes are offering their services in a large district like Agra with a population of around 50 lakh. According to sources at the nursing homes, the private medical facilities are reluctant to carry on as they do not find the treatment rates fixed by the government for Covid cases as "rational or justifiable". They also face shortage of trained doctors and paramedical staff. SNMC's ICU in-charge Dr Rajiv Puri said, “At least 90 per cent of the critical patients coming for treatment are those referred to by the private hospitals, mainly, from Agra, Mathura, Firozabad, Etawah, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Patients are being admitted to private hospitals for 4-5 days and after becoming critical, they are being referred to the SNMC.” Even government testing facilities have come under severe strain, with only the district hospital and the SN Medical College authorised to collect samples for testing. The private laboratories - earlier granted permission to test samples - have been asked to hold on till fresh guidelines are framed by the health department. Shortage of oxygen, trained manpower, ICU beds are proving to be a huge challenge for the Covid taskforce in the district. Complaints against insurance agencies have also increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-runs-out-of-icu-beds-as-active-covid-cases-now-986/articleshow/78322869.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Chennai||SP Balasubrahmanyam, master of melody, now a mouna ragam||CHENNAI: S P Balasubrahmanyam, who breathed life into lyrics of more than 40,000 songs in 16 languages making millions of his listeners smile, sigh and sob, died in a Chennai hospital on Friday after a 51-day battle with Covid-related complications. He was 74. Doctors said the end came at 1.04 pm. He is survived by his wife Savithri, daughter Pallavi and son Charan. “I am fine. I will be fine,” SPB had posted on his Facebook page on August 5, the day he was hospitalised. Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam, born in a Telugu Brahmin family in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh on June 4, 1946, debuted as a playback singer in 1966 with the Telugu film ‘Sri Sri Maryadha Ramanna’. He went on to sing in Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam before taking Bollywood by storm with the Kamal Haasan-starrer “Ek Duuje Ke Liye” and, later, “Maine Pyar Kiya” and “Hum Aapke Hain Koun”, which catapulted Salman Khan to stardom. If his energy was boundless (he once recorded 21 Kannada songs in 12 hours) his versatility was astonishing (the 16 languages he sang in includes Badaga, a dialect of the Nilgiris). The Padma Shri and the Padma Bhushan, were but two of the numerous awards that came to the effortless singer who found life’s rhythm in humility. He wasn’t just a singer; he composed music for more than 45 films in Telugu, Kannada, Tamil and Hindi; he acted in more than 40 Tamil, Telugu and Kannada movies. SPB spent 40 days in hospital, battling Covid-19 with the same grace with which he did everything. Doctors and staff at the hospital treasure his handwritten notes thanking them for looking after him. He was put on life support for severe pneumonia on August 14. He tested negative for the viral infection on September 4, but by then his lungs were affected, doctors said. On Thursday, the singer suffered a serious setback, and by Friday, the doctors could do no more. As word of his demise spread, people from all walks of life started queuing up at his residence at Kamdhar Nagar in the heart of the city to pay their respects. Many sang his songs – some smiling, some sobbing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-master-of-melody-now-a-mouna-ragam/articleshow/78324667.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Allahabad||SDM stages stir at DM’s residence in Pratapgarh, suspended||PRAYAGRAJ: UP government on Friday suspended a sub-divisional magistrate-rank official, Vineet Upadhyay, for sitting on a dharna at the Pratapgarh district magistrate’s official residence along with his family for more than three hours while levelling corruption charges against administrative officials. SDM Upadhaya, who staged the protest, accused senior administrative officials, including an ADM-rank administrative official, posted in Pratapgarh district of graft. As soon as the news about the dharna spread, senior police and administrative officials rushed to take stock of the situation. Besides, police force was also deployed outside the DM’s residence to check the entry of outsiders. Despite repeated efforts, Pratapgarh district magistrate Rupesh Kumar remained unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sdm-stages-stir-at-dms-residence-suspended/articleshow/78325725.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bareilly||Tens of thousands of farmers bring west UP to a halt||MEERUT/BAREILLY/AGRA: Tens of thousands of farmers in western Uttar Pradesh took to streets on Friday, blocked highways and held sit-ins at hundreds of locations across districts to register their protests against the farm bills. Although large contingents of police and paramilitary forces were deployed throughout the region, traffic was hit on highways, like the Delhi-Dehradun highway, as farmers not only blocked some stretches with hundreds of tractors but many of them even cooked food on the roads leading to long jams. The under-construction Delhi-Meerut Expressway was also blocked with farmers holding sit-ins. Spearheaded by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in western UP, the agitation was also joined by dozens of other outfits. No violence was reported during the four-hour protests. In agriculture-rich Bijnor, farmers blocked traffic at 75 places while in Shamli, the BKU-led agitation witnessed blockade at eight places. In Muzaffarnagar, protests were held at ten crossings. In Baghpat, which shares border with Haryana, life came to a standstill as farmers laid siege to every crossing in the district for four hours and shouted anti-government slogans. Over two dozen BKU activists were detained in Agra when they tried to block roads in the region. Nonetheless, strong protests were witnessed in the district as well as Mathura, Firozabad, Etah, Kasganj, Mainpuri and Aligarh. In Rampur district, thousands of Sikh farmers on tractors took out a massive procession and later blocked the highway in Bilaspur town. The protest was led by VM Singh, convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. He said, “Incompetent policies of the ruling party have ruined the lives of the farmers and they need to make laws from farmers’ perspective.” Similar protests were witnessed in Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri and Shahjahanpur, where farmers blocked the National Highway 24. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of BKU, said, “These farm bills are anti-farmer and will discourage them to sell their produce in mandis directly, benefitting corporates and middlemen. This will certainly break the backbone of the farmer. The central government has failed the country’s farmers. It'll take just two years for the mandis to be destroyed completely.” Meerut inspector general Praveen Kumar said, “The protests were overall peaceful. In fact, policemen engaged in dialogues with protesting farmers wherever blockade had led to traffic jams and persuaded them to lift the blockades. No untoward incident occurred in the region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tens-of-thousands-of-farmers-bring-west-up-to-a-halt/articleshow/78330759.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital municipal chairman’s hunger strike enters fifth day||Nainital: As the hunger strike of the Nainital municipal council’s chairman Sachin Negi entered fifth day on Friday, doctors expressed concerns about his health saying that his sugar level was down and that there was a substantial deficiency of water in his body. Negi has been sitting on a hunger strike since Monday demanding financial assistance for the municipal council so that it can pay the wages and pensions of its workers. Negi has said that lockdown has dried up the council’s revenue and the tourism sector is yet to pick up. “Even though doctors have said that I should give up the demand and start eating, I will not budge unless the government fulfills our demand. I have no money to pay the workers and no money to pay the pension of ex-servicemen. There is no money to do any development work. Yet the government is not willing to listen. The hunger strike will continue till the government listens and agrees to provide financial assistance,” he said. Notably, Negi’s hunger strike has received support from several ward members as well as sanitation workers. He was also joined by the chairman of Sitarganj Municipal Council and Satish Nainwal, the district president of Congress. Meanwhile Negi added that a team of the district administration was expected to meet him on Friday but no one had turned up till the time of filing this report. “A team of district administration was expected to come here but no one has showed up yet. This shows the callous nature of the government towards the people of Nainital. The strike, however, will not end until our demands are met,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-municipal-chairmans-hunger-strike-enters-fifth-day/articleshow/78321811.cms||Prashant Jha
September 26, 2020||Agra||Tens of thousands of farmers bring west UP to a halt||MEERUT/BAREILLY/AGRA: Tens of thousands of farmers in western Uttar Pradesh took to streets on Friday, blocked highways and held sit-ins at hundreds of locations across districts to register their protests against the farm bills. Although large contingents of police and paramilitary forces were deployed throughout the region, traffic was hit on highways, like the Delhi-Dehradun highway, as farmers not only blocked some stretches with hundreds of tractors but many of them even cooked food on the roads leading to long jams. The under-construction Delhi-Meerut Expressway was also blocked with farmers holding sit-ins. Spearheaded by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in western UP, the agitation was also joined by dozens of other outfits. No violence was reported during the four-hour protests. In agriculture-rich Bijnor, farmers blocked traffic at 75 places while in Shamli, the BKU-led agitation witnessed blockade at eight places. In Muzaffarnagar, protests were held at ten crossings. In Baghpat, which shares border with Haryana, life came to a standstill as farmers laid siege to every crossing in the district for four hours and shouted anti-government slogans. Over two dozen BKU activists were detained in Agra when they tried to block roads in the region. Nonetheless, strong protests were witnessed in the district as well as Mathura, Firozabad, Etah, Kasganj, Mainpuri and Aligarh. In Rampur district, thousands of Sikh farmers on tractors took out a massive procession and later blocked the highway in Bilaspur town. The protest was led by VM Singh, convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. He said, “Incompetent policies of the ruling party have ruined the lives of the farmers and they need to make laws from farmers’ perspective.” Similar protests were witnessed in Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri and Shahjahanpur, where farmers blocked the National Highway 24. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of BKU, said, “These farm bills are anti-farmer and will discourage them to sell their produce in mandis directly, benefitting corporates and middlemen. This will certainly break the backbone of the farmer. The central government has failed the country’s farmers. It'll take just two years for the mandis to be destroyed completely.” Meerut inspector general Praveen Kumar said, “The protests were overall peaceful. In fact, policemen engaged in dialogues with protesting farmers wherever blockade had led to traffic jams and persuaded them to lift the blockades. No untoward incident occurred in the region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tens-of-thousands-of-farmers-bring-west-up-to-a-halt/articleshow/78322873.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Priyank Kharge’s test status row throws spotlight on lab work||BENGALURU: Over the past 12 hours, former Congress minister and Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge has received sympathies and faced flak over the status of his Covid-19 infection. Priyank first tested positive, but then tested negative twice within 72 hours of the first report. Armed with the negative report, Kharge decided to participate in the monsoon session. That decision drew flak as questions were raised whether Kharge violated protocol and whether he is a “danger” to others in the house. But, the bigger question is whether labs and technicians are overworked. Kharge is not the sole legislator caught in the dilemma. Tourism minister CT Ravi had earlier tested positive and then negative and finally confirmed positive. Kharge told TOI that the testing process is faltering. “What happened with me appears a prime example of overworked lab technicians in the state,” Kharge said, while pointing out a dearth of labs. “From what I understand, technicians at the lab where my sample was sent may have used the same environment which was earlier used for a positive patient. How many tests can they carry out each day?” He said the positive report has been a headache since his entire household assistants and helps had to get tested. “If this happens to a person who cannot afford it and s/he is asked to repeat the test every three days, he will spend his entire month’s salary on it,” he said. However, Dr V Ravi, head of the neurovirology department, Nimhans, said blaming labs is easy. “I’m not saying it is not possible that lab staff are overworked, but the easiest scapegoat for a positive report is the lab. People do not realise that the viral load may have already gone out of the body when the second or third test is taken,” said Ravi. He said protocol demands that if a person tests positive, then s/he has to stay in isolation for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/priyank-kharges-test-status-row-throws-spotlight-on-lab-work/articleshow/78322135.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 26, 2020||Nashik||‘Covid drug to be made available at 5 pharmacies’||Nashik: The district administration announced on Friday that Remdesivir would be made available at the drug stores of the civil hospital, two civic-run hospitals and at two private hospitals. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who was reviewing the Covid-19 situation especially in Sinnar taluka at the district collectorate, said, “Currently, we have 1,400 vials of the injection. Out of the stock available, 50% of the drug would be made available at the pharmacy of Nashik Civil Hospital. The remaining stocks will be evenly distributed between Zakir Hussain hospital and Bytco hospital and two other private hospitals.” The contact number of these pharmacies would be made public. The pharmacies will have to place a board outside their units mentioning the availability of Remdesivir so that people coming to buy the drug know the quantity available and at what price it is being sold. Bhujbal also asked the district administration and the Nashik Municipal Corporation to keep a watch on the pharmacies and ensure they comply with the norms of providing the drug without overcharging and make supervisors responsible for ensuring the availability of the drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-drug-to-be-made-available-at-5-pharmacies/articleshow/78326201.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||K’taka no-trust motion: BJP summons all MLAs, even those with Covid||BENGALURU: BJP on Friday issued a whip to all its MLAs, including those who are recovering from Covid-19 or are in quarantine, asking them to attend the assembly on Saturday when a no-confidence motion moved by Congress will be debated. The decision to summon all members was taken during the BJP legislature party meeting in Bengaluru. “We’ve have requested them (MLAs in quarantine) to come to Bengaluru. If the voting takes place, we will urge the speaker to allow these MLAs to vote in PPE kits,” said V Sunil Kumar, BJP’s chief whip in the assembly. Seven ministers and 13 BJP legislators have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few weeks. Friday’s meeting covered various strategies to counter the Congress motion, including ensuring it is not taken up for discussion at all on Saturday, the last day of the truncated monsoon session of the assembly. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said he was confident of defeating the motion and that JD(S) might not support the Congress bid. “I’ve no objections to the motion, let them do it. Every six months they move the no-confidence motion. It’s good for me since I can stay safe for the next six months,” he said ahead of a meeting with JD(S) legislature party chief HD Kumaraswamy. Despite the numbers being on BJP’s side, Congress on Thursday moved the no-confidence motion notice against the 14-month-old government, mainly to force a discussion in the assembly on various issues, including alleged corruption in Covid-related purchases and BDA projects. In the 225-member assembly, the ruling BJP has 116 members, Congress 67, JD(S) 33, BSP and nominated 1, independents 2, and the speaker (he has a casting vote). Four seats — Sira, Basavakalyan, RR Nagar and Maski — are vacant. Kumaraswamy said Congress didn’t consult his party and expressed doubts over the seriousness behind such a move. Asked whether JD(S) had confidence in the government, he said enjoying the confidence of the people was more important. Indicating that JD(S) will not support the motion, Kumaraswamy added the circumstances were not suitable for such an exercise, considering the pandemic, flood damage and financial crisis. Yediyurappa and Kumaraswamy had a chat in the chief minister’s chamber at Vidhana Soudha when the assembly session was underway, triggering another round of speculation about party tie-ups. Kumaraswamy reportedly discussed developmental schemes for the Ramanagara and Channapatna segments, which he and his wife represent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-no-trust-motion-bjp-summons-all-mlas-even-those-with-covid/articleshow/78326783.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Online Sanskrit classes by city NGO go global||Mangaluru: Although the Covid-19 crisis has the education sector in the country grappling with an unprecedented crisis, the pandemic appears to have given a fillip to teaching and learning of the ancient Indian language: Sanskrit. Students from across the globe are enrolling in the online programme that Samskrita Bharati — a non-governmental organisation (NGO) — is offering. The NGO is dedicated to the preservation and propagation of the language, and has already enlisted the services of 40 volunteers who are teaching Sanskrit. The NGO has started the ‘Sarala Samskrita’ project that is aimed at initiating new learners, aged 10 and above, to the basics of the language. Under the project, the students are introduced to the fundamentals of Sanskrit, starting from the alphabet. Each class offered by the NGO lasts 90 minutes. In a bid to provide an opportunity to people who are working but still keen on learning the language, the classes start from 6pm and later. The classes are free, and one class is held per week. President of Samskrita Bhrati, Mangaluru M R Vasudeva said students have to pay Rs 120 to appear in the online examination scheduled to be held in February. “Sheela Shankari, a teacher from Sri Sharada Vidyanikethan, trained 40 people who volunteered to impart classes. If more people enrol under the project, the volunteers are willing to conduct extra classes per week,” Vasudeva added. Samskrita Bharati’s Mangaluru division coordinator Sathyanarayana KV said as many as 500 students had thus far enrolled for the ‘Sarala Samskrita’ programme. he said. “We have students based in the United States of America. Despite the time difference, the promptness and eagerness that these students show in being a part of the classes boost the morale,” Sathyanarayana added. Students also have the option of enrolling for ‘pravesha’, ‘parichaya’, ‘shiksha’ and ‘Kovida’ courses as well. Students who complete their ‘Kovida’ course, equal to an undergraduate degree, may enrol for the MA (Sanskrit) programme that Karnataka State Open University offers, he said. Entire process of enrolment too is now online. Those keen on joining these courses may call 9740071306 or 8197503174.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-sanskrit-classes-by-city-ngo-go-global/articleshow/78321843.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Four arrested with illegal liquor, drugs in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: Four people carrying illegal liquor and drugs were arrested in two different raids in Uttarkashi on Thursday night. All four accused have been booked under Excise Act and Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) act respectively. Two persons identified as Gurpreet Singh and Shahrukh, both residents of Dehradun, were caught with 1.754 kg charas at Damta region. Police also seized a private car that they were using to smuggle the drugs. Sub inspector Chandrashekhar Nautiyal, in-charge Damta chowki said, “We have booked both the accused persons under relevant sections of the NDPS Act.” In the second incident, Uttarkashi police arrested two people with 60 boxes of illicit foreign liquor while checking near Aleth village. Sub inspector Manisha Negi, in-charge Uttarkashi chowki said, “Prem Singh, a resident Uttarkashi and Balbeer Singh, a resident Tehri, have been booked under Excise Act. We have also seized the pick-up vehicle used by the accused persons.” Meanwhile, superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Bhatt has announced Rs 1000 reward for both police teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-arrested-with-illegal-liquor-drugs-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/78321851.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops to issue puja guidelines next week||KOLKATA: The city police force, which will be holding its meeting with the puja organizers by next week, is likely to lay out the exact dos and don’ts for the committees for this year. Sources in Lalbazar said there will be certain parameters which will be non-negotiable — including wearing of masks and use of sanitizer, no major inauguration and immersion functions, no movement of judges from pandal to pandal after 3pm and avoiding cultural functions close to the pandals. “All these conditions will have to be strictly followed by the organizers,” said an officer. The cops said that the chief minister’s advisory will be binding for all. “We will only give practical shape to her directives,” the officer added. However, there are a couple of things that need further consultation, hinted senior cops. “While everyone has agreed on the need to keep as much open space as possible, there are still some issues regarding how to go about it. It is the structure and form of the pandals where we want to ensure that the government’s directives are strictly followed. That would mean keeping at least three sides open. But we have received several representations from organizers in this regard. We will listen to the submissions and hope to incorporate some of their suggestions in our guidelines,” said an officer. Lalbazar held multiple meetings on Friday in order to draw up specific guidelines for each puja committee based on the advisory by CM Mamata Banerjee. The other guidelines for cops on dos and don’ts before the pujas are also expected to reach each police division in the next 24 hours. This will include essential jobs, like inspection of pandals and setting up of road barricades. Additionally, each police station and guard has been asked to demarcate possible entry and exit routes for major pandals where physical distancing will be possible. Police deployment from Tritiya is likely to be finalized too. Also on the cards are major changes in circulation of pandal hoppers. “This year, Md Ali Park, College Square and Santosh Mitra Square are likely to see a new crowd circulation plan. We are likely to prepare two plans for now — one taking local train passengers into account and the other for a scenario without train movement. Instead of the usual Sealdah-College Street-CR Avenue flow, we might reverse this movement if local trains do not begin operations. That is because we have some bigger pujas coming up in the Jorasanko and Girish park areas and pressure on CR Avenue right now is higher than on APC Road,” said an officer. “Even if the celebrations are muted, it is important that we keep tabs on the plans. Also, a realistic crowd estimate is the need of the hour,” said another officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-cops-to-issue-puja-guidelines-next-week/articleshow/78322923.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Work stalls in govt offices as Covid-19 cases rise among employees||BENGALURU: While exact data is unavailable, president of the State Government Employees’ Association K Shadakshri reckons about 50-100 employees have succumbed to Covid-19 and another 15,000-20,000 are either fighting the infection or have recovered from it. This has hit functioning of offices hard since only 50-60% of the 5.4 lakh government employees in Karnataka are working. Besides transport, excise and stamps and registration departments, the pandemic has badly hit the alreadystretched commercial taxes (GST) department with nearly 1,000 of its officials forced into home quarantine for coming in contact with people who tested positive or suspected to have the infection. “Six of our officers in the age group 45-55 years have succumbed to Covid in the past three months and another 300 employees have been infected,” said CN Shiva Prakash, president of Karnataka Commercial Taxes Services Officers Association and associate president of All India Confederation of Commercial Taxes Association. “Our officials are at a higher risk of infection since they meet people like truck drivers and cleaners while conducting checks.” This is also true of subregistrar offices. KP Mohan Raj, inspector general of registrations and commissioner of stamps, said: “Some of our employees have been infected and it has affected smooth flow of work because we have to sanitise the office and allow employees to quarantine themselves for a few days.” The pandemic is also taking a toll on citizen services in municipal corporation offices, taluk offices and police stations across the state. The spate of infections has forced many government wings and departments to ban visitors. As a result, citizen services have been paralysed, forcing people either to correspond either through mail or online or put their work on hold for some months. Also, many employees have gone on leave as they fear they could take the infection home. “It’s not possible for me to work safely, especially when I potentially can pass on the virus to them,” said S Mohan, a brake inspector, who has three grandparents at home. “Although the lockdown was lifted, the situation in government offices has remained the same due to a spike in cases,” said Vinod Kumar, who applied for an occupancy certificate. Of the many shortcomings in government offices, the pandemic has shown “that we don’t have an adequate health safety net, not just for frontline workers, but for other employees too,” admitted a senior secretary. He pointed out that a few days leave is insufficient for someone with Covid-19 as 14-day home isolation is necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/work-hit-in-government-offices-as-infections-rise-among-employees/articleshow/78322150.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
September 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid risk, squabbles lead to hands-off policy on fines||BHOPAL: In the middle of the biggest wave of Covid-19 cases, Bhopal traffic police have stopped fining people at checkpoints for not wearing masks. Not only this, the cops are not even issuing challans for helmetless riding and other traffic offences at these points. The official reason is that with cases rising, police want to keep a distance so that neither do they infect others, nor contract the virus from someone. Sources in police, however, say that frequent altercations at checkpoints with violators are partly the cause. Police’s hands-off policy on Covid violations began around a week ago. Senior cops say the decision was taken as the Covid-19 pandemic has worsened and there is no telling if anyone intercepted at a checkpoint is a asymptomatic carrier. If cops stop people at checkpoints there are high chances that either the cops infect the violators or vice versa, said an officer. DIG Irshad Wali said issuing challan at checkpoints for traffic violation has been stopped due to the grim Covid-19 situation in the city. In order to avoid risk, police are solely relying on Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS) to identify and penalize traffic violators, he said. Police say the ITMS software is being upgraded to identify and penalize those not wearing masks. However, a senior officer, requesting not to be named, said that police have stopped issuing challans at checkpoints due to frequent altercations. He said that people argue with cops when they are stopped at checkpoints for violating traffic rules or Corona protocols, including not wearing masks and flouting social distancing norms. Some plead with cops that they are already going through hard times due to the pandemic, others argue and quarrel, complicating matters for police personnel. “Now, police only check vehicles through the Vehicle Detection Portal to rule out the possibility of the vehicle being stolen and let people pass even if they are not wearing masks or helmets,” he said, adding that police personnel were often at the receiving end of people’s ire for merely doing their duty. Even forwarding cases of those who dodged ITMS fines to court —a perfectly legal procedure — sparked resentment among violators as they were heavily fined. Certain political leaders also sided with people’s sentiment and felt police shouldn’t fine violators in Covid times. The Bhopal collector hiked the fine for not wearing a mask to Rs 500 around two weeks back, but with no enforcement, it’s common to see people going around without masks. SHO-traffic police station Vijay Dubey admitted that traffic cops were not issuing challan at checkpoints for the past few days. Not a single person was fined for not wearing a mask this week. ASP Sandesh Jain said the software of ITMS is being upgraded to identify unmasked commuters and penalise them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covd-risk-squabbles-lead-to-hands-off-policy-on-fines/articleshow/78324703.cms||Sudeept Mishra
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Ministers should write CRs of secretaries to make them work: Maharaj||Dehradun: Days after state minister Rekha Arya accused department secretary (IAS) V Shanmugam of non-cooperation in work, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Friday said that the government must allow ministers to write the Confidential Report (CR) of secretaries and only then the bureaucrats will work. “The reason why secretaries do not listen to the ministers is because they know that there are no repercussions of their acts. The day ministers will get an option to brief the work of bureaucrats, they will start working properly,” said Maharaj. “In every other state, ministers write confidential reports of the secretary or any bureaucrat. Only in Uttarakhand, this tradition was stopped. I have served in the finance ministry, in the rail ministry and in every department, we used to write the CRs of secretaries. This system should restart in Uttarakhand and only then, the secretaries will start listening to the ministers,” added Maharaj. In recent times, many cases of differences between ministers and bureaucrats have come to the fore in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ministers-should-write-crs-of-secretaries-to-make-them-work-maharaj/articleshow/78321841.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||‘One farmer, one nation’ phase begins: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath virtually launched and laid the foundation stone for nearly 250 projects in Deoria and Jaunpur districts on Friday. He also inaugurated a Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Hapur and laid the foundation stone for three more projects in Sambhal, Bulandshahr and Moradabad. During the ceremony, he reiterated that the three agriculture bills passed by the Parliament last week were for the benefit of farmers and some disgruntled elements were trying to mislead them. “Now farmers have entered the period of ‘one farmer, one nation’ where they can sell their produce wherever they want. They will no longer be bound by geography. The government is also giving them a guarantee for minimum support price. We have to encourage healthy competition and if we want changes in agriculture, we will have to keep our minds open to change,” he said. In Jaunpur, the CM launched 36 projects worth Rs 36.47 crore and laid the foundation stone for 44 projects worth Rs 91.70 crore. In Deoria, he inaugurated 28 projects worth Rs 82.33 crore and laid the foundation stone for 131 projects worth Rs 382.84 crore. Among other projects, he announced the construction of a bridge over the Gomti at Kalichabad and said that it would be named after Raja Yadvendra Dutt Dubey. A road inSikrara would be expanded and named after scientist Lalji Singh. A Nishadraj Rajkiya Balika Inter College was also announced along with the expansion of the primary health centre in Sikrara to a 100-bed hospital to be named after Lalji Singh. “I was to have visited this area but due to heavy rain, there has been loss of lives and crops. I have directed officials to immediately assess the damage and ensure that affected families are paid compensation at the earliest, including for damage to crop,” the CM said. Laying stress on the need for krishi vigyan kendras, the CM said that over the past three years, they had played a crucial role in helping farmers use new techniques and exposing them to improvements in the field of agriculture. “We have progressive farmers who want access to new research and techniques. Krishi vigyan kendras have helped connect farmers with new research and gave them access to high quality seeds,” he said. The CM further said that the work his government had been doing for farmers was visible even during the novel coronavirus pandemic. Over the past three years, sugarcane farmers had been paid Rs 1.05 lakh crore and UP was the only state were all sugar mills continued to function during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1-farmer-1-nation-phase-begins-cm/articleshow/78325738.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bhopal||297 new cases take Bhopal's Covid-19 count to 17,744||BHOPAL: With 297 new people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Friday, the tally of positive patients in the city reached 17,744. Those who tested positive on Friday included nine minors and 21 elderly patients. Among the minors, four are below 13 years of age. A one-year-old girl from Awadhpuri has also tested positive. Elderly people who tested positive for Covid-19 includes an 80-year-old woman from Panchsheel Nagar. Eight people from 3EME Centre of the Army in Bairagarh have also tested positive for Covid-19. Other areas where people tested positive for Covid-19 includes four patients from Char Imli and three from Arera Colony, both considered posh localities in the city. Fresh cases were also reported from the other areas of the city, including 13 patients from Kolar and 18 — including 8 from the 3 EME Centre — in Bairagarh. The maximum number of positives were reported from Kolar and Bairagarh on Friday. Apart from it, seven people tested positive from Piplani, seven Baghmughalia and six people — including the one year old girl — from Awadhpuri. Among other localities, two people tested positive from Bagsewania, two from Katara Hills, three from Shahpura, three from Jehangirabad and two from Ashoka Garden. As of now, there are close to 2,100 active cases in the city, of which around 800 are in home isolation and the remaining are admitted to hospitals. So far, close to 370 deaths have been reported due to Covid-19 in the city. However, the recovery rate has also been higher and more than 13,500 patients have recovered from the disease and have been discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/297-new-cases-take-city-corona-count-to-17744/articleshow/78324726.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Work on pandals starts in earnest after state SOP||Kolkata: Work on pandals began full-steam on Friday morning, hours after CM Mamata Banerjee outlined measures to ensure a safe celebration amidst the pandemic. Though most organizers had asked decorators to design simple pandals with the front open so that people could enjoy an unhindered view of the idols without having to enter, they were waiting for Banerjee to announce the SOP to start work in lest major changes were required. “The CM’s proposal that pandals be open on three sides to ensure proper ventilation is practical. Most of us were expecting it since she had discussed the suggestion made by the Global Advisory Committee on Covid-19 response a few days ago. On Thursday night, puja committees asked the theme artists and decorators to go ahead with the pandals keeping this in mind,” said Kajal Sarkar, president of Forum for Durgotsav, a platform representing 400 Durga Puja committees in Kolkata. Nearly all puja committees have reduced the size of pandals and idols this year. While Banerjee announced a 50% rebate on electricity bills, most organizers have already decided to reduce lighting by half or even a third. The only club that is going ahead with the Puja on the same scale as previous years’ is Sreebhumi Sporting near Lake Town. “We are recreating the Kedarnath Temple. So it won’t be an open one. The idol will be 13ft-14ft tall and decked in jewellery. There will be no compromise in lighting either. We have had enough of gloom for six months and don’t want an austere Durga Puja,” said club functionary Dibyendu Goswami. Others, though, have a different outlook. Suruchi Sangha, Chetla Agrani, Deshapriya Park and Tridhara Akalbodhan — south Kolkata pujas that have been progressively spending more each year — have gone in for major cuts for a celebration in sync with the reality. “We are organizing the puja this year for continuity. We will perform the puja with devotion but it will be a simple affair,” said Tapan Choudhury of Deshapriya Park Durgotsav. A Tirdhara Akalbodhan spokesperson said, “We don’t have a theme this year to ensure the locality remains crowd-free.” Suruchi Sangha general secretary Kingshuk Maitra said, “This year, the idol will be in focus. Like every year, we will have a separate entry and exit and a ventilated pandal.” And while there are theme artists creating installations or crafting idols this year, the objective is simple aesthetics. “As artists, we work on concepts to engage the audience’s mind. All of us are working on concepts, many of them revolving around the pandemic. But what each of us are acutely aware of is the need to be restrained and be creative responsibly,” said theme artist Anirban Das who is depicting a city awakening from lockdown at Dum Dum Bharat Chakra and another showcasing a ray of hope at Chetla Agrani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-on-pandals-starts-in-earnest-after-state-sop/articleshow/78322939.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Farmers in US Nagar hold stir against contentious farm bills||Rudrapur: Hundreds of farmers from across Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand held protests as part of a nationwide strike on Friday against the contentious farm bills recently passed by the Parliament. Protesting farmers blocked the highways at the district headquarters in Rudrapur. Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed in the city to ensure law and order. The 'Bharat bandh' called by farmers' organisations did not have much effect on the market. It disrupted the city traffic, though. The district unit of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) had earlier announced a protest at the district magistrate’s office on September 25 against the three bills — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. The farmers’ body had also called for a 'Bharat Bandh'. AIKSCC's national member Tejender Singh Virk said, "These legislations are black laws and are a part of conspiracy against the country's farmers. The Central government through these three laws aims to mortgage the farmers, farm labourers and their livelihoods to the hands of corporates. If the laws are implemented, it will badly affect the prices of crops produced in the country and lead to financial chaos." Farmer Thakur Jagdish Singh said, "These bills will gradually dismantle the minimum support price [MSP] system which ensures the farmers a safe price of their crops. The farmers will become labourers in their own lands as the bill aims to privatise the agriculture sector." On Friday, roads converging at Deendayal Chowk, Agrasen Chowk, Parshuram Chowk and Kashipur bypass were blocked. Later, the farmers handed a memorandum, addressed to the PM, to the district magistrate requesting the Centre to take back the bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-in-us-nagar-hold-stir-against-contentious-farm-bills/articleshow/78321861.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 5 lakh health insurance for journalists: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced health insurance of Rs 5 lakh for government accredited journalists and financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh to their family in case of death due to coronavirus infection. The chief minister made the announcement while inaugurating the new building of the information department, named after BJP ideologue Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, whose birth anniversary was celebrated on Friday. The old building adjoining Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civil Hospital has been handed over to the health department for the hospital’s expansion. “Media is a strong medium of dialogue. It strengthens democracy which is considered to be the most effective mode of governance. Even the biggest problem and dispute can be resolved through dialogue. It is necessary to strengthen media further,” the CM said. The new building of information department will also have a digital platform equipped with modern technology for media personnel. The CM said to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call of ‘vocal for local’, branding of local products was being done by displaying products under One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme in the new building. “ODOP can help in achieving the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India). Such displays will be made at state government offices,” he said. The CM also launched a book, ‘Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Soochna Parisar’. Major works done by the state government in last three years and its achievements were also showcased during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-rs-5l-health-insurance-for-journalists/articleshow/78325752.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Nashik||Section 144 in congested Nashik city locations soon||NASHIK: The police have decided to honour the municipal commissioner’s suggestion regarding the enforcement of CrPC section 144 — which prohibits assembly of four or more people — in several congested locations to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey said an order to this effect would soon be issued and the police would ensure that there is no violation of the order. “The police and the NMC are on the same page in the fight against Covid-19. Since the NMC has communicated to us, seeking the enforement of section 144, it will be done. Police bandobast would also be maintained in the areas concerned to ensure that there is no violation,” said the police commissioner. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) chief Kailash Jadhav had sent a letter to the city police about invoking section 144 at 14 places — Bhadrakali, Raviwar Karanja, Trimurti Chowk, Dwarka, City Centre Mall area, Central Bus Stand, Nimani bus stand, Meher Circle, Shalimar, Byco Chowk, Railway Station area, Datta Mandir Chowk, Lekha Nagar and Pathardi Phata. Police officers, however, added that they were making best efforts to stop the spread of Covid-19. People spotted without masks in public spaces are continuously being booked by the police. Even on Thursday, the police booked 21 such people under section 188. Since March 22, the police have registered offences or non-cognisable offences under section 188 against 19,799 people for not wearing masks in public. Officers said their action would continue even in the future. Meanwhile, senior police officers of Zones 1 and 2 said that once they get the order from the police commissioner, they would take the necessary steps to ensure that there are no violations of the order. There is a huge rush in the market places across the city, so much so that often, vehicles get stuck in traffic snarls. Social distancing also often goes for a toss in almost all the market places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/section-144-in-congested-nashik-city-locations-soon/articleshow/78326207.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Police research bureau lauds Malegaon, Beed, Dharavi cops||AURANGABAD: The police units of Beed district, Malegaon in Nashik rural and Dharavi division in Mumbai city have found special mention in the special compendium of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) titled ‘The Indian Police Response on Covid-19 Crisis’ that has been released a couple of days ago. The 184-page compendium published by the BPR&D, the premier Indian police modernizing agency, has taken into account the contributions of select police units and paramilitary forces. When the number of Covid cases was spiking in Malegaon, Arti Singh — who headed Nashik rural before being promoted and transferred to Amravati as police commissioner — shifted her headquarter to the textile town. Singh said some pockets in Malegaon are regarded as amongst the world’s most densely populated areas, making implementation of social distancing almost impossible there. “It needed a team effort — of police and citizens — to bring the entire situation under control,” she said. Apart from taking all measures mentioned in the rule book, Singh camped in Malegaon for over two months and patrolled the streets to instil confidence amongst the policemen and citizens. To assist the police, anti corruption bureau’s superintendent of police Sunil Kadasne, who is known for his command over Urdu and Arabic languages, was sent to Malegaon to ensure there is no communication gap. For the Beed district police, empathy, awareness and firmness remained the guiding principles in ensuring that the things remained comparatively under control. Outgoing superintendent of police Harssh Poddar, said: “Beed was able to successfully keep the virus at bay. Effective policing ensured that there were zero active cases in the district in the first three months. Apart from saving countless lives, this gave the administration valuable time to scale up health facilities to meet the needs of the pandemic once the lockdown was lifted.” Mumbai city’s zone-V deputy commissioner of police Niyati Thaker, who had Dharavi — the largest slum in Asia with an area of 2.1 sq km and housing over one million people — in her jurisdiction said that Mumbai became the first battlefield in the country and Mumbai police were at the forefront. “Unfortunately, the thickly populated slums emerged as a hotbed where the virus spread quickly,” said Thaker, who has recently been transferred. The officer said every pocket of Mumbai has diverse religious and ethnic settlements in large numbers, forcing the police to devise some common as well as some unique mechanisms to suite each of the areas right from Dharavi to Dadar to Koliwada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-research-bureau-lauds-malegaon-beed-dharavi-cops/articleshow/78326206.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ordinance on non-biodegradable waste gets government nod||PANAJI: The state government has approved the Goa Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) (Amendment) Ordinance 2020, which will empower the authorities to collect 2% cess on consideration received towards outward supply of goods marketed in non-biodegradable packaging instead of two per cent cess on the sale price of goods as defined in the GST Act. The money will be directed towards garbage management. “The ordinance seeks to amend section 2 and 7 of the Goa Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) Act 1996 (Goa Act 5 of 1997) so as to provide levy of cess at the rate not exceeding 2% of consideration received on outward supply of goods,” the ordinance read. Section 7(i) of the act states that the amount of cess may be determined by the government from time to time through a notification on the official gazette, and that it would not exceed two per cent of the sale price of items marketed in non-biodegradable packaging. “(The cess received) shall be utilised for the implementation of the Solid Waste Management Scheme, including segregation, collection, safe disposal, and recycling of non-biodegradable waste materials and also to promote the sale and use of biodegradable packing material, bags and containers,” the section reads. A cabinet note stated that the enactment of the Goa Goods and Services Tax Act 2017, made it mandatory for the state government to make the necessary amendments in the existing Section 7(i) of the non-biodegradable garbage act and other related changes to facilitate the collection of cess by the department of commercial taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ordinance-on-non-biodegradable-waste-gets-govt-nod/articleshow/78325790.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Sandalwood suffered Rs 3,000 crore loss||BENGALURU: The Kannada film industry has incurred an estimated loss of around Rs 3,000 crore due to the seven-month restrictions and many small producers and exhibitors fear they could go out of business. Film theatres in Karnataka were shut on March 14, 10 days prior to the nationwide lockdown, but while all other economic sectors including pubs and public transportation resumed services, theatres are still awaiting the Centre’s nod to conduct business. “We want to reopen theatres next month, but there is no clear signal from the Centre as yet. When people are allowed to travel in Metro and drink in pubs, why can’t theatres open?” said KV Chandrashekhar, president of Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association. However, with resumption of public transport being seen as the main reason for a spike in Covid cases, the Union government appears diffident about reopening theatres. “It is right for the Centre to do due diligence, but the film industry as a whole has suffered huge losses and Sandalwood is in distress,” said DR Jairaj, president of Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. In his estimate the industry, which reaps annual revenue of about Rs 5,000 crore, has suffered a loss of Rs 3,000 crore. “The basis for this estimation is GST contribution. Tax collection stood at Rs 450 crore last year and factoring in an average annual growth of 10%, the government has lost Rs 500 crore GST in these seven months,” said Chandrashekhar. There are 650 singlescreen theatres and 260 multiplex-screens with a total four lakh seats and the livelihoods of about 16 lakh employees are at stake. Industry insiders say recovery is a long haul since the industry survives on the local patronage and support of the state government. “Recently, a delegation met the CM. The immediate need is an emergency financial package for theatre employees and production units. The government can save the industry by waiving property tax and utility bills for theatre owners,” said Sa Ra Govidu, former president of the film chamber. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who had been tasked with sorting out the industry's woes, said: “We understand the distress of the film industry. While a comprehensive plan is afoot, we are planning to release the pending dues of subsidy of about Rs 20 crore to film producers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kannada-film-industry-suffered-loss-of-rs-3k-crore-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/78322231.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana police bust gang of robbers, nine held||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Police have busted a gang of robbers and arrested nine of its members in Sonipat district. The gang members used to rob vehicles, cash and other valuables at gunpoint. A Haryana police spokesperson said several incidents were unearthed with their arrest. Three country-made pistols, cartridges and a looted car were also recovered from their possession. Three members of the gang were apprehended by the team of Kharkhoda police station while six others were nabbed by the joint team of the Crime Investigation Agency of Sonipat and Panipat. The police spokesperson said after they received a complaint about the loot of SUV, mobile phone and cash at gunpoint by a few youths who also threatened to kill the victim, a team was formed to nab the culprits. Working on the intelligence and other inputs, Kharkhoda police team managed to trace the three members of the gang while they were plotting to execute another crime. The arrested accused have been identified as Rajesh, Shokeen and Naveen. The other six members nabbed by CIA were identified as Amit, Sandeep Shrawan alias Situ, Ravi alias Karata, Sagar and Deepanshu alias Deepu. During interrogation, it was revealed that the gang was involved in at least five cases of armed robbery in which they looted an SUV, mobile and cash on September 19, a car on September 18, mobile phones and cash from a mobile shop on September 20, cash from Pugthala petrol pump on September 20 and a Scropio at gun point from Israna on September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-police-bust-gang-of-robbers-9-held/articleshow/78324774.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Withdraw farm bills, labour laws: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Lambasting the ruling BJP for farm bills and labour laws, Samajwadi Party (SP) workers held demonstrations across the state on Friday and submitted memorandum to district magistrates. They demanded withdrawal of the farm bills as well as labour laws which empower employers to sack labourers from the service without seeking the government's nod. National president of SP and former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav joined party workers in the protest through virtual 'chaupals'. Attacking the ruling BJP at the Centre and in UP, he said why the government has failed to convince farmers and labourers that the two bills are for their betterment. The government wants to distract farmers on the issue of MSP for the current crop only to take control of the agricultural land of small and medium farmers, the former UP chief minister said. Till now the labour laws made it mandatory for any industry, employing over 100 labourers, to seek permission of the government before sacking any worker from the service. Now, a factory with over 300 labourers is not required to seek government permission to sack anybody. Labourers will not be able to resist any such move, Akhilesh added. The farm bills and labour laws have been framed only to benefit multinational companies and some select corporate houses of the country at the cost of poor farmers and labourers. “They have introduced anti-farmer and anti-labourer bills to please companies which fund the rulingBJP,” Akhilesh said, responding to demands of farmers from Ghazipur while interacting with them through virtual 'chuapal'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/withdraw-farm-bills-labour-laws-akhilesh/articleshow/78325768.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
September 26, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University exam dates clash with JNU entrance tests||KOLKATA: The dates of final-year BA and BSc examinations in Calcutta University have clashed with several entrance tests in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), which are to be conducted on October 5, 7 and 8. The overlapping of dates has come as a setback for several CU students of philosophy, history, economics, Sanskrit, mathematics, chemistry and those interested in studying foreign languages who want to pursue a Masters degree at JNU. The exam dates of West Bengal State University in Barasat are also clashing with those of JNU. A group of JNU aspirants has approached the VCs of the two universities. “Students from Calcutta University have their final-year exams on October 5, 7 and 8 for environmental science between noon and 2pm. But the dates are clashing with JNUEE and, given the timing of exams from 3pm, we have to report an hour before. It is impossible to complete our CU tests at 2pm and then reach the entrance test centres,” said Sagnik Chatterjee, a final-year student of economics Honours and a resident of Behala. Given the current situation, he now plans to appear in the JNU entrance examination next year. “I live in the Sonarpur-Rajpur area. I have two exams — on October 5 for MA in economics (with specialization in world economics) and on October 7. I was supposed to appear in the entrance examination for PG in development and labour studies department. It is not possible for me to travel to my exam centre in Barrackpore,” he added. Despite the plea from candidates, there has been no response from either the National Testing Agency (NTA) or CU authorities. “We surely can't miss our final-year exams. But on the other side, we have our future at stake,” said Sayan Das, a mass com honours student from Asutosh College, who is scheduled to appear in the entrance tests for PG in political science at JNU on October 8. Several calls to CU VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. A senior CU official, however, said: “We have a tight schedule after the apex court and the state government have asked us to hold the final-year and terminal-semester exams in October and publish results by October 31.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-exam-dates-clash-with-jnu-entrance-tests/articleshow/78322960.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka farmers protest central, state policies||Bengaluru: Thousands of farmers converged on main highways and roads in Bengaluru and other key cities and towns on Friday, protesting against farm-related bills of the central and state governments. The demonstrations are part of a nation-wide stir call against what many organisations says are anti-farmer policies. The support for the call has varied because of a lack of agreement between various organisations. On Friday, large contingents of police personnel were deployed at many places to prevent complete blockade of key routes. Hundreds of farmers courted arrest and were taken away in buses. Protesters partly blocked entry-exit points on Tumakuru Road, Hosur Road, Old Madras Road and Mysuru Road. Demonstrations were also reported in Mysuru and Davangere. “Our members protested and blocked major entry points to Bengaluru and other cities to drive home the point that the central government’s bills are against the interests of farmers,” said Kuruburu Shantakumar, a representative of farmers. But police officials said traffic was not severely affected. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, who represents another farmers’ group, said they didn’t support Friday’s agitation. “We are focusing on next week’s Karnataka bandh,” he said. Several farmers’ organisations have called for a state-wide shutdown on September 28 to demand withdrawal of amendments made to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act and central farm bills. The state government plans to get the land reforms bill passed in the ongoing session of the assembly. The amendments will reduce restrictions on the sale of farmland. Until now, only agriculturalists were allowed to buy farmland. CM’s outreach fails to break impasse Farmers’ associations said on Friday they would go ahead with the September 28 protest after their meeting with chief minister BS Yediyurappa in Bengaluru failed to produce a resolution. Yeddyurappa had invited farmers’ representatives and experts to discuss amendments to land reforms, APMC and labour acts. The representatives urged him to withdraw the amendments, saying they will hurt farmers and labour classes. They also asked him to oppose the central government’s farm bills. Yediyurappa defended the amendments, saying they were aimed at doubling the income of farmers and helping industries. He offered to make changes in the cap on farmland a family can own. The amendments seek to raise the cap from 54 acres to 108 acres for a family of four and 108 acres to 216 acres for a larger family. Farmers have opposed this. “The government did not offer a convincing reply to our concerns. Even our demand of deferring the amendments to next session was rejected, so we have decided to intensify our protest,” said agriculture expert Prakash Kammaradi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-farmers-protest-central-state-policies/articleshow/78326793.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Bhopal||Trapped in a wire snare, Leopard dies in Panna jungle||Bhopal: After getting trapped in a wire snare, a leopard was killed in a Panna district jungle on Thursday. A day later, forest officials caught a poacher, who allegedly admitted to killing the animal. The poaching case was reported from Patna Tamoli, a remote village in Panna district. Incidentally, this small village had grabbed media attention after a woman committed sati in 2002. Divisional forest officer Meena Mishra said, “With the help of sniffer dogs, one Machlu Kumhar was arrested. He lives barely halfa-km away from the spot where the leopard was found dead.” She said that Kumhar has also admitted to the crime. The snare was placed to save the farm from wild boar. The snare had strong iron wire with a heavy wooden log fitted in it. All the body parts of the leopard are intact, the DFO said. Wildlife experts said that poachers have been operating without any fear of the law near the Panna national park. In the last 9 months, 5 tigers have died in Panna, one of them allegedly beheaded by poachers. On August 9, its headless body with missing genitals was recovered from Ken river outside the park. The special task force of the forest department is already investigating the tiger killing. Last week, a gang was also busted near the tiger reserve. It was allegedly involved in sale of animal trophies, including that of tigers, with fake licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/trapped-in-a-wire-snare-leopard-dies-in-panna-jungle/articleshow/78324754.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 45k mark in U’khand, death toll touches 555||Dehradun: With 928 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported from the state, Uttarakhand’s case count reached 45,332 and the infection rate became 7.2% on Friday. The surge in the cases, the infection rate, and the death rate has become a cause of concern for the health department. According to official data, the four plain districts have 77% of the coronavirus cases. Abhishek Tripthi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 203 fresh cases was reported from Dehradun on Friday, followed by 117 from Udham Singh Nagar, 107 from Nainital, and 87 from Haridwar. “In hills, 107 fresh cases were reported in Pauri, 65 in Chamoli, 51 in Almora, 33 in Tehri, 30 in Champawat, 24 in Uttarkashi, 21 in Bageshwar, 13 in Rudraprayag, and four in Pithoragarh,” added Tripathi. Additionally, 13 more fatalities on the day, pushed the toll of the virus to 555 in the state. The state also reported 1,488 recoveries on Friday after which the recovery rate in the state touched the 74% mark. A total of 33,642 people have so far recovered from the Covid-19 infection till now. The state also achieved the feat of testing six lakh samples on the day. However, Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the state), has said that though the state has managed to test over 6.33 lakh samples in six-and-a-half months, the average here is around 5,339 tests per lakh population. He added that the hill districts are doing far more testing than their plain counterparts. “Uttarkashi has the highest and Nainital has the lowest test per lakh testing. While four plain districts have 77% cases, their administrations have only conducted 55% tests. These districts need to test much more,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-45k-mark-in-ukhand-death-toll-touches-555/articleshow/78321869.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 26, 2020||Lucknow||Prajapati case: UP minister moves SC for CBI, NIA probe||LUCKNOW: A witness in the gangrape case of a Chitrakoot-based woman in which former UP cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati is an accused filed a petition in the Supreme Court on Friday, demanding probe by the CBI or NIA into the same case. Petitioner Anshu Gaur feared threat to his life and demanded security cover. He said that he was attacked thrice. In his petition to the SC, Gaur stated that the gangrape accused Prajapati should be shifted to a jail in any state outside Uttar Pradesh. He also demanded that he be heard separately in the court so that he could produce evidence of how witnesses in the gangrape case against Prajapati were turned hostile in lieu of money and property. He requested the court to order a probe into properties of all lawyers and officers related to the probe against Prajapati. Initially, in 2017, Gaur along with Dinesh Tripathi had got registered a case of gangrape of the Chitrakoot based woman against former cabinet minister on the directions of SC. Prajapati was later arrested. However, taking a u-turn, the Chitrakoot-based woman had in an FIR lodged on December 27, 2017, with the Gautampalli police station in Lucknow had slapped charges of rape, sexual assault, causing hurt by poisoning, dishonesty, punishment for wrongful confinement, and POSCO Act 2012 against DineshChandra Tripathi, Ram Singh Rajput, Anshu Gaur and two unidentified persons. She had claimed in her FIR that Prajapati was like a ‘father figure’ to her, while Dinesh Chandra Tripathi and Anshu Gaur had served tea laced with sedatives and raped her and filmed her in the nude and tried to blackmail her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prajapati-case-witness-moves-sc-for-cbi-nia-probe/articleshow/78325775.cms||---
September 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: FDA told to act against hoarding of remdesivir||KOLHAPUR: The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has been asked to take action against chemists and indiviuals hoarding and selling remdesivir injections in the black market. The injection has been recommended for use on critical Covid patients. Since the onset of the pandemic until recently, there was a shortage of the drug. The distribution of the injections was being done by the zilla parishad’s (ZP) health department. However, after learning that the drug is now available in adequate quantities, the distribution was stopped and relatives of the Covid-19 patients were asked to buy it from the retailers. The private hospitals too were asked to get it directly from the suppliers. ZP CEO Aman Mittal said, “We have asked the FDA authorities to check for hoarding and black-marketing of the injections and ensure smooth supply of remdesivir in the market so that every person who is in need of the drug gets it. We have been told to resume distribution. We can now arrange for the drug and supply it to the Covid care centres and hospitals.” The medicine helps in bringing down the viral load of the infection in Covid-19 patients. It is not for general use meaning it should be used for critical patients only if other medicines fail. “So far, we have distributed 13,835 injections of remdesivir free of cost. We have asked the private hospitals to follow the protocol of stringent use of remdesivir to ensure the drug is available if the condition of a patients turns critical,” said Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fda-told-to-act-against-hoarding-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78326213.cms||---
