September 27, 2020||India||SAD walks out of NDA||CHANDIGARH: Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) walked out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition in protest against the three farm bills and for continues ‘insensitivity’ towards Punjabi language and issues pertaining to Sikh community. Terming the bills anti-farmers and anti-Punjab, the core committee of the party decided unanimously to pull out of the BJP -led NDA alliance. The party held the centre's “stubborn” refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding Punjabi language as official language in Jammu and Kashmir the reasons for the decision. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the lone representative of the party in the Union Cabinet, had resigned on September 17. The meeting was presided over by the SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal who said that SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interest of Punjab, Punjabi in general and Sikhs and farmers in particular. He said that the decision has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab especially party workers and farmers. Badal said that the bills on agricultural marketing brought by the BJP government are lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers. He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP, but the government did not listen to repeated pleas of honouring the sentiments of farmers. The SAD leader said that the party opposed these bills in the parliament and voted against them. He said that even after quitting the union government, the SAD had hoped that the centre would not press on with these " murderous assaults” on farmers and other poor sections who depend on agriculture and trade. “It seems that the BJP is totally out of touch with ground realities,” said Badal, He said that despite our best efforts, the BJP government did not honour the sentiments of farmers. He said that the farmers are the backbone of the national economy and it is in the national interest that the government should stand by them. Adding, he said that with successive decisions, the present government has shown its callous insensitivity to minority sentiments and has been indifferent to the peace and communal harmony in the country, especially in Punjab. Senior Akali leader Dr Daljit Cheema said that the decision has been taken after much deliberation. He further said that these bills were passed in an undemocratic manner and are being opposed in Punjab, Haryana and other states. "We had even requested President of India Ram Nath Kovind not to approve the bills passed by the parliament," said Dr Daljit Cheema. While slamming BJP for not paying heed to repeated pleas of SAD not to force anti-farmers bills, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said that there is no point in continuing in alliance. SAD had first forged an alliance with Bharatiya Jana Sangh, BJP’s predecessor, during state assembly elections in 1969. It later entered into coalition with BJP in 1997 during the state election. SAD joined BJP-led alliance at the centre in 1998.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sad-walks-out-of-nda-alliance/articleshow/78340411.cms||Ikhhlaq Singh Aujla
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No power bill to neta homes for 4 months||MUMBAI: A reply to an RTI query issued by the state PWD shows that of 15 bungalows for ministers in south Mumbai, five bungalows did not get bills from March to July while 10 did not get them from March to June. This was at a time when other consumers across the city began receiving, and paying, hefty bills from June, said RTI activist Anil Galgali who had raised the query before the PWD. A top BEST official told TOI that in many cases, the hard copies for bills were printed only from August and he was certain that bungalows mentioned in the reply to the RTI query have received their bills till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-power-bill-to-neta-homes-for-4-months/articleshow/78341083.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||After quitting govt, BJP’s ‘oldest ally’ Akali Dal walks out of NDA||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal announced on Saturday night its decision to break its 24-year-old alliance with BJP less than 10 days after it pulled out of PM Narendra Modi’s government with the resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal over the passage of three agri-marketing bills in Parliament. The alliance between SAD and BJP, formed just after the parliamentary elections of 1996, had increasingly seemed untenable as the party was facing immense pressure from its main vote base, the farmers, to completely cut ties with BJP. The party was on the backfoot in Punjab, where spontaneous protests against the agri-marketing bills led by farmers had the party worried about its future, especially as both the ruling Congress party and the opposition Aam Aadmi Party were highlighting the Badal family’s so-called reluctance to quit the alliance with BJP. Read AlsoWhy are Modi govt’s ‘farmer-friendly’ laws facing protests?It’s a time for social distancing but farmers are out on the road, protesting against laws that promise to better their lot with freedom to choose their markets and set their own prices. Here's whySAD’s decision to pull out of the National Democratic Alliance was decided unanimously at an emergency meeting of its core committee, the party’s highest decision-making body. After the three-hour meeting, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party was BJP’s oldest ally but the Modi government did not listen to it on honouring the sentiments of farmers. He described the three agri-marketing bills as “lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers”. The party said it had quit the alliance in protest against the three agri-marketing bills and the Centre’s “stubborn” refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers’ crops at the MSP and for the Centre’s continued “insensitivity” towards the Punjabi language and issues of the Sikh community. Shiromani Akali Dal core committee decides unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led #NDA because of the Centre’s stub… https://t.co/r92xKtDjQH— Sukhbir Singh Badal (@officeofssbadal) 1601140927000Promising to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guarding the interest of Punjab, Punjabi in general, and Sikhs and farmers in particular, Sukhbir said the decision was taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers. In a direct attack on the BJP government at the Centre, Sukhbir said with successive decisions the central government had shown its “callous insensitivity” to minority sentiments and has been indifferent to peace and communal harmony in the country, especially in Punjab.  Even after quitting the Modi government, Sukhbir said the SAD had hoped that the Centre would not press on with these “murderous assaults” on farmers and other poor sections who depend on agriculture and trade. “It seems that BJP is totally out of touch with ground realities,” he said. Senior Akali leader Dr Daljit Cheema said the decision to snap ties was taken after much deliberation, adding that the three contentious bills were passed in an undemocratic manner and are being opposed in Punjab, Haryana and other states. “We had even requested President of India Ram Nath Kovind not to approve the bills passed by Parliament,” he said. Criticising BJP for not paying heed to SAD’s repeated pleas not to force anti-farmer bills, SAD general secretary Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said there was no point in continuing in the alliance. Read AlsoFarmers' 'victory', Akali Dal had to bow before their doorstep: CongressNEW DELHI: Reacting to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) quitting the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue, the Congress on Saturday said it was the "victory" of farmers that the Akali Dal had to bow before their doorstep and break ties with the ruling coalition. The SAD is the‘No alliance important before principles’In Patiala on Saturday afternoon, Sukhbir Badal had indicated the possible snapping of ties with BJP just hours before the actual announcement when he said for his party no alliance was more important than principles. Claiming that his party was neither informed nor asked before passing the bills, he said SAD would not allow the end of the MSP regime. Read AlsoNo morality involved, just a political compulsion: Amarinder on SAD walking out of NDACHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has termed SAD's decision to quit the NDA as nothing more than a desperate case of political compulsion for the Badals, who, he said, were effectively left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism of SAD over farm Bills. Referring to his“If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it’s no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb. (sic),” Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s tweet. If Pain & Protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI, it's no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vaj… https://t.co/KRsZsV6QMq— Harsimrat Kaur Badal (@HarsimratBadal_) 1601141539000Read AlsoNew farm bill 2020: Who is protesting &amp; whyNEW DELHI: The Rajya Sabha has passed two key farm bills amid strong protests from opposition members over their demand for a division of vote on their motion to refer the legislation to a select committee. The Upper House passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion andWatch Shiromani Akali Dal pulls out of BJP-led NDA alliance over farm bills||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-quitting-govt-bjps-oldest-ally-akali-dal-walks-out-of-nda/articleshow/78340957.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||SSR portrait to light up Durga Puja pandals in Bengal||Durga Puja is less than a month away and fans and admirers of actor Sushant Singh Rajput continue to remember the actor in ever new ways. This year, various artists and Durga Puja organisers of Bengal have decided to pay tribute to the late actor through pandal decorations and the light artists of Chandannagar too are not far behind. But why SSR, we ask. “We got an order from a popular Puja organiser in Chandannagar. They wanted to pay tribute to the late actor through our lightings. We have done the drawing first and then the stencil is made. With the help of the stencil, we perforate a metal or a fibre plate and put in LED lights before colouring the plate and polishing it with varnish,” said Babu Pal, a senior light artist from Chandannagar. When contacted, Nirmal Kumar Das of the Chandannagar Puja committee said, “We all are pained by the untimely death of the young actor. We are not interested in the controversy that is taking place with regard to his death right now. We just want to remember him fondly and hope his soul rests in peace.” Another club known as Masterda Smriti Snagha, near Kolkata, has decided to decorate their pandal with Sushant's portraits drawn on traditional Kalighat patachitra saucers. While the committee refused to divulge details of the actual theme of their puja, we have learnt that the Kartik idol may be crafted to resemble the Dil Bechara and Byomkesh actor. Shimul Majumder, secretary of the club, told us that Sushant Singh Rajput was an actor who had impressed Bengalis with his portrayal for the popular fictional character Byomkesh. "More than that, his death is a loss for the entire nation. On the other hand, good-looking Bengali men are compared to Kartik, the handsome god who leads Ma Durga's army. Sushant's features and looks match the description of Kartik and that’s why we decided to portray him as Kartik in our Puja,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ssr-portrait-to-light-up-durga-puja-pandals-in-bengal/articleshow/78340623.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
September 27, 2020||India||Farmers' 'victory', Akali Dal had to bow before their doorstep: Congress||NEW DELHI: Reacting to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) quitting the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue, the Congress on Saturday said it was the "victory" of farmers that the Akali Dal had to bow before their doorstep and break ties with the ruling coalition. The SAD is the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years. Reacting to the development, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala hailed it as a "victory" of "farmers-labourers". "Supporters of black laws, Akali Dal, had to leave NDA and break ties with the Modi government," he said. "They had to bow at the doorstep of farmers-labourers," Surjewala tweeted, tagging an old clip of Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal defending the farm ordinances in an interview she gave when she was a Union minister. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, "Clearly @Akali_Dal_ was left with no choice after @BJP4India exposed that @Officeofssbadal and his SAD were fully party to Anti-Farmer legislations." "The end of the coalition is only an outcome of 3 months of deceit...of defending the indefensible and misguiding the Punjab farmer," he said. आख़िर किसान-मज़दूर की जीत हुई,काले क़ानूनों के समर्थक अकाली दल को NDA छोड़ मोदी सरकार से रिश्ता तोड़ना पड़ा,कि… https://t.co/b4asoYTRBC— Randeep Singh Surjewala (@rssurjewala) 1601142951000SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA on Saturday night, amid stepped up agitation by farmers in Punjab over the three legislations which were recently passed by Parliament amid Opposition protests. Badal's wife and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had on September 17 quit the Union Cabinet after he strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha, claiming these legislations will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-victory-akali-dal-had-to-bow-before-their-doorstep-congress/articleshow/78341412.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||PM Modi presents upbeat, forward-looking Indian agenda at UN||NEW DELHI: An assurance that India will use its vaccine production and delivery capacities for the benefit of the entire world, a strong pitch for UN reforms and a subtle message to China — that India's friendship with any country is not targeted at a third country — formed the highlights of PM Narendra Modi's virtual address to the 75th session of the UN General Assembly. While his Pakistani counterpart, Imran Khan, had stridently targeted India on the Kashmir issue in his address on Friday, Modi ignored Pakistan altogether while mentioning the need to counter terrorism and drugs in his speech which emphasised that India will not hesitate to raise its voice against "enemies of humanity". Modi spoke passionately on the need for UN reforms in his pre-recorded message as he sought to know how long was India going to be kept out of the decision-making structures of the world body despite its large population and successful democracy. He said reform in the responses, processes and in the character of the UN is the need of the hour and that every Indian, while seeing the contribution of India in the UN, aspired for India’s expanded role in the United Nations, which enjoyed a high credibility in the country. It has been 75 years since the @UN was formed. The world of 2020 is vastly different from the world of 1945. What… https://t.co/VnOUSDonno— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1601137160000"When we were strong, we did not trouble the world; when we were weak, we did not become a burden on the world. How long would a country have to wait particularly when the changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world?" he asked, adding that India was also the country that had lost the maximum number of soldiers in the course of UN peacekeeping missions. "Today, the people of India are concerned whether this reform-process will ever reach its logical conclusion," he said. Modi said the Indian pharma industry had sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries. "As the largest vaccine-producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis," he said, adding that the Indian government is moving ahead with Phase 3 clinical trials within the country and in the neighbourhood. India will do everything possible to further global good including the battle against COVID-19 pandemic. At the s… https://t.co/Tu0QGDSrgf— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1601137549000India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines, he said. Significantly, even as the border situation with China remains tense, Modi said any "gesture of friendship" by India towards one country is not against someone else and that its approach towards the Indo-Pacific is guided by a desire for security and growth for all. Both China and Russia continue to nurse reservations about the Indo-Pacific concept and see it as a US-led initiative to contain Beijing. India maintains though that the Indo-Pacific is a free, open, transparent and inclusive concept with Asean at its centre and that it excludes nobody. Modi also sought to know where the UN was in the joint fight against the novel coronavirus. "The whole world is fighting the global pandemic of corona for the last 8-9 months. Where is its (UN's) effective response?" he asked. Modi also said, in an obvious dig at China's Belt Road Initiative, that when India strengthens its development partnership, it is not with any mala fide intent of making the partner country dependent or hapless. "We have never hesitated from sharing experiences of our development," he said. Read AlsoFor how long will India be kept out of decision-making structures of UN: PM Modi at UNGA sessionPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday questioned for how long will India, the world's largest democracy and home to 1.3 billion people, be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations, asserting that reform in the responses, processes and in the very character of the globalAs India prepares to take over as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, Modi said the country will not hesitate in raising its voice against the enemies of humanity, human race and human values — terrorism, smuggling of illegal weapons, drugs and money laundering. Modi also said India is moving forward with the vision of "self-reliant India" in the changed circumstances of the post-pandemic era. "A self-reliant India will also be a force multiplier for the global economy. Today, it is also being ensured that there is no discrimination in extending the benefits of all the schemes to every citizen of the country," he said. Watch Full speech: PM Narendra Modi addresses UN General Assembly||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-presents-upbeat-forward-looking-indian-agenda-at-un/articleshow/78341583.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Bihar elections: Congress gives RJD ultimatum on seats||NEW DELHI: Congress has conveyed to Rashtriya Janata Dal that it should wind up seat-sharing negotiations within next few days and respect Congress’s choice of constituencies, with senior members saying that failure to pay heed may even result in a break-up ahead of Bihar elections. While the Congress-RJD alliance has all along appeared firm and Congress even ready to project Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial face, sources said that the party wants a ch-ange in the terms of negotiations that have been established over decades between the two partners. Congress is learned to have given a list of 75 constituencies to RJD with the wish that it should be considered as its tally. While the numbers are an issue, it is the specific seats demanded by Congress that is prolonging the negotiations. Bihar elections: Full coverage Some of the seats demanded by Congress are the ones that have a strong RJD base and are high on winnability quotient. The Yadav outfit appears reluctant to part with those seats. Congress feels that if it cannot benefit from the support base of RJD, then the alliance is not sincere. “The dragging of negotiations to the last minute, which forces Congress to accept less than acceptable terms, has been happening for very long. This time we are serious that this style has to change and RJD should accommodate our demands,” a senior Congress functionary said, adding that “if our demand is not accepted, we can go our way and forge a separate alliance.” Bihar elections: Live updatesSources said September-end is the deadline set by Congress for winding up negotiations with RJD. Top Congress functionaries said that the party is keeping all its options open with a plan B. “We have started talks with NCP, Yashwant Sinha, VIP and RLSP. We have to be ready with an alternative, “ a senior AICC member said. Congress believes that if it breaks with RJD then VIP and RLSP of Upendra Kushwaha will also not leave the alliance since Kushwaha’s objection is to Tejashwi Yadav’s projection. What is interesting is that while Congress and RJD both are trying hard to finalise the deal, the two partners have still not made a joint public statement to sound the bugle for the election in which they would be taking on the ruling combine of JD(U)-BJP. Watch Bihar polls: 'Congress prepared to contest on all 243 seats'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-elections-congress-gives-rjd-ultimatum-on-seats/articleshow/78341743.cms||---
September 27, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Congress gives RJD ultimatum on seats||NEW DELHI: Congress has conveyed to Rashtriya Janata Dal that it should wind up seat-sharing negotiations within next few days and respect Congress’s choice of constituencies, with senior members saying that failure to pay heed may even result in a break-up ahead of Bihar elections. While the Congress-RJD alliance has all along appeared firm and Congress even ready to project Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial face, sources said that the party wants a ch-ange in the terms of negotiations that have been established over decades between the two partners. Congress is learned to have given a list of 75 constituencies to RJD with the wish that it should be considered as its tally. While the numbers are an issue, it is the specific seats demanded by Congress that is prolonging the negotiations. Bihar elections: Full coverage Some of the seats demanded by Congress are the ones that have a strong RJD base and are high on winnability quotient. The Yadav outfit appears reluctant to part with those seats. Congress feels that if it cannot benefit from the support base of RJD, then the alliance is not sincere. “The dragging of negotiations to the last minute, which forces Congress to accept less than acceptable terms, has been happening for very long. This time we are serious that this style has to change and RJD should accommodate our demands,” a senior Congress functionary said, adding that “if our demand is not accepted, we can go our way and forge a separate alliance.” Bihar elections: Live updatesSources said September-end is the deadline set by Congress for winding up negotiations with RJD. Top Congress functionaries said that the party is keeping all its options open with a plan B. “We have started talks with NCP, Yashwant Sinha, VIP and RLSP. We have to be ready with an alternative, “ a senior AICC member said. Congress believes that if it breaks with RJD then VIP and RLSP of Upendra Kushwaha will also not leave the alliance since Kushwaha’s objection is to Tejashwi Yadav’s projection. What is interesting is that while Congress and RJD both are trying hard to finalise the deal, the two partners have still not made a joint public statement to sound the bugle for the election in which they would be taking on the ruling combine of JD(U)-BJP. Watch Bihar polls: 'Congress prepared to contest on all 243 seats'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bihar-elections-congress-gives-rjd-ultimatum-on-seats/articleshow/78341686.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||7-day average down 9 days in row, is India past peak?||NEW DELHI: The seven-day average of daily Covid-19 cases in India has been steadily falling for nine consecutive days from September 17 to September 26, the first time such a phase of continuous decline has been witnessed since the beginning of the outbreak. Even more hearteningly, this is despite the seven-day average of tests having increased from 10.7 lakh on September 17 to 11.2 lakh on September 25, the last date for which data is available. On September 17, the seven-day average of daily cases had reached 93,199 — the highest since the outbreak of the disease. Since then it has fallen to 85,131, according to data available with European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). There have been previous instances of a fall in the seven-day average of daily cases, but never for more than two consecutive days. On September 17, the seven-day average of daily cases had reached 93,199 — the highest since the outbreak of the disease. Since then it has fallen to 85,131, according to data available with European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). There have been previous instances of a fall in the seven-day average of daily cases, but never for more than two consecutive days. Does it mean that the worst is behind us in India? That would be difficult to say, as a comparison with other countries shows that cases have risen steadily after long stretches of continuous falls. For example, the US reached its first peak on April 11, when the 7-day average of cases reached 31,942. It then fell more or less steadily to reach 20,638 on May 29. It then started rising again to reach another peak on July 20 when the 7-day average was 66,903. It fell again to 34,320 by September 13, but another ongoing surge has taken the average to 44,109 on September 26. Russia, Spain, France and the UK are also witnessing an increase in cases after long, continuous stretches of decline. Coronavirus in India: Full coverageThis, however, also doesn’t mean that the average of cases will definitely increase in India. Among the 10 countries with the highest number of total cases, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and South Africa haven’t so far seen a second peak once their daily averages started falling. Brazil and South Africa reached their peak values of daily cases in end-July and haven’t seen those levels being reached since. Colombia and Mexico reached their peak values in August and there has not been a second wave in these countries as well. We have used 7-day averages rather than single day figures because testing levels and hence also daily cases vary widely from one day to the next. Averaging it out over seven days thus gives a better picture of trends. Data from states suggests India cannot afford to lower its guard yet as some states are going through a decrease in daily average of cases, some are witnessing an increase while there are a few that have seen multiple peaks and troughs. Covid-19 in India: Live updatesThankfully, the 7-day average of cases has started to fall in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, the states that have reported the highest cases so far. Among other large states, poll-bound Bihar is going through a steady decline in cases since the middle of August. Worryingly though, Kerala, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha are witnessing a steady increase in daily cases. Assam, Telangana and Delhi have shown that there can be multiple peaks, highlighting why it’s foolhardy to assume that once cases start dropping they will necessarily continue to do so. Watch Covid-19: 7-day average down 9 days in row, is India past peak?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-day-average-down-9-days-in-row-is-india-past-peak/articleshow/78341805.cms||Atul Thakur
September 27, 2020||India||We have parity with PLA, can give befitting reply: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said India’s armed forces have improved capabilities to achieve parity with China’s PLA and can give befitting response to any provocation. “Today, in 2020, Indian armed forces engage with Chinese forces on equal footing and have developed strong capabilities to give a befitting reply to those who cast evil eye on the country,” Singh said while delivering the key-note address on “Self-Reliant India”, organised by Rajasthan BJP, to mark the birth anniversary of party’s ideologue late Deendayal Upadhyaya. LAC stand-off: Complete coverageSingh’s remark came against the backdrop of the Army’s successful manoeuvre in taking control of strategic heights in the Pangong lake region of Ladakh and the warning to PLA commanders that jawans will not flinch from resorting to firing in the event of Chinese aggression. The minister said that the focus on improving the military muscle was in keeping with the Jan Sangh founder’s 6-point vision for national rejuvenation. “Deendayal ji had suggested that the country should be capable of self defence. Very few people know that as a thinker, he had several valuable suggestions on a strategic front other than economy,” the defence minister said. Singh said Upadhyaya had a firm belief that economic policy will be handicapped without the country’s dedicated strategic policy. Read AlsoRajnath to dedicate 43 bridges in seven states and UTs on ThursdayNEW DELHI: As many as 43 bridges built in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir will be dedicated to the nation by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday, officials said. Most of the 43 bridges, including seven in Ladakh,“No country can be self reliant without paying attention to strategic issues. Only a good, coordinated planning, combining strategic and economic policies can fulfil India’s pledge of becoming self-reliant,” he said. He said the RSS ideologue had suggested that India should become self-reliant in the defence sector in 1962, the time when India had suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of China. Read AlsoWe need to have trust in our armed forces' ability to secure our interests: JaishankarAmid the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said it was an ongoing issue and "we need to have trust in our armed forces and their ability to secure our interests". Jaishankar said there is also a need to have trust in the ability of theSingh said soon after China conducted nuclear tests in 1964, Upadhyaya had suggested that India should also become a nuclear country. “He was the only leader in India who talked about credible nuclear deterrence. When nuclear tests were conducted under the leadership of Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 1998, it was done only to demonstrate the country as a nuclear deterrent. That exercise played a vital role in making the armed forces confident,” Rajanth said. Singh spoke about the farm bills saying steps taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have a far-reaching impact on making farmers self-reliant and doubling their income. Watch We have parity with PLA, can give befitting reply: Rajnath Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-have-parity-with-pla-can-give-befittinng-reply-rajnath-singh/articleshow/78342020.cms||---
September 27, 2020||---||Kushwaha’s party, BJP hold seat-sharing talks||PATNA: In the run-up to the Bihar assembly polls, initial seat-sharing talks between BJP and the Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP have begun. Party insiders confirmed the development but said that no conditions have been put formally by either side. Sources said that if things moved smoothly, the agreement reached over the seats to be shared by RLSP would be in the public domain “in the next one or two days”. The seat-sharing formula will be resolved in Delhi, said a source. Replying to the query on how many seats RLSP has demanded, the source said, “It is too early to say how many seats would be given to RLSP. An initial round of talks has been held and will continue further. In two days, we will be able to say anything concrete on the matter (sic). In politics, doors are not closed.” Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora had announced the Bihar assembly election schedule on Friday, and said that the notification for the first phase would be issued on October 1. At the state BJP headquarters, Union minister and BJP publicity in-charge Ravi Shankar Prasad did not divulge any details when asked if the outcome of the seat-sharing talks among the NDA partners would be known before October 1. Kushwaha had quit the grand alliance (mahagathbandhan) this week due to delay in seat-sharing talks with RJD. The unstated reason, as political observers said, was that Kushwaha had demanded 36 seats to contest, but RJD was willing to concede only 12. Going by that, BJP may not offer RLSP more than 10 seats in the elections, while it had contested 22 seats in the 2015 assembly election as an NDA partner, observers felt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/kushwahas-party-bjp-hold-seat-sharing-talks/articleshow/78342069.cms||Abhay Singh
September 27, 2020||India||Kushwaha’s party, BJP hold seat-sharing talks||PATNA: In the run-up to the Bihar assembly polls, initial seat-sharing talks between BJP and the Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP have begun. Party insiders confirmed the development but said that no conditions have been put formally by either side. Sources said that if things moved smoothly, the agreement reached over the seats to be shared by RLSP would be in the public domain “in the next one or two days”. The seat-sharing formula will be resolved in Delhi, said a source. Replying to the query on how many seats RLSP has demanded, the source said, “It is too early to say how many seats would be given to RLSP. An initial round of talks has been held and will continue further. In two days, we will be able to say anything concrete on the matter (sic). In politics, doors are not closed.” Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora had announced the Bihar assembly election schedule on Friday, and said that the notification for the first phase would be issued on October 1. At the state BJP headquarters, Union minister and BJP publicity in-charge Ravi Shankar Prasad did not divulge any details when asked if the outcome of the seat-sharing talks among the NDA partners would be known before October 1. Kushwaha had quit the grand alliance (mahagathbandhan) this week due to delay in seat-sharing talks with RJD. The unstated reason, as political observers said, was that Kushwaha had demanded 36 seats to contest, but RJD was willing to concede only 12. Going by that, BJP may not offer RLSP more than 10 seats in the elections, while it had contested 22 seats in the 2015 assembly election as an NDA partner, observers felt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kushwahas-party-bjp-hold-seat-sharing-talks/articleshow/78342070.cms||Abhay Singh
September 27, 2020||India||India feels absence of a PM with depth of Manmohan, says Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: On the 88th birthday of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress whipped up its campaign that there was a lack of leadership in the country under the BJP regime, even as it accused the Modi government of betraying farmers and workers. Wishing the former premier, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Dr Manmohan Singh. His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all.” Addressing farmers as part of Congress’s online campaign “speak up” against the controversial farm bills, Rahul Gandhi said in a video, “You are being turned into slaves of corporate houses. The three dangerous laws are designed to finish you. I warn the government if farmers take to the streets, it will cause tremendous damage; please withdraw these laws and guarantee the MSP.” Congress termed the three labour codes brought in by Modi government as “anti-labour”, alleging they have removed the security net available to workers besides weakening the trade unions which provide them a protective umbrella. It said the new laws had again proved that the BJP regime was beholden to corporates and urged all the political parties to oppose them. Addressing a press conference, AICC leader Mallikarjun Kharge said, “The bills have weakened trade unions and finished the security and safety for the workers. States’ powers have been usurped by the Central government with these laws. These codes are anti-worker, anti-labourer and it is important to agitate against them.” Indian National Trade Union Congress president G Sanjeeva Reddy said, “We will protest and struggle against these unjust, anti-labour and anti-trade union laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-feels-absence-of-a-pm-with-depth-of-manmohan-says-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/78342097.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||India slams Pakistan PM at UNGA for terror export||NEW DELHI: After Pakistan PM Imran Khan again raised the Kashmir issue at UNGA, India slammed Pakistan saying terrorism was its only crowning glory. Exercising its Right of Reply, the Indian mission also accused Khan of warmongering and of using the multilateral forum to spread lies, misinformation and malice. “This august forum witnessed a new low on its 75th anniversary. The leader of Pakistan today called for those who incite hate and violence to be outlawed. But as he went on, we were left wondering, was he referring to himself?” said Mijito Vinito, the first secretary in the permanent mission of India to the UN, Mijito Vinito, exercising India's Right of Reply. The only crowning glory, he said, that this country has to show to the world for the last 70 years is terrorism, ethnic cleansing, majoritarian fundamentalism and clandestine nuclear trade. “This hall heard the incessant rant of someone who had nothing to show for himself, who had no achievements to speak of and no reasonable suggestion to offer to the world. Instead, we saw lies, misinformation, war mongering and malice spread through this Assembly,” he added. Pakistan later exercised its right of reply too, in which it claimed that Jammu & Kashmir was never a part of India. Alluding to the “stellar record” of Pakistan, Vinito said this is the country that has the “dubious distinction” of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations, a reference to terror masterminds such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) head Masood Azhar. “This is the same country that provides pensions for dreaded and listed terrorists out of state funds. The leader whom we heard today is the same person who referred to terrorist Osama Bin Laden as a ‘martyr’ in the Pakistani Parliament in July,” Vinito said. He added that it is Pakistan that brought genocide to south Asia 39 years ago when it killed its own people and it is also the country that is “shameless enough” not to offer a sincere apology for the horrors it perpetratedeven after so many years. India asserted in its Right of Reply that Khan, “who spewed venom today”, admitted in 2019 in public in the US that his country still has about 30,000-40,000 terrorists, who have been trained by Pakistan and have fought in Afghanistan and in the Indian Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. “This is the country that has systematically cleansed its minorities , including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs and others, through the abuse of its blasphemy laws and through forced religious conversions,” Vinito said. Watch Terrorism Pakistan's 'only crowning glory' for 70 years: India at UN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slams-pakistan-pm-at-unga-for-terror-export/articleshow/78342107.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Congress may rope in Prashant Kishor for 2022 Punjab election||NEW DELHI: Pollster Prashant Kishor may get to manage Congress in the Punjab elections scheduled for early 2022. Party sources said CM Amarinder Singh is in talks with the former JD(U) member and election strategist, and a decision may be announced soon. While Kishor is likely to get the contract for advance poll planning in the state, Congress members said he could even get an official perch to manage the affairs. Kishor had widely been credited with helping Congress ride back to power in the state in 2017. A senior AICC manager said the talks are being held by the chief minister and that the party is not involved in the negotiations. While speculations about Kishor coming on board the Congress campaign in Punjab have been on for a while, it is only now it appears to be reaching a finality. Having been expelled from JD(U) following a scrap with Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, Kishor is said to be on the lookout for a new political platform – a reason why there are also speculations that he is looking for an entry in Congress. Well-placed sources in Congress said Kishor has a direct line with the Gandhi siblings, a reason why not many are willing to hazard a guess about the pollster. There is some confusion in Congress ranks about Kishor. Sources said a possible reason for CM Singh to get Kishor on board in Punjab would be to ensure that he does not work for Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP, which is set to make a strong pitch in the state in the next polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-may-rope-in-prashant-kishor-for-2022-punjab-election/articleshow/78342110.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Govt will need 80,000 crore for Covid vaccine, says Serum CEO||MUMBAI: The government may need Rs 80,000 crore over the next one year for distribution of Covid-19 vaccine and immunization of the country’s population, Adar Poonawalla, CEO and promoter of the world’s largest vaccine producer, Serum Institute, said on Saturday. Calling it the “next concerning challenge”, which needs to be tackled, Poonawalla posted a tweet tagging the Prime Minister’s Office, which read: “We need to plan and guide vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution.” Serum has tie ups with global manufacturers AstraZeneca and Novavax for potential Covid-19 vaccines, which are currently undergoing clinical trials. The tweet, perceived by many as alarming, also raised concerns over the government’s ability to fund the massive vaccine programme. “The government has assured that there will be plenty of funds available for vaccines. We have now been assured by the highest levels in the government that enough funds will be available for vaccine procurement, supply and logistics. This is good news,” Poonawalla told TOI, when contacted. While addressing the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday PM Modi said that as the world’s largest vaccine producing country, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help people across the world. Although further details on Poonawala’s calculations were not immediately available, sources said, it could be assuming the benchmark price of $3-5 per dose, and including two doses for the over 1.3 billion population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-will-need-80000-crore-for-covid-vaccine-says-serum-ceo/articleshow/78342122.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 27, 2020||World||Trump announces 'brilliant' conservative judge Barrett as Supreme Court pick||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Saturday announced conservative appellate judge Amy Coney Barrett as his third U.S. Supreme Court appointment, setting off a scramble in the Republican-led Senate to confirm her before Election Day in 5-1/2 weeks. Barrett appeared at the White House with Trump as he made the announcement. "Today it is my honor to nominate one of our nation's most brilliant and gifted legal minds to the Supreme Court," Trump said. Turning to Barrett, Trump said that "you are very eminently qualified for the job." She and her lawyer husband have seven children, two of whom were adopted from Haiti, and they joined her at the ceremony in the White House Rose Garden. If confirmed to replace liberal icon Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died at age 87 on Sept. 18, Barrett would become the fifth woman ever to serve on the top U.S. judicial body and push its conservative majority to a commanding 6-3. With Trump's fellow Republicans controlling the Senate, confirmation appears certain, though Democrats may try to make the process as difficult as possible. "I love the United States and I love the United States Constitution," Barrett said, adding that she was "deeply honored" in the confidence that Trump had shown in her. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell issued a statement Saturday praising the nomination. "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an exceptionally impressive jurist and an exceedingly well-qualified nominee to the Supreme Court of the United States," McConnell said. Barrett, 48, was appointed by Trump to the Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 2017 and is a favorite of religious conservatives, a key Trump voter bloc. Conservative activists have hailed Trump's selection, which surfaced on Friday night, while liberals have voiced dismay. Like Trump's two other appointees, Neil Gorsuch in 2017 and Brett Kavanaugh in 2018, Barrett is young enough that she could serve for decades. Barrett is the youngest Supreme Court nominee since conservative Clarence Thomas was 43 in 1991. The White House ceremony was decorated with American flags arranged in a way similar to the day when President Bill Clinton nominated Ginsburg in 1993. The selection kicks off a flurry of activity that must take place before the final confirmation vote, including public hearings in the coming weeks before the Senate Judiciary Committee. A White House source said the nominee on Tuesday will begin the traditional courtesy calls on individual senators in their offices, with McConnell up first. White House Counsel Pat Cipollone is expected to shepherd the nomination. Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, who mounted an angry defense of Kavanaugh during tense confirmation hearings in 2018, has signaled he expects to have Barrett confirmed as a justice by the Nov. 3 election in which Trump is seeking a second term. Democrats are still furious over McConnell's 2016 refusal to consider President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nomination of Merrick Garland because it came during an election year. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has said the winner of the election should get to replace Ginsburg. Republicans hold a 53-47 Senate majority. Only two Republican senators have opposed proceeding with the confirmation process. Abortion rights advocates have voiced concern that Barrett, a devout Roman Catholic, could cast a vote for overturning the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling legalizing abortion nationwide. Jeanne Mancini, president of March for Life, an anti-abortion group, in a statement on Saturday expressed confidence that Barrett "will fairly apply the law and Constitution as written, which includes protecting the most vulnerable in our nation: our unborn children." Brian Burch, president of CatholicVote, a faith-based advocacy group, added, "Catholics are thrilled with the expected nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett and believe she represents the best choice to protect the rule of law and our constitutional rights." Abortion rights groups and other liberal-leaning organizations announced plans for a protest against her nomination on Sunday in front of the Supreme Court. Barrett has staked out conservative legal positions in three years on the bench, voting in favor of one of Trump's hardline immigration policies and showing support for expansive gun rights. She also authored a ruling making it easier for college students accused of campus sexual assaults to sue their institutions. Born in New Orleans, Barrett received her law degree from Notre Dame Law School, a Catholic institution in Indiana. The other finalist mentioned by Trump to fill the vacancy was Barbara Lagoa, a Cuban-American federal appeals court judge from Florida who he appointed last year. ELECTION-RELATED CASES Trump has said he wants his nominee confirmed before the election so she would be able participate in any election-related cases that reach the justices, potentially casting a key vote in his favor. A U.S. presidential election's outcome only once has been determined by the Supreme Court, in 2000 when it clinched Republican George W. Bush's victory over Democrat Al Gore. Trump has repeatedly without evidence said voting by mail, a regular feature of American elections, will lead to voter fraud. He also has refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power should he lose the election. This marks the first time since 1956 that a U.S. president has moved to fill a Supreme Court vacancy so close to an election. In that year, President Dwight Eisenhower three weeks before winning re-election placed William Brennan on the court using a procedure called a "recess appointment" that bypassed the Senate, a tactic no longer available for installing justices. An emboldened Supreme Court conservative majority could shift the United States to the right on hot-button issues by, among other things, curbing abortion rights, expanding religious rights, striking down gun control laws, and endorsing new restrictions on voting rights. Watch Trump plays coy on Barrett pick for Supreme Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-announces-brilliant-conservative-judge-barrett-as-supreme-court-pick/articleshow/78342135.cms||---
September 27, 2020||World||Biden urges US Senate not to confirm Supreme Court nominee before election||WASHINGTON: Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Saturday called on the US Senate to refrain from confirming President Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee until after the November 3 election. "The Senate should not act on this vacancy until after the American people select their next president and the next Congress," Biden said, just moments after Trump announced his nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to replace the late liberal justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Trump predicted that Barrett, a staunch conservative, will get a "very quick" confirmation in the Republican-controlled senate. Barrett is "a jurist with a written track record of disagreeing with the Court's decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act," the healthcare plan known as Obamacare that was adopted when Biden was vice president, the Democrat said in a statement. Trump has been trying to end Obamacare "for four years," Biden said, but twice the Supreme Court "upheld the law as constitutional. "But even now, in the midst of a global health pandemic, the Trump Administration is asking the US Supreme Court to overturn the entire law, including its protections for people with pre-existing conditions," Biden said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-urges-us-senate-not-to-confirm-supreme-court-nominee-before-election/articleshow/78342154.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Socio-economic cost of a road death Rs 91L, Rs 3.6L for those grievously injured||NEW DELHI: The average socio-economic impact or cost of every person dying in a road crash was around Rs 91 lakh and it’s close to Rs 3.6 lakh in the case of each victim left with grievous injuries during 2018, a study commissioned by the road transport and highways ministry has found. Going by the government’s report on fatalities and injuries, it has estimated the total impact at Rs 1.47 lakh crore during 2018 when 1.51 lakh people were killed and 4.69 lakh were left with grievous and minor injuries. However, considering that there is under reporting of fatalities and injuries, the study has also projected loss to the tune of Rs 5.9 lakh crore, which is 3.1% of the GDP. The study was carried out by the TRIPP of IIT(Delhi) and DIMTS, which has come out with three different estimates of the socio-economic impact under three scenarios. The third estimate is based on the Global Burden of Disease (GDB) Study and the impact has been estimated close to Rs 8.63 lakh crore. This is the second such study after 1999 to quantify the total economic loss due to road crashes, fatalities and injuries. Such studies are carried out across the world frequently to prepare strategies to see how with less investment in creating safe infrastructure and enforcement rules, huge cost in terms of lives and the socio-economic loss can be prevented. The report is yet to be made public and the ministry is going through the report. Sources said the estimates have been calculated taking into account medical expenses, loss of income which is also known as lost output cost, pain, grief and suffering, damage to vehicle, public asset and administrative costs. The total impact in financial terms has been arrived at using the human capital approach method, which uses the present value of expected future earnings to estimate the potential loss to society, if an individual dies or becomes permanently disabled. It has also taken into account other studies across the globe and also in India. TOI has learnt that major share in the socio economic impact of fatalities in road crashes is on account of lost output cost, which is nearly Rs 74 lakh per person while in the case of grievous injuries more than 50% of the share of the cost is towards medical expenses. The report has also highlighted how the share of victim-related costs is about 98% of the total cost of road crashes and 70% of the entire accident cost is towards victims in the age group of 18-45 years. Sources said the study was done after collecting primary data from police stations across 14 cities and 53 hospitals spread across 20 cities. It has also revealed that 78% of the cost of all accident victims is towards two-wheeler drivers and pedestrians, who are most vulnerable and need attention of the government to improve enforcement of laws, improving infrastructure and healthcare services. Watch Socio-economic impact of road deaths cost 3.1% of India's GDP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/socio-economic-cost-of-a-road-death-91l-3-6l-for-those-grievously-injured/articleshow/78342159.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 27, 2020||India||India to support Sri Lanka boost its defence, security||NEW DELHI: Kicking off the first virtual bilateral summit in the neighbourhood, India and Sri Lanka sought to advance defence and security cooperation, while India promised to consider Colombo’s request for delayed debt repayment and a $1 billion currency swap arrangement. PM Modi met his Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa virtually on Saturday morning. According to an official readout of the summit by MEA joint secretary (Indian Ocean Region) Amit Narang, PM Modi emphasised that implementation of the 13th amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution is essential for carrying forward the process of peace and reconciliation. “PM Modi called on the new government in Sri Lanka to work towards realising the expectations of Tamils for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka by achieving reconciliation nurtured by implementation of the constitutional provisions,” he said. Narang added India’s focus areas with Sri Lanka are defence and security, Buddhism and economic development. “The outcomes of the Summit are substantial, forward looking and also help to set an ambitious agenda for bilateral ties,” he said. “Under neighbourhood first policy and SAGAR Doctrine, we will give priority to Sri Lanka,” Modi told his counterpart in his opening remarks. Sri Lanka has requested for a $1 billion currency swap arrangement with India (India had, earlier this year, done a $400 million swap) and a delayed debt repayment schedule. India agreed to support Sri Lanka in defence and security, “strengthen the mutual cooperation on personnel exchange and training, maritime security cooperation.” Indian Coast Guard and Indian Navy recently helped to douse a major fire on a tanker MT Diamond off the Lankan coast. However, there was no word on whether the Eastern Container Terminal (ECT) deal, which Rajapaksa had promised to review, would go to India and Japan as originally agreed. There was also no meeting point on the impasse regarding the Trincomalee container terminals, which has been hanging fire. Questioned, Narang stuck to generalities about the discussions being “positive and constructive.” Modi also announced a grant assistance of $15 million for the promotion of Buddhist ties between the two countries. Rajapaksa invited Modi to inaugurate the Jaffa Cultural Centre, set up with Indian assistance. Narang indicated that India shared its assessments of the Ladakh crisis with the Lankan leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-support-sri-lanka-boost-its-defence-security/articleshow/78342188.cms||---
September 27, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey meets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, triggers speculations||PATNA: Four days after taking voluntary retirement from service (VRS), former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey called on CM Nitish Kumar at the JD(U) office here on Saturday, triggering speculations about his joining politics to contest the state assembly election. Pandey, however, said he was yet to take a decision on either joining politics or contesting election. “I had no political talks (with the CM). I came here (JDU office) to meet CM Nitish and thank him for giving me absolute freedom in performing my duties as the DGP,” Pandey told mediapersons. When asked whether he would contest from Buxar assembly constituency or Bagaha, Pandey said, “I have yet not taken any decision on contesting polls.” Though the former DGP is keeping his cards close to the chest, political circles in Bihar are agog with speculations that Pandey, a Brahmin, would contest either assembly polls from any Brahmin-dominated constituency in Bhojpur or Buxar district, or the parliamentary byelection from Valmikinagar seat, which fell vacant after the death of JD(U)’s MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahato. Sources said Pandey, a native of Buxar, would most probably be the NDA candidate either from Buxar or Brahmapur or Shahpur in the neighbouring Bhojpur district. All these three are Brahmin-dominated assembly constituencies. “In the 2015 assembly election, the grand alliance had won all these three seats against BJP candidates. If these seats fall in the BJP kitty among the NDA partners, Pandey may be asked to join BJP to contest from either of the seats. This is the reason why Pandey is not disclosing his next move,” a senior NDA leader told TOI on Saturday. A senior JD(U) leader said the ruling party was also considering Pandey’s name for the parliamentary bypoll from Valmikinagar, but a final decision would be taken by the top NDA leaders as RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha has now expressed his desire to contest that seat after joining the NDA camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ex-dgp-meets-nitish-triggers-speculations/articleshow/78339609.cms||Madan Kumar
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||Lawyer killed in Gujarat's Rapar, assassin held from Mumbai||RAJKOT: A 50-year-old lawyer was stabbed to death in his office on a busy road in Rapar town of Kutch district on Friday late evening, allegedly over taking up a case pertaining to a property dispute involving two warring factions of a community. Devji Maheshwari, who had been practising for the past two decades, parked his car outside his ground floor office on a busy road. Just when Maheshwari entered the office, one man followed him and stabbed him repeatedly. CCTV images show the man following him. Maheshwari died minutes after being hospitalized. On Saturday, the assailant identified as Bharat Rawal was nabbed from Mumbai by a team of Kutch police and Mumbai crime branch. In all, six people have been detained for the murder. Mayur Patil, superintendent of police Kutch (east), told TOI: “We had specific information that the prime accused seen in the CCTV footage following Maheshwari had escaped to Mumbai as he works there. We sent one team to Mumbai on Friday evening and nabbed him with the help of the local crime branch. He will be brought here by Sunday morning.” Police said that Rawal had specially come down to Rapar to commit the murder. Ten teams formed by the Kutch police also nabbed Jaysukh Luhar, Khimji Luhar, Dhaval Luhar, Devubha Sodha and Mayursinh Vaghela who were named in the complaint lodged by Maheshwari's wife Meenakshi. Officials said the dispute was regarding the sale of Luhar community hall by its officebearers to some other community. One faction of the community, however, was against the sale. The members of both factions had also lodged cross-complaints alleging physical assault and vandalizing the property 10 days ago. Maheshwari had taken up the case of the faction that opposed the property sale. Maheshwari’s murder had sparked off angry protests by the Dalit community members who had blocked several roads across Kutch district including Bhuj-Lakhpat highway, Gandhidham town, Madhapar village and Mundra, demanding justice. Inspector general of police (IGP), border range, JR Mothaliya said the exact motive of the murder will established once the accused are interrogated. Maheshwari was also a member of All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF) and Gujarat in-charge Indian National Association of Legal Professionals, said Waman Meshram, national president of BAMCEF, in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lawyer-killed-in-rapar-assassin-held-from-mumbai/articleshow/78341017.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||Surat may lose its two low-cost fabric varieties to Maharashtra||SURAT: Surat’s loss is Bhiwandi’s gain. An acute shortage of migrant workers in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) industry may translate into a huge loss for the powerloom weavers. The reason: The manufacturing of two important fabric varieties including ultra satin and sand crepe —non-twisted fabric varieties — are likely to be shifted to the powerloom weaving clusters in Bhiwandi and Navapur in Maharashtra. According to the powerloom weavers, out of the total 25,000 powerloom weavers in Surat, only 400 weavers are manufacturing sand crepe and ultra satin fabrics. Surat’s powerloom industry is the largest supplier of ultra satin and sand crepe fabrics in the country. The ultra satin fabrics are used in mandap cover, tent cover and gate for wedding receptions and ladies garments including gown and saris. On the other hand, the sand crepe fabrics are used in the manufacturing of inner wears and beach wear garments. Post lockdown, about 80% of the powerloom units manufacturing the fabric variety are yet to reopen due to the acute shortage of workers. The 20% units, which have been made operational post-lockdown, are manufacturing less than 1 lakh metre of fabric per month. During the pre-Covid times, the monthly production of ultra satin and sand crèpe fabric put together was pegged at 30 lakh metres worth Rs 6 crore. Chairman of Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI) Bharat Gandhi told TOI: “Surat is the largest supplier of beach wear and mandap fabrics. The production of fabric has come to a standstill in Surat due to the acute shortage of workers.” Gandhi added, “On the other hand, the wholesale markets in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata, which are the biggest customers of satin and crepe fabric are yet to reopen. It is feared that if this continues for long, then Surat may lose its fabric varieties to neighbouring clusters of Bhiwandi and Navapur.” The manufacturing of sand crepe and ultra satin fabric is done by the skilled workers from Odisha. Since it is a non-twisted fabric and low-cost variety, powerloom weavers in other centres in Bhiwandi and Navapur are yet to lay their hands on it. The reason why ultra satin and crepe fabric are manufactured in Surat is the fact that Surat is the biggest manufacturer of specialised polyester yarn used in the fabric. The easy availability of raw material has given the edge to the powerloom weavers of Surat from other centres. Rajnish Lilah, a powerloom weaver manufacturing ultra satin fabric in its unit in Udhana, said, “In the pre-Covid times, we were manufacturing 50,000 metres of Ultra Satin fabric per month. I have not reopened the unit post-lockdown due to the shortage of workers. Ultra Satin fabric is the cheapest variety sold for Rs 20 per metre and that the wholesalers in Delhi and Mumbai want us to supply for less than Rs 15 per metre. However, we have kept the unit shut.” “Other powerloom centres including Bhiwandi, Navapur, Malegaon, Ichalkaranji,Ludhinia, Panipat and Varanasi have improved their operational efficiency by almost 80%. Surat’s powerloom sector is still lagging behind with just 45% capacity. However, the low-cost varieties of ultra satin and sand crepe may migrate to the neighbouring centres in Maharashtra in the coming days due to the acute shortage of workers.” Ashish Gujarati | president of Pandesara Weavers Association (PWA) “My 48 powerloom machines are shut post-lockdown due to the shortage of skilled workers from Odisha. The production of ultra satin fabric has come to a grinding halt. If this continues for long, the fabric variety may get shifted to other powerloom centres.” Raju Punjabi | powerloom unit owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-may-lose-its-two-low-cost-fabric-varieties-to-maha/articleshow/78341097.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Study likely to help in treatment of fluoride-contaminated water||PATNA: Alum, locally known as ‘fitkari’ and a compound of aluminium, has long been used as ‘aftershave’ by common man owing to its antiseptic property. Now, yet another compound of aluminium — alumina — is likely to find even a greater use in the treatment of fluoride-contaminated water soon. The findings of a recent study made jointly by the scientists of Nalanda University (NU) and Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) have revealed that alumina could be a favourable material for optimal removal of fluoride ions from waste water. Adsorption of fluoride is a sophisticated but cheaper technology that requires adoption of suitable design and operational parameters for wastewater treatment, according to the study. The findings of the research made by Rakesh Kumar and Prabhakar Sharma of School of Ecology and Environment Studies at NU and Abhay Kumar Aman and Rakesh Kumar Singh of the Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology at AKU have been published in the September issue of international journal ‘Desalination and Water Treatment’. Giving details of the findings, Rakesh said alumina is a ceramic oxide having the extensive potential for water purification, as it possesses unique properties, including high surface area and sorption capacity. The most important property of the compound on nano scale found during research was that an electromagnetic force becomes dominant between activated alumina and fluoride ions and due to this reason activated alumina was found to be a good adsorbent for wastewater treatment. “X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy measurements indicated that materials in nano metre range facilitated fluoride desorption due to strong electromagnetic force and ion exchange. The reusability of activated alumina adsorbent makes the fluoride sorption cost-effective. So, the outcomes in this study establish that activated alumina can be efficient and appropriate adsorbent for sorption of fluoride ions from the contaminated water,” he said. About 26 crore people are affected by fluoride contamination globally, including a sizeable population in India. The people of as many as 12 districts of Bihar, including Aurangabad, Banka, Buxar, Gaya, Jamui, Kaimur, Munger, Nawada, Rohtas and Supaul, are drinking fluoride-contaminated water (water having fluoride concentration in excess of the permissible limit of 1.5 mg/l). If this recent method of treatment of fluoride contaminated water is successful in treating the contaminated water at an affordable cost, it would certainly prove a boon for the poor people of the state, said Geological Survey of India’s retired director N Dayal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/study-likely-to-help-in-treatment-of-fluoride-contaminated-water/articleshow/78339485.cms||B K Mishra
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 35 lakh first-time voters to play key role this election||PATNA: More than 7.29 crore people, including 3.39 crore women and 2,344 third gender, will exercise their franchise in the three-phase state assembly elections, the schedule for which was announced by the  Commission of India (ECI) on Friday. At least 35 lakh voters will participate in the democratic exercise for the first time in the state, ECI sources said. Abhishek Anand, a resident of A G Colony here and a first-time voter, said he would cast his vote in favour of the candidate who has the vision to ensure proper sanitation and cleanliness in the city. “Garbage collection does take place, but it is not properly organised. Waterlogging is a perennial problem in our locality,” he said. Abhishek Dhar of Ashiana Nagar said flood menace in north Bihar, waterlogging and sanitation issues would drive his voting choice. “We in Patna are still safe. However, those living in north Bihar districts suffer from floods every year. This needs to be resolved,” he said. Dhar said he voted for first time in 2019 general election and it would be his first assembly election as a voter. Pragya Jha, who will exercise her franchise in Saharsa, said her choice would be the one who addresses the issue of unemployment. “The results of an examination conducted by Bihar Staff Selection Commission two years ago are still pending,” she added. Anju Shrivastava, a housewife from A G Colony, said though liquor prohibition, girl education and discouraging dowry were some of the good steps taken by the state government, their implementation could have been better. Another housewife, Neeta Sinha from Gardanibagh, said the next government should bring necessary changes to usher in all-round development in the state. “Liquor prohibition has not shown desired results at the ground level yet,” she said. Sociologist D M Diwakar said this election would be decisive for Nitish Kumar. “Anti-incumbency and reverse migration would be major factors. Those who had returned during lockdown have some expectations from the next government,” Diwakar said. “For young voters, employment, education and timely examinations are major factors. “There is lack of teachers in government schools and colleges yet. Educated youths should realise that there are still employment opportunities for them in state,” Diwakar added. He said development would also be a big issue. “There is no doubt that road connectivity and power supply have improved in the state. However, there is no respite from flood menace in the state yet and agricultural growth has also remained poor. Crop growth rate is negative in the state. The fact that Nitish has supported passage of farm Bills in the Parliament will have an impact on the election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/35-lakh-first-time-voters-to-play-key-role-this-election/articleshow/78339590.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 27, 2020||Vadodara||Man moves court against PI, VMC for closed gate on TP road||Vadodara: The controversy over closing one of the gates of Samarpan residential society on Vasna road has snowballed into a court battle as one of the residents has alleged that 15 residents, among whom are also office-bearers of the society, closed the gate with support of the police inspector D K Vaghela and town development officer Jitesh Trivedi, closed access of a nine-metre road which is part of civic body’s town planning (TP) scheme. Vinay Shah also filed an application against the 15 other residents, inspector of JP Road police station and town development officer of Vadodara Municipal Corporation in this regard. The complainant has requested the court to pass an order for registering an offence under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Ordinance for allegedly grabbing a public road and a plot reserved by VMC for a playground. Shah approached the court on September 19 as his and other residents’ complaint were not taken up by police department. In his complaint, Shah said that by closing the gate, they have also barred the access to the playground, Shah said. The gate was closed on August 17. On September 10, the land estate branch of the civic body had given a notice to the office-bearers of the society to remove the gate from the road. However, no action was taken after that. Shah has also stated in his complaint that to grab the land the residents have tried to create differences between people from two different religions living in the society. “They have restricted public from accessing a TP road which is the property of VMC and not of society. After closing the gate, a stretch of 182 metre is now being used for their personal use as a walking track, which is illegal,” said Shah’s advocate S F Khatri. The society has remained in controversy as just last month one of the property owners in it had concealed his religion to sell the property to a person from another religion. In November last year too, a businessman had to call off the deal to sell his bungalow to a person from the minority community, following angry protests by other residents. The society falls under Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Eviction from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act prohibits sale of property in an area covered under the act to a person from different religion without permission from the district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-moves-court-against-pi-vmc-for-closed-gate-on-tp-road/articleshow/78338775.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||Citizens seen red over rising prices of green||Surat: As if Covid-19 pandemic was not enough, the skyrocketing prices of vegetables are now adding to people’s troubles. In the last few of days, the prices of most vegetables have almost doubled because of the shortage of fresh stock due to heavy rains in Maharashtra and South Gujarat region, which has destroyed the standing crops at several places. Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) sources said the supply in the market yard has decreased by almost 40% in the last few days, resulting in the spike of vegetables in the wholesale and the retail markets. Prices of commonly consumed vegetables like cluster beans, French beans, cabbage and even brinjal have almost tripled in the retail market. The green peas, which were selling for Rs 70 per kg till last week, has increased to Rs 240 per kg. APMC secretary Nilesh Thorat told TOI, “Against the requirement of about 3,000 tonnes vegetables per day, the market yard is getting just about 1,700 tonnes. Heavy rain in Maharashtra and south Gujarat destroyed the standing crop. The supply to expected to normalize only after a month.” Thorat added, “The wholesale prices have appreciated by about 15-20% in the last three days in all the vegetable varieties due to the shortage. However, the retailers in the vegetable markets have increased the prices three to four times the wholesale rates.” Munna Patel, a vegetable vendor at Adajan vegetable market said, “The quality of vegetables dumped in the market yard is also poor. We are not allowed to sort the vegetables at the APMC. We have to purchase at least 20 kg. If the quality of vegetables is not good, we have to bear the losses. W have no option but to increase our prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/citizens-seen-red-over-rising-prices-of-green/articleshow/78340725.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||Two more arrested in mephedrone racket||Surat: Police arrested two more people on Friday in connection with their alleged involvement in the mephedrone drug manufacturing and distribution racket that was busted by city police on Monday. With this altogether four people have been arrested in the drug racket so far.Police are now focusing on how the drug was being manufactured in the unit that it had raided in Kadodara. Police arrested Pragnesh Pravin Thummar, 31, a resident of L H Road in Varachha, and Mohammad Sufiyan alias Baba Ashraf Memon, 30, a resident of Adaja. Cops produced duo in the court on Saturday and got their remand till September 30. So far police investigation has revealed that Thummar had played a key role in the drug manufacturing unit run by accused Sanket Aslaliya, who was arrested earlier. “Thummar had trained Aslaliya to make the drugs and also guided him to source the material from various chemical units. He also taught him how to sell the finished product in the market,” said a police officer. Thummar got a share in the profit from the total drugs produced and sold by Aslaliya. Police are investigating if Thummar, who has a bachelors degree in pharmacy and has knowledge of chemicals, also produced drugs at some other locations as well, police informed. The other accused, Memon, used to purchase the drugs from Salman in small quantities and sold it to his regular buyers. “Memon used to charge as per the buyer’s financial condition and is suspected to have made a good amount by selling drugs during the lockdown,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-arrested-in-mephedrone-racket/articleshow/78340820.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||No fissures in NDA, says Ravi Shankar||PATNA: The BJP on Saturday sounded confident that it would be able to contain the demands of LJP chief Chirag Paswan with regard to the number of assembly seats he has been demanding for his party to contest, besides making him understand that the NDA was one united entity and his fulminations against CM Nitish Kumar should cease. Incidentally, the BJP, along with its another major partner JD(U) in the NDA, has been claiming that the Grand Alliance (GA) is in complete disarray, as first the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi walked out of it and now the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha is planning to follow the suit. Asked about Chirag’s “vitriolic attacks” on Nitish, senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Saturday, “The NDA is one. It will contest the assembly elections together. If there is some problem anywhere, it will be sorted out.” As to the divergent note sounded by Chirag, at least with regard to the NDA’s CM face and also his claim to contest 143 of the 243 assembly seats in the state, Prasad said, “The LJP is in the NDA at the Centre. In Bihar, it contested the 2015 assembly elections and 2019 parliamentary elections as an NDA partner.” Prasad was talking to mediapersons here a day after the announcement of election dates by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora. “I am happy that we have put together the digital medium to communicate with people, which our leaders have been doing regularly,” Prasad said. “I am confident that the people of the state will give decisive victory to the NDA in the assembly elections,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-fissures-in-nda-says-ravi-shankar/articleshow/78340106.cms||Abhay Singh
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar meets 1,650 JD(U) workers in 5 days||PATNA: JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar interacted with more than 1,650 political workers, mainly ticket seekers, at the party office in the last five days. “The CM has regularly been visiting the JD(U) office and interacting with the party workers since September 22. Even on Saturdayday, he reached the party office around 12.30pm and interacted with more than 400 workers,” state’s building construction minister and senior JD(U) leader Ashok Choudhary said, adding the CM has been taking feedback on different issues from the visitors. Over 12 former legislators from different parts of the state also met the CM with a request to give them one more chance to contest the assembly polls, the minister said. “Nitishjii gave a patient hearing to all the people. Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary was also present on Saturday when the CM met the visitors,” JD(U)’s state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-meets-1650-jdu-workers-in-5-days/articleshow/78340201.cms||Madan Kumar
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Preventive action proposed against 16,000 people in Gaya||GAYA: Preventive action against 16,485 people under Section 107 has been proposed by different police stations in Gaya district to ensure free and fair elections. As many as 626 licenced firearms have been deposited at different police stations. District magistrate-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh has asked police officers to ensure verification of all the licenced firearms. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajiv Mishra has also asked the station house officers (SHOs) to intensify vehicle-checking drive by making check-post in front of the police station. A workshop was organised by expenditure and monitoring cell to impart training to officials of flying squad team (FST) and the static surveillance team (SST) constituted for the elections. Addressing the workshop, the DM asked the staff on duty at district control room to answer each phone call, failing which strict action would be taken against staff or the official concerned. He asked the officials of FST and the SST to download cVIGIL app in their cellphones for effective monitoring of election-related activities. The DM also held a meeting with representatives of affiliated political parties on Saturday to discuss code of conduct, permission procedure for election campaign meetings, rallies, road show and other modes of campaigning. “For convenience to seek permission, a single-window system is available here. Not more than 100 people will be allowed to participate in a rally or a road show at a time. For the voters above 80 years of age, physically challenged and Covid-affected, postal ballot facility will be available. Such voters will have to submit application in form 12 B to avail the facility,” the DM said according to a press communique issued by the district administration. Nominations for 10 assembly segments in the district can be filed from October 1 to 8. Only two people will be allowed with the candidate filing nomination. October 12 is the last date for withdrawal of nomination in the district. Voting will be held at 3,108 main booths and 1,322 additional booths on October 28 from 7am to 6pm. In Maoist-hit areas, the voting will be held from 7am to 4pm. The 10 assembly segments in the district have 29,00,691 voters, including 13,99,755 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/preventive-action-proposed-against-16k-people-in-gaya/articleshow/78339646.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RLSP holds seat-sharing talks with BJP||PATNA: The initial round of seat-sharing talks between BJP and RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha has begun. No conditions have been put on board by either side, RLSP sources said. Asked for his comment on the seat-sharing talks, a top RLSP source said on Saturday, “I do not deny it.” Yet another source said if things moved smoothly, the agreement reached over the seats to be shared by the RLSP would be in the public domain “in the next one or two days”. He also indicated that it would be finally resolved in Delhi. Asked as to how many seats the RLSP has demanded, the source said, “It is too early to say how many seats would be given to the RLSP to contest. Initial round of talks has been held and will continue further.” “In two days, we will be able to say anything concrete on the matter. In politics, doors are not closed,” he added. Incidentally, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora announced the poll schedule on Friday, noting that the notification for the first phase of the election will be issued on October 1. At the state BJP headquarters on Saturday, when Union minister and BJP’s publicity incharge Ravi Shankar Prasad was asked if the outcome of the seat-sharing talks among the NDA partners would be known before October 1, he said, “You know how things are done.” Incidentally, Kushwaha quit the grand alliance this week over the issue of the delay in the seat-sharing talks with RJD. The unstated reason, as political observers said, was that Kushwaha had been demanding 36 seats to contest, but RJD was willing to concede only 12. By that token, BJP may not give more than 10 seats to RLSP, while it had contested 22 seats in the 2015 assembly election as an NDA partner, observers felt. Sources said the RJD top brass had also wanted to know the RLSP’s likely candidates for the seats it had been seeking. Kushwaha did not savour and digest and, accordingly, walked out of the Mahagathbandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlsp-holds-seat-sharing-talks-with-bjp/articleshow/78339532.cms||Abhay Singh
September 27, 2020||Patna||Railways installs solid waste management plant at Patna Junction||PATNA: Railways installed a solid waste management plant at Patna Junction on Saturday under the ‘Swacchta Abhiyan’ programme launched by the East Central Railway (ECR) in its all five divisions. Speaking on the occasion, ECR GM L C Trivedi said the plant has the capacity to contain at least 500kg kitchen and other solid waste materials per day. He also administered an oath to railway employees deployed at Patna Junction to maintain cleanliness round the clock on the station premises. Later, he took a ride on self-cleaning machine and monitored cleaning work on the platform, said ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar. Lauding their efforts, the GM presented commendation certificates to 22 sanitary staff for their sincerity and maintaining cleanliness at Patna Junction. He also distributed cloth bags, soaps, masks and Covid-19 related apparels to passengers at the platform, Rajesh said. Sources said Patna Junction will also soon have coach indication boards (CIBs) at all platforms. Out of the 10 platforms, the CIB facility is not available on platform numbers 6, 8 and 9 only. Railways has replaced the old coach indication boards with new ones with both side display about arrival and departure of passenger trains, sources said. Besides, railways has installed large TV screens in the waiting halls, retiring rooms and other public places at Patna Junction to help passengers know about the arrival and departure as well as live positions of trains. Also, 14 new ATMs are proposed to be installed on Patna Junction premises — eight at the Mahavir Temple side and six at Karbighaiya end. Altogether 144 ATM kiosks are proposed to be installed at different places in the division to fulfil the needs of passengers, sources said. In addition to it, railways has worked out a plan to provide medical kiosks at Patna Junction, which has about one lakh passengers’ footfall per day during normal days. However, in the Covid-19 pandemic, railways has checked the entry of those who do not have journey tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-installs-solid-waste-management-plant-at-patna-junction/articleshow/78339509.cms||Kumod Verma
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Security to be tightened at safe homes||Kolkata: The police will help private guards appointed by KMC to ensure security at safe homes in the city. KMC officials had earlier expressed concern about some patients attempting to leave the homes and outsiders gaining access. “The local police stations have been instructed to help the KMC by keeping a check on the persons who have access to the safe homes. Since the patients are staying alone with valuables and people are engaged in several odd jobs on a contract basis, increasing the overall security of these homes is a major target. It is especially true for the bigger facilities, like the one at Gitanjali stadium and the one at Science City,” said a police source. The KMC has already called for necessary tenders in this regard, said sources. The overall plan, claimed sources, was to include fire security as well, the audit for which was completed by the fire department. Shaken by the fire in a Covid-19 hospital in Ahmedabad in August, where eight persons were killed, the Bengal government has started conducting fire safety and security audits of Covid centres and hospitals in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/security-to-be-tightened-at-safe-homes/articleshow/78340110.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||Demand in US leads to 40% jump in lab-grown diamond exports in Aug||Surat: It seems the coronavirus pandemic has not dimmed the liking of the diamond connoisseurs in Uncle Sam’s land. At a time when the export of polished diamonds from India has dipped phenomenally, the exports of lab-grown polished diamonds has continued its growth trajectory in the range of 22-40% between June and August as compared to the same period the previous year. Industry sources said about 95% of the lab-grown diamonds manufactured in Surat, the world largest lab-grown polishing centre, are exported to US, considered as the biggest market for the lab-grown diamond jewellery. The reason why the lab-grown gems have become favourite among the US consumer is the fact that they are 60% cheaper than the natural diamonds. Lab-grown Diamond and Jewellery Promotion Council (LGDJPC) chairman Shashikant Shah told TOI, “Even though the lab-grown diamond export are minuscule compared to the natural diamonds, but they are gaining huge popularity among the US consumers given their cheaper prices compared to natural diamonds.”According to Shah, the growth of lab-grown diamond exports was in double digits during the Covid-19 pandemic compared to natural diamonds which saw a sharp dip.“There are over 2,000 small and medium units in Surat manufacturing lab-grown diamonds. After unlock-1, the lab-grown diamond units are working in full capacity due to increased demand. These diamonds are studded in gold and bling jewellery in US,” added Shah.Export figures provided by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) show that August recorded the highest export of lab-grown diamonds at Rs 373 crore against Rs 266 crore during the same month in the previous year, registering an increase of 40%. According to the latest Global Diamond Report-2019 by Bain & Company, most of the lab-grown diamonds are purchased in the US, but produced in China and India. While China accounts for nearly 50% of the lab-grown gems’ global production, India produces 20%. Diamond industry analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide said, “Many natural diamond manufacturers have shifted to lab-grown manufacturing post-Covid. Reason being that the rough diamond prices have appreciated by 15% in the local market and the demand for natural diamonds has decreased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/demand-in-us-leads-to-40-jump-in-lab-grown-diamond-exports-in-aug/articleshow/78340584.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||Bizman’s suicide: Suspended constable held near Nashik||Surat: Suspended police constable Vijay Shinde (41), one of the 10 accused in the suicide abatement case of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel, was arrested on Friday from Nashik-Dhuliya Highway in Maharashtra. He was produced on Saturday before a local court in Mandvi that remanded him to police custody till October 1. Earlier, police had arrested two accused Raju Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani, who were sent to judicial custody after their police remand got over on Friday. Shinde is one of the four cops accused in the case. Other accused cops include police inspector L P Bodana, and constables Ajay Bhopala and Kiransinh Parmar. Police said they had earlier tracked Shinde to a resort near Manor of Maharashtra when he tried to contact his lawyers. Later his attempt to contact his close confidants revealed his location, sources in police informed. Shinde was also preparing to approach the high court to challenge the FIR against him, they added. Police had recently recovered documents of various properties from the office of Shinde in Adajan. Despite being a constable, Shinde lived a lavish lifestyle and had made number of investments in properties. Shinde is accused of harassing Patel along with other accused to transfer the disputed property’s ownership. Meanwhile, police approached a local court seeking arrest warrant against the other seven accused who are still on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizmans-suicide-suspended-constable-held-near-nashik/articleshow/78340655.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||Accused cop sent to police custody till Oct 1||Surat: Suspended police constable Vijay Shinde, one of the 10 accused in the suicide abatement case of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel, was arrested on Friday from Nashik-Dhuliya Highway in Maharashtra. Shinde is one of the four cops accused in the case. Other accused cops include police inspector L P Bodana, and constables Ajay Bhopala and Kiransinh Parmar. Meanwhile, sources close to investigation said that PI Bodana surrendered before Surat rural police late Saturday evening. However, the investigation officer remained tight-lipped over the development. Earlier, police had arrested two accused Raju Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani, who were sent to judicial custody after their police remand got over on Friday. Shinde was produced on Saturday before a local court in Mandvi that remanded him to police custody till October 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/accused-cop-sent-to-police-custody-till-oct-1/articleshow/78341340.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||Fake video tries to stoke violence||Rajkot: Police have warned about a fake video doing the rounds in social media showing a person striking a car with a stick describing group clash in Mundra. However, according to police the video does not belong to Mundra but has been deliberately spread to create rift it’s spread to create rift between two communities following a clash between members of Darbar and Muslim communities in Sukhparvas on Friday evening. “Taking advantage of this incident some miscreants are trying to spread rumours of clashes between the two communities,” said Saurabh Singh, superintendent of police, Kutch (west).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fake-video-tries-to-stoke-violence/articleshow/78341288.cms||---
September 27, 2020||---||Jitan Ram Manjhi gets Z-plus security cover||PATNA: HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi would now avail Z-plus security cover after the state government elevated his protection following a recent review of security provided to VIPs based on threat perception. Manjhi represented Imamganj in Gaya, which is a Maoist-affected district. Governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar only have Z-plus with advance security liaison. Former CMs Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi have Z-plus security cover. Former deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has Y-plus security while his elder brother and former minister Tej Pratap Yadav has Y-category cover. Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar also has Y-plus security cover. Incidentally Manjhi, a Dalit leader, had recently left Grand Alliance and joined hands with CM Nitish Kumar. Manjhi is the only VIP whose security cover has been elevated by the state government, compared to all those VIPs whose names were present in security cover notification issued on March 27, 2019. Earlier, in July 2015, the Centre had accorded Z-plus security to Manjhi, but it was removed in November 2017. Altogether 31 VIPs have been provided with security cover ranging from Z-plus with advance security liaison to X-category as per fresh list. Sixteen have Y-category and only Anil Kumar, a former minister, has X-category security cover. The state government had earlier accorded Z-category security cover to Manjhi. The notification about change was issued by home department on Thursday, a day before announcement of state assembly election. As per the notification, the decision was taken in the security committee meeting on September 21. This committee periodically holds meeting to review security provided to VIPs as per intelligence inputs, threat perception or the person representing a constituency in any Maoist-hit area. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has been kept in Z-category by the state government. Besides him, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, MP Rajeev Ranjan alias Lallan Singh, former MP Shahnawaz Hussain, JD(U) state president and MP Bashishtha Narayan Singh, minister Ashok Choudhary and former MP Shatrughan Sinha have Z-category security cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/manjhi-gets-z-plus-security-cover/articleshow/78340190.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi gets Z-plus security cover||PATNA: HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi would now avail Z-plus security cover after the state government elevated his protection following a recent review of security provided to VIPs based on threat perception. Manjhi represented Imamganj in Gaya, which is a Maoist-affected district. Governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar only have Z-plus with advance security liaison. Former CMs Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi have Z-plus security cover. Former deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has Y-plus security while his elder brother and former minister Tej Pratap Yadav has Y-category cover. Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar also has Y-plus security cover. Incidentally Manjhi, a Dalit leader, had recently left Grand Alliance and joined hands with CM Nitish Kumar. Manjhi is the only VIP whose security cover has been elevated by the state government, compared to all those VIPs whose names were present in security cover notification issued on March 27, 2019. Earlier, in July 2015, the Centre had accorded Z-plus security to Manjhi, but it was removed in November 2017. Altogether 31 VIPs have been provided with security cover ranging from Z-plus with advance security liaison to X-category as per fresh list. Sixteen have Y-category and only Anil Kumar, a former minister, has X-category security cover. The state government had earlier accorded Z-category security cover to Manjhi. The notification about change was issued by home department on Thursday, a day before announcement of state assembly election. As per the notification, the decision was taken in the security committee meeting on September 21. This committee periodically holds meeting to review security provided to VIPs as per intelligence inputs, threat perception or the person representing a constituency in any Maoist-hit area. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has been kept in Z-category by the state government. Besides him, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, MP Rajeev Ranjan alias Lallan Singh, former MP Shahnawaz Hussain, JD(U) state president and MP Bashishtha Narayan Singh, minister Ashok Choudhary and former MP Shatrughan Sinha have Z-category security cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-gets-z-plus-security-cover/articleshow/78342904.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey meets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, triggers speculations||PATNA: Four days after taking voluntary retirement from service (VRS), former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey called on CM Nitish Kumar at the JD(U) office here on Saturday, triggering speculations about his joining politics to contest the state assembly election. Pandey, however, said he was yet to take a decision on either joining politics or contesting election. “I had no political talks (with the CM). I came here (JDU office) to meet CM Nitish and thank him for giving me absolute freedom in performing my duties as the DGP,” Pandey told mediapersons. When asked whether he would contest from Buxar assembly constituency or Bagaha, Pandey said, “I have yet not taken any decision on contesting polls.” Though the former DGP is keeping his cards close to the chest, political circles in Bihar are agog with speculations that Pandey, a Brahmin, would contest either assembly polls from any Brahmin-dominated constituency in Bhojpur or Buxar district, or the parliamentary byelection from Valmikinagar seat, which fell vacant after the death of JD(U)’s MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahato. Sources said Pandey, a native of Buxar, would most probably be the NDA candidate either from Buxar or Brahmapur or Shahpur in the neighbouring Bhojpur district. All these three are Brahmin-dominated assembly constituencies. “In the 2015 assembly election, the grand alliance had won all these three seats against BJP candidates. If these seats fall in the BJP kitty among the NDA partners, Pandey may be asked to join BJP to contest from either of the seats. This is the reason why Pandey is not disclosing his next move,” a senior NDA leader told TOI on Saturday. A senior JD(U) leader said the ruling party was also considering Pandey’s name for the parliamentary bypoll from Valmikinagar, but a final decision would be taken by the top NDA leaders as RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha has now expressed his desire to contest that seat after joining the NDA camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-dgp-meets-nitish-triggers-speculations/articleshow/78342923.cms||Madan Kumar
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Will travel by bus, won’t touch ticket||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 pandemic has redefined business practices, even in the private bus sector. The latest change has been brought about by passengers who have not been taking tickets from conductors to avoid any chance of infection, leading to bus owners losing track of ticket sales. This has led bus owners to get into a contract with the driver-conductors. Now, drivers and conductors bear all costs, including fuel, and give back a contract fee at the end of the day. “So far, the daily commission for the driver (12%) and conductor (9%) used to be determined by ticket sale. Now, since hardly any ticket exchanges hands, it has become a challenge for us,” said Tapan Banerjee, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. The contract system — ‘baat-chit’ — that the bus owners have entered into with drivers and conductors is prevalent in the metered taxi business. The majority of such cabs are now run, fuelled and maintained by the drivers who pay Rs 300-Rs 400 to the owner. “In the current situation, there has been a serious drop in passenger count. Running a bus is now a challenge. But if you leave it idle, many mechanical troubles crop up. Moreover, there is a pressure from the government to run buses. Since we cannot pay EMIs, many of us have left our buses with the drivers and conductors. Under the current situation, we cannot specify baat-chit money. Many a days, they cannot give us anything,” Banerjee added. However, this contract system cannot go on, said sources. “If operators lose control of the business, the entire system will go for a toss. This is why we are thinking of introducing electronic transfer of money from passenger to conductor. But this requires a smartphone and not all users can afford it,” said Rahul Chatterjee of Bus Minibus Samannay Samity. The issue has also led to the closure of many small printing presses in the suburbs. “Earlier, buses required around 35 lakh tickets every week. Now we have nothing to depend on,” said Gautam Pyne, a letter press owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-travel-by-bus-wont-touch-ticket/articleshow/78340199.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Principal takes to organic farming to provide students with fresh veggies||RAJKOT: Once schools reopen after the lockdown, the students of Ditala village primary school in Dhari taluka of Amreli district will have lot of green vegetables in their mid-day meals. All thanks to Ashwin Patel, the principal of this school, who decided to take to organic farming on the school premises while teaching has been suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. “I have set up a greenhouse in the school, in which I have grown 10 types of vegetables including brinjals, ladies’ fingers (okra), bottle gourds, spinach, colocasia leaves, fenugreek, garlic, turmeric and carrots,” says Patel. “These vegetables have been grown through organic farming in which I have used fertilizer made out of cow dung. My idea is to serve these vegetables to my students in their mid-day meals, once the school reopens,” explains Patel. Shafi Jiruka, a teacher at the school who is helping Patel in his endeavour, says: “Our objective is to provide nutritious food to the schoolchildren. The greenhouse built by us is attracting many farmers who are coming to our school from the nearby villages to understand the concept of organic farming.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/principal-takes-to-organic-farming-to-provide-students-with-fresh-veggies/articleshow/78341189.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar Ansari to be brought to Mau for questioning||VARANASI: Having cracked the whip on the economic empire as well as the armoury of the jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and his henchmen, police are now in the process of bringing the don to Mau from Rupnagar Jail of Mohali in Punjab on October 21 to interrogate him in a case of fraud and Arms Act lodged against him in January. Meanwhile, largescale action against Mukhtar’s family members and henchmen continued in different districts of Varanasi zone on Friday and Saturday. SP Mau Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan said, “Warrant B has been procured by the district police from chief judicial magistrate court in a case of sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 467, 468 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and 30 Arms Act on January 5 registered with Dakshintola police station. The CJM Court accepted the plea of the police to bring him here from Mohali jail on Warrant B. Mukhtar will be brought here on October 21.” As per records of Mau police, in 2001 four persons — Israel, Anwar and Salim one Mohd Shah Alam — had managed to get arms licences on the recommendation given on Mukhtar’s letter by mentioning fake addresses on their application forms. Alam was eliminated in an encounter with police in Ghazipur after a few years while others are absconding. Apart from them, former station officer Dakshintola police station JK Singh and then lekhpal were also accused in this case by the police. These facts had come to light during the Ghosi assembly by-poll process in October 2019, when arms licence verification was initiated across Mau district, said police. During investigation, it came to light that apart from Israel, Anwar and Salim, Mohd Shah Alam had also applied for arms licences in 2001. To ensure that they all get licences for double-barrel guns, Mukhtar wrote letters to the then district magistrate on his letter pad in the capacity of Mau MLA in December 2001 requesting to issue arms licences in their names, police added. The investigation also exposed the role of then SO Dakshintola JK Singh and a lekhpal, who showed the fake addresses of four applicants as verified and the arms licences were issued on the same fake addresses. Apart from preparing ground to bring Mukhtar for interrogation, Mau cops have also registered a case against owner of Prakash Construction Company Kiran Rai at Kotwali police station for utilizing fake documents to grab major contracts in order to provide financial benefits to the Mukhtar gang, said SP Mau. Besides, police also got a non-bailable warrant issued from CJM court against Mukhtar’s wife Afsha Ansari, her brothers Sharjil Raja alias Atif, Anwar Shahjad, henchmen- Zakir alias Vikky and Ravi Narain Singh in a case of land grabbing registered against them at the Dakshintola police station on July 9. Another case for barring contractors from taking part in tender process of different government departments, issuing threats and extorting money from firms awarded contracts was lodged against Santosh Singh, who was co-accused with Mukhtar in Manna Singh murder case, and four others with Kotwali police station, informed SP Mau. In Varanasi, SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi said that the process of confiscating the property of Mukhtar’s close aide Meraj Ansari alias Bhai Meraj was started on Friday by making a public announcement near his residence in Ashok Vihar area. He is absconding after a case under section 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC lodged against him for committing fraud to procure arms licences. Meraj has been absconding since the case was lodged, added Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-to-be-brought-to-mau-for-questioning/articleshow/78339271.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 27, 2020||Hubballi||E-Library app receives encouraging response in Belagavi||BELAGAVI: The ‘E-Library’ app that the state government launched came to the rescue of many book lovers in the times of Covid-19, providing them access to not just one but various libraries across Karnataka. Consequently, people who downloaded the app were able to browse bookshelves in government libraries across Karnataka while seated at home. The app has certainly received an overwhelming response in Belagavi, with 11,000 book lovers downloading it. The department of public libraries launched the application in March but very few users downloaded the app in the weeks immediately after its launch. However, growing awareness and the extended lockdown resulted in patronage for the app increasing, particularly after users learnt that it gave access to books in all public libraries. With 11,000 downloads, Belagavi stands sixth in the state in the number of users for the app: ‘E-Sarvajanika Granthalaya’. Users can access, in addition to a whopping 38,024 books, 5,829 videos, 59,990 ejournals. Moreover, there are more than 5,800 books and other study material for the children. Each public library – there are 10 in the district – in Belagavi has been provided with two computers and four tablets. Visitors to the library can use these devices to read the books they like. Sidram Kurabet, who is keen on writing the Karnataka Administrative Services (KAS) exam, said that he was able to prepare for the key test while at home. “But for the app, I would not have been able to study for the exam with the public libraries being closed,” Kurabet said. Deputy director of the district and central library Ramayya G said that the initiative helped the tech-savvy readers of the present generation. “Even elderly citizens who cannot step out of their homes can read books of their choice on their phones or tablets. Several students have utilised the application extensively,” Ramayya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/e-library-app-receives-encouraging-response-in-belagavi/articleshow/78339490.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Left flexes muscles, Sahni weighs options outside GA||PATNA: Glitches in the Grand Alliance (GA) over seats continued although RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha on Saturday said the issue will be sorted out in two to three days. While RLSP has walked out of the alliance blaming RJD, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni is yet to take a final decision. RLSP head Upendra Kushwaha and Sahni had met last week and sources said VIP may also leave the GA soon. Sahni has openly demanded 25 seats from RJD. Interestingly, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday did not mention VIP or RLSP as his alliance partners and took the names of only Congress and the Left parties. “It is better to give tickets to strong candidates of Nishad community than giving 25 seats to Sahni,” said a senior RJD leader. Sources said Sahni is in touch with Congress. TOI could not contact Sahni over his phone. Meanwhile, RJD and Congress were busy in discussing seat-sharing issue over the phone. “Discussion is going on and senior leaders are talking at length. The scene will be more clear in a couple of days,” said a Congress leader, claiming his party will contest around 70 seats. Sources said after Tejashwi’s talks with state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha recently, senior Congress leader Ahmad Patel is trying to sort out the issue with RJD. Though Left parties are in regular touch with RJD, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya told TOI over phone that they were not happy with the earlier proposal. “There are still issues like the number and choice of seats. Certain areas carry our identity. And then we have to think of winnability also. But there has been some forward motion now,” said Bhattacharya. When asked about RLSP and VIP, he said, “I do not really know.” But he also said there were mainly three alliance partners — Left, RJD and Congress. And even in Left, he added, CPI(ML) is the strongest in Bihar. CPM leader Awadhesh Kumar also demanded respectable number of seats for his party. “We should get proper seats, so that our party workers are satisfied. I expect RJD to be positive,” he said. CPM has even called a meeting on Sunday to discuss various issues with party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-flexes-muscles-sahni-weighs-options-outside-ga/articleshow/78339543.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 27, 2020||Patna||Why ex-IAS officers fare better than other bureaucrats in polls||PATNA: Former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey visited the JD(U) office on Saturday, fueling the speculation that he may join the party soon. Pandey, a 1987-batch IPS officer, opted for VRS five months before his retirement from service apparently to plunge into active politics. Pandey, however, will not be the first bureaucrat from the state to switch from ‘naukarshahi’ to ‘rajniti’. Earlier this month, Pandey's batchmate, Sunil Kumar, who superannuated in August from the post of DG-cum-managing director of Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation, had joined JD(U). Though the electoral future of the two (retired) IPS officers hangs in balance, their seniors and former DGPs--Dhuv Prasad Ojha and Ashish Ranjan Sinha—had unsuccessfully contested the parliamentary polls from Begusarai and Nalanda in 2004 and 2014, respectively. While Ojha (1967 batch) opted for VRS after being removed as state DGP weeks before his retirement for his "tough action" against don-turned politician Md Shahabuddin, Sinha (1972 batch) served as state police chief both during the Lalu-Rabri era and Nitish’s tenure. Another IPS officer Ashok Kumar Gupta (1977 batch), contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Patna Sahib parliamentary constituency but had to bite the dust. Balbir Chand (1975 batch) had unsuccessfully contested the 2004 Lok Sabha election from Gaya (reserved) constituency on a BJP ticket. But luck smiled on two other IPS officers—Lalit Vijay Singh (1956 batch) and N K Singh—who were elected as MPs from Begusarai and Madhepura Lok Sabha constituencies, respectively. Lalit Vijay Singh later became minister of state for defence in the Chandrashekhar government. N K Singh(1961 batch) had served as joint director of the CBI before switching to politics. V D Ram (1973-batch), former DGP of Jharkhand, got elected from Palamu in Jharkhand. Rameshwar Oraon (1972 batch) also got elected and is currently holding the post of finance minister in the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand. Both V D Ram and Rameshwar Oraon—had served as IPS officers in undivided Bihar. However, the success rate of IAS officers is higher than that of their IPS counterparts. For instance, R K Singh, a 1975 batch IAS officer is now minister of state for power and new and renewable energy in the Narendra Modi cabinet. Before being elected as BJP MP from Ara in Bhojpur, Singh had served as Union home secretary. He had joined BJP in 2013. Among the more illustrious names is that of Meira Kumar (1973 batch, IFS), who became India's first woman Lok Sabha Speaker from 2009 to 2014. Daughter of veteran Congress leader Jagjivan Ram, Meira Kumar represented the Sasaram Lok Sabha constituency. She joined politics with a bang in 1985 by defeating rivals Ram Vilas Paswan and Mayawati in the Bijnaur by-election. Born in Patna, Yashwant Singh (1960 batch) joined politics after quitting the administrative service in 1984. He went on to become the finance minister in the Chandrashekhar cabinet in 1990-91 as a member of Janata Dal, before switching to BJP and serving as finance minister and external affairs minister in the BJP-led NDA government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In 2018, he quit BJP due to differences over leadership of the party. He has recently formed the United Democratic Alliance to fight the assembly election. A political analyst and former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies Professor DM Diwakar attributed the higher success rate of ex-IAS officers to people’s perception of the police force. “People still fear to visit a police station or meet senior police officers. This perception is primarily because of the training of the IPS officers and their behaviour with the people during their service. On the other hand, retired IAS officers easily mingle with people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/why-ex-ias-officers-fare-better-than-other-bureaucrats-in-polls/articleshow/78339574.cms||Ramashankar
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||SU project to turn your laptops, smart phones into super gadgets||Rajkot: If things go as planned, your electronic gadgets – computers, laptops, palmtops and projectors - will work 1,000 times faster. And contactless thermometers or temperature guns that are in vogue in Covid times will turn more accurate. Saurashtra University’s physics department has bagged a project that aims to increase efficiency of electronic gadgets by 1,000 times. For this futuristic project, the department will work in collaboration with Bhabha Atomic Research Center (BARC). The Board of Research in Nuclear Science (BRNS) of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) has provided Rs 27 lakh fund to SU to develop multi device sensors. SU has bagged the project after basic research which was presented online before 15 top scientists of DAE. “The ultra-high technology sensors will change the world of gadgets in future. These sensors will change the speed and accuracy of all electronic gadgets. It will increase computer’s speed by 1,000 times while it may enhance mobile technology by 10,000 times,” said Nikesh Shah, professor and project investigator. Explaining the three-year long project, Shah said that currently higher memory and strong processors are used to increase speed and efficiency of electronic devices. “By doing this, the device also consumes more electricity and you need to often recharge the devices. Our project is to make electromagnetic particles using very thin - micro 100 nanometer films. Using these multi device sensors can be developed to increase speed of electronic gadgets,” he said, adding that this will also decrease power consumption of the gadgets. “The thin micro nanometer films will make the sensors faster, increase their efficiency and accuracy and will also eliminate errors that surface in single device sensors,” he said. The team is trying to develop multi device sensors that can record temperature, voltage, resistance among other parameters. “We will buy a high resistance meter worth Rs nine lakh from the fund to measure resistance. We will also appoint a research fellow who will get an opportunity to work at BARC’s laboratory for three years,” said co-investigator Piyush Solanki. The department is also mulling to research the use of such sensors to test virus, bacteria and fungus in laboratories. Pointers for graphics SU’s team is developing multi device sensors Department of Atomic Energy has approved Rs 27 lakh fund for the project The project will be done in collaboration with the Bhabha Atomic Research Center If successful, the sensors will increase speed of computers and cell phone by 1,000 time The sensors will increase efficiency of electronic gadgets and consume less power Eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/su-project-to-turn-your-laptops-smart-phones-into-super-gadgets/articleshow/78341231.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 27, 2020||Patna||Beeline outside party offices for tickets||PATNA: It is a sight that always greets onlookers outside political party offices in Patna ahead of any  — crowds of ticket seekers and their supporters. But these are the times of Coronavirus, and yet the sight outside party offices at Beer Chand Patel Marg remained unchanged a day after the election dates were announced. This arterial road in the state capital hosts three major political party offices. Candidates vying for tickets are rushing to any one who they think could help them get a party ticket to contest the coming polls. Many candidates are knocking on the doors of senior party leaders to personally seek help in getting tickets. The road outside Sadaqat Ashram, the Congress’s state headquarters, was also jam-packed on Saturday with the party’s screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey present at the office. “Since he has been given the responsibility of shortlisting the candidates, a large number of them have come to meet him. Some have even gone to Delhi, as they were not aware Avinash Ji will be here today,” said a party leader. However, not all were lucky enough to have a meeting with Pandey, who himself said he has personally received 2,500 biodatas at Delhi and nearly 4,000 have been submitted in Patna. Outside JD (U) office, interested candidates made a beeline on Saturday. One of the main reasons was JD (U) national secretary-general (organisation), RCP Singh being present at the party office. He was meeting interested candidates and party workers. Former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey was also among the visitors. On the day of the announcement of poll dates, many ticket-seekers had rushed to the bungalow where RCP resides in Patna. When asked about the crowd at JD (U) office, party’s state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said, “Most of them are the ones who are interested in contesting the election. Everyone wants to fight from the party which has a clean image and all probabilities to win and since we have expanded till the grassroots level, many people are coming from far off places,” said Ranjan. For those interested in contesting on RJD’s symbol, their priority is to meet party ’chief Lalu Prasad in Ranchi, though a large number of them are returning without getting to meet him. Many of them also wait outside former CM Rabri Devi’s bungalow to interact with Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. The party’s state general secretary (headquarters), Nirala Yadav said, “Over 250 candidates had come today to submit their portfolio, and then they rushed to 10 Circular Road.” Sources said many workers were waiting for the younger Yadav scion, as the latter had gone to attend former parliamentarian Raghuvansh Prasad’s Singh ‘shradh’. The BJP office on Beer Chand Patel Marg also witnessed a huge rush from morning till late in the evening on Saturday. While the campus was jam-packed, even outside the office, there was a huge rush. Party’s state media in-charge Ashok Bhatt, “A large number of party workers and ticket aspirants had come today. State president Sanjay Jaiswal, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and health minister Mangal Pandey had also come today at the party office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/beeline-outside-party-offices-for-tickets/articleshow/78340229.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Metro eyes more tweaks to get more riders||Kolkata: More changes are likely in the system as Metro Railway operates its graded run during the pandemic. The likely tweaks include reduced duration of the one-hour e-pass to 45 minutes, which may lead to an increase in the number of booking slots. When services resumed on September 14, the colour-coded e-passes were made mandatory to access a north-south Metro station. The URL https://pathadisha.com/metro, from where the e-passes are downloaded , has become the most effective tool for crowd management. It puts a 400-passenger cap for every train. Currently, the day’s bookings have been divided into 12 one-hour slots. “The one-hour validity of an e-pass may be reduced and services split into 45-minute slots so more slots can be added to the existing 12,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state assigned to develop the e-pass technology. From Monday, Metro will have more trains and timings will be extended by 30 minutes to address the evening-hour rush. But the carrier may have to tweak frequencies and change timings yet again, depending on the data analysis of the last fortnight’s run. On Friday, Metro Railway handed over a compiled station-wise and slot-wise data on passenger count to the developer so the system could be evolved and the issues addressed. “More changes will be introduced as and when required,” Metro GM Manoj Joshi said on Saturday. “The increase in slots could be introduced during peak hours. If we could have four slots instead of three, between 5pm to 8pm, there will be more options for passengers. The lean-time slots may remain hour-long,” Chatterjee explained. Currently, a slot draws at least 4,000 people. “With more available, the count will be multiplied and more can ride the Metro,” Chatterjee said. In the next few weeks, other changes could be introduced. “Another way of easing congestion is by reducing peak-hour frequency from 10 minutes to 9 minutes, advancing start time by 30 minutes and adding more trains,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-eyes-more-tweaks-to-get-more-riders/articleshow/78340061.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Bypass surprise night checks to go on till end of festive season||Kolkata: Three weeks after the Anandapur incident where the accused ran over 47-year-old Nilanjana Chatterjee, managed to dodge police nakas and find shelter at a Bypass hotel for a day, the police launched a surprise late-night check in Bypass and its surroundings to nab rogue bikers and motorists and ascertain that those occupying hotels in the area have a genuine reason to do so. The checks included the east, southeast and the south suburban divisions. Four of the six check-points in east division covered the same route that accused Abhishek Kumar Pandey took to flee from cops, including Highland Park, Urbana and 206 bus stand. In the east division alone, 43 persons were arrested for disorderly conduct and 33 were nabbed for flouting Motor Vehicle Act rules — speeding, dangerous driving, riding without helmet, among others. “We found motorists and bikers equally irresponsible,” said an officer. “We are conducting the raids on roads, hotels and bars to make roads safer and identify the criminal element trying to hide around here,” said DC (east) Gaurav Lal. These surprise drives will continue at least till the end of the festival season, said a senior officer. There will also be heavy cop presence along the stretch at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bypass-surprise-night-checks-to-go-on-till-end-of-festive-season/articleshow/78340146.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 27, 2020||Patna||Assured minimum facilities at each booth in Saran: DM||CHHAPRA: There would be one model booth in each assembly segment and all 4239 polling booths in the district would be provided with assured minimum facility (AMF), Saran DM and district election officer Subrat Kumar Sen said on Saturday. He said the Sonepur assembly segment has recorded higher voter turnout in the last two parliamentary and one assembly elections, compared to other constituencies in the district. “Sonepur recorded 58.53% voting in 2014 parliamentary election, 58.58% in 2015 assembly election and 55.12% in 2019 parliamentary election,” Sen said. He said the average turnout in the district in the 2014 Lok Sabha election was 53.86% while it was 53.41% in 2015 and 55.12% in 2019. “Ekma segment in Maharajganj parliamentary constituency recorded the lowest turnout of 49.54% in 2014, 49.67% in 2015 assembly election and 50.83% in 2019 parliamentary election,” he said. Sen further said the voters have to bring at least one alternative document along with voter slip to the polling booth in the ensuing assembly election. “Voter slips would be distributed five days before the polling date. Jai Prakash Narayan institute of Technology (Chhapra) has been selected for strong room and counting centre for all the 10 assembly segments in the district,” the DM said. Saran SP Dhurat Saayali S said about 120 companies of paramilitary forces have been requisitioned for conducting elections in a peaceful, fair and fearless atmosphere. “The police are conducting regular raids to crack liquor distillation centres and lodging FIR against those involved in this clandestine trade,” she said. The DM and SP appealed to the electorate to use their franchise in large numbers and break the previous records of voter turnout without any fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/assured-minimum-facilities-at-each-booth-in-saran-dm/articleshow/78339641.cms||H K Verma
September 27, 2020||Surat||Drive to increase green cover at VNSGU||Surat: The Surat Citizen Council Trust (SCCT), environment lovers and NGOs have started a campaign to increase green cover on the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) campus with native trees. Being the hub of education in the city, VNSGU has a vast swathe of unused land where the native trees could be grown. Currently, the VNSGU authorities have created a huge parking space with the paver blocks at the campus for the vehicles of the students and staff. No provision has been kept for tree plantation there. In the past fortnight, about 70,000 trees were added to the existing tree cover in the city during the campaign started by deputy mayor Nirav Shah. Snehal Patel of Nature Club Surat (NCS), who planted 2,000 trees across the city during the campaign told TOI, “As part of our commitment to plant 2,000 trees, about 80 trees were planted at Sarvajanik College of Architecture parking area. It is very important that trees are grown in parking spaces.” Patel added, “We want to plant trees at the VNSGU parking space by convincing the authorities that the plantation will not only add green cover, but help in preserving the biodiversity.” President of SCCT, Sharad Kapadia told TOI, “The council has taken up the plantation drive issue with the VNSGU authorities for providing space in the parking area. We are pursuing the authorities to sign an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for helping them to achieve greening goal” Ashok Parikh, environment activist said, “When the concrete parking was under construction at VNSGU, we had approached the authorities requesting them to make small gaps for planting trees. However, the authorities did not pay heed.” An official of the VNSGU asking anonymity said, “If there is any proposal to plant trees, we are ready for the dialogue with the concerned people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/drive-to-increase-green-cover-at-vnsgu/articleshow/78340845.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||UDSA: Won’t field tainted candidates||PATNA: Former Union minister and United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA) convener Devendra Prasad Yadav on Saturday said the newly formed alliance would give an alternative to the people in the ensuing assembly polls. Yadav, accompanied by AIMIM state general secretary Aftab Ahmed and its Bihar election incharge Majid Hussain, told the media that both the NDA and the Grand Alliance were trying to divert people’s attention from real issues plaguing the state. “They are fanning people’s emotions on caste and communal lines and pushing back the issues of unemployment, migration, floods, poor healthcare, plight of farmers and deteriorating law and order situation in the state,” they said. They further stated that the closed sugar mills, jute factories, paper mills, handicraft manufacturing units and yarn mills showed the state government’s callousness towards creating job opportunities for unemployed youths. “The UDSA will raise these issues during its virtual election rallies,” they added. They said the UDSA constituents would not give tickets to people having criminal antecedents and facing corruption charges. “The UDSA allies will submit the list of their prospective candidates by September 29,” they revealed. Aadil Hasan, advocate and AIMIM Youth president, along with Alok Kumar Yadav of Lohia Brigade was also present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/udsa-wont-field-tainted-candidates/articleshow/78340038.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Surat||GJEPC’s global biz meet on Sep 28 to boost UK exports||Surat: With a view to boost exports of gems and jewellery from India, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has organised the first India global connect business meet for the Indian manufacturers and the jewellery retailers from UK on September 28.More than a dozen diamond and jewellery companies from Surat and Mumbai will participate in the meet and connect with leading retailers and wholesalers in UK. Among the top 10 export destinations for gems and jewellery, exports from India to UAE has witnessed the highest fall of 94% to $1 billion between April and July 2020 from $3.7 billion during the same period in the previous year.Similarly, exports to UK fell by 78% during the same period at $38 million compared to $174 million in previous year.Industry sources said that UK is the fourth largest gems and jewellery export market in the country with 7.3% share in the $648 billion annual export market in the world. Retailers in UK are sourcing jewellery and diamonds from other centres including Israel, UAE and USA. However, the pandemic has provided an opportunity to virtually connect with the wholesalers and retailers in UK to increase exports of gems and jewellery from India. Chairman of GJEPC, Colin Shah said, “We encourage the UK buyers to stock on Indian gems and jewellery. This is the first global business connect meet organised by the GJEPC and we are looking forward to strong business relations with suppliers and buyers from the two countries.”According to Shah, the council has invited some of the renowned jewellers and wholesalers from the UK including Richard Hunt of Richard Hunt jewellers, Emme Cummins of Master jewellers, Baird and Company in the business meet. A spokesperson of Shri Harekrishna Exports, participant of the business meeting said, “ The virtual exhibition and business meet will allow us to market our products to the UK buyers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gjepcs-global-biz-meet-on-sep-28-to-boost-uk-exports/articleshow/78340699.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||Teen detained for killing 60-year-old colleague in Sihor||Rajkot: A 60-year-old man working with a local cable network was allegedly kidnapped and murdered in Sihor town of Bhavnagar district on Friday night.Police detained a 17-year-old boy who working with the victim Razak Selot in the company and he is being questioned.Selot’s daughter Sumaiya received a call on Friday evening from her father’s cellphone and the caller, identifying himself as Hussain, demanded Rs 15 lakh ransom for his safe release. Police said Sumaiya, however, recognized the voice immediately as the boy used to often come to their house with her father.After receiving the call, Sumaiya told her brother and the duo along with their brother-in-law started searching for Selot. When they couldn’t trace him anywhere, they approached Sihore police station late in the night. Police immediately went to the caller’s house, but he was missing. After sometime, cops found Selot’s body at an isolated spot close to the boy’s house where he was reportedly confined. Selot had deep stab wounds in the stomach.KD Gohil, police inspector, Sihor said, “The boy is 17 years old. Primary questioning revealed that he had suspected that Selot was complaining about his behaviour to his father. The boy thought that Selot kept warning his father that he was going on a wrong track.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teen-detained-for-killing-60-year-old-colleague-in-sihor/articleshow/78341130.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||28 new energy sub-stations for Morbi||Rajkot: State energy minister Saurabh Patel announced setting up of 28 new power sub-stations in Morbi district on Saturday. “Industrial development is rapid in Morbi district and so, we have set up around five to six power sub-stations in the district every year. In the past one decade, we have set up 60 power sub-stations in Morbi district. In the next three years, we will be providing the district with 28 new power sub-stations,” Patel, who is in Morbi, told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/28-new-energy-sub-stations-for-morbi/articleshow/78340788.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Rajkot||Kutchi businessmen return home, become agripreneurs||RAJKOT: Nearly seven decades back, 63-year-old Govind Vikmani’s father had moved to Mumbai in search of employment. Like many Kutchi Gujaratis, the city of dreams proved to be lucky for the Vikmanis too. Mumbai-born senior Vikmani plunged into construction business while his family flourished in export of commodities. At their native – Kotda Roha village in Kutch’s Nakhatrana taluka – they even purchased 21 acre land. In the Covid-era, however, this business family has turned to farming. The land that the family had purchased just to grow their personal assets, is now being tilled to grow dragon fruits, dates and citrus fruits. “The Covid-19 pandemic has affected our export and construction business. If we cultivate crops at our land in an organized way, we can create another source of income,” said Vikmani, who has simultaneously started preparing the marketing and export ground for the agro products in Mumbai. At a time when economists are painting a gloomy picture, Kutchi native businessmen settled in mega cities like Mumbai and Pune, are seeing new business opportunities in agriculture in Kutch. “I have to take nearly 35 no objection certificates (NOCs) from the stage when I start construction of a building to the stage when I sell them to customers. In agro business, the government is giving so many benefits – right from procuring seeds, to selling agri products and experimenting with crops,” said Bhuj native Dharmendra Agara, a Pune-based civil engineer engaged in construction business. Agara, who had also worked in South Africa for 15 years before settling in Pune, has purchased 100 acre land in Chiyasar village of Kutch’s Abdasa taluka where he has started farming. While half of the land is used to cultivate Israeli and desi dates, the other half is used to cultivate medicinal plants. “We hire experts in every business. So, why not farming? I take expert advice on soil and seeds I need to use while my chartered accountant gives me estimates on income generation,” he said. “There are over 75 such businessmen from Mumbai and Pune who have approached us to start agro business and we have started their training,” said Amrut Shah, trustee of Kutch-based Krishi Research Innovation and Development Association (KRIDA), a non-profit group that was founded by few Mumbai-based businessmen before two years. The group provides training and share knowledge with other businessmen encouraging them to take up farming in their native. “Profit is at the centre because all of them are businessmen. We provide them all customised concepts. For example, income in dragon fruit is good but it needs heavy investment also,” he said. “We advise them to cultivate multiple products so that if one product doesn’t succeed, they can make an earning from other products. We also help them to create a platform to market their agro produce,” said Vishal Gada, a consultant. KRIDA ALSO CREATING MANPOWER KRIDA is also helping create manpower for businessmen. It trains Kutchis who lost their jobs during lockdown. “We are offering them residential courses in agriculture and also give them salary. They get jobs in farms of these businessmen. After finishing their training, they can re-settle in Kutch if they wish,” said Amrut Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutchi-bizmen-turn-to-their-native-become-agripreneurs/articleshow/78341406.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1,622 Covid patients recover in past 24 hours||PATNA: The state reported 1,457 fresh Covid-19 cases and five official deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,77,355 and toll up to 886 on Saturday. Two residents of the city admitted at AIIMS-Patna also died on Saturday. However, with 1,63,132 recoveries, there were only 13,335 active cases in the state. Of the new cases, 255 were reported from Patna, which now has the tally of 26,995. However, with 24,721 recoveries and 203 deaths, active cases stood at 2071 in the district. Covid-19 cases reported from other districts included Purnia (83), Saharsa (83), Supaul (76), Muzaffarpur (64), Araria (61), Gopalganj (61) and Gaya (55). Other districts reported less than 50 cases on Saturday. As per health minister Mangal Pandey’s tweet, 1,50,673 samples were tested and 1,622 people recovered from the virus infection in the past 24 hours. The state recorded 91.98% recovery rate. Altogether 67,30,100 samples have been tested in Bihar so far. AIIMS-Patna reported deaths of a 68-year-old man from Adarsh Colony in Khagaul and another 78-year-old from Police Colony in Anisabad area. Other deceased included a 26-year-old man of Siwan, a 48-year-old man from Sheikhpura, a 56-year-old male from Gopalganj, a 62-year-old woman of Nalanda and a 76-year-old man from Rohtas district. Hospital’s Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 16 patients were admitted and 12 got discharged on Saturday. Those admitted were also from different pockets of Patna like Rajeev Nagar, Gandhi Path (Mithapur), Postal Park and Khagaul. No death was reported from NMCH. Three Covid-19 patients were admitted there and three got discharged on Saturday. As per the health department’s data, three deaths were reported from Bhagalpur, taking the district toll to 61, followed by one death each in East Champaran and Muzaffarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1622-covid-patients-recover-in-past-24-hours/articleshow/78339474.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Widow drowns son to get married again||PATNA: A 23-year-old woman was sent to jail on Saturday for allegedly drowning her 4-year-old partially blind minor son in a water body to pave way for her fourth marriage. The incident took place at Hassanpur Khandah under Shahjahanpur police station area in rural Patna on Friday. SHO Amrendra Kumar said the woman was identified as Dharmasheela Devi. “Her son Sajan Kumar was partially blind and dumb. He was the child from her first marriage with Arun Chaudhary,” Kumar said, adding Arun belongs to Bhadaul under Hilsa police station area in Nalanda district. Kumar said she had left Arun after one year of their marriage and took Sajan along with her. “She married second time but that person died. Dharmasheela then got married with one Mahesh Chaudhary of Mustaffapur under Fatuha police station area in Patna district,” the SHO said. He said Mahesh also died two months back in a road accident. “She was now planning to marry another person, but Sajan was a hurdle and she killed him,” the SHO said. He said Dharmasheela was living with her parents at Bahadurchak under Nagarnausa police station area in Nalanda district. “Bahadurchak is next to Hassanpur Khandah where she had brought her son and killed on Friday morning,” he said. “Some villagers had spotted her at around 8am near the water body. An hour after, the body floated in the water after which villagers went to her house and also informed the police,” he said. Kumar said she confessed to her crime for marrying another person. He said police located Arun on whose statement an FIR was lodged against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/widow-drowns-son-to-get-married-again/articleshow/78339497.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: EC curbs in place, parties adapt to electioneering in times of Covid||PATNA: With the Election Commission placing a host of Covid-safety curbs on electioneering, political parties in Bihar are busy making their strategies accordingly. The EC has mandated a maximum of five people for door-to-door campaigning and roadshows with just five vehicles in one convoy among others. Most parties have already taken to digital electioneering to reach out to the nearly 7.8-crore voters in the state. Even though public meets have been allowed with a maximum of 100 people under the Unlock measures, parties said their top leaders and star campaigners will address rallies, which may be partly physical and broadly virtual. Most parties are also emphasizing traditional door- to- door campaigning in the prevailing scenario. Baiju Nath Singh, additional chief electoral officer, Bihar, told TOI on Saturday that district electoral officers-cum-district magistrates have been authorized to identify grounds for allowing such gatherings. “The district electoral officer will allow political gatherings after scrutinizing the applications vis-a-vis the guidelines of the EC as well as the ministry of health,” he said. BJP functionaries said top leaders like PM Narendra Modi and Union minister Amit Shah among others may address rallies with a limited number of people as per EC guidelines. “Though the electioneering schedule of PM Modi and other start campaigners has not been finalized yet, it is most likely to be on ground rallies with restricted participants along with a live telecast and webcast across the state. The party already has a strong IT team at work for ensuring live streaming of such events,” a senior functionary in Bihar BJP said wishing anonymity. BJP’s Patna Sahib MLA Nand Kishor Yadav also echoed similar sentiments about virtual rallies. “A larger part of the electioneering of national-level leaders will be through the virtual medium,” he said. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand also said all EC guidelines related to Covid-19 will be followed strictly to ensure public safety amid the pandemic. “Though it is premature to say anything concrete in this regard, the party welcomes the EC guidelines regarding electioneering and it will be followed in all our activities,” he said. Similar is the opinion of Congress functionaries regarding poll meets of top leaders such as Rahul Gandhi. “As per a preliminary assessment of the guidelines of EC regarding the political gatherings, we are most likely to connect big leaders through a virtual medium. Permission will be taken from district electoral officer for roadshows and the number of party workers and vehicles will be strict as per EC guidelines. Moreover, our maximum focus will be on door-to-door campaigning,” senior Congress functionary and chairman of Bihar Congress’s manifesto committee Madhab Anand said. Ruling JD (U)’ spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad also claimed that door-to-door campaigning will be more effective this elections. “Door-to-door campaigning has traditionally been the most effective way of interacting with the electorate. As far as public meets of big leaders are concerned, it is most likely to be done on virtual platforms,” he said. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari also said big rallies are unlikely to happen and virtual rallies will be held as emphasized by EC. “Door-to-door will remain most effective for RJD, which has its connect with the grassroots. It is highly effective for a candidate. However, it is also true that people will miss the festive spirit of elections as they used to enjoy with direct interaction with big leaders through mega rallies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-curbs-in-place-parties-adapt-to-electioneering-in-times-of-covid/articleshow/78340154.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JD(U), BJP may agree to 50:50 formula and accommodate allies||PATNA: The JD(U) and BJP have seemingly agreed to apportion the 243 assembly seats under the broad framework of the 50:50 formula on the pattern of 2019 parliamentary election and then share their respective quota among the partners aligned with either of them within the NDA, sources said. Accordingly, JD(U) has agreed to contest 122 assembly seats and BJP 121, they added. Although neither of the two has said anything publicly, sources said BJP national president J P Nadda apprised CM Nitish Kumar on the broad formula during his recent visit to Patna. “Nadda’s polite message to Nitish was that any other seat-sharing formula — like JD(U) getting visibly more seats than BJP — would not send out a good message among the electorate (BJP’s supporters),” a source said. That way, it would be for the first time that BJP and JD(U) would be contesting almost an equal number of assembly seats in the state — a long cherished demand of the Bihar BJP rank and file since 2007. Otherwise, JD(U), projecting itself as the ‘elder party’ due to the high stock of Nitish in public esteem, had contested 139 seats and BJP 102 in November 2005, winning 88 and 55 seats respectively. The corresponding figures for JD(U) and BJP during the 2010 assembly elections were 141 and 102, recording their respective wins at 115 and 91 seats. At present, the four-party Bihar NDA constituents are in two groups — HAM(S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi as the JD(U) partner and LJP led by Chirag Paswan aligned with BJP. The probable fifth constituent, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, former Union minister in PM Narendra Modi government, has yet not been formally readmitted into the NDA. However, the seat-sharing talks between the BJP and RLSP began on Saturday. As to Manjhi, it is felt that Nitish would give him around six seats, keeping 116 seats for the JD(U) candidates. Alternatively, if Manjhi’s party is given more than six seats to contest, Nitish might field his party’s candidates on the HAM(S) seats. Nitish on Friday told mediapersons that it was the BJP’s responsibility to handle (rather contain) LJP chief Chirag Paswan. Similarly, he added that BJP ought to also juggle with the seat-related demands of Kushwaha. Ironically, Nitish’s advice to BJP was also that handling the demands of the LJP and RLSP was its responsibility, because they had entered the NDA in 2014 (when he himself was not part of the alliance till July 2017). His cautionary note with regard to RLSP was — BJP should also look at the parties which quit the NDA on the eve of the 2019 parliamentary elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-bjp-may-agree-to-5050-formula-accommodate-allies/articleshow/78339523.cms||Abhay Singh
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur residents not excited about polls||BHAGALPUR: While the district administration is busy with the preparations for assembly election, a section of residents seems to be apathetic towards polls in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic and financial instability due to prolonged lockdown and restrictions since March. “Lockdown and restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic have caused financial burden to us and our families,” said Anil Mandal. Echoing similar views, Pramod Kumar said he doesn’t care who wins or loses in assembly election. “No politician actually cares about us,” said Birendra Kumar, an employee of a private firm. There are seven assembly segments in the district — Bihpur, Gopalpur, Pirpainty, Kahalgaon, Bhagalpur, Sultanganj and Nathnagar. Some political outfits expect low voter turnout owing to Covid threat, others consider it as a challenge to ensure large turnout for their gain. Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti said all required measures are being taken for peaceful polling in the district. “Steps like initiating Bihar Crime Control Act (CCA) against criminals and antisocial elements have been taken. The SHOs have been alerted to nab criminals and check crime under their respective jurisdictions,” he said. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar also said every effort is being made to ensure free and fair polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-residents-not-excited-about-polls/articleshow/78339622.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Covid-19 positivity rate up at 6% as cases goes past 1.19 lakh||BHOPAL: The overall positivity rate of Covid-19 infection in Madhya Pradesh crossed 6% with the total Covid-19 positive cases going up to 1.19 lakh. A total of 2,311 people tested positive for the viral disease on Saturday, the 17th consecutive day when more than 2,000 people tested positive. With these fresh cases, the count of total cases reported in September so far has reached 55,934. This is 46.6% of the total 1,19,899 cases reported in the state since March 20 when the first Covid-19 patient was found in the state. Overall on an average more than 2,152 people have tested positive for covid-19 in the state so far in September every day. Apart from the new cases, 29 casualties were also reported in the state during the last 24 hours. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 2181 on Saturday. As per the state health bulletin, the highest number of 445 new cases were reported from Indore, followed by 273 in Bhopal, 199 in Jabalpur and 151 in Gwalior district. On the brighter side, 2,252 people who were admitted in different hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these people recovering from Covid-19 so far in the state has gone up to 95,490. Thus the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state remained 79.6% as on September 26. The positivity rate—number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested—was again 10% on Saturday as out of the 22,999 samples that were tested 2,311 tested positive. Since September 12 it was only on two days when the positivity rate has been below 10%. As on September 26, the overall positivity rate in state was 6.14% which has increased significantly as it was 4.6% on August 31. As on September 26, there were a total of 22,228 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-positivity-rate-up-at-6-as-cases-goes-past-1-19l/articleshow/78340294.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Distribution of vaccine is next challenge, govt needs Rs 80,000 crore to immunize country, says Serum CEO||Mumbai: The government may need Rs 80,000 crore over the next one year for distribution and immunization of Covid-19 vaccine to India’s entire population, Adar Poonawalla, CEO and promoter of the world’s largest vaccine producer, Serum Institute, said on Saturday. Calling it the “next concerning challenge” which needs to be tackled, Poonawalla posted a tweet tagging the Prime Minister’s Office, which read, “We need to plan and guide vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution”. Serum has tie-ups with global manufacturers AstraZeneca and Novavax for potential Covid-19 vaccines which are undergoing clinical trials. The tweetraised concerns of the government’s ability to fund the massive vaccine programme. Poonawalla told TOI, “The government has assured that there will be plenty of funds available for vaccine procurement, supply and logistics. This is good news.” Meanwhile, while addressing the United Nations General Assembly, Prime Minister Narender Modi said reportedly on Saturday that as the largest vaccine-producing country of the world, India’s production and delivery capacity will be used to help people across the world. Though further details were not available on modality of the calculation, sources say it could be assuming the benchmark price of $3-5 per dose, including two doses for the over 1.3 billion population. Also, distribution, procurement and logistics cost have been built in. Earlier, Serum had announced a ceiling price of $3 per dose for the proposed Covid-19 vaccines for India and low-and middle-income countries. Analysts expect the vaccine market in India to be around $6 billion, spread over three years. Bernstein Research expects the government to spend $2 bn and pick up the tab for 50% of the population, while the remainder will access the vaccine from the private market. “We estimate volumes to be split 55:45 between the government channel and private market, and procurement prices to be $3 per dose for the government, and end consumer prices of $6 in the private market,” it said in a recent note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/distribution-of-vaccine-is-next-challenge-govt-needs-rs-80000-crore-to-immunize-country-says-serum-ceo/articleshow/78341954.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Four days before exams, students complain of glitches in NU app||NAGPUR: Four days before Nagpur University (NU)’s inordinately-delayed final year examination commences, its ‘Pariksha App’ has received a slew of complaints from the students. Right from facing problems in downloading it to a series of blunders in mock test questions, the new app is proving to be a big headache for aggrieved examinees, who have been waiting for their papers since the last four months. After its much hyped launching by vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari on Wednesday, the app is yet to be uploaded on Google Playstore. NU somehow managed to upload it on its website and told students to download from it. However, the experimentation didn't seem to be successful, as many of them were unable to download it. Rejecting the students’ claims, Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI that students weren’t reading instructions before downloading the app and therefore, it wasn’t getting installed. “Many lecturers called us, complaining about the same. When I explained the procedure to them, they successfully installed it,” Sable said. He added that the students could open the NU website on all browsers except Google Chrome, which blocks it for security reasons. “The software will not be downloaded even if there is a minute error. So reading instructions is a must before proceeding,” Sable explained. Admitting mistakes in mock test questions, Sable said they were not filled properly in the software and therefore, some portion was automatically deleted while entering. “We’ve removed all such questions now and replaced them with correct ones. Even for us, this system is entirely new. It’s the first time we’re experimenting with online mode and it’s obvious that errors would emerge. But we’re rectifying them quickly and there’s no need to panic.” The students, however, aren’t convinced with NU’s explanation. Since exams were just four days away, they said, they would be at a loss if such technical glitches continued to haunt them. “The standard of mock tests is not up to the mark. Being a student of law, I would expect questions from my stream. However, there isn't any option for stream available,” Aradhya Pande, a student of Ambedkar College of Law, said. Agreeing with her, mass communication student Shrutika Zade said using the app would be big problem for examinees from rural areas, due to network issues and snags. “It’s unavailable on playstore. There is a lot of fear and anxiety on what will happen during the papers.” Sable, however, added that the app required some permission, which delayed its uploading. “Google has now cleared it and it’s likely to be uploaded on its playstore by Sunday,” he said. (With inputs from Anchal Bhatia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-days-before-exams-students-complain-of-glitches-in-nu-app/articleshow/78341488.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 27, 2020||Mysuru||Four trekkers missing after venturing inside C’magaluru forest||Chikkamagaluru: Officials in the forest department in Mudigere in Chikkamagaluru have sought help from the local cops to help trace four youngsters – Vivek, Prajwal, Swaroop and Prajwal from Mudigere taluk – who are missing after they went trekking to Balur Forest on Saturday. The four youngsters obtained permission from the forest department to undertake the trek, and were instructed to return before 4pm. However, when the youngsters did not return even after dusk, the foresters grew worried. Parents, relatives and friends of the four youngsters are all worried since they have not been able to contact them on their respective phones. Foresters suspect that they may have lost their way in the woods. Trekking activity is allowed in Kottigehara and Balur as long as enthusiasts obtain permission from the forest department. Since the Ballalarayana Durga is a thickly wooded area, the trekkers were informed about the dangers and told to return before night set in. Balur Reserve Forest division range forest officer Yaseen said, “They must have gotten confused about the route. If they are stuck somewhere deep inside the jungle, they will have to wait till the morning, Baluru police are helping us locate them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-trekkers-missing-after-venturing-inside-cmagaluru-forest/articleshow/78339512.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kanpur||NBW issued against aide of Jaikant Bajpai||KANPUR: A non-bailable warrant (NBW) was issued against Rahul Singh, an aide of gangster Jaikant Bajpai, on Saturday in connection with a case wherein he was accused of using a fake secretariat pass with MLA written on it, lodged soon after the Bikru ambush in the month of July. Jaikant is currently in jail for conspiring the Bikru ambush with gangster Vikas Dubey, while his aide Rahul of Chakarpur Mandi area, is however, currently on the run. The development comes after he allegedly skipped summons for questioning by the city police. To recall, an FIR in this regard has been lodged at Kakadeo police station under various sections against Jaikant and his aide Rahul on July 22. It might be noted that the police, soon after the Bikru incident, had seized three luxury vehicles, which did not have registration number plates on them, in Kakadeo area of the city. Investigation later revealed that the vehicles, including an Audi car and a Fortuner, were purchased by a local businessman Jaikant but registered under different names. The seized Fortuner vehicle, registered in the name of Jaikant’s aide Rahul, had a fake sceretariat pass with MLA written on it. Police had informed that during investigation, it came to fore that pass was fake and procured using computer software and the same was pasted on the windscreen of the Fortuner vehicle. “A warrant has been issued against Rahul and searches are underway. If he continues to evade arrest, we would attach his property,” said SP (West) Dr Anil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nbw-issued-against-aide-of-jaikant-bajpai/articleshow/78339413.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 27, 2020||Allahabad||Covid crisis eases in city, recovery rate over 80%||PRAYAGRAJ: The Covid-19 crisis seems to be easing in the Sangam City as 73% of the total cases have been found to be asymptomatic or with very mild symptoms and the recovery rate improving further and crossing the 80% mark. Health officials said there have been 18,141 Covid-19 cases in the Sangam City till Friday out of which 14,628 have been cured. Pointedly, the recovery rate has crossed the 80% mark. While 4,223 patients got cured and were discharged from hospitals, 10,405 completed their home isolation period. Now, there are only 3,259 active cases, though 254 patients died. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr. Rishi Sahai told TOI, “Out of total 18,141 patients, only 30% needed to be admitted to hospital. And even of these 30% patients, 10% were admitted to hospital as they did not have the requisite facilities at their homes to be permitted home isolation as per norms.” Prayagraj's Covid-19 caseload increased dramatically in August and September. The ongoing month of September has been particularly severe as 8,141 cases were detected in the last 25 days, accounting for 44.8% of the total 18,141 Covid-19 cases in the district so far since the outbreak of the pandemic. Sangam city reported its first Covid-19 case on April 5 when a 35-year-old Indonesian man, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi on March 12-13, had tested positive. He had arrived in the city on March 22. The statistics of the health department show that only 87 cases and three deaths were recorded till May 31 in Prayagraj district which then witnessed a surge in cases from July. In over a month, the number of Covid-19 patients rose from 199 to 286, while eight died. The data shows 2,142 cases were detected in July and the case count leapfrogged to 7,540 in August. By August 31, the continuous rise in Covid-19 cases took the tally to 9,668, and crossed the 10,000-mark on September 1. A senior health official said “Over 10,405 patients have completed home isolation till September 25, and the recovery rate in Prayagraj district has improved to around 80.6%.” “The recovery rate among patients in home isolation has been far better than that of those being treated in hospitals due to the difference in severity.” The state government had allowed home isolation to asymptomatic Covid-19 patients on July 24, but the permission was granted only if they had all the required facilities for self-isolation at home and could avoid contact with other family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-crisis-eases-in-city-recovery-rate-over-80/articleshow/78339323.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Varanasi||Oppn exploited farmers, mocked migrants during lockdown, says CM Yogi||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid rich tributes to BJP MLA Janmejay Singh and asked BJP workers to start a door to door campaign to win the Deoria Sadar seat which has fallen vacant due to his untimely demise. CM Yogi targeted the Opposition while addressing party workers in Deoria on Saturday and said, “Those who don’t know whether sugarcane grows on land or on trees are pretending to fight for farmers and labourers. These very people exploited farmers during their rule and mocked migrant workers in distress during lockdown by giving numbers of scooters and motorcycles in their list while claiming to arrange buses.” CM Yogi said all the Opposition parties are confusing people on farm bills. “The Opposition does not want that the farmer can sell their produce to anyone who offers the best price. Since last three years, the payment of crops is directly reaching the bank accounts of the farmers and the Opposition parties fear that their politics will end if the role of mediators ends,” the CM added. “The entire world is appreciating our management during Covid-19 crisis. We not only provided employment to 40 lakh migrant workers, but have been providing them free food when they lost their livelihood,” he said. “We are dedicated to development and in this byelection, people have to think about who will bring development and provide employment,” the CM added. Yogi appealed to booth level party workers to run a door to door campaign and inform people about the achievements and schemes of the BJP governments at Centre and in state.Enumerating the achievements, he said, “We have been working for development and also established a medical college in Deoria in the name of Devraha Baba. From next year, classes will start for 100 students and people will get high quality medical facilities.” The number deaths due to encephalitis has reduced substantially due to the state government’s focus on drainage, potable water and cleanliness, the CM said. Deoria Sadar assembly seat fell vacant after the demise of BJP MLA Janmejay Singh. BSP has already declared Abhainath Tripathi as party candidate from the seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/oppn-exploited-farmers-mocked-migrants-during-lockdown-says-cm-yogi/articleshow/78339304.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Six Covid deaths in Wardha, caseload crosses 4,000-mark||WARDHA: Six Covid-19 patients died during treatment, taking the toll to 112, while the caseload increased to 4,152 after 166 new cases were reported in the district on Saturday. The number of recovered patients reached 2,217 after 98 were discharged during the day. The deceased included two men (65 and 72) from Pulgaon, a 60-year-old man from Hinganghat, a 69-year-old man from Samudrapur, a 61-year-old woman from Selu and a 70-year-old woman from Wardha. A total of 548 test reports were received o Saturday. Highest 101 cases came from Wardha, followed by Hinganghat (27), Deoli (16), Selu (11), Karanja (6), Arvi (4) and Samudrapur (1). Now, 1,934 patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-covid-deaths-in-wardha-caseload-crosses-4k-mark/articleshow/78341491.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Oxygen supply snapped, industries left gasping||BHOPAL: In the absence of the oxygen supply for the past 20 days, thousands of industries in Mandideep and Govindpura — among other industrial areas of the state — are literally gasping for breath. For the whole of Saturday, representatives of industrial areas have been meeting the bureaucrats for restoration of oxygen. All the oxygen has been diverted for corona patients and industrial use of the oxygen is banned. Already struggling slowdown, many industries have shut down and production may stop in many others. One week after the government order to restore 10% of the oxygen supply to industries was not implemented, the office-bearers of Govindpura Industrial Area (GIA ) staged a dharna in Bhopal on September 23. The police slapped criminal cases on the industrialists. Rajeev Agrawal, president of the Association of all Industries of Mandideep, said: “When the industries were limping back to normalcy after the lockdown, the oxygen shortage has paralysed us.” “Industries all across the state have been hit very badly,” he said after a meeting with the district collector of Raisen and managing director MP Audhovikas Nigam on Saturday. In fact, officer-bearers of the industrial areas in every district of the state have been meeting the collectors of the respective districts for restoration of oxygen supply. The GIA representatives met district collector of Bhopal on Saturday, but it did not yield any result. The industrialists are now planning to meet the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/o2-supply-snapped-industries-left-gasping/articleshow/78340315.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
September 27, 2020||Vadodara||Cops warn people on social media challenges||Vadodara/Rajkot: #CoupleChallenge is the new in-thing as news feeds on Facebook are flooded with people sharing their photos with their spouses. But little do these couples know that their privacy is getting compromised and they can become victims of cybercrime by participating in this new trend. Chhota Udepur and Kutch police have warned people from posting their photos on social media as there are possibilities that the photos can be misused by morphing images. In a warning on Twitter, superintendent of police, Chhota Udepur has warned people that incidents of cybercrime take place by morphing images that are shared under campaigns like ‘couple challenge’. “Do not share your personal photos by getting influenced by such challenges on Facebook. If you will use social media without knowing the rules and norms of cyber security, you will become a victim of cybercrime,” the post on Twitter stated. Kutch police also issued a similar warning. “By uploading your family pictures for such challenges, you are inviting cybercrime,” the warning read. It further said, “Cyber criminals may misuse your personal pictures and such offences have been registered in past too.” Besides ‘couple challenge’, Kutch police asked people also not to get influenced by ‘single challenge’ and ‘cute daughter challenge’. “Any post with mention of a hash tag becomes a part of public domain. Hashtag is a community so when a user posts photo under a hashtag, the images become a part of public domain,” said Vadodara-based cyber expert Mayur Bhusavalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-warn-people-on-social-media-challenges/articleshow/78339258.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Heavy rainfall to persist as wettest monsoon nears end||PANAJI: While some relief from vigorous rainfall activity appears to be in sight after a couple of days, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, has forecast heavy precipitation for two more days in isolated places. With hardly three days for the season’s end, the withdrawal of the monsoon should not be too far away. But the thick rain clouds are not showing signs of clearing up even as an extremely wet September has already logged 710.4mm of rain; 130% more than normal. The month is likely to record a higher surplus than June, July and August for this season. “This (710.4mm of rain) is approximately 2.3 times the normal rainfall of September, or 130% higher than normal,” an IMD scientist said. An average rainfall of 305.8mm is considered normal during this concluding month. But this year has seen progressively increasing precipitation, recording 2.3 times more than the average. The first fortnight yielded only about 215mm, but the deluge started in the second half, as IMD, Panaji, recorded nearly 500mm in the season’s last phase. A trough from east Bihar to west-central Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh coast, and another one from south Chhattisgarh to south interior Karnataka across Telangana are likely to affect the weather pattern over Goa. “These systems keep winds over Goa as westerly up to a height of around 5km, resulting in overcast conditions and rain,” an IMD bulletin stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rainfall-to-persist-as-wettest-monsoon-nears-end/articleshow/78341531.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hubballi||All patients coming to hospitals must be tested for Covid: Nitesh Patil||DHARWAD: Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil has said that the district administration has made it mandatory for all the patients visiting private and government hospitals to have their swab samples tested for Covid-19. The private hospitals have to collect the swab sample of patients who cannot afford to pay the fees, and send it to KIMS or DIMHANS, and the test will be conducted free-of-cost, he added. Speaking while chairing a meeting of private doctors held at his office in Dharwad on Friday, Patil said that poor patients should not be deprived of testing and medical treatment at private hospitals, hence the government has decided to test them free-of-cost. There is a need for early detection and timely treatment to contain the spread of this disease, he said, and sought the support of private hospitals. The patients visiting private hospitals as outpatients or who are admitted, should provide his domicile address and contact number. Patients from other districts too can be admitted in the hospitals here, but they should be registered in their respective districts, he said. Antibiogram should be conducted on all those availing treatment at ICUs, and the near and dear ones of those testing positive for the novel coronavirus should compulsorily be tested, Nitesh said. The deputy commissioner also said that if any private hospital requires oxygen, KIMS will provide hi-flow oxygen. They should contact Dr S M Honkeri who is the nodal officer to supply oxygen, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/all-patients-coming-to-hospitals-must-be-tested-for-covid/articleshow/78339530.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kanpur||‘Patients in home isolation should have good oximeters’||KANPUR: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekher on Saturday directed the health officials to inform people in home isolation to have good quality of oximeters and thermometers . He said the authorities would help them in acquiring the equipment at lower prices from the market so that they could monitor their health parameters daily or else they should be shifted to hospital with L-1 facilities. The commissioner while visiting Kidwai Nagar and the Railway colony was informed by the officials of the health department that some patients (mainly from low income groups) were still found staying in home isolation without oximeters and thermometers due to which their daily health record status monitoring has become difficult. During the random inspection of urban primary health center in Kidwai Nagar, he sought information about the health care of Covid-19 patients and directed the health workers to collect details, including Aadhar number, mobile number and full address of the patients who had been tested positive there. “If anyone is found positive, then either allocate him the Covid facility or send him/her in home isolation. Apart from this, collect information about people who came in his contact so that contact tracing can be done. Mobile numbers must be cross-checked on the spot by a missed call”, the commissioner said. He asked the authorities to increase the staff engaged in registration and sample collection work at UPHC Kidwai Nagar. He himself contacted the persons who were there for testing and asked them about the facilities being provided to them. He also inspected the data feeding format and issued necessary directions to them. He stated that since the role of doctors and RRT teams is quite important in controlling Covid-19, therefore they should ensure proper care of patients. The thereafter visited H-2 Block Kidwai Nagar and the Railway colony and visited the houses of corona positive persons and held one-to-one conversation. He also inquired about the performance of the RRT teams. Raj Shekhar said that around 40 Rapid Response Teams were active in the field and average positive cases in the last few days were around 300 per day. Earlier, this average was around 450.” We further need to reduce it to minimum by launching a massive awareness campaign. He pointed out that contact tracing and testing were also very important to prevent the spread of Covid-19”. As of now, contact tracing rate is average that is seven contacts per positive case. It would be increased to 10 in the next week, he added. Additional chief medical officer, city magistrate and SDM Sadar accompanied the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/patients-in-home-isolation-should-have-good-oximeters/articleshow/78339400.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 27, 2020||Delhi||10-year wait for Delhi to clear its garbage piles?||NEW DELHI: Indore took three years to level its landfill through trommeling and bio-mining. Delhi may need a decade to achieve similar success. It uses the same model and has made substantial progress since it began a year ago, but it has to process almost 20 times more legacy waste at its three dumps, which, to add to the struggle, still get fresh garbage every day. Taking cognisance of TOI’s report on groundwater contamination at the landfills, National Green Tribunal had ordered the clearing up of the mounds after biomining. The three municipal corporations claimed to have so far cleared 11 lakh tonnes of legacy waste at the Okhla, Bhalswa and Ghazipur landfills, just a fraction of the 280 lakh tonnes estimated to have accumulated over decades. Cumulatively, 33 trommel machines have been installed, with North Delhi Municipal Corporation deploying 15, EDMC 12 and SDMC, six. The lack of space available for the installation of the machines and for dumping the inert material generated by biomining slowed down the process as did the Covid lockdown. There should have been 60 trommels in operation by now. Asad Warsi, waste management expert appointed by NGT, who also worked on the Indore landfill, told TOI that Covid had impacted the exercise and actual work had been limited to around six months. He added that more trommel machines were needed, particularly in Ghazipur and Okhla, both of which have not processed enough waste. “Bhalswa has seen the most progress and is closing in on the target, but Ghazipur might take the longest to achieve,” said Warsi. “The target was to put up 20 trommel machines after a year at each site and 20 to be added every year afterward to flatten the mounds.” While the initial targets were to level the three sites in 4-5 years, Bhalswa, Warsi estimated, could take 5-6 years, Okhla 10 years and Ghazipur up to 15 years, based on the number of trommel machines deployed and progress made so far. “Significant progress has to be achieved because there’s fresh waste arriving every day. The Indore landfill received no fresh garbage,” he noted. Indore’s municipality used 26 trommel machines, processing 2 lakh tonne of waste in the first two years and the remaining 13 lakh tonnes in the third year, the exponential increase in the third year being the result of more trommels being deployed. An EDMC official overseeing the project noted, “The landfill at Indore was around 10 times smaller than even Ghazipur and there was enough space there to dispose of the processed material. We are fighting for space for the inert material at Bhatti Mines, but haven’t been successful. Delhi’s administration lies with a multiplicity of agencies, so the problem of allocating space lingers on.” While the EDMC official maintained that it would take around five years to level the Ghazipur mound — considered to be as tall as the Qutub Minar — experts aren’t so optimistic, putting the completion period at 15 years. The north corporation, the co-ordinating nodal body for tenders for all three civic bodies, is far ahead of the others. It claims to have cleared 7.8 lakh tonnes, clearing up to 4,500 tonnes a day. “With 17 machines operating soon, we can process 10 lakh tonnes within the targeted time,” said an official. “Bhalswa landfill has almost 80 lakh tonnes of legacy waste, and by adding more trommels, we estimate it will take us two years to remove the entire mass.” Warsi, however, opined that it could take around six more years if more machines are put to work. Since all three landfill sites are currently “live sites”, a lot of the progress is being undone. Bhalswa gets 66,000 tonnes of fresh waste every month, so it’s two steps forward, one step back every month. At Ghazipur 2,400 tonnes are removed every day, but 2,000 tonnes are added. Okhla lags by a long distance, with just 900 tonnes being processed daily against around 2,000 tonnes dumped each day. The only short-term solution to avoid fresh garbage is to operationalise new waste-to-energy plants or sent the trash to the new engineered landfill being set up in Tehkhand, an official said. Chitra Mukherjee, head of advocacy and policy at Chintan, an NGO involved with waste-management, argued however that until segregation at source was implemented, the landfills would continue to be burdened. “While you make progress on the ground, you also have to find solutions to prevent fresh waste from arriving at the landfills,” said Mukherjee. If the projects are successful, not only will Delhi be rid of toxic waste mountains, but will also get precious public land. It is expected that 70 acres of land in Ghazipur, 36 acres in Bhalswa and 46 acres at Okhla will be freed up. “The reclaimed land can turn into biodiversity parks or sites for waste-processing plants,” NGT had suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-year-wait-for-capital-to-clear-its-garbage-piles/articleshow/78340326.cms||Paras Singh
September 27, 2020||Bhopal||Constable dies of Covid-19, third in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 35-year-old constable serving in the police force for the past 10 years and posted at Khajuri police station died of Covid-19 infection at Chirayu hospital on Saturday morning. Senior officers, including DGP MP Vivek Johri, expressed their condolences on the sudden death of the young constable. SHO Khajuri SI LD Mishra said that Jitendra Koushal hailed from Sehore and was posted as computer operator . He was suffering from Typhoid for the past 12-13 days and was on leave. When his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to hospital on Thursday. He was diagnosed with severe pneumonia and symptoms of Coronavirus. Jitendra died at the hospital on Saturday around 9am. Later, his report was found Corona positive. Mishra said that Jitendra’s last rites were performed at Bhadbhada vishram ghat in presence of senior police officers and he was given a Guard of Honour. With this Covid-19 has claimed the life of three cops in Bhopal. Earlier ASI Ansar Ahmed and DSP PP Gautam died of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/constable-dies-of-covid-3rd-in-bhopal/articleshow/78340331.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Police bust racket, seize illicit liquor from godown in marriage palace||Ambala: Police have busted another illicit liquor godown in a marriage palace at Barnala village of Ambala district under the limits of Panjokhra police station and recovered a large quantity of country liquor (65-degree proof) on Saturday. Sources said this is the third big case related to illicit liquor smuggling and manufacturing of spurious liquor in one month. On Saturday, a case was registered against two accused identified as Pradeep Mittal of Ambala City, a liquor contractor and Jaipal Singh, owner of the marriage palace. They have been booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Excise Act at Panjokhra police station on Saturday, September 26. Police said Pradeep is a known liquor contractor of Ambala who has several contracts in the district. He is already behind bars for smuggling illicit liquor in the guise of aloe-vera juice to Gujarat. The case was registered at Panjokhra police station on September 12. In his complaint, Panjokhra police station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Lal stated, “In connection with the investigation of case 123/2020, I along with my team was present at a godown in Mandour village. We received a tip-off that a tin godown is established in Joy Park marriage palace in Barnala village behind the liquor store at Mandour Chowk on Barnala road. It was informed that illicit liquor for sale in Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh is stored in this godown, from where it is supplied to customers.” He said the owner of Joy Park palace, Jaipal Singh of Sector 7, Ambala City had given his property/godown to liquor contractor Pradeep Mittal to store illicit liquor and supply it. This liquor is kept in the warehouse without license or permit on the basis of fake papers in collusion with his associates, he said. Ambala deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Madan Lal said, “A total of 1,065 boxes (1,018 boxes Nips 180 ml and 47 boxes of Quarts 750 ml) of country liquor brand “Crazy Romeo” and about 185 to 190 boxes (including Nips and Quarts) of about 10 brands were recovered from the godown on Saturday. A case has been registered and further investigation is on. Pradeep is already in custody. Jaipal claimed that he had given the property to him on lease.” On September 12, a case was registered at Panjokhra, after a huge quantity of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) was recovered from two godowns at Mandour village of Ambala district. Ambala police formed a special investigation team (SIT) under the leadership of DSP Madan Lal. So far, nine accused, including Pradeep and one Shankar Bhai More of Vadodara, Gujarat have been arrested in the case. On September 11, Yamunanagar police recovered 689 boxes of illicit country liquor from a truck near Radaur town. A case was registered and an SIT was formed by Yamunanagar police headed by DSP Radaur, Randhir Singh. Investigations revealed that illicit liquor was being prepared by three persons in a godown at Shahpur-Machhonda village of Ambala district. DSP Randhir said, “So far, we have arrested two accused in this case, including Pradeep Kumar of Mathana village of Kurukshetra district on September 11 and Bittu Singh of Elahawas village of Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh on September 14. Names of about six persons, including Rohit Sharma of Ambala, who are involved in preparing illicit liquor at a godown in Shahpur-Machhonda village of Ambala came up. Pradeep used to supply the liquor to various places in the region. Other accused are at large and we are investigating the case.” Sources said, “Bittu told the police that Rohit owns the godown and he, along with Pradeep and Rohit planned to prepare the illicit liquor and start a business there. Pradeep supplied liquor in his car. Pradeep told the police that they bought extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from a Bahadurgarh based man and started preparing illicit liquor in Ambala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-bust-racket-seize-illicit-liquor-from-godown-in-marriage-palace/articleshow/78341507.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No site fixed yet, corporations don’t know what to do with all inert soil||NEW DELHI: With biomining picking pace and 33 trommel machines sieving out more than 7,500 tonnes of legacy waste every day, the future of Delhi’s landfill levelling project hinges on the allocation of space for disposing of the inert soil material produced in the process. At the three landfills, there are dark mounds of this end product of biomining, part of which is being used for the development of an eco-park at the site of the former Badarpur thermal power plant. However, managing the entire product of the flattening process is a burdensome prospect. An East Delhi Municipal Corporation official said the inert soil should be dumped at the abandoned Asola Bhatti Mines or National Highways Authority of India should start using it for base filling in road projects. “The 1.5 lakh tonnes of garbage processed has produced over 75,000 tonnes of inert material,” the official said. “There is no question of Badarpur handling all this. The mines or NHAI proposals should be cleared for the landfill clearance to be completed in the expected time frame.” A Ridge Management Board meeting, scheduled for September 18, was to have decided whether to allow dumping of inert material at the Asola Bhatti mines. But the meeting was postponed indefinitely after two members said RMB needed to be reconstituted since its tenure had ended. This only delays the process of deciding what to do with the material being generated at the landfills each day. “A meeting can take place only after the board is formally re-constituted. A file on the matter has been sent to Delhi government, and a meeting will be announced once the procedures are completed,” disclosed a forest official. Last year, the corporations approached NGT for permission to dump inert material into the mine pits numbered 2, 6, 10 and 12. A similar application had been made to Delhi High Court in 2013. NGT, however, refused to accept the application, asking the civic bodies to approach “more appropriate authorities”. With the requested areas falling in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, part of the Southern Ridge, RMB’s has to give the permission, officials said. An EDMC official claimed that tests showed the inert soil to be high in carbon and nitrogen components, suitable for use as enriched soil for farming. For SDMC, disposal has been a bigger problem, according to an official, though the south body had dispatched over 40,000 tonnes to the Badarpur eco-park and Jaitpur’s low-lying areas. The space crunch is a big factor in the slow pace of biomining at Okhla landfill, the official said. The corporations propose to fill the four abandoned pits in Asola Bhatti, with a cumulative area of 477 acres and average depth of 30 metres, with the inert soil. “The total volume of these pits is 578 lakh cubic-metres, big enough to accommodate all inert material from the three landfills,” a municipal report says. An official assured that for added protection, geo-textile linings would be used before the processed soil is dumped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-site-fixed-yet-corporations-dont-know-what-to-do-with-all-inert-soil/articleshow/78340330.cms||Paras Singh
September 27, 2020||Allahabad||No sales, sellers of old books bank on sanitisers, masks to lure buyers||PRAYAGRAJ: As schools and colleges remain shut and classes shift online, sellers of used or second-hand books near Allahabad University (AU) are struggling to stay open for business as the Covid-19 pandemic keeps their regular buyers away. Even the regular crowd of candidates preparing for various competitive exams in the city is nowhere to be seen near these shops ever since coaching centres were closed to check the spread of the virus. Desperate for sales to pick up, a few booksellers have also started to stock up on masks and sanitisers to attract customers. Every year in July as AU and other colleges open for the new session, there is a huge demand for used books. These second-hand book sellers come to the rescue of several students who are not able to afford new books. These shops are also the place to go to if you are looking for out of print books. These old books are more in demand by students preparing for medical, engineering, law, civil service and other competitive examinations. Most of these stores are located on the roadside, outside the AU campus and other colleges. Even as October just around the corner, the sale of old books is merely 15 to 20% of regular levels, nosediving by around 80%. A shopkeeper from Katra, Vivek Gupta, said, “A large number of students have gone back to their hometowns as schools, colleges and coaching centres are closed due to the pandemic. No one is asking for books, be it old or new. Online education has also affected the sale of old books.” Research scholar Ajay Tiwari said, “The importance of old books has not diminished despite the availability of online resources. These shops sell several titles which are no longer printed by publishers. These second hand books are useful to several aspirants, who come to Prayagaraj with the dream of cracking competitive exams and are living under stringent budgets.” Business in stationery shops isn’t any better, which have seen their sales dip by almost 70%. “We had placed an order for new books in December last year, expecting a jump in sales in April and again in June-July. However, we are unable to retrieve our costs, let alone earn profits,” said Mukesh, a shopkeeper in Dhoomanganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-sales-sellers-of-old-books-bank-on-sanitisers-masks-to-lure-buyers/articleshow/78339341.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kanpur||Man shot at in road rage, critical in Auraiya district||KANPUR: A man was arrested on Saturday in an alleged road rage incident, wherein a commuter was shot at in Auraiya district. “The incident took place in the afternoon hours in Sadar Bazar area. The injured man, Vishal Singh of Govindnagar, was admitted to Saifai Medical University in Etawah in a critical state,” said the police. “On Saturday noon, a scooty brushed past the victim’s bicycle and he got into a fight with the rider. The matter escalated and Vishal was shot in the stomach,” said an officer. The accused, Niranjan Verma, lives nearby. The weapon used in the incident has been recovered, said police. Police said Vishal, an employee at a shop in Sadar Bazar area, was on way to his employers house, when he got into an altercation with scooty-borne Niranjan Verma after latter’s scooty hit his bicycle. “It was a minor fight, but Niranjan allegedly whipped out a firearm and shot at Vishal,” said Circle Officer (Sadar) Surendra Nath. He added the accused has been arrested and the weapon he used has also been recovered. Injured was admitted to Saifai Medical university in Etawah in a critical state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-shot-at-in-road-rage-critical/articleshow/78339431.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Allahabad||Protests delay admin plan to raze houses||PRAYAGRAJ: A joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district officials started demolishing two illegal houses allegedly constructed on government land by close aides of former MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmed in Beli Kachar area on Saturday. However, officials couldn’t complete the exercise on Saturday due to vehement protests by civil activists and local residents. The team arrived at the spot on Saturday noon to demolish houses and heavy police were deployed for the drive. SP (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said, “The houses were constructed illegally by close associates of the former MP. The families neither had any ownership records nor any sanctioned maps to show the joint team They had also sold the properties to other people.” The demolition drive couldn’t be completed due to the protests and police had to forcibly take away around two dozen activists including Samajwadi Party leader Richa Singh. She was among activists who had gathered under the banner ‘Prayagraj Ghar Bachao Morcha’ to protest against the demolition. Police initially tried to pacify them by telling them that the houses were constructed illegally on government-owned land. However, when they refused to listen, police forcibly took them away from the area. “We have appealed to the PDA to regularise the houses and give families adequate time to vacate the premises. We are not supporting any group or person, but demanding that PDA to give ample time to the families to get the maps sanctioned from the authority,” said Richa Singh. PDA official Alok Pandey said, “Some persons were constructing illegal structures on state land. We have identified the houses which were constructed on government-owned land without getting a map sanctioned by PDA.” He also said that the exercise would be completed by Sunday. The team vacated the household items from the houses. The joint team also spotted two other plots where illegal construction was being done. A large crowd had gathered at the spot as the officials tried to reason with the protesters and go ahead with the demolition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/protests-delay-admin-plan-to-raze-houses/articleshow/78339372.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kanpur||202 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths reported in dist||Kanpur: Two more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection on Saturday. District health department informed that three other Covid patients had died on September 1, 6 and 18 respectively, but their details were updated only on Saturday. This took the death toll to 638. On Friday also, two Covid patients had died. There has also been a fall in the number of deaths in the past few days. Also, 202 more persons were tested positive for coronavirus. This took the corona count to 24,366. However, of this total 19,637 persons have been discharged. There has also come a fall in the active cases. Active cases now stand at 4,091. On Friday, active cases were 4,171. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/202-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-reported-in-dist/articleshow/78339389.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Allahabad||Tourism dept plans to connect Kaushambi with Buddhist circuit||PRAYAGRAJ: Seeking to introduce the world to Kaushambi district’s rich cultural legacy, the tourism department has decided to submit a proposal to the government to develop various tourism sites associated with Buddhism under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme and connect it with the Buddhist Circuit. The department would soon submit a Rs 50 crore proposal to the state government. The proposal is based on an elaborate survey conducted by different departments like forest, power, revenue and tourism of several sites of religious and historical importance on Wednesday. Deputy director (UP Tourism) Dinesh Singh said the ambitious project is proposed to be developed under the Buddhist Circuit, which was created as part of the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. The Buddhist Circuit is a route that follows the footsteps of Gautam Buddha from Lumbini in Nepal where he was born, through Bihar (Gaya) where he attained enlightenment, to Sarnath where he gave his first sermon and Kushinagar where he died. He visited Kaushambi many times to preach his sermons. The proposal explains how various sites in Kaushambi can be preserved and developed to boost the district’s tourism potential. “If the proposal is approved, we plan on adding several attractions for tourists including a majestic meditation centre. Visitors would be treated to an audio-visual show about the importance of the various Buddhist sites in Kaushambi,” said architect of the project Vishal Gulati. Public amenities like toilets, restaurants, waiting halls, handicraft markets and shops are also be offered to visitors. Other attractions included in the proposal are an open air theatre, water points, ATM kiosks and currency exchange centres for the convenience of foreign tourists. “As there is not enough parking space at most tourists attractions, the department has proposed to launch its own e-rickshaw service which would ferry tourists to the meditation centre,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/tourism-dept-plans-to-connect-kaushambi-with-buddhist-circuit/articleshow/78339358.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Hisar power plant turbine breaks down, one unit closed||HISAR: After a unit turbine at Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Plant at Khedar village in Hisar broke down 4-5 days ago, it has resulted in shut down of one unit. Sources have claimed that negligence by the officers was responsible for the situation while the plant’s chief engineer was planning to get analysis of the turbine done. Sources within the power plant said about 4-5 days ago, the turbine had started making noises at night and when the officer present on the spot called the officer concerned, the latter failed to come to the site. Due to this, when the turbine remained functional throughout night, it started giving trouble in the morning. Later the unit was shut down as per the demand-made schedule, sources added. In the evening it was found that the turbine had broken down and the unit has not been made functional till the filing of this report. Due to this, power generation capacity of various power plants of the state has come down from 4,642MW to 4,042MW. Sources said now the officials were passing the blame on each other. Turbine executive engineer Pawan Kumar denied that the turbine had broken down while Praveen Girdhar, executive engineer of control and instrumentation, disconnected the phone. Chief engineer of Khedar power plant Mohammad Iqbal said the turbine had not broken down and the problem was being analyzed. He, however, said one unit was closed at this time. On the question of recovery of the turbine, he said the problem had not been detected yet. On the question of someone’s negligence, he said that no such thing has come to the fore as of now. Along with this, it said overhauling of the unit was to be done in February, which could happen, resulting in such a situation. Meanwhile, sources have claimed that due to the non-functional turbine, the plant will incur losses in crores and it might take several months to repair the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hisar-power-plant-turbine-breaks-down-one-unit-closed/articleshow/78341530.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||IGI Airport's Terminal-2 to resume operations from October 1||NEW DELHI: With air travel gradually reviving, IGI Airport’s Terminal-2 will again become operational from October 1 to accommodate more domestic flights. Since the March-end lockdown, T3 is the only terminal being used at IGIA for all flights. Now with the domestic wing of T3 operating at capacity, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has decided to add flights from the next door T2. While reactivating T1 will require a much larger growth in traffic, its not-in-use status gives the airport operator a free hand for the ongoing expansion work there. IndiGo will be operating some of its domestic flights from T2 beginning next month. The airline website says: “Flight numbers 6E 2000- 6E 2999 will operate from Terminal 2, Delhi, starting October 1, 2020. Please ensure you check your flight number and terminal before leaving for the airport.” GoAir, meanwhile, said in a tweet: “Effective October 1, 2020, all domestic flights to and from Delhi will arrive and depart from Terminal 2. Please ensure you check your terminal information prior to travel.” Comments from DIAL were sought on which all flights will operate from Terminal 2 from next month and awaited till the time of going to press. In pre-pandemic days, IGIA saw international flights operate from T3 while all the three terminals — T1, 2 & 3 — handled domestic flights of different airlines. In March-end, scheduled flights were suspended and only Terminal 3 was kept operational. While international schedule flights remain suspended, foreign travel is happening under Vande Bharat Mission and the air bubble arrangement India has worked out with several countries like the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany and France. This May-end, scheduled domestic flights were allowed to resume and at IGIA those were being handled at the domestic wing of T3. “Domestic air traffic has been growing every month since resumption of operations in May-end. Currently about half of the originally approved domestic summer schedule is operational. T3 domestic side was getting full and reactivating T2 to accommodate more flights was required,” said an airline official. In pre-Covid times, IGIA used to handle more than a flight-a-minute with almost 1,500 daily aircraft movement. In the pandemic times, the number fell to a handful of cargo and international repatriation flights daily. Once regular domestic flights were allowed in May-end, the number kept rising. Currently, the airport handles over 300 arrivals and as many departures daily apart from about 50 defence, VIP and charter aircraft. “Since last week, Indira Gandhi International Airport is seeing 650 daily flights, of which about 75 are international operating under Vande Bharat Mission,” said a senior ATC official. From next month, there may be an increase in international flights operating under air bubbles too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/t3-full-t2-to-resume-ops-from-oct-1/articleshow/78340335.cms||Saurabh Sinha
September 27, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS highest in use of Remdesivir in state||HUBBALLI: Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi has made optimal use of ‘Remdesivir,’ a drug that is reportedly quite effective in the treatment of infection. So far, KIMS has used 4,333 vials of the drug, the highest in the state, said the hospital’s deputy superintendent Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi. Dr Dyaberi was participating in a programme organised to felicitate pharmacists of the hospitals. He hailed the dedication of the 23 pharmacists who were feted for their commitment. “They worked round-the-clock to ensure that patients received drugs on time and doctors were provided with necessary protective gear,” he said. The pharmacists’ service was acknowledged and the KIMS administration feted them on the occasion of the World Pharmacists’ Day on Friday. Dr Dyaberi also expressed gratitude to the district administration for ensuring timely and adequate supply of medicines to KIMS. KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani said, “This is a time to express our gratitude to the pharmacists who have ensured sufficient stock of medicines in this fight against Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-highest-in-use-of-remdesivir-in-state/articleshow/78339551.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||History’s app-eal: Revive your haveli with your fingertips||NEW DELHI: With the redevelopment of the historic esplanade of Chandni Chowk under way, there is also the recognition that the old Delhi area must not lose the old-world flavour imparted to it by the evocative residential buildings. It is for this reason that the School of Planning and Architecture has developed a phone application for the 500 registered havelis in Shahjahanabad. The app not only has data and information on the havelis, but also instructions on conservation and repairs for the haveli owners. The app, called wEconserve, was created by SPA under the Union HRD ministry-supported Design Innovation Centre. Using artificial intelligence and feature recognition systems, it helps in determining the conditions of the heritage buildings and any defects it may, all this requiring no specialised equipment, just a smartphone. The app also has a wider scope related to conservation and restoration of heritage structures in India, and the one on the historic quarters of old Delhi will become the prototype. The smartphone app focuses on providing safety in habitability and convenient and economical conservation solutions in architectural heritage areas. “We are trying to identify the problems that the havelis of Shahjahanabad face,” said Bharti Sikri, research associate with the app project. “Our initial concern was that many people did not have proper information about the havelis. Even owners are unaware of the rich legacy of the buildings. What the app does is shows you if a particular structure is listed as a heritage resid-ence and what level of engineering interventions can be undertaken by the owners.” Sikri added that the tool also informed other haveli owners about the existence and location of historically significant buildings like theirs. “We have located and identified havelis in each mohalla, katra and kucha of old Delhi. People can use the app and their phone cameras to check for defects in their havelis and list things that need looking at, like vegetation growth on the structures or water leakage or cracks,” Sikri elaborated. The research associate pointed out that the app provided first information on haveli owners can get repair works carried out on the registered properties so as not to ruin the heritage character of the buildings. wEconserve acts as a platform to bring residential owners in contact with local government bodies, conservation professionals, artisans involved in restoration and heritage material markets. The app also has information of innovative materials and specifications for simplified, economical and efficient conservation methods. Anuradha Chaturvedi, the project lead, disclosed that haveli owners were consulted and their inputs incorporated into the development of wEconserve. “This is the first of its kind software meant to help protect the havelis of old Delhi,” she said. “We hope that it will be recognised by the civic authorities as an important and necessary tool.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/historys-app-eal-revive-your-haveli-with-your-fingertips/articleshow/78340338.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Court rejects pre-arrest bail plea of woman in cop’s death case||NEW DELHI: A woman from northeast Delhi’s Chand Bagh faces imminent arrest for her alleged role in the communal violence that took place earlier this year in the capital, after a court on Saturday dismissed her anticipatory bail plea. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav rejected the bail plea of one Tabassum, observing that her interrogation was necessary to unearth the conspiracy involved in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration in northeast Delhi in February 2020. A resident of Chand Bagh area, Tabassum has been booked in connection with a case related to the murder of Delhi Police head constable Rattan Lal during the riots. “Applicant has been clearly and categorically named by independent eye-witnesses in their statements... The allegations against her are grave in nature. The presence/appearance of the applicant is very much necessary to unearth the conspiracy involved in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of the communal conflagration. This court has already dismissed the regular as well as interim bail applications of several co-accused persons in the matter," the Additional Session Judge observed. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for Delhi Police, opposed the plea for relief, pointing out that Tabassum was linked to the brutal murder of head constable Rattan Lal during the riots, in which a deputy commissioner of police, an assistant commissioner and 51 other policemen also suffered severe injuries at the hands of the rioters. Prasad argued that the applicant shared a stage with other protesters and instigated the gathering against the government of India, which ultimately led to the death of more than 50 innocent persons in the riots. The prosecution also cited the analysis of call detail records (CDR) of Tabassum, arguing that it revealed that she had been in regular touch with the main conspirators/other co-accused persons in the matter as well as with the accused persons arrested in case, which is being investigated by the Special Cell of Delhi Police. Prasad said several efforts were made to make Tabassum join the investigation, but she has been deliberately evading the probe, and now non-bailable warrants (NBWs) have been issued against her by the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate in northeast Delhi. Advocate Dinesh Tiwari, representing the applicant, argued that she had been falsely implicated in the matter by the investigating agency and had nothing to do with the incident. Tiwari also highlighted that the investigation in the matter is complete and a chargesheet has already been filed. He argued that the applicant is a permanent resident of Delhi and there are no chances of her absconding or tampering with the prosecution witnesses. At least 53 people lost their lives and over hundreds were injured in the communal violence, which erupted groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the northeast area of the capital in February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-woman-in-cops-death-case/articleshow/78340344.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Two from Hyderabad awarded Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar prize for contribution to science||HYDERABAD: A scientist with the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), Subhadeep Chatterjee, and University of Hyderabad faculty member, Surajit Dhara, were awarded with the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar (SSB) prize for outstanding contribution in science and technology, on Saturday. The SSB prize, named after the founder director of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), late Dr Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar, is awarded annually for notable and outstanding research, applied or fundamental, in seven disciplines. While Chatterjee has been given the honour for his contribution in the area of biological sciences, Dhara has won the awarded for his work in the physical sciences’ discipline. The UoH faculty member was acknowledged for his research, in his field of work, in the last five years. “It was a tough competition to bag this recognition. I am glad that my contributions to the field of physical sciences were recognised as this award will be a footing to pursue better research work in this area,” Dhara told TOI. Congratulating its team member, CDFD also lauded the achievements of Chatterjee, head of the laboratory of plant-microbe interactions, at the institute. “He has been selected for this award for his outstanding contributions in identification of reversible non-genetic heterogeneity in bacterial quorum sensing (QS) and providing novel insights into the mechanisms by which the Xanthomonas group of phytopathogens which causes several economically important plant diseases, coordinate virulence functions and lifestyle transitions by sensing cell density and iron availability,” read a press release issued by CDFD. Both the recipients of the award will receive cash prize of Rs 5 lakh each in addition to Rs 15,000 honorarium per month by CSIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-from-city-awarded-ssb-prize-for-contribution-to-science/articleshow/78341541.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hubballi||Disabled government worker sits on dharna over transfer order||BELAGAVI: A physically challenged government employee is sitting on a dharna from the past two days at the child development and protection office (CDPO), demanding implementation of her transfer order. Umadevi Venkatagiri ,47, has an impeccable service record of over 16 years, as she worked as a supervisor at various districts in the CDPO. Presently, she has been transferred from Magadi to Ramadurga taluk in Belagavi, which is her hometown. However, the taluk CDPO officer refused to admit her to perform her work, citing non-availability of order copy. Angered by this development, Umadevi, who was finally hoping to live at her hometown full-time, decided to sit on a dharna by braving torrential rain. Umadevi said that she worked for a year at Magadi in Ramanagara district, before moving to Ramadurga taluk on deputation. Umadevi worked on deputation here for three years and on September 18 she received a transfer order which she had requested. Umadevi was transferred by taking into consideration her disabilities. “Things turned ugly after the taluk CDPO refused to admit me, saying he is yet to receive an order copy. He was lying through his teeth, as the officer knew that he was expecting the order copy,” she said. Umadevi further said that she waited for a week and decided to sit on a dharna at the CDPO office to highlight her plight. On Thursday, the woman accompanied by her family members sat in protest. Pavankumar, a sibling of Umadevi, said despite being disabled, she worked in Ballari, Ramanagara, Hassan and other far-flung places. Now a taluk-level officer is playing with her future, and the dharna will go on until Umadevi gets justice, he said. The deputy director of the CDPO said he went through her file after she sat on dharna, and found that the transfer order was put on hold. “Now we have been informed about the protest. The government will soon resolve her problem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/disabled-govt-worker-sits-on-dharna-over-transfer-order/articleshow/78339576.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Business||No diversion of GST cess: Govt after CAG report||NEW DELHI: The government has dismissed suggestions of diverting GST compensation cess into its books and said that the money was temporarily lying in the Consolidated Fund of India, pending reconciliation. In its latest report, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India had said that during 2017-18 and 201819, there was “short crediting” of compensation cess of around Rs 47,000 crore, which resulted in over-statement of the Centre’s revenue receipts and understatement of fiscal deficit. The finance ministry chose to respond to political criticism from Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac, who had alleged “diversion” of funds. Denying the charge, a government source said: “…whatsoever was the compensation due to the states for the year 2017-18 and 201819 were fully paid and the time taken in reconciliation of compensation receipts can’t be termed as diversion of GST Cess Fund when the dues were fully released by the central government.” Finance ministry officials said the compensation receipt in the CFI was subject to reconciliation in the coming months in the subsequent financial year. “If for that reason the amount remained in the Consolidated Fund of India, how can that be treated as ‘diversion’? Even the CAG in its report has not said so,” a source said. Officials said in line with the Constitutional provi sions, receipts — including taxes and cess — collected by the Centre need to be first credited into CFI before being transferred to another fund through a budget head. In case of the GST compensation cess, officials said since the final accounts are known only after the end of the financial year, usually around June-end, the excess amount temporarily stays in CFI. “After reconciliation, the amount is transferred to Compensation Fund and from that Fund to states as per their compensation formula,” a source said. During 2017-18, Rs 62,611 crore was collected as compensation cess and Rs 41,146 crore was paid to states. In 2018-19, against collections of Rs 95,081 crore, Rs 69,275 crore was paid. While Rs 47,271 crore did remain unutilised for reconciliation after payment of all the dues, the money has been used up subsequently. “Therefore, it can’t be said that this Rs 47,721 crore was diverted for other uses,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-diversion-of-gst-cess-govt-after-cag-report/articleshow/78342219.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vadodara||No significant rise in Covid-19 cases, marginal fall in testing||Vadodara: While there has been no significant rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district during the 24 hours ending on Saturday evening, the testing of samples went down on the second consecutive day. As many as 126 samples were found positive from 4,318 tests conducted since Friday evening. With the fresh cases, the total number of positive cases detected in the city and district since the pandemic began went up to 11,318. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more deaths that took the toll due to Covid-19 in the city and district to 190. The decrease in testing numbers is being attributed to the delay in arrival of results or lesser number of people turning up at health centres for tests. Sources said that the health centres were open for testing, but it seems that there were fewer persons with upper respiratory infections or flu-like symptoms who wanted to get themselves tested. On Saturday, 94 persons were discharged taking the total number of discharges in the city and district up to 9,543. This leaves 1,585 persons under treatment including 66 on ventilators and BiPAP machines and 176 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-significant-rise-in-covid-19-cases-marginal-fall-in-testing/articleshow/78339265.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Pune||Rain bounty fills water sources in rural areas||PUNE: The state water resources department on Saturday said it would finalize the winter water supply schedule for the city and rural parts only after mid-October. The department is adopting this wait-and-watch policy as monsoon is yet to exit the state and more rainfall is expected in the catchments of the four dams that supply water to the city and the rural parts. Heavy rainfall in September has helped fill all water sources and ponds in the rural parts of the district to the brim, water resources officials said, adding that this would meet the demand for drinking water and irrigation for the next few months. The officials further said they would hold a review meeting after mid-October to take stock of the storage scenario in the reservoirs. On Saturday, the collective water storage in the four reservoirs — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar — stood at 29 TMC (99%). “The catchments of the four reservoirs received good rainfall in September. Water was released into the Mutha canal, which further flowed to all the water sources, like ponds, wells and bunds in Baramati, Indapur and Daund. All these water sources are filled to capacity, ensuring availability to smaller towns and villages dependent on these sources for drinking water,” a water resources official said. Officials said a delay in the withdrawal of monsoon will help them store more water in the reservoirs, which would ultimately ensure adequate water supply during the summer months. Study to augment supply to Indapur, MulshiThe increasing demand for water has spurred elected representatives in the district, as well as the irrigation department, to initiate a study on the implementation of water supply schemes for Indapur, adjoining areas and Mulshi, which would provide additional water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/september-showers-fill-water-sources-in-rural-areas-to-the-brim/articleshow/78340386.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 27, 2020||Pune||Activists, experts urge PMC to avoid repeat of 2019 floods||PUNE: A panel comprising activists, experts and former bureaucrats have warned that the city could face severe floods in the future if the administration did not learn from last year’s flooding. At an online event organized by civic engagement platform Bhavatal, the panel said the vast majority of factors that caused last year’s devastating floods have still not been addressed. The panel included environmental activist Sarang Yadwadkar and former Pune municipal commissioner Mahesh Zagade, among others. Among the issues that panel flagged included the — often illegal — shifting of the demarcated flood lines, nullahs and canals in the city. They also mentioned the lack of action on illegal waste-dumping and encroachments around the nullahs, which flow into rivers in and around Pune. “The situation is extremely dire in Pune. Waste and construction debris is being dumped illegally along the rivers, construction is going on as well, violating the flood lines. The local ward offices do nothing about it. Even if a court orders debris to be removed, nothing is done about it,” Yadwadkar told TOI. A TERI report in 2014, commissioned by the state government, showed a significant increase in average annual rainfall in parts of the state over the next four to five decades. “I saw during my tenure (2010-11) that many natural water sources that drain into the rivers have been re-aligned for construction. Many of the canals stop abruptly at certain places. Flooding is a result of greed and mismanagement,” Zagade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-experts-urge-pmc-to-learn-from-last-years-floods/articleshow/78340400.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Kallar tribals who lost houses may get land at Theppakulamedu||Coimbatore: A joint team of revenue, forest and land survey department officials inspected and surveyed land at Theppakulamedu in the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in the district on Saturday to prepare a proposal on allocating land to the families of Kallar tribal settlement that lost their huts to the incessant rain more than a year ago. The proposal would be submitted to the district committee of Forest Rights Act.At least 23 families, which were forced to relocate to the quarters of Thaimudi tea estate near Valparai, have been demanding the district administration to provide them land at Theppakulamedu, which is just 3km away from their settlement, as alternative location.An official with the sub-committee of Forest Rights Act, said, “Residents of Kallar settlement have been requesting us to provide them land at Theppakulamedu ever since their houses were damaged in 2019. Based on their request, we surveyed the land on Saturday.” He was part of the team that inspected the location.He said a proposal recommending patta for the families at Theppakulamedu would be submitted to the district committee, the decision of which would be final on the issue. S Anish Kumar, 23, a resident, said, “During a meeting last week, officials had assured to take steps to provide land patta at Theppakulamedu to 21 families that were living at Kallar settlement in 2005. Now, we are confident that we would get pattas at the location we sought.” They had staged a protest on August 15, pressing for their demand.Anish Kumar said most of the huts were damaged in August 2019, when heavy rain triggered landslips. “When we attempted to reconstruct them, officials prevented us and assured to provide us an alternative location within 10 days. We were then moved to the tea estate quarters, where 23 families are residing in just six houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kallar-tribals-who-lost-houses-may-get-land-at-theppakulamedu/articleshow/78340398.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: RTC services to Maharashtra, Karnataka from tomorrow||HYDERABAD: A day after resumption of city services, Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has decided to also start inter-state operations to Karnataka and Maharashtra from Monday. However, there is still no clarity on when services will resume to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh Around 350 buses operate between Telangana and the two states. “Since we do not know what the response will be and how many people will travel to other states under the current situation, we will initially start operations with 50% buses and then take a decision as per the demand,” TSRTC chief traffic manager Muni Shekar said. Simultaneously, the corporations of Karnataka and Maharashtra states would also restore their operation to Telangana. The officials further informed that the inter-state operations between these states would resume operations on all major routes except Bengaluru until further orders. Important routes are Raichur, Yadgir, Bidar, Nanded, Mumbai, Pune, Gulbarga, Nagpur, Chandrapur, Udgir and a handful of services to Mumbai and Pune. On the other hand, the decision to resume inter-state bus services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh is yet to be taken as the authorities are yet to come to a conclusion on the ‘reciprocal agreement.’ The agreement allows plying of TSRTC buses in AP and those of APSRTC in Telangana. Post bifurcation of the state, the reciprocal agreement has not been signed between the two states. Earlier this month, TSRTC officials made proposals on operating an equal number of buses on said routes. APSRTC officials have been asked to reduce their bus operations and operate equally with TSRTC. Speaking to TOI, TSRTC ED E Yadagiri said, “The decision on inter-state services between Telangana and AP is yet to be taken. We are right now waiting for their response on a proposal we made at the last meeting.” “The services to Bengaluru have also been stalled for time being because we have to pass through Andhra Pradesh to reach Bengaluru,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-services-to-maha-ktaka-from-tomorrow/articleshow/78341548.cms||Moulika.KV
September 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM, Jyotiradtiya Scindia tear into Congress in poll-bound Sanwer||INDORE: In the run-up to by-polls on 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiradtiya Scindia addressed public gatherings at poll-bound Badnawar, Sanwer and Hatpipliya Vidhan Sabha seat s in Indore-Ujjain division on Saturday. The duo launched a scathing attack on senior Congress leaders and accused Congress of betraying the people in the state. Scindia said that it was his belief that the previous Congress government will increase the ‘line’ of development that was earlier drawn by CM Chouhan. “What we saw in reality is a long line of betrayal and corruption” hesaid, adding that they (Congress) say Tulsiram Silawat and Scindia are traitors and ‘nalayak’ (unworthy) to CM Chouhan. “It’s those who blackened their own ‘dharamgrantha’ (manifesto) by not fulfilling the promises are the real traitors,” he said. Recalling history, the Rajya Sabha MP said that like his grandmother Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia and father Madhavrao, who taught a lesson to Congress, he blamed the opposition party and accused it of treachery and fooling the farmers. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya also targeted Congress and said he feels sad by the kind of words the party is using against Scindia by calling him a ‘traitor’. “It’s Congress, which did not fulfill its promises to waive off agriculture loans of farmers and they are the traitors”, he said, further urging the gathering to extend their support to ensure Silawat’s victory with a huge margin. CM Chouhan also alleged that Congress and its leaders have betrayed the public of the state. “Was it not treachery with the farmers for not waiving off their farm loans as promised” he said, adding that “Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh call Scindiaji and Tulsiram Silawat traitors. But I want to ask them what is (Premchand Guddu), whom Congress has selected for the Sanwer assembly seat (as candidate) ”. “It’s because of him (Guddu), we failed to make the government (in 2018)” the CM said. He also took a dig at Nath. “If you all think that Scindiaji and Silawat had done a good job by toppling the Congress government, you (people) should give an answer to those (Congress), who call (them) traitors by ensuring a win orf BJP in Sanwer” Chouhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-chouhan-scindia-tear-into-congress-in-poll-bound-sanwer/articleshow/78340387.cms||Sagar Choukse
September 27, 2020||Hubballi||Activists use social media to highlight bad quality of roads||HUBBALLI: The campaign against the poor conditions of roads in Hubballi-Dharwad is gaining momentum on various social media platforms. People are posting some unique pictures to highlight the pathetic condition of roads in different commercial and posh areas with catchy captions to draw the attention of authorities and elected representatives to take up repairs. Amogh Pujar, an activist and the admin of a social media group called Pot Holes Hubli, said, “It’s very unfortunate we have campaigned about the pathetic condition of roads in Hubballi for six to seven years Hubballi city, but there has been no impact. Every year authorities take up repairs and potholes appear at the same spots within no time.” “Till date no officials or elected representatives have thought of a permanent solution to potholes,” he said. “The HDMC commissioner should ensure quality work in pothole filling and road repairs. There is also onus on the elected representatives who should frequently use the roads to check their condition and ensure officials work appropriately,” he added. Rajat Ullagaddimath, another activist, said, “We have launched a social media campaign to highlight poor condition of roads. To begin with, we had planted saplings in potholes in front of former chief minister Jagadish Shettar’s house recently. Now we are highlighting the potholes on major roads in Hubballi.” BJP Hubballi-Dharwad Central BJP president Santhosh Chavan cited the Covid-19 pandemic and rain for the delay in road works. “District minister Jagadish Shettar has issued strict instructions to HDMC officials to take up road repair works and ensure quality while restoring roads,” he said. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said, “We had planned to take up road works before it started raining. But due to the lockdown no construction work was allowed. Now, we have completed the tendering process and are waiting for the rains to stop to start repair works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/activists-use-social-media-to-highlight-bad-quality-of-roads/articleshow/78339618.cms||J Abbas Mulla
September 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Brain-dead woman’s organs give life to 4||PUNE: The mother of a braindead woman (21) donated her vital organs to give a new life to four patients suffering from end-stage heart, liver, pancreas and kidney diseases in Pune and Nashik on Saturday. This is the 11th organ donation during the Covid-ensued lockdown in Pune and 25th since January this year. “The organ donation has led to the first successful heart transplant at Sahyadri hospital in Pune this year,” Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee , said. Relatives of four brain-dead patients have donated heart this year so far. But in earlier three cases, the retrieved organ was transported to other cites for transplants. Heart transplant team at the Sahyadri hospital, Deccan, led by transplant surgeon Manoj Durairaj performed the heart transplant on a 49-yearold woman from Manjari. “The transplanted heart is beating normally in the recipient,” Durairaj said. The donor, a resident of Wakad, worked as a technician at a pathology laboratory in Pune. On September 21, she suffered giddiness and was rushed to the Aditya Birla hospital. “She had suffered intracranial bleeding. On September 24, she was declared braindead. Her mother consented to organ donation the next day,” said hospital’s transplant coordinator Bobin Mathew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-donates-brain-dead-daughters-vital-organs/articleshow/78340409.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 27, 2020||Goa||Bail denied to man arrested in Rs 1.4 crore fraud||PANAJI: The sessions court Panaji denied bail to an accused arrested by the economic offences cell for duping investors to the tune of Rs 1.40 crores promising good returns. The court found that the accused Ameet Savant allegedly committed a very serious offence of cheating investors by collecting money from them with the intention to defraud them. He has been charged with criminal breach of trust. The court observed that the accused cannot be granted bail because an offence under Section 409 of the IPC and Section 5 of the Goa Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999, are both punishable up to ten years. “An offence which is punishable for more than 7 years is considered as a serious offence,” the court held. The accused submitted to the court that he should be granted bail as there are inmates who have tested positive at Colvale jail and that there were Supreme Court and high court orders in March and April, issuing directions to release accused persons on account of the pandemic. The court however held that the judgements by the high court and Supreme court don’t apply to accused persons involved in “serious crimes”. A complaint was filed by Rohit Chopra of cheating and fraud by Goa franchise of Ventura Securities Ltd. The franchise in Goa is owned by Ameet Savant who took money from Chopra and others to the tune of Rs 1.40 crores promising good returns. It was found that that the franchise holder opened many accounts in different banks in the name of the company and accepted money from the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-denied-to-man-arrested-in-rs-1-4cr-fraud/articleshow/78341563.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Bring new cases down to less than 100 a day, govt tells dist||Coimbatore: The district recorded more than 600 cases of Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Saturday, when 656 people were declared positive for the virus, even as the state government gave the district administration a target to bring down the new cases to less than 100 a day. The Covid-19 tally now stands at 29,715. The number of active cases rose to 4,859 on the day, despite 595 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The toll shot up to 413 with the state including five more Covid-19 deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin. The state government, meanwhile, asked the district administration to do the needful to arrest the daily spike in cases to less than 100 and the death rate to below 1%. While the death rate, which is at 1.4%, could be brought down to under 1% in a few days, bringing the number of fresh cases down to less than 100 from more than 600 cases a day seems to be an uphill task for officials. The state has also asked the district administration to bring down the positivity rate to less than 5%. District collector K Rajamani said, “We have been asked to cordon off streets or areas with four to five cases as containment zones and ensure there is no movement there. The government has also directed us to test all primary contacts of positive cases since testing secondary contacts is not practical with the relaxing of lockdown norms.” He said they would resume door-to-door surveillance in the neighbourhood of containment zones to trace people with symptoms of Covid-19 and test them. The government has also asked the district to conduct fever camps in containment zones, as that would yield more desired results. A health department official said, “We have been asked to organize fever camps in areas where cases are recurring and streets with high number of cases, rather than randomly selecting a location. While randomly selecting locations will help reduce the positivity rate, it won’t help detect asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases and control the spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bring-new-cases-down-to-less-than-100-a-day-govt-tells-dist/articleshow/78340406.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Vaccination important for rabies prevention: Expert||Nagpur: ‘End Rabies: Collaborate, Vaccinate’, is the theme for this year’s World Rabies Day, which is observed on September 28 to raise awareness about rabies. The day marks the death anniversary of Louis Paster, who developed the first rabies vaccine and lead the foundation for rabies prevention. In view of this, the Tropical and Geographical Neurology Specialty Group of World Federation of Neurology (WFN) in collaboration with Indian Academy of Neurology and Forum for Indian Neurology Education had organized a talk on rabies by Thiravat Hemachudha, professor of neurology at Chulalongkorn University, Thailand, during the first session of WFN Neuroinfection Series 2. Dr Hemachudha, who is doing research on rabies for more than 20 years in collaboration with World Health Organization, emphasized on the importance of pre-exposure and post-exposure vaccination for rabies prevention. He said rabies is the most deadly viral infection with almost 100% mortality and is transmitted mainly by dog bite. “Patient develops symptoms usually in 20 to 60 days after the bite, but sometimes as late as two years. Patients with furious rabies survive on average for 5-7 days while patients with paralytic rabies survive for 11 days,” he said and added that as there is no treatment, we need collaborative efforts from community, dog owners, educators, media, policymakers, researchers, veterinarians, medical staff and vaccine clinics for control of rabies. He mentioned that 10% of mice with rabies survived after use of antiviral drug Favipiravir but studies in human are not done yet. President of WFN, professor William Carroll inaugurated the series containing eight sessions. In his address, he mentioned that the mission of WFN is to promote brain health and quality neurological care worldwide and expressed concern over inequality of neurological care in developing countries. Carroll congratulated Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram and his team for organizing the educational activity to spread the message of neuroinfections and importance of brain health. He further said that corona pandemic may be a silver lining for learning opportunity through webinars and electronic media. The session was chaired by professor Raad Shakir, past president of WFN, and professor Wolfgang Grisold, secretary general of WFN. After the talk, interesting cases were presented by Prakit Anukoolwittaya, Natchawan Tantithanarat and Danist Leosuthamas from Thailand. While rabies is a 100% preventable disease, there are about 59,000 deaths due to human rabies every year in the world and India alone accounts for 20,000 deaths. This figure could be much higher as many patients die undiagnosed and many are not reported. Of all deaths, 90% are from rural areas. Rabies is a major public health problem in India and it is endemic throughout the country. In India, due to high population of stray dogs, there is one dog bite every two seconds. Rabies is one of the oldest diseases known to mankind and ideally, no human should die from rabies in the 21st century. But in India, there is one death due to rabies, every 25 minutes, informed Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram, president of Tropical Neurology Group of WFN and course director of the series. “Vaccination of dogs, access to good treatment after dog bite including vaccination and reducing risk of animal bite are key factors for control of rabies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-important-for-rabies-prevention-expert/articleshow/78348703.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 27, 2020||Bhopal||Cong asks EC to remove Indore collector for free fuel order||Bhopal: State Congress on Saturday lodged a complaint to the Election Commission, demanding the immediate removal of Indore district collector Manish Singh to ensure free and fair bypolls in Sanwer assembly constituency. The opposition party alleged that the collector issued instructions to food department officials to arrange for free fuel in 600 buses to bring people for chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s programme held in Sanwer on Saturday.Congress has fielded former MP Premchand Guddu from Sanwer and he is likely to take on cabinet minister and Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat, who left Congress party in March along with rebel MLAs that led to the toppling the Kamal Nath government. Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha tweeted, “In Indore, diesel for buses coming for the chief minister’s programme are being fuelled by the food department. In a political programme, the government has taken out an order and instructed petrol pumps to fuel buses. The question is, who will make the payments? Gross misuse of government machinery. Expect action from @ECISVEEP and the chief secretary.” Tankha also wrote a letter to chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, regarding the order issued by the food department. He also said that the chief secretary should initiate action under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Dated September 4, an order from the state food department to petrol pumps said, “Honourable chief minister of Madhya Pradesh has a programme in Sanwer on September 26. Following the instructions of the collector, transport has been arranged to bring people who want to participate in the programme. The mentioned list of petrol pumps is being instructed to avail diesel and petrol for vehicles authorised by officials.” The list included the names of petrol pumps and their owners who would fill fuel for the buses. State Congress chief (EC affairs) J P Dhanopia took the matter to the poll panel office here in Bhopal. Speaking to TOI, he said, “In Sanwer assembly seat, CM Chouhan is organising public meetings and other functions, which BJP claims are government events. But the truth is that the public meetings are meant to campaign for party candidate and minister Tulsi Silawat. During the programme, BJP leaders will be present, the party’s flags and posters will be installed, slogans will be shouted and appeals will be made to cast votes on the lotus symbol.” Dhanopia claimed that district collector issued an order that 600 buses arranged to transport people will get free fuel. “Collector Manish Singh is a favourite of CM Chouhan and we have complained to the EC that he has to be removed or else there cannot be a free and fair elections in Sanwer seat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-asks-ec-to-remove-indore-collector-for-free-fuel-order/articleshow/78340405.cms||---
September 27, 2020||World||New York records over 1,000 positive cases in single since June||NEW YORK: More than 1,000 New Yorkers have tested positive for COVID-19 in a single day for the first time since June 5 the state has seen a daily number that high. The number of positive tests reported daily in the state has been steadily inching up in recent weeks, possibly because more businesses have been reopening and students have been returning to schools and college campuses. Governor Andrew Cuomo announced Saturday there were 1,005 positive cases tallied on Friday out of 99,953 tests, for a 1 per cent positive rate. From late July through the start of September, the state had an average of around 660 people test positive per day. In the seven-day period that ended Friday, it averaged 817 positive tests per day. That number of daily positive tests in a state of more than 19 million people still puts New York in a much better position than many other states. And it is better than the situation in the state in April, when the number of positive tests per day routinely topped 9,000 even though tests then were hard to get and people were being encouraged not to seek one unless they were gravely ill. Florida reported 107 new coronavirus deaths on Saturday, a day after Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis announced he was lifting restrictions on restaurant capacity. The state also reported 2,795 new confirmed cases of COVID-19, bringing its total since the pandemic began to just under 699,000. Overall, 14,190 people have died in Florida during the pandemic, including 168 non-residents. There were 2,109 people hospitalized with COVID-19 as of Saturday morning, or 26 fewer than the day before. Florida has had the third-most confirmed COVID-19 cases of any state, trailing only two larger states, California and Texas. On Friday, DeSantis issued an order allowing restaurants throughout the state to immediately reopen at full capacity. The order prevents cities and counties from ordering them to close or to operate at less than half-capacity unless they can justify a closure for economic or health reasons. DeSantis also banned local fines against people who refuse to wear masks. Alaska health officials say the state's COVID-19 death toll has risen by six, which is the biggest one-day jump for the state since the pandemic began. The state also reported 128 new confirmed cases of COVID-19 on Friday, which was the most recent available data. The deaths include three men in their 60s, one man in his 50s and two men in their 70s. The state previously reported a high of four deaths, on Aug. 25. Alaska has had 8,202 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 52 deaths from the disease since the pandemic started. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/new-york-records-over-1000-positive-cases-in-single-since-june/articleshow/78338696.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 curve on the rise again||Coimbatore: The district is seeing yet another spike in Covid-19 cases after a dip in recent times. And it’s the only district in the state where the Covid curve has risen as many as four times after downward curve. Two days after the district recorded 642 new cases of Covid-19, the curve is now on the ascent again. This is when other major cities such as Madurai and Chennai have managed to keep the curve downward or nearly flat after the three-week lockdown in June-end. Public health experts don’t seem to have any answers for the district’s failure to contain the virus spread. In April first week, the district saw its Covid-19 curve spiralling up, recording more than 90 cases in two weeks, as the Tablighi Jamaat cluster was formed. However, containment measures and contact tracing ensured the curve moved downwards and stayed down and flattened at 146 cases in May first week. The curve then began an upward climb since June-end, when flights were reintroduced and e-pass restrictions were relaxed. The daily spike hit a peak of 313 on July 27, but only to dip to 213-250 cases from August 1 to 9 and then to increase to more than 300 cases from August 11. During this upward ascent of the curve, the district had seen 593 cases on September 3 alone. However, the cases slowly reduced and dipped to 398 on September 11. The curve then began to rise with the district recording 646 new cases on Monday (September 21). Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of public health, said, “There is not a single reason that can be highlighted for the repeated increase. We are planning to intensify containment measures by studying street-wise spread and conducting fever camps in such areas. So, our measures would be more effective.” Public health experts, however, cited ineffective containment measures and the spread-out population in the district as reasons for the zig-zag Covid curve, where peaks are always higher than the last one. Dr K Kolandaisamy, former director of public health, said, “Usually, the curve moves up when a large cluster forms. The recent spike is because the virus is spreading slowly in the district, compared to Madurai and Chennai, where the spread was fast because of higher population density. In densely populated area, the virus spreads in one go and then recedes. In a spread-out area, the virus spreads slowly, causing a spike every time it hits a new area.” Experts said the effectiveness of containment measures should also be studied. Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist and chairman - scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, said, “Instead of limiting contact tracing of a positive case to just the immediate family, officials should study the network the case belongs to. For instance, if a domestic maid has tested positive for the virus, officials should study her residential area, houses she visits for work and test the employers and from there continue to keep tracing the spread. Officials have to do this for every case and study which strata of the population is getting affected right now and devise a plan to control it.” He said testing just the immediate family members or neighbours wasn’t enough. Muliyil also suggested a sero survey for the district to understand the most infected areas, the extent of population affected and the extent of population still vulnerable. “Based on that, devise a plan to protect the vulnerable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-curve-on-the-rise-again/articleshow/78340414.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor braces for jumbo attacks on ripe cane||Bijnor: With ripening sugarcane standing in the fields, forest department has sounded the alert to farmers in the district about the possibility of the jumbos invading their fields. Fond of the juicy sugarcane, elephants tend to enter human habitats, causing man-elephant conflict situations. In the past, this has led to massive crop damage, attacks on farmers and brutal killings of elephants. According to foresters, there are more than 205 elephants in Bijnor district's Najibabad and Bijnor divisions Out of these, more than 100 are in Amangarh Tiger Reserve, which is adjacent to the agricultural fields. Hence, the threat from elephants is of jumbo proportions. Forest department has also asked farmers to spray only bio pesticides on their crop to prevent any harm to the elephants. M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer (DFO), said, "Our staff is on the alert. To prevent man-elephant conflict, farmers are being sensitized not to go alone to the fields located in areas bordering forests." Najibabad DFO Manoj Kumar Shukla said, "We are planning to hold an awareness programme for the villagers. We have urged farmers to inform the authorities if they spot any elephant or leopard in the area."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-braces-for-jumbo-attacks-on-ripe-cane/articleshow/78338703.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||2k fresh Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths recorded in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday recorded 2,239 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths. The total number of cases so far have crossed 1,83,000 and total deaths are 1,091.  So far, 152,441 patients in the state have recovered from coronavirus and there are 30,334 active cases in the state. A total of 58,925 samples were tested on Friday, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to 28 lakh. With the latest numbers, the samples tested per million population rose to 75,438 on Friday. The figure was around 50,000 at the beginning of the month and has been on a steady rise. The case fatality rate is currently 0.59% in the state as against the national average of 1.58%. The recovery rate in the state is currently 82.90%, slightly above the national average of 81.98% On Friday, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 316 new cases, which was the highest among districts. This was followed by 192 cases in Rangareddy, 164 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 141 cases in Nalgonda, 106 cases in Karimnagar and 91 cases in Warangal Urban as well as Bhadradri Kothagudem districts. All the remaining districts in the state continued on an upward trend as well. Of the total Covid-19 beds available in the government sector, 25% were occupied on Friday while in the private sector, the occupancy was 36%, even as 24,683 suspected and confirmed patients are currently in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2k-fresh-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-recorded-in-state/articleshow/78341560.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Pune||TOI webinar today to discuss education during pandemic||Pune: Schools in some states opened this week after a gap of six months to a host of new Covid-19 guidelines. According to reports, at least eight states opened classrooms on a voluntary basis — from classes 9 to 12 — for the first time since the lockdowns began in March. By the end of this month, more states are expected to welcome students back.To discuss the state of education during the outbreak, TOI has invited Prafulla Pawar, registrar of the Savitribai Phule Pune University and Amruta Prabhu, principal of the HDFC School at Magarpatta City, to be part of an expert panel. They will take questions from readers on higher education, the roadmap for schools and other relevant topics.Worldwide, governments are looking for ways to reopen educational institutions (and keep them open). In France for example, a country which is currently reporting a fresh spike in cases, students have been distanced inside classrooms and masks have been made mandatory on the playgrounds. But medical professionals have argued that children as young as six or older should be asked to wear masks (France has made masks compulsory from 11 years of age or above).Then there’s education via screens. In many parts of the country, classroom education has made a seamless transition to the internet. Scores of teachers are now tackling complicated subjects and receiving questions from students. The best efforts are being made to replicate a classroom environment despite students being kilometres away from each other. However, there have been niggles as far as connectivity and equipment are concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toi-webinar-today-to-discuss-education-during-pandemic/articleshow/78340415.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Meerut||Day after farm bills stir, RLD membersbooked for 'violating Covid protocol'||Muzaffarnagar: Several senior members of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) along with more than 60 party activists have been booked in Muzaffarnagar on Friday for violating Covid-19 protocol while protesting against the contentious farm bills. The members held protests on the streets and in front of the district magistrate's office on Thursday - hours before 'Bharat bandh' called by various farmers' associations. On Friday night, at least 11 senior members of the party, including Abhishek Chaudhary, spokesperson in west UP, and district president Ajit Rathi, were booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act along with other sections of the IPC. Civil Lines SHO DK Tyagi said, "They were protesting on the road without wearing any face mask and not following social distancing norms. This has put the health of others at risk. They also did not have any permission for the 'dharna'. So, a case under various IPC sections was registered against 11 named and over 60 unnamed people. Probe is on." Dismissing the cops' charges, RLD spokesperson Abhishek Chaudhary said, "We followed the social distancing norms. Police are doing whatever the state government wants. We are not going to give up. Our fight against farm bills will continue."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-farm-bills-stir-rld-membersbooked-for-violating-covid-protocol/articleshow/78338713.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 27, 2020||Pune||Airport runway’s re-carpeting work takes off, to halt flight movements next summer||Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (Retd)A mile of highway will take you just one mile... but a mile of runway will take you anywhere” goes the adage. The re-carpeting of the crucial 2,530-metre stretch, connecting Pune to places miles away, is under way after more than 10 years and would not be available for about a fortnight next summer. Flying away from the city would be out of question for almost 15 days in May because of the total shutdown of the Lohegaon airport’s runway. True, air movement during summer holidays would be hit for the second year on the trot because of the runway re-carpeting work, after the Covid-19-induced restrictions in 2020. But it is a necessary pause for safe flying in years ahead. Unlike Delhi, which has three runways, and Mumbai, which has a cross runway, the city’s airport has only a single runway. As a result, the movement of flights would be affected during the re-carpeting work. Almost every runway has two sections — concrete parts on the either side of the strip and the blacktop (flexible) in between them. The re-carpeting of the concrete portion on the eastern side of the Lohegaon airport’s runway has started. The work on the flexible portion will start from January 21. There will be no flight movements from 8pm to 8am from the end of next month. The last departure after October 26 would be at 7.30pm as the contractor would need some time for preparations before starting the re-carpeting work. The daily sorties of Sukhoi fighter jets during the morning block would not be happening to make room for more commercial flights. During the whole process, VFR (visual flight rules) would be followed by the pilots. The IFR (instrument flight rules) would be on pause. Under VFR, a pilot operates an aircraft based on what can be seen visually. The planning has been done in such a way that about 100 to 110 flights can operate every day between 8am and 8pm. The Pune airport is a strategic defence airbase, housing squadrons of Sukhoi-30MK-I fighter jets. Both, the runway and the air traffic control of the airport, are under control of the Indian Air Force. So, re-carpeting of its runway is of utmost importance because it goes through different forms of impacts, wears and tears with flights continuously landing and taking off. Several factors contribute to the necessity of runway maintenance and re-carpeting. First, the momentum of planes. The weight of a Boeing 737 is approximately 70,500kg during take-off and around 55,000kg during landing. Similarly, a Sukhoi-30 fighter weighs around 35,000kg during take-off and around 25,000kg during landing. The momentum at which they impact the runway during landings has an impact on the runway, thus making it an important aspect of runway re-carpeting. The impact on the runway hinges on the type of landing, too. Be it firm, kisser or bad landing, each one affects the surface in different ways. The high temperature jet fuel exhaust from aircraft, anything between 800°C and 900°C, also heats up the runway. It leads to wears and tears, besides contributing to accumulation of rubber residue of planes’ tyres on the runway. If one looks at the aircraft accidents worldwide, close to 90% occur during take-offs and landings. And runways have a role to play in most of them. So, its upkeep is crucial. The Lohegaon airport runway consists of five layers below the surface. The re-carpeting work would involve improving each layer and compressing the surfaces. As the work progresses, the effective runway length would keep shrinking. It would have an impact on flight movements. The airlines will have to take care of the load factor, including fuel, passengers and cargo, for their operations. Almost every 10 years, recarpeting of the runway has to be done. The Lohegaon facility lacks space for a second runway. And here comes the vision of decision-makers of the city in play. The expansion of the Lohegaon facility will keep the airport operational for some more time. However, looking at shortsighted gains will do no good. A new airport is a must for the Pune region. (As told to Joy Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/runway-re-carpeting-work-to-halt-flight-operations-next-summer/articleshow/78340420.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Preliminary work begins on Avinashi Road flyover||Coimbatore: The state highways department has launched preliminary work for the elevated highway project along Avinashi Road. The 10.01km elevated highway will connect Uppilipalayam to Goldwins at a cost of Rs 1,621.3 crore. The state government has allotted 200 crore for the project. Construction is expected to commence within a month and will be completed within four years, an official said. “We are marking the spots where 397 piers will be constructed. The piers will be buried five to six metres deep. Underground and overhead utilities like electric cables, BSNL cables and pipelines laid by the city corporation and the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage board will be removed. We have informed the departments concerned. The cost of removing them is estimated to be Rs 50 crore,” he said. Up and down ramps will be constructed at four locations – Anna Statue, Nava India, Hopes College and airport – to reduce traffic congestion. As much as 18,000 square metres will be acquired for constructing the ramps. When the flyover is opened up for traffic, commuters on the Uppilipalayam-Goldwins stretch can avoid 12 traffic signals and save 15 to 20 minutes, the official said. “It has been designed based on the predicted traffic flow on the road 15 years down the line.” It would be better if construction work on Avinashi Road is started after the completion of flyover construction on Trichy Road, said R Sivaraju, a commuter. “By doing so, public can use a road when construction is going on the other. Otherwise, it might cause huge traffic congestion on both the roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/preliminary-work-begins-on-avinashi-road-flyover/articleshow/78340418.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||After fee cut, Gujarat govt tells schools not to cut salaries||AHMEDABAD: The state government has urged self-financed schools not cut salaries or lay off staff members even in the event of school fees being reduced. School management associations have contested this move, stating it is not in the government’s powers to bar schools from salary cuts or layoffs. The matter was discussed at a recent meeting between the state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and school authorities where the latter accepted the government’s proposal to reduce tuition fees by 25% for the 2020-21 academic year due to the Covid-19 crisis. Many schools have laid off teachers and cut salaries in the past six months after schools were closed in mid-March due to the Covid pandemic. Jatin Bharad, vice-president of Self-Financed Schools Management Association of Gujarat said the association cannot give any such assurance. “The decision to cut salaries or downsize staff strength is with self-financed schools and the association has no role to play in it,” said Bharad. He said the brunt of the 25% fee cut will go to the salary of schoolteachers. Archit Bhatt, former president of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association said after the formation of the Fee Regulatory Authority, schools do not have excess funds. There are an estimated 6,000 schools in the state where fees are be less than Rs 28,000 a year. Such schools will suffer heavily due to the fee cut and many of them would be forced to close, Bhatt said. Bharad said a condition may arise in where the government will have to announce a financial package for schools. He claimed that at least 50% of parents have not had any serious financial setback due to Covid-19 and the lockdown. Schools in the state have been closed for more than 180 days due to the pandemic and only 40% of students have been able to attend online classes, according to the All Gujarat Vali Mandal, an association of parents of school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-fee-cut-govt-tells-schools-not-to-cut-salaries/articleshow/78341220.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Carve out medical cadre on lines of IAS to manage healthcare: IMA||HYDERABAD: In the backdrop of lacunae exposed by Covid-19, Indian Medical Association (IMA) has stressed on the need for a focussed medical administrative service and demanded Indian Medical Service (IMS) be established on the lines of IAS, IPS and IRS in the country. The idea is basically to allow MBBS graduates to chose between a super-specialty course or an administrative service. Currently, in government hospitals, doctors are given an additional charge of administrative work, while in the private sector, hospitals employ MBA graduates to do marketing. “We are suggesting that IMS be brought in and made compulsory for both the sectors. One of the major learning from the pandemic is that healthcare industry needs both humanity and profit-making skills,” Indian Medical Association (IMA), Telangana, general secretary Sanjeev Singh Yadav said. Healthcare industry insiders believe having an MBBS graduate trained in administration would equip them better to handle a crisis like Covid-19 in future as compared to a civil servant. “In fact, there was a plan to have this kind of a system in the state previously, but it has not taken off,” admitted a senior health official. Also, coordination issues and carrying out directives of the Centre by the state government can be sorted out by a centralised administrative service. “IMS can bridge the gap between decisions taken by the government and delivery of the health service. However, we will need both IMS as well as civil service to complement each other,” Dr P Raghuram, chairman, academic advisory board of Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI), the board that oversees PG diploma course in healthcare management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/carve-out-medical-cadre-on-lines-of-ias-to-manage-healthcare-ima/articleshow/78341562.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Stretch to get temporary traffic signals||Coimbatore: Traffic signals on the Uppilipalayam - Goldwins stretch on Avinashi Road will be removed for the elevated highway project. “The state highways department is planning to remove 13 traffic signals and install temporary signals at Uppilipalayam junction, LIC signal, Anna statue, GKNM signal, Lakshmi Mills junction, Nava India, Suguna Kalyana Mandapam, Peelamedu, Hopes College, Coimbatore Medical College, Sitra and some more places,” deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. The stretch has automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras fixed atop the signals for highway monitoring. “All ANPR cameras and internet protocol cameras will be removed from the signals and fixed on the temporary traffic signals,” the officer said. “After the highway work is over, permanent traffic signals will be set up on Avinashi Road. It will cost Rs 1.17 crore to remove the traffic signals, install temporary traffic signals and permanent traffic signals. The state highways officials have promised to take the necessary steps before starting their work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stretch-to-get-temporary-traffic-signals/articleshow/78340429.cms||A Subburaj
September 27, 2020||Meerut||East UP dons hit more in economic crackdown||MEERUT: In one of the most coordinated crackdowns against 25 dreaded criminals in the state, properties worth Rs 160 crore have either been attached or demolished in police and administrative action initiated against them. A lion's share of the crackdown was dedicated against two criminals – Mukhtar Ansari, currently lodged in a jail in Punjab, and Atiq Ahmad, lodged in Ahmedabad jail, with Rs 65 crore each (total 130 crore) worth of properties owned by them or their associates now attached or demolished. Recently, in coordinated raids at 42 places in Lucknow targeting Mukhtar Ansari, Salim Rustam Sohrab, Khan Mubarak and Annu Triapthi gangs, 11 criminals were arrested and over two dozen detained. Arms, ammunition, explosives and satellite phones were among recoveries made during the raids. Meanwhile, there is conspicuous “inaction” when it comes to similar crackdown against hardened criminals in crime-infested western part of the state, especially Meerut zone – home to some of the dreaded gangsters. Six hardened criminals of Meerut zone, including Udham Singh, Yogesh Bhadora and Sushil Mooch, all in jail, feature in the list, but the action report doesn't match the crackdown on eastern UP dons in terms of severity. While most of the illegally owned properties of the Mukhtar, Atiq and Bhati gangs are either being demolished or attached, the action report for Meerut zone gangsters has little information on such properties or it says “information is being gathered about their assets”. Top police officials claim the difference in severity of the action in two parts of the state is because of the style of operation of criminals, especially those in eastern UP, who prefer grandeur as compared to the modest lifestyle of west UP criminals. “That (crackdown) speaks volumes about the scale of operations these two criminals (Mukhtar and Atiq) are involved in. In other parts of the state, for instance western region, criminals generally belong to the rural belt and do not invest so lavishly on immovable properties. But still we have seized landholdings and other possessions here as well,” Prashant Kumar, additional director general (law and order), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/east-up-dons-hit-more-in-economic-crackdown/articleshow/78338716.cms||Piyush Rai
September 27, 2020||Pune||Bizman’s SUV stolen from Koregaon Park||Pune: A bakery businessman from Koregaon Park on Friday lodged a complaint stating that his high-end sports utility vehicle, a Ford Endeavour worth Rs30 lakh, was stolen by a person wearing a raincoat on Thursday. The businessman, Shivdeep Deokar (31), said the vehicle was parked outside his bungalow on Thursday. “I had purchased the car in 2019. On September 22, we started the work of replacing the old tiles from the parking area and had been parking the vehicle outside the main gate since,” Deokar told TOI. “A week before the incident, I realised that the ignition key of the SUV was stolen and had to use a spare key. Around 1.30pm on Thursday, my mother called me and inquired as to what time would I return home, as she could not see my car parked outside the bungalow. I told her that I was in the house. I rushed out and saw my car was not there,” Deokar said. “A CCTV camera installed in the bungalow captured images of a person wearing a raincoat opening the door lock with a key and driving away in the car, possibly with the help of the stolen ignition key, on Thursday,” he said. The businessman said even though the police had taken his driver into custody for questioning, he didn’t suspect the latter’s involvement in the theft. “He has been with our family for two years now,” Deokar said. He stated that with the police, studying CCTV footage collected from different housing societies, found out that the car had entered Magarpatta and drove away in towards Mundhwa. “The SUV does not have a GPS tracker. We are analysing CCTV footage, checking criminals involved in stealing SUVs and hope to arrest the suspect at the earliest,” senior inspector Pramod Patki of the Koregaon Park police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizmans-suv-stolen-from-koregaon-park/articleshow/78340451.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||145 test +ve in Nilgiris, tally rises to 3,646||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 145 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,646, of which 872 are active cases. Among the new cases were two children aged 11 and 12 years and three elderly people above 75 years. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said most of the new cases were reported from rural areas in Ooty and Kotagiri blocks. “Seven people were tested positive for the virus from Ooty town.” While 35 newly tested patients had travel history to other districts, the remaining were the primary, secondary and tertiary contacts of earlier positive cases, he said. At least 2,751 patients have so far recovered from Covid-19 in the hill district, where the recovery rate stands at 75.45%. Of the 872 active cases, 19 are undergoing treatment in the ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore, while 137 are in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/145-test-ve-in-nilgiris-tally-rises-to-3646/articleshow/78340454.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mangaluru||PG exam of Mangalore University headed for ‘reboot’||MANGALURU: Sixty-seven final year post-graduate students of Kannada of Mangalore University are facing the prospects of a re-exam. A seeming act of indiscretion by chairman of SVP Kannada Study Centre of the university has brought forth this eventuality. Students were re-scheduled to appear for Kannada Matthu Computer Balake (subject code - KNH 553) on Friday, which was held in four out of five centres except on the Mangalagangothri campus of the university. The exam for KNH 553 was initially scheduled for September 21. The incident took place on the day that the Syndicate, highest decision making body of the university met. Inquiries made by Syndicate members on complaints from aggrieved PG students indicated that K Abhaya Kumar, chairman called off the exam on grounds that he had not received intimation that that it had been rescheduled for the day and it will be held later. Refuting this, P L Dharma, registrar (evaluation) told STOI that all communication about examination in wake of the pandemic is being done through e-mails and through the university’s website. Examinations were conducted at the university’s PG centre at Chikkaluvara (12 students), Government First Grade Colleges at Belthangady and Uppinangady (17 and 15 students respectively) and Government First Grade College and PG Centre at Thenkanidiyoor in Udupi (sevent students). Dharma said he has issued notice to Abhay Kumar which he has to answer in two working days. Vice-Chancellor P S Yadapadithaya will initiate action, if deemed necessary based on the reply, he said. The university has requested heads of remaining centres to urge 49 students who appeared for the examination there to appear for a re-examination. A separate re-exam for 16 students at the PG centre at Mangalagangothri will cause a logistical nightmare. To an allegation by a Syndicate member that Abhaya Kumar was in an inebriated state, Yadapadithaya said this will be verified independently. “I have directed the registrar (evaluation) to issue notice to the faculty for this lapse. Time-table and the move to defer examination on September 21 to Friday have been communicated electronically to all. New date for the above paper will be communicated shortly, VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pg-exam-of-mu-headed-for-reboot/articleshow/78339673.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 27, 2020||Pune||600 female cadets to take to the skies as part of NCC’s air squadron||Pune: The NCC Group Headquarter, Pune, will enrol 600 female cadets in its air squadron as part of the Corps expansion approved by the Ministry of Defence this year. “The girls and women will be selected for junior and senior divisions, respectively. The vacancies will be equal for rural as well as urban schools. Earlier we used to have around 80-90 female air cadets,” said Brigadier Suneel Limaye, group commander of NCC Group Headquarter, Pune. More women from Pune and neighbouring districts will get first-hand flying experience in the coming months. According to the flight training curriculum of the NCC, an air cadet will accompany an Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot in the cockpit of an aircraft for a sortie that may last around 10-25 minutes. Senior division air cadets, especially those preparing for the Services Selection Board interview, get access to at least four sorites per year. The squadron conducts an entrance examination and interviews the shortlisted candidates. They get selected for the air squadron based on their performance. They not only get trained for air-borne activities, but also get exposure to other military training and sports. The squadron acquired two Pipistrel Virus SW 80s — high wing microlight aircraft — for training in 2018. The air cadets were trained on the same aircraft at the National Defence Academy’s runway last year. “During training, the cadets learn about a cockpit, its functions and basic aspects of flying in a real way. This covers the basics of theory as well as practical exercise,” said an NCC officer. The 3 Maharashtra air squadron (Pune) is among the oldest units of the NCC. It gets over 2,000 air cadets — both females and males — most of whom are from the junior division (classes VIII to IX). The rest are from the senior division, which comprises undergraduates. The state has three air squadrons in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The Pune squadron gets air cadets from Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur and some district of Marathwada. “Since the (IAF) has exempted written examination for those NCC cadets who have cleared “C” certificate examination, it has paved the way for the air cadets to join the force,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/600-female-cadets-to-take-to-the-skies-as-part-of-nccs-air-squadron/articleshow/78340470.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 27, 2020||Bareilly||Five held with Rs 14.86 lakh demonetised notes in Bareilly, second such recoveries in two months||Bareilly: Five people were arrested with Rs 14.86 lakh old demonetized notes from Shergarh area near the Uttarakhand border in Bareilly district on Friday night. The accused were travelling in a car with the cash. On July 23, four people were arrested with Rs 20 lakh old demonetised notes in Bareilly. Police registered an FIR under section 5/7 of the RBI Act against all the accused at Shergarh police station. Police and various other agencies are questioning the accused to get further information about the cash. Two accused hail from Uttarakhand, three from Bareilly district and one from Kanpur district. SSP Abreilly Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “Sub-inspector Vikas Kumar received a tip-off that five people in a Ford Fiesta car were carrying demonetised currency notes to replace it with new currencies in Shargarh area. A special operation group (SOG) team was immediately sent to the area and the suspects were nabbed. Upon checking, the team seized 131 demonetised notes of Rs 1,000 and 2,711 notes of Rs 500. The accused were sent to jail. We will seek their custody for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-held-with-rs-14-86-lakh-demonetised-notes-in-bareilly-second-such-recoveries-in-two-months/articleshow/78338761.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Outfits protest agri bills||Coimbatore: Several political outfits staged demonstrations against the Centre’s agriculture bills on Saturday. Dravidian and Periyarist outfits held a protest against the bill at the Periyar statue in Gandhipuram. The bills undermined agriculture sector and farmers rights, they said. Representatives of Thandhai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, May 17 Movement, and VCK participated in the protest. Members of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a protest condemning the bills near south taluk office. SDPI district president Raja Husain said the BJP-led Centre has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill despite objection from farmers and opposition parties. “The bills don’t speak about the minimum support price, which is very important for farmers. Due to this, farmers are not ready to believe the Centre’s statements that they would not affect them. Moreover, from the list of essential commodities, cereals, pulses, oil seeds, onions, and potatoes would be taken off. Due to this, hoarding and black market by corporates can’t be stopped,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/outfits-protest-agri-bills/articleshow/78340472.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Midhani supplies nickel wire used in 30,000 ventilators||HYDERABAD: A critical component in ICU ventilators is indigenously manufactured and supplied by city-based defence PSU, Midhani, at Kanchanbagh. The 160 micron pure nickel wire used in oxygen sensors for manufacture of 30,000 ventilators was supplied by Midhani. Bengaluru-based defence PSU, Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), in collaboration with Skanray Technologies Ltd, Mysuru, produced the ventilators on a war-footing in the wake of the Covid-19 situation. “We have delivered more than the requirement. If necessary, we can provide more at a short notice,” Midhani chairman and managing director Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI. The Union health ministry took a decision that ICU ventilators should be manufactured indigenously and approached the DRDO with the proposal. Until the pandemic, ventilators were imported but considering the fact that all countries were affected due to Covid-19 there was a big possibility that the requirement of India may not be met by the international market. That is why the plans for indigenous production was made. While BEL was given the task of manufacturing the equipment, Midhani was asked if it could come up with the pure nickel wire with the specifications. “Within 45 hours, we were able to complete the task given to us. This was done on a war-footing. We had never previously made the nickel wire as per the specification that was required. But, we delivered,” Sanjay Kumar said. Midhani has expertise of wired drawing at the level of 1mm or 1.2mm but for the requirement sought, it was a challenge and that was to provide 1/10th of the thickness it had made for an earlier use. “We then fixed the parameters and optimised it. That is the skill Midhani has where requirements can be delivered even in short notice. Defence requirements are unique and urgent,” Sanjay Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/midhani-supplies-nickel-wire-used-in-30000-ventilators/articleshow/78341575.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 27, 2020||Pune||Missing woman found in Pirangut||Pune: The woman reported missing from the jumbo Covid facility in Shivajinagar on September 13 was found at the residence of one of her relatives in Pirangut on Saturday afternoon. Confirming the development, senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of Shivajinagar police station said, “The woman is sound and safe. It is suspected that she walked to Pirangut.” The woman, from of Yerawada, was reported missing by her mother on September 13 after she was not found at the jumbo Covid facility. Her family members and social workers had staged a protest against the Covid facility’s decision to discharge her without waiting for her kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/missing-woman-found-in-pirangut/articleshow/78340474.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||After wait of over 40 years, 3 campuses of IMA to be linked with underpass tunnels; defence minister to initiate project on Monday||Dehradun: Fulfilling a long-pending demand to link the North, Central and South campuses of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), defence minister Rajnath Singh will lay the foundation stone of the project through a virtual ceremony on Monday. The underpass tunnels, worth around Rs 45 crore, will facilitate smooth movement of academy staff and cadets from one campus to another. The demand to link the campuses, sources in the IMA said, is over four decades old and a project to undertake the same was also conceived in 1978 but did not see the light of the day. Presently, academy members have to cross the National Highway-72 to move between campuses and this, officials said, not only inconveniences academy personnel but also impedes traffic on the highway. Taking cognisance of the issue, Singh had announced construction of the underpasses when he came to review the IMA Passing Out Parade (POP) in December 2019. An official from IMA said that the project, estimated to cost Rs 45 crore, is likely to be completed in two years’ time. “The underpasses will provide a major relief to the heavy traffic flow on the busy highway and also enhance training efficiency and security of Gentlemen Cadets and IMA personnel as they will not be required to cross the highway to access training facilities distributed across the three campuses,” the official added. The underpasses will also benefit local residents as public movement is restricted for a couple of days on the stretch of the highway near IMA during the POP and other major events happening at the IMA. A communique from the IMA said that the e-inauguration of the event will be witnessed via video conferencing from New Delhi by Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat and Chief of Army Staff, General MM Naravane while the GOC-in-C Army Training Command, Lieutenant General Raj Shukla will join from Shimla. The event will also be attended by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Speaking about the project, CM Rawat said, “The underpasses are extremely important from the point of view of the Passing Out Parade and the security concerns. Therefore, when the defence minister was in Dehradun, we had made a request for the two underpasses and I happy that he gave his consent and the project is now taking off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-wait-of-over-40-years-3-campuses-of-ima-to-be-linked-with-underpass-tunnels-defence-minister-to-initiate-project-on-monday/articleshow/78338772.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 27, 2020||Pune||One held for duping shopowner of Rs 15L||Pune: A 43-year-old woman from Sangvi was arrested on Friday on the charge of duping a grocery shop owner of Rs15 lakh by promising him a loan of Rs15crore in 2018. Police have also booked his accomplice on the run. The grocery shop owner (55), a resident of Ghorpade Peth, wanted to buy a college premises in rural areas of Pune district. He lodged a complaint with the Swargate police station on Friday. Inspector Shabbir Sayyed of the Swargate police said, “The woman and the man posed as officials of a private finance company. The shop owner approached them in 2018 after reading about the firm.” “The shop owner wanted to run his own college. He discussed the idea with his two friends. They decided to buy a college premises for which they wanted to take a loan from a bank or financial institution,” he said. “The woman and her accomplice presented themselves as officers of a private finance company and promised a loan of Rs15 crore for which they charged 1% of the loan amount (Rs 15 lakh) as processing fees from the shop owner. However, despite taking the processing fees, they did not process the loan,” he said. Sayyed said that the woman was previously arrested by the Chatushrugi police in50 a cheating case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-duping-shopowner-of-rs-15l/articleshow/78340477.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||For those specialising in SPB songs, the legend was life and livelihood||Coimbatore: For the city-based performing artists, singer S P Balasubrahmanyam was not just a role model but someone who ensured livelihoods. Those who specialise in singing SPB’s songs say it was by singing his songs that they found both identity as an artist and a means to sustain their families. “I was born in a poor household. Today, I’m married and settled. My kids go to school. I could afford all this mainly because of the income I get by singing SPB sir’s songs on stage,” says R Pradeep, choked with emotion. “Music lovers recognise me by my first name, all because of SPB sir’s songs,” says the singer, who has been performing for the last 25 years. M Ram, who has been performing SPB’s songs for two decades, agrees. “It’s not an exaggeration to say our livelihoods are based on SPB sir’s voice.” Though untrained, the flair with which SPB traversed genres including classical, motivated them to become singers, the singers say. While large audiences expect peppy and quick numbers, they made an exception for SPB, says Pradeep. “We would be singing fast-paced songs and there would be a request to sing the melodious ‘Kaadhalin Deepam Ondru’. When we start the song’s humming prelude, the trickle of clapping would give way to roaring applause.” While audience often request SPB’s soothing numbers such as ‘Kamban Emandhaan’, ‘Vaan Nila Nila Alla’ and ‘Ilaya Nila Pozhigirathe’, he was versatile in all genres and brought out emotions such as valour and pathos, the singers say. Speaking of the Coimbatore’s love for the legend, the singers recall an event held here last year, where SPB shared the stage with composer Ilayaraja. “The three-hour show went on for five-hours due to audience’s requests and enthusiasm,” says Ram. N Rajan, who runs Raj Melodies, a music troupe in the city, says the band members worked with SPB to conduct programmes across the state. “He encouraged all singers and musicians. He was never late for rehearsal. He always sang his songs in the same scale they were first recorded.” On Saturday, 30 singers came together at Rajan’s studio to pay tributes to SPB. They performed his pathos-filled numbers such as ‘Unna Nenachen Paattu Padichen’, ‘Paadi Parandha Kili’, ‘Kaadhal Rojave’ and ‘Nilave Va’, for one-and-half-hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/for-those-specialising-in-spb-songs-the-legend-was-life-and-livelihood/articleshow/78340479.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
September 27, 2020||Pune||Techie loses Rs 8.6 lakh to job fraud in Pune||PUNE: Cyber crooks duped a 43-year-old woman IT professional of Rs 8.6 lakh on the pretext of offering her a job in a private firm. The woman, a resident of Magarpatta City, registered a complaint with the Hadapsar police on Friday. In her FIR, the woman said that fradusters, posing as employees of a placement agency, called her after she uploaded her profile on a job portal and offered her jobs in two private firms. Inspector Humraj Kumbhar (crime) said, “The suspects lured her into transferring varying amounts via net banking for completing necessary formalities like registration and recruitment fees, among others.” In all, she transferred around Rs12 lakh since May 21. However, the suspects later returned Rs3.39 lakh, but failed to repay the balance of over Rs8.60 lakh, Kumbhar said. She realised that she had been tricked when she failed to get the job. The woman filed a complaint application with the cybercrime police station soon after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-loses-rs-8-6-lakh-to-job-fraud/articleshow/78340480.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Beach cleanliness drive on, but without bins||COLVA: Earlier this month, a tourist walking down Benaulim beach stopped and stared at the number of plastic water bottles strewn all over the place, he then began collecting them. He looked around but saw no garbage bins. He then kept the waste on the beach but out of the reach of the waves, shook his head and continued his morning walk. While the the tourism department has put up banners on the beach announcing a cleanliness fortnight, ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’, from September 16 to 30, a large number of garbage bins imprinted with the logo of the beach cleaning agency, Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), are lying dumped behind the lifeguard tower at Benaulim. “The tourism department banner not only contradicts the ground reality, it exposes their lackadaisical attitude. For one, from Benaulim to Colva, no bins are placed on the beach. Secondly, the beach cleaning agency KCIC itself has dumped garbage among the vegetation, and, thirdly, The tourism department is a silent spectator,” said Rudolf Baretto, a social activist from Benaulim. Pascoal Fernandes, a fisherman, said that officials from the tourism department should have first visited the beach to check the conditions, got the KCIC to first place the bins on the beach and then put up banners. When contacted, tourism director Menino D’Souza told TOI that “because of rains the bins were pulled up, but if the water has receded we will ask them to put them back”. “I have now deployed my supervisors on the beach, but they don’t reach everywhere,” said D’Souza, while adding that he has started taking attendance of supervisors on beach duties. A large number of tourists flock to the beaches every day, some private shacks have started operations, traditional fishermen—ramponnkars—are busy with their fishing season, the sea continues to cleanse itself by washing ashore huge amounts of garbage, and while all this happens and a lot of dry waste, including glass bottles, is generated, garbage bins are yet to be placed on the beaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beach-cleanliness-drive-on-but-without-bins/articleshow/78341593.cms||Nisser Dias
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||BJP issues notice to Lohaghat MLA for misbehaviour||Dehradun: State president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bansidhar Bhagat on Saturday issued a notice to the party’s MLA from Lohaghat constituency, Pooran Singh Fartyal, for “misbehaviour and putting the party in utter embarrassment during the recent assembly session”. During the session, Fartyal had accused his own party’s government of corruption in the tender for the Tanakpur-Jauljibi road, which is a road of strategic importance being constructed near the Nepal border. Besides raising the matter in the assembly, it was alleged that Fartyal had also taken the matter to the party’s central leadership in Delhi without informing the state-level leaders. Terming it an “act of gross misbehaviour”, Bhagat said, “The kind of words the MLA had used for the government of his own party, both inside and outside the assembly, is very regrettable. We have sought a reply from him in a week’s time after which further course of action will be decided.” The notice issued to the MLA mentions sections 25D and 25F of the party's constitution under which he has been warned of disciplinary action. Meanwhile, speaking on the issue of the recently-tabled agriculture bills and nationwide resentment against the same, Bhagat said that “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always worked in the interest of farmers and the opposition just cannot digest it.” The BJP state president also added that the party members will go door to door to publicise the agriculture bills. “Not just verbal communication but written material will also be shared with farmers to make them aware that the bill is for their own good,” Bhagat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-issues-notice-to-lohaghat-mla-for-misbehaviour/articleshow/78338800.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 27, 2020||Kochi||Interim development order not to be applied uniformly||Thiruvananthapuram: With the draft master plan for 2040 not likely to be finalized soon, constructions in the city will be governed by different regulations in respective wards. The town planning department (TPD) is learnt to have proposed sanctioned master plan (SMP) in old wards, sanctioned area specific master plans in selected wards and detailed town planning schemes wherever applicable. As for remaining wards, interim development order (IDO) will be in effect. This has put to rest a long debate over whether IDO can replace SMP and can be uniformly applied across all wards in the city. TPD has made some revisions regarding coverage, floor area ratio (FAR), dimension of constructions in IDO to make the norms more flexible. In March, the city corporation council had decided to ask for a formal clarification from the state government on what should be followed in the city. Local self-government (LSG) minister A C Moideen had held two meetings in December 2019 regarding renewal of permit for one building and allocation of permit for another apartment project after officials denied sanction for the projects citing that the sites came under green strip as per SMP 1971. This led to a debate on which has to be followed in the city. TPD has now incorporated a provision by which separate norms will prevail over different wards until a new master plan is notified and published in the city. As per the changes introduced in IDO, private properties mistakenly included in areas for public and semi-public use or as paddy land can be verified using revenue records and conversion is possible with the concurrence of town planner. The dimension of commercial constructions in residential zones has also been revised depending up access of road. The provision of having 50% coverage for residential buildings up to 300 sq m in dry agricultural zones has been taken away and in green to planned coverage zones, the coverage limit fixed at 33.3% has been done away with. The building rules will determine coverage in these areas. IDO had proposed FAR of two and road width of 12m for large-scale development projects. The new proposal has taken away the condition of FAR and will be allowed as per building rules which means more FAR will be permitted for large-scale development projects. Town planning standing committee chairman Palayam Rajan said relaxations would be introduced in IDO to make it more flexible and to address concerns of the public. The corporation is expected to pass a resolution based on revision of IDO norms soon. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/interim-development-order-not-to-be-applied-uniformly/articleshow/78338869.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 27, 2020||Pune||Bid to grab cash from ATM unit fails||Pune: Thieves unsuccessfully tried to steal cash from a private bank’s ATM in Khed in the early hours of Friday. Bank officer Navnath Kanase (36) of Dighi lodged a complaint with the Chakan police. The suspects then used different tools like gas cutter, screw driver and hammer to break open the ATM unit but failed to access the cash box. 8 batteries stolen from kiosk On September 18, thieves walked into an ATM kiosk and stole eight high-power batteries totally worth Rs42,000, the Chakan police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bid-to-grab-cash-from-atm-unit-fails/articleshow/78340489.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Private labs flout ICMR diktat, seek prescription for testing||Coimbatore: Nearly 20 days after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said medical prescription wasn’t required to get Covid-19 testing done, many private laboratories in the city are yet to comply with the new directions and they continue to turn away people without a doctor’s prescription. Jagadish*, 38, who tested positive for the virus more than 10 days ago, was turned away by three private laboratories on Cowley Brown Road on Saturday, when he approached them for testing to know if he was still infected. All of them demanded a doctor’s prescription with a seal. He finally contacted government authorities, who finally referred him to a private lab on Puliyakulam Road. There are many people who had a similar experience. Vishwa C*, a writer, said, “Despite having flu-like symptoms, a laboratory turned me away when I approached it for Covid-19 testing, demanding a prescription. Since I didn’t want to unnecessarily expose myself to other patients at a clinic, I just isolated myself at home for a week, before returning to work.” This has to be read with the district’s Covid-19 curve, which is on the ascent, leaving the public health department perplexed. Health officials seem to be wondering how to control the spread. ICMR had allowed people to get tested without a prescription as early diagnosis would help prevent them from infecting others. In fact, not allowing people to get tested at the onset of symptoms or immediately after coming in contact with a positive patient was attributed as one of the reasons for the rapid spread of the virus in the state. District collector K Rajamani said, “We agree that when laboratories turn people away, they get too demotivated to approach a doctor for a prescription and go back to the lab to get tested.” A health department official, however, said such a scenario was more likely only with youngsters that too when symptoms are so mild. “Tiredness might be their primary symptom. But they could still end up infecting other family members and neighbours.” Pointing out a patient was most likely to infect others in the pre-symptomatic stage or in the initial five to six symptomatic days, K Kolandasamy, former director of public health, said, “So, if people want to get tested and isolate themselves as soon as possible to protect others around them, it should be encouraged.” The collector, meanwhile, said he would warn the private laboratories not to turn away people approaching them for Covid-19 testing, demanding a doctor’s prescription.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-labs-flout-icmr-diktat-seek-prescription-for-testing/articleshow/78340493.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||First enumeration of lion-tailed macaque to be carried out in Oct||Coimbatore: The forest department will kick off enumeration of lion-tailed macaque in the Pollachi division of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in the first week of October. It will be the first enumeration of the endangered primate in ATR, an official said. “The number of the species has drastically declined. It is essential that the population dynamics and breeding potential are recorded on a regular and long-term basis.”Volunteers of Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF), a non-governmental organization that has been studying about the monkeys at Pudhuthottam in Valparai, will help the department in the drive, the official told TOI. “As the region is receiving heavy rain, it will be difficult to spot the animals. We have decided to do the enumeration in the first week of October as rainfall is expected to reduce within a week. NCF volunteers will help forest staff to conduct the three-day drive.”The department has identified 15 forest beats in the Pollachi division for the survey. “Home range of a lion-tailed macaque is four to five square kilometres. They move in groups led by a male. As many as 40 grids – each with an area of four-square kilometres – will be sampled for the survey and each group that passes through the grids will be recorded. We will also record details like number of animals in the groups, adults, sub-adults and juveniles along with their sex.”The monkeys were generally shy, the official said. “Of late, they have started to come out of the forest and were spotted on roads in Valparai. Human-lion-tailed macaque conflict is increasing in the region. Using the census data, we will take measures to protect the species,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/first-enumeration-of-lion-tailed-macaque-to-be-carried-out-in-oct/articleshow/78340484.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Pune||Pune zilla parishad fines nearly 1.8 lakh mask rule violators||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad has collected Rs3.34 crore fine from 1.76 lakh people for not wearing masks. The ZP jurisdiction includes 13 tehsils and 14 municipal councils, covering big industrial towns like Chakan, Talegaon Dabhade and Shirurt, among others. The ZP officials said that people in rural areas are careless and do not adhere to Covid-19 related guidelines. “We have empowered the gram panchayat, police and municipal councils to impose fine for not wearing masks and spitting in public place. Many gram panchayats are taking stringent action. We are also sensitising people and explaining the importance of wearing masks through various mediums,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, ZP. Rural Pune has recorded an increase in Covid-19 cases in last two months. There are 48,236 progressive cases since the outbreak, of which 31,607 people have recovered, 1,239 succumbed to the virus, while 15,390 are active cases. “This is a disturbing trend for rural Pune as Covid cases are increasing very rapidly in the last two months. People need to understand the importance of following social distancing norms,” said a senior doctor from the ZP health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-fines-nearly-1-8l-mask-rule-violators/articleshow/78340482.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 27, 2020||Pune||Cops collect Rs 3.5cr in penalty||Pune: The Pune city police collected Rs3.5 crore from 70,000 people in the last three months for moving on roads without wearing masks. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “The police are continuously keeping an eye on offenders on roads. We have fined 70,000 people as on Saturday and collected Rs3.50 crore fine from them.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-collect-rs-3-5cr-in-penalty/articleshow/78340485.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Prisoners of freedom||Life convicts in the open air Cherlapally prison are into farming these days. Jail authorities have confirmed that the prisoners are being trained in various aspects of farming in the 120-acre prisoners’ agricultural colony so that they can lead a bright life beyond the barriers of the jail. In a far-reaching initiative to prepare them as farmers once the prisoners are released from the jail, authorities of the prisons department are also focusing on equipping them with modern techniques of farming. Technically speaking, a life term is to be read as a person spending the rest of his life in jail. But, governments make considerations for premature release of prisoners who complete 14 years of their sentence in the jail. Prisoners with good behaviour and those showing enterprise after completing a certain number of years are given an option by the prisons department to be placed in the open air jail. The Cherlapally open air jail has an entrance and does not have a fencing as prisoners, who are due for release in near future, do not try to run away. “They are learning a lot about modern agricultural practices,” superintendent of the jail Dasaradha Ram Reddy told TOI. They are also taught about the multi-layer farming concept on cultivating three or four crops simultaneously. “This can be done in less than one acre of land or a limited space,” explained jailor Ashok Kumar. Officials from Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University are providing technical knowhow and inputs to the jail inmates. As part of integrated farming, ponds have been created in the jail. The prisoners are also taught aquaculture, dairy farming, breeding poultry and making vermicompost. In poultry, the focus is on breeding country birds. The ‘Mysurue natu’ and ‘Aseel natu’ poultry varieties fetch good returns as they are sold at Rs 400 per kg and the birds can be harvested in less than six months. “If 500 birds are reared, the prisoners can earn between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh,” a prison official explained. In six beds of 60x4 sq ft, vermicompost is made inside the prison premises by sourcing cow dung from the nearby dairy farm. African red wiggler worms are part of the vermicompost to make it a solid combination. Every prisoner gets to learn all this, while others work at the petrol bunk attached to the prison. According to the authorities, those who are released can lead a normal life by earning their own livelihood. “If they seek, loans can also be facilitated for them,” officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jailbirds-script-a-new-survival-story-turn-to-farming-for-a-better-future/articleshow/78341588.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 27, 2020||Vadodara||MSU to hold major entrance exams online||VADODARA: A majority of entrance exams at the M S University will be conducted online this year, on the university’s own portal. After much uncertainty, the Faculty of Science has declared schedule of online entrance exams for admission to post-graduate courses. At the same time, Faculty of Education and Psychology, too, has announced the dates of entrance exams. The online entrance exam for post-graduate courses at the Faculty of Science will be held on September 29. The entrance exam for MSc in botany, chemistry, geography, geology, maths, physics and statistics will be held between 10 and 11.30 am, while the entrance test for MSc in microbiology and information technology will be held between 1 and 2.30 pm. The entrance test for admission in MSc in biochemistry, medical biotechnology and environmental sciences will be held between 4 and 5.30 pm. The entrance test will be of 50 questions of one mark each. Department of Education will be conducting entrance examination for B.Ed programme on October 4 between 10 and 11.30 am. The mock test for the same will be held on September 29 in the same time slot. It will also conduct entrance examination for post-graduate diploma in guidance and counselling programme online on October 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-hold-major-entrance-exams-online/articleshow/78339284.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||118kg tobacco products seized, 2 held||Coimbatore: The Big Bazaar Street police arrested two people from Vysial Street on Saturday for possession of 118kg of banned tobacco products. Police raided a house on the Ayyasamy Temple lane around 10.30am after receiving a tip-off. They found banned tobacco products worth Rs 85,728 and arrested K Sultan Singh, 32 and G Poora Ram, 22, of Edayar Street in the city. A car was also seized. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the duo smuggled the contraband from Bengaluru in the car and stored it at the house before supplying to shops in the city. “They bought a packet each for Rs 5 from Bengaluru and sold them here for Rs 20,” a police officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/118kg-tobacco-products-seized-2-held/articleshow/78340512.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shop virtually at malls from the comfort of your home, stay safe||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Malls in Pune city are offering virtual shopping experience to customers in a bid to push sales and make up for the dip in footfalls. Creaticity, Yerawada, has launched an online portal offering a wide range of home and decor products, with a special feature that allows customers a 360-degree view of stores at the mall. There is a video call on demand facility that brings the stores and customers to meet virtually and discuss solutions, and book appointments for personal visits. “A live chat with personal advisors is another value-added feature. Specially crafted ‘lookbooks’, with multiple categories from living room to bedroom, kitchens to home furnishings are curated for customers through a mix of international and Indian brands,” said Mahesh M, chief executive officer (CEO) Creaticity. Pheonix Marketcity, Ahmednagar Road, is focussing on omnichannel approach to shopping with their virtual personal shopping programme. “Our WhatsApp chatbot is a one-stop virtual customer helpdesk to solve customer queries on the go. Customers will be directed to Phoenix’s Business WhatsApp account by scanning a QR code, sending a missed call to a number, or by sending a message to a verified number. Patrons can discuss wardrobe options with a line-up of leading stylists and peruse stores via video calls to select recommended apparel”, said Rajendra Kalkar, president-west, The Phoenix Mills. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer, Amanora Mall, said, “We have introduced home delivery and curbside pick-up. Customer can shop from the comfort of their homes on the Amanora mall website and simply drive through to the mall at the designated time and location to collect their shopping bags after they have made online payment. Store are also sharing product details via video call or e-catalogue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shop-virtually-at-malls-from-the-comfort-of-your-home-stay-safe/articleshow/78340497.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Pune||NCL scientist gets twin recognitions||Pune: Amol A Kulkarni, senior principal scientist at the CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), has been selected for the prestigious S S Bhatnagar prize for the year 2020, awarded by CSIR in the engineering sciences category. Kulkarni has also been selected as Dr AV Rama Rao chair professor, established this year by M/s Avra Laboratories Pvt Ltd. The tenure of this appointment is three years. He would be allocated up to Rs10 lakh per year to undertake a translational project, along with monthly remuneration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncl-scientist-gets-twin-recognitions/articleshow/78340492.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Paddy procurement in Punjab & Haryana to begin a few days early||NEW DELHI: Amid political attacks over the farm sector bills, the Centre has decided to advance paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana by a few days with the exercise slated to kick off on Sunday, instead of the usual timetable, starting October 1. In a letter to the state governments, the consumer affairs and food ministry has said that the kharif procurement has been advanced due to early arrival of paddy this season but officials conceded that this was a political decision. Typically, October and November are the main procurement months in Punjab and Haryana with Karnataka and Tripura seeing purchases start in December. In states such as West Bengal procurement will end next June. After the passage of the bill to ease restrictions on sale in mandis, Opposition parties had said that the move would put farmers, especially in the two states, at a disadvantage, first prompting the Narendra Modi government to quickly announce the minimum support price and follow it up by advancing government purchase by a few days in a bid to assure farmers that the scheme will not be tinkered with. The Centre is estimating an 18% jump in procurement of paddy this season to 49.5 million tonnes compared to around 42 million tonnes last year. Of this nearly 22% or 11.3 million tonnes is estimated to come from Punjab, while Haryana may chip in with around 4.5 million tonnes. Chhattisgarh with 6 million tonnes and Telangana (5 million tonnes), will be second and third largest sources for paddy procurement. Data available with the ministry showed that till Friday around eight lakh tonnes of paddy have already reached mandis in Haryana, although data for Punjab is currently unavailable. Early monsoon rains this year are seen to be one of the reasons behind early arrivals with a bumper harvest predicted by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/paddy-procurement-in-punjab-haryana-to-begin-a-few-days-early/articleshow/78342303.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Frontline workers’ attempt to snatch gold chain, held||Coimbatore: The Tirupur city police arrested a 35-year-old woman and her 24-year-old friend, who posed as Covid-19 frontline workers and tried to rob a woman at knifepoint on Wednesday. The arrested people were identified as Sathyapriya, wife of Santhoshkumar of KRV Nagar in Tirupur and her friend M Manojkumar of Palaiyakkadu in Tirupur. “Sathyapriya visited the house of Shanthamani at Chinniyagoundenpudur near Andipalayam on Tuesday and introduced herself as an anganwadi worker on Covid census duty. She sought Aadhaar card details of her family members. The next day, Manojkumar visited Shanthamani and introduced himself as a ration shop staff on Covid duty. He collected her Aadhaar details and left the house after confirming that she was alone,” a police officer said. Manojkumar returned later and requested a glass of water. “When Shanthamani left for the kitchen, Sathyapriya entered the house and gagged her. Manojkumar attempted to snatch her gold chain. When Shanthamani raised an alarm, he tried to stab her using a knife. She suffered minor injuries on her fingers. Employees of a nearby banian company who heard her cry for help, rushed to the house. But the miscreant managed to escape on a motorcycle,” the officer added. Shanthamani was admitted to a private hospital. Tirupur central police registered a case and formed a special team. The team collected CCTV footage from the area and arrested the duo on Saturday. They were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/frontline-workers-attempt-to-snatch-gold-chain-held/articleshow/78340525.cms||A Subburaj
September 27, 2020||Aurangabad||21% Covid-19 deaths within day of hospital admission, docs blame delay in seeking medical care||Aurangabad: The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 has dropped marginally this month, but doctors said the number can be further reduced if people start seeking medical attention immediately after developing symptoms. An analysis of the 900 Covid-related deaths has shown that nearly 197 patients, or 22% of the total, have succumbed to the infection within a day of hospital admission. Moreover, another 81 patients died within two days of admission and 74 died within three days. Doctors said in most of these cases, the patients had reached the hospital late and had opted for alternative medicines. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Kananbala Yelikar said the initial phase of the infection is like the golden hour. “Delay in reaching the hospital makes it an uphill task for the treating doctors,” she said. Medical authorities said people still do not want to accept that they have been infected. They also lack of awareness. All this causes unnecessary time wastage in the initial phase of the infection. Deputy dean Kailash Zine, who is also the head of the forensic medicine and toxicology department, said, “Factors like people failing to accept that they could be infected, fear of the disease and lack of awareness are some of the reasons for patients reaching the hospitals late.” Health authorities said in most cases, a patient is brought to the hospital only after his/her condition deteriorates. The makes the job tougher for the medicos. District collector Sunil Chavan has expressed serious concerns over the delays in taking a person with symptoms for screening and eventually to the hospital. Another senior medico said: “The lack of trust in healthcare institutes (especially the private ones) and reports of private hospitals charging lakhs of rupees for treatment are the key reasons stopping people from going to the hospitals in the initial phase.” There has been a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 deaths iover the months. Seven deaths were reported in April, 67 in May, 206 in June, 217 in July, 212 in August and 188 in September. Out of the total deaths in the district, 590 patients had comorbidities, while 310 did not have any history of other ailments. As per the obtained figures, 656 deaths have been reported from the limits of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and 244 from rural areas of the district. In addition, 178 patients hailing from other districts have died during the treatment in Aurangabad. In terms of gender, 302 females have succumbed, while 595 males have died of the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/21-covid-19-deaths-within-day-of-hospital-admission-docs-blame-delay-in-seeking-medical-care/articleshow/78340534.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Agriculture minister on Marathwada region tour||Aurangabad: Owing to the excess rainfall in Marathwada, state agriculture minister Dada Bhuse has set out on a tour of the region, including Aurangabad. The minister paid a visit to Aurangabad on Saturday, followed by Jalna before ending his official tour for the day in Hingoli. On Sunday, he will visit and review situations in Hingoli, Parbhani, Latur and Osmanabad districts, before heading for Solapur. Bhuse said that the meetings are aimed at reviewing the situation as well as implementation of the pro-farmer government schemes in each of the districts. The minister took a serious cognizance of some people’s representatives raising the issues faced by the farmers due to non-cooperation from insurance companies. He warned of action against anyone adding to the worries of farmers. The minister even reviewed the situation of the latest lumpy disease that has already infected thousands of cattle in the region alone. During the meeting held at Aurangabad, Bhuse has ordered for carrying immediate panchanamas of the damaged crops, strict implementation of Mahatma Phule farm loan waiver scheme that has been introduced by Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state. He also directed the officials concerned to ensure that the vegetable supply chain of the farmers does not get affected amid pandemic clubbed with excess rainfall. As the region has received more than average rainfall, most water bodies, including Jayakwadi dam, has been filled up to the brim while some tributaries and rivers passing from the region have been overflowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/agriculture-minister-on-marathwada-region-tour/articleshow/78340522.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra releases advisory on judicious use of remdesivir||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday issued a circular to all divisional commissioners, collectors and municipal chiefs calling for judicious use of the antiviral drug remdesivir during Covid-19. “We have to understand that these injections have to be given with utmost care. Guidelines issued by the state task force should be followed by the medical fraternity,” Tope told TOI. The state health minister said that while the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has allowed Indian companies to manufacture and distribute remdesivir, the drug should not be used for every “walk-in patient”. The circular, a copy of which is with TOI, also includes guidelines on use of steroids. “It is the duty of local authorities to ensure these guidelines are followed by the medical fraternity within their districts,” the minister said. Besides these orders, a special campaign will be launched against the black marketing of remdesivir in the state, Tope said, while adding that there is currently no shortage of the drug in Maharashtra. He said the Food and Drug Administration will ensure strict monitoring of the supply coming into the districts. All prescriptions will also be logged into a system to keep up checks and balances. “The FDA has to set up a strict monitoring system. Those found involved in black marketing should be strictly penalised. Every remdesivir injection that reaches the local authority or distributor should be tracked by the regulators and if there is malpractice, the distributor will also be penalised,” the minister said. On reports of shortage, Tope said a few days ago, there was a problem with the remdesivir stock supplied by one pharma firm which had resulted in supply delays. But he said everything was now “under control”. Subhash Salunke, the state's technical advisor on Covid-19 and a public health expert, said the experimental drug’s use during Covid-19 has to be monitored. “It is a drug that needs to be respected and used under expert supervision. It should not be administered at any stage,” Salunke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-releases-advisory-on-judicious-use-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78340554.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 27, 2020||Bareilly||Forced by lockdown to come home, woman who married outside faith murdered||Bareilly: A 24-year-old woman, who got married to a man outside her religion, was shot dead in the Civil Lines locality of Budaun district late on Friday. In a dramatic turn of events, the local police later arrested her husband, Asif, who had brought her to the district hospital where she was declared dead and also reached the thana to lodge a complaint against her estranged cousin. Neha had married Asif, a resident of Sheikhupura locality, in 2019 against her family’s wishes. The couple, who had known each other for a few years, later moved to Delhi where Asif used to work as a carpenter until the lockdown rendered him jobless. They had come back to Budaun, forced by Asif's loss of job in Delhi due to the lockdown, only on Friday. She was shot dead later that night. When Asif reached the police station to lodge a complaint against his wife's cousin and claimed that the latter had threatened them, police detained the suspect instead. In the next few hours, police claimed that Asif had confessed to the murder during interrogation and booked him under section 302 (murder) on a complaint filed by Neha’s cousin Ashish. Buduan superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “We had detained Neha’s cousin after recording the statement of Asif but later we didn’t find any proof of his involvement. On the other hand, when we cross-questioned Asif about the incident, he broke down and accepted that he had killed Neha with the help of his friend.” Neha’s family refused to accept her body. They said she had “died for them the day she married a person outside the community”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forced-by-lockdown-to-come-home-woman-who-married-outside-faith-murdered/articleshow/78338844.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police raid 8 places, bust fake lottery racket||AURANGABAD: The local crime branch (LCB) of the Jalna police on Saturday afternoon raided eight different lottery centres in the prime market areas of the town, and busted a major racket involved in running unregistered lottery ticket centres. A preliminary probe has revealed that the suspects were neither registered with a competent office nor had they registered for GST. They were issuing locally prepared lottery tickets. Police teams have seized several computers, dongles, printers from each of these illegal lottery centres, collectively worth Rs 5 lakh. The suspects have been booked for cheating and under Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act. Sanjay Pariwale, the 39-year-old mastermind of the racket and a resident of Kadbi Mandi area, and seven others were operating the centres at Tanga Stand, Ramnagar, Mutha Building at Subhash Chowk, Central Bus Stand area, Garib Shah Bazaar and Kadbi Mandi. LCB inspector Rajendersingh Gaur said the suspects not only duped the customers but also evaded GST. The other accused have been identified as Santosh Pariwale (32), Satish Pariwale (35), Jagdish Tiwari (44), Sachin Namde (27), Satish Sale (32), Krushna Chavan (30) and Gagan Devawale (25). The simultaneous raids at all the spots were personally monitored by the newly appointed superintendent of police Vinayak Deshmukh and were led by probationary IPS Hasan Gauhar. Police said the suspects were using a software that showed the lottery operators the load on numbers mentioned on the tickets. To make maximum money, the suspects would select the number with the least bet, and allot money to it. The probe also found that to attract customers, the racketeers initially gave out many prizes. “The suspects had obtained just a shop act license for each of their centres and would fool the people by claiming that they are registered with the state government,” said an officer privy to the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-raid-8-places-bust-fake-lottery-racket/articleshow/78340552.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal’s home minister lays foundation stone of Armed Police Force building along Indo-Nepal border||Pithoragarh: Nepal’s minister for home affairs, Ram Bahadur Thapa on Friday laid the foundation stone of the battalion headquarters for Nepalese Armed Police Force (APF) in Chhangru area, which borders Kalapani region of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district. Before the stone laying, an aerial survey of Tinkar village of Nepal’s Darchula district was also conducted by Thapa. The minister also spent a night in Chhangru. He was accompanied by Army personnel and APF officials, as per sources. On Saturday, the minister held a press conference in Nepal’s Darchula district. Speaking to mediapersons, he said, “The government is committed to the development of border areas and local youths here would be provided with employment opportunities. We will work for the development of the strategically crucial region and develop it as a trade and tourism hotspot.” During the event, Thapa is believed to have told mediapersons that a multi-utility building will be constructed in the area at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore within one year. He added that a permanent structure for Border Observation Posts (BOPs) will also be made in Chhangru. Nepal has already constructed several BOPs on its side of the border at Darchula, Jauljibi, Lali, Jhulaghat, and Pancheshwar regions after border tensions flared up between India and Nepal in May when defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 80-km-long Ghatiabagarh-Lipulekh road. The Nepalese government had claimed that the road runs through its territory. Subsequently, the Nepalese parliament had also released a map which showed Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh as part of its territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepals-home-minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-armed-police-force-building-along-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/78338839.cms||Prem Punetha
September 27, 2020||Chennai||City airport finds it hard to harness solar energy||Chennai: Chennai airport lags behind in harnessing solar energy while smaller airports have installed more generating capacity in the past few years. The city airport does not have adequate land to install solar panels to lean more on clean energy. The airport now has capacity to generate 1.6MWp (mega watt peak) solar power from rooftop panels, while smaller airports in Chandigarh and Jaipur have more installed capacity, shows statistics presented by aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri in the Lok Sabha. Chandigarh has 3MWp capacity from ground-mounted panels while Jaipur has 1.9MWp capacity, 1.8MWp of which is from ground-mounted panels. Trichy, also smaller, generates 1.1MWp — 1MWp from ground-mounted panels. Kolkata tops AAI-run airports in harnessing solar power, with 17MWp. Lack of land and use of land to develop ground facilities for flights fearing a second airport will be delayed, have caused the airport to slow down on solar power generation. Nevertheless, the airport is planning to step up generation so that dependence on the grid could be reduced. “There is a proposal to install panels on the ground for generating 6.5MWp. Land was identified in seven pockets. But some of these are close to the runway and doubts were raised whether glare from the panels will affect flights. It is still under discussion,” said an official. A huge chunk of the identified land is in the northern corner of the main runway close to the Pallavaram side. A contractor was also selected in May last year. The current installed capacity of 1.6MWp helps the airport save around Rs 2 crore every year, the official added. “Less land is available in Chennai airport. This is a reason why panels could not be installed on the ground,” he added. Most of the airports which have a higher generating capacity have panels installed on the ground. AAI also has been pushing for solar power at smaller airports which have less traffic but more space. This is the reason airports such as Madurai (0.9MWp), Trichy (1.1MWp), Vijayawada (1MWp), Tirupati (1MWp) have installed solar power capacity. As an alternative, AAI has brought in third party power purchase, from Karur, to increase use of solar power in Chennai airport. However, private airports have made better progress in increasing solar power generation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-airport-finds-it-hard-to-harness-solar-energy/articleshow/78340558.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Salem||Mother, five others held for beating up, tonsuring son||Salem: A 46-year-old woman and five of her relatives were arrested for beating up her 25-year-old son and tonsuring his head after he ‘married’ a 17-year-old girl from another caste. The victim was also arrested by the Vazhapadi police on Friday night for ‘marrying’ a minor girl. Police said V Arunkumar, 25, a daily wage worker, eloped with the girl and ‘married’ her in February this year. They moved to Pallipalayam in Namakkal district and lived there. Recently, his father Varadharaj, 55, came to know about their whearabouts. He went there and brought his son back home at Chinnammanaickenpalayam village near Vazhapadi on Wednesday. On Thursday, Arunkumar’s mother Abila, her brothers Nehur, 40, Venkatesan, 42, her sister Parimala, 44, relatives Manikandan, 30 and Ragunathan 25 tied him to a coconut tree and thrashed him. They, later, tonsured his head too. Meanwhile, Arunkumar’s ‘wife’, the minor girl, lodged a complaint with the Vazhapadi police. Police rescued Arunkumar and admitted him to the government hospital in Salem on Friday. They also arrested six people, including Arunkumar’s mother. On Friday night, police arrested Arunkumar under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act for marrying a minor girl. They changed a missing case lodged in February by Arunkumar’s mother to a Pocso case and arrested him. The seven accused were later lodged at the Salem central prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mother-five-others-held-for-beating-up-tonsuring-son/articleshow/78340560.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Notorious burglars detained under Goondas Act||Coimbatore: The Tirupur city police commissioner has detained two notorious burglars under the Goondas Act on Friday. A police officer said they had arrested S Vikki alias Vignesh, 21, of Peravurani in Thanjavur district and M Siva alias Sivakumar, 26, of Burma Colony at Virudhunagar, recently for burgling houses, grocery shops and mobile phone shops in the Veerapandi police and Tirupur rural police station limits. “They had robbed a 70-year-old man at knifepoint. The two have seven theft cases pending against them with the Tirupur city police and one with the Velankanni police in Nagapattinam district,” the officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/notorious-burglars-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/78340550.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Student shot dead outside her college by ‘friend’ in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old student was shot in broad daylight on Saturday morning in front of her college in Jaipur’s Adarsh Nagar area when she came out after finishing her exam. The woman, Garima Jat, 21, had come from Jhunjhunu to appear for her final year BSc exam when the accused, a native of Dholpur and nephew of a former sarpanch, shot her. The accused was identified as Vishnu Choudhary, 23. They were known to each other. Vishnu was arrested by cops who are interrogating him. Rahul Jain, DCP, Jaipur East told TOI, “At around 10.15am on Saturday, the accused reached the victim’s college and first stabbed her in the neck and then shot her. One bullet lodged in her stomach. Although she was rushed to the hospital, she died in the trauma centre while undergoing treatment.” The accused did not have his own mode of transport and after initial hesitation fled from the crime spot but was chased and nabbed by a cop who followed him by hitching ride in civilian vehicles. Cops recovered the country made pistol as well as the knife used by the accused. While the motive behind the murder remains unknown, the official added, “The two were known to each other after having met at the coaching centre in Jaipur where they were preparing for RAS examination.” Sources alleged that the two were probably in a relationship since a couple of years “which had worsened” in recent times. However, neither the families nor the officials confirmed this. Vishnu, who hails from Dholpur’s Umrara village, was staying in Jaipur while Garima had returned home to Jhunjhunu’s Pujari Ki Dhani village during the lockdown. She had returned for the college examination only few days back and was staying at her maternal uncle’s residence. The officials claimed that the victim and the accused were in touch as the latter knew the fact that her examination would get over by 10 am. Garima, whose dreams were shattered with one bullet, came from an educated family and a villager close to her family told TOI, “Garima mostly stayed in Jaipur due to her studies but she came from a simple family. Her mother is a teacher while her father worked in the electricity department. Her younger brother is also pursuing studies here. We know she knew Vishnu but nothing beyond that.” Meanwhile, Vishnu’s family seemed equally puzzled. His uncle and former sarpanch of Umrara, Krishna Choudhary said, “We had no inkling that he could do something like this and even now, all of us are in a state of disbelief. While they knew each other, we do not know what caused Vishnu to commit such an act.” The victim’s post-mortem was done on Saturday night after her Covid-19 result came negative. The accused will be produced in court on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/student-shot-dead-outside-her-college-by-friend-in-city/articleshow/78341597.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Aurangabad||25,405 recover from Covid-19 in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: As many as 25,405 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Aurangabad district so far while 6,135 are currently undergoing treatment in various facilities. In addition, the district also reported a surge of 351 fresh cases on late Friday night, taking the total number of patients to 32,440. The district has also reported 900 Covid-related casualties so far, including seven deaths on Friday. According to the district administration officials, of the 351 patients registered on Friday, 101 were found in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation limits during an antigen test drive which was carried out by the mobile swab collection facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/25405-recover-from-covid-19-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78340561.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||RWAs warn of stir over delay in repairs||LUCKNOW: Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) of eight apartments in Gomtinagar and Gomtinagar Extension have warned of a protest if Lucknow Development Authority doesn’t release their corpus funds to carry out maintenance works pending for three years. At the time of registration of flats, LDA took Rs 10,000-12,000 from each allottee as part of corpus funds. The amount is kept by the authority till the time RWAs are formed. After that, LDA hands over the responsibility of maintenance to its welfare association along with the fund. In 2017, LDA handed over the responsibility of maintenance work in eight apartments in Gomtinagar and Gomtinagar Extension — Ganga, Yamuna, Sunrise, Kalptaru, Sargam, Kaveri, Greenwood and Alaknanda — to RWAs. However, the Rs 9-crore corpus has not been released till date. As a result, RWAs are unable to carry out maintenance of lifts, boundary walls, fire safety equipment and CCTVs. Gomtinagar Vistaar Jankalyaan Mahasamiti, a parent body of these RWAs, is planning to protest outside LDA office in Gomtinagar. Its president KK Singh said, “LDA is turning a deaf ear to our demands. We are not asking LDA to carry out the maintenance work from its budget, but from the corpus created by the money deposited by the allottees.” LDA vice-chairman S K Dwivedi said, “About 50% of the corpus fund will be released soon. We won’t be able to release the entire amount due to financial crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rwas-warn-of-stir-over-delay-in-repairs/articleshow/78341595.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray raises 2nd wave concerns||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said behavioural changes in society by following social distancing guidelines was the way forward to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. He categorically said lockdown was the last option. It would be implemented with people’s participation through janata curfew only if there was no other alternative. Stressing on taking due care because of rising cases, Tope said, “World over, whether it is Europe or US, society is slowly adapting to behavioural changes. We cannot keep the country or the state under lockdown for long as it impacts economy. So, it is up to people to follow the guidelines or face the threat of a forced lockdown.” He said there was a hint of some complacency setting in among people and the administration six months after the pandemic hit the state. “We have to ensure that all rules laid out by the Maharashtra government are followed as the state is slowly executing the unlocking process.” Tope reminded people ahead of the festive season that festivals would have to be celebrated without any kind of crowding and with all due precautions. He said, on one hand, people want more religious institutions and gyms to open, and on the other, don’t abide by the rules. “One has to take responsibility for self. Why should you pay the fine? Why can’t one adhere to rules?” he asked. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed concerns over a possible “second wave” globally as people start to move out for work due to easing of lockdown restrictions. “If we want to avoid disasters and lockdowns, we have to get used to a Covid-19-induced restrictive lifestyle,” said Thackeray during a Covid review of four districts — Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdown-last-option-social-distancing-key-to-avert-covid-tope/articleshow/78342474.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 27, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray raises 2nd wave concerns||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said behavioural changes in society by following social distancing guidelines was the way forward to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. He categorically said lockdown was the last option. It would be implemented with people’s participation through janata curfew only if there was no other alternative. Stressing on taking due care because of rising cases, Tope said, “World over, whether it is Europe or US, society is slowly adapting to behavioural changes. We cannot keep the country or the state under lockdown for long as it impacts economy. So, it is up to people to follow the guidelines or face the threat of a forced lockdown.” He said there was a hint of some complacency setting in among people and the administration six months after the pandemic hit the state. “We have to ensure that all rules laid out by the Maharashtra government are followed as the state is slowly executing the unlocking process.” Tope reminded people ahead of the festive season that festivals would have to be celebrated without any kind of crowding and with all due precautions. He said, on one hand, people want more religious institutions and gyms to open, and on the other, don’t abide by the rules. “One has to take responsibility for self. Why should you pay the fine? Why can’t one adhere to rules?” he asked. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed concerns over a possible “second wave” globally as people start to move out for work due to easing of lockdown restrictions. “If we want to avoid disasters and lockdowns, we have to get used to a Covid-19-induced restrictive lifestyle,” said Thackeray during a Covid review of four districts — Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-last-option-social-distancing-key-to-avert-covid-tope/articleshow/78340568.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Industrial hubs complain about poor oxygen supply, fear closure||PUNE: Industrial units dependent on oxygen for various processes in the Pimpri Chinchwad, Chakan, Talegaon and the Ranjangaon industrial areas are now nearing the brink of closure, as they are not even getting the 20% oxygen the manufacturers were supposed to supply to them. Industry associations’ sources said oxygen supplies to the manufacturing units have come down to zilch since a week with the distributors refusing refills fearing checks by the authorities. Several distributors were unanimous that they have been instructed to give high priority to oxygen supply to hospitals, and thus they could not even ensure the 20% quota for the industries. Pimpri Chinchwad Small Industries Association president Sandeep Belsare told TOI, “About 15,000 industrial units in Pimpri Chinchwad, Chakan, Talegaon and Ranjangaon industrial areas, especially the small and micro units, have been affected because they were using oxygen for processes such as metal welding and fabrication. Many of their processes dependent on oxygen use have stopped, while others that had oxygen stock are expected to run out during the next few days.” Sources from the Maharashtra Industries, Energy and Labour Department confirmed that supplies to industries have come down to minimal , as the government authorities recently caught distributors black marketing liquid oxygen meant for medical use to the manufacturing units. As a result, they were told to stop refilling oxygen for industries to check black marketing. “The manufacturers were earlier this month told to produce 80% oxygen for medical facilities and 20% for industries,” an official in the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industrial-hubs-complain-about-poor-oxygen-supply-fear-closure/articleshow/78340563.cms||Neha Madaan
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Loos in a mere 26% state schools disabled-friendly, Centre tells HC||CHENNAI: The Union government has informed the Madras high court that only 25.9% of schools in Tamil Nadu have ‘children with special needs-friendly toilets’ and only 62.9% of schools have been provided with ‘ramps and made barrier-free’. “As per unified district information system for education (UDISE+) (2018-19) 37,183 schools in Tamil Nadu have been provided with ramps. Besides 59,152 schools (all management) schools in the state have children with special needs (CWSN) friendly toilets…,” the department of school education under the Union ministry of education has said. The department’s under secretary, Alok Jawahar, made the submissions in a counter-affidavit he had filed in response to a public interest writ petition seeking adequate infrastructure for the children in schools. As to the relief sought in the PIL to provide safe transportation facilities for children with disabilities, the department said, “The Central RTE Rules provide for appropriate and safe transportation arrangements to enable them to attend school and complete elementary education.” “Under the inclusive education for CWSN component of Samagra Shiksha, for access to and from school and to facilitate retention of CWSN enrolled in general schools, there is a provision of transportation and escort allowances for such children from Class I to XII. For 2020-21, Rs 1498.1 lakh has been estimated for the transportation allowance for 45,002 CWSN and Rs 369.4 lakh has been estimated for escort allowance for 9,996 CWSN for Tamil Nadu,” the affidavit said. This apart, to help visually impaired students, the department said, “Till date 4,24,285 teachers have been trained and oriented to the needs of children with blindness, sign, mental retardation, cerebral palsy, learning disabilities, multiple disabilities and autism.” The report added that the new NEP (National Education Policy) 2020 lays particular emphasis on the development of the creative potential of each individual. “It is based on the principle that education must develop not only cognitive capacities — both the foundational capacities, of literacy and numeracy and higher-order cognitive capacities, such as critical thinking and problem solving — but also social, ethical, and emotional capacities and dispositions that echo teachings of J Krisnamurti (writer and speaker).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/loos-in-a-mere-26-state-schools-disabled-friendly-centre-tells-hc/articleshow/78340567.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Dist admin sounds alert for villages located on river banks||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad district administration has sounded an alert in villages situated on the banks of rivers that flow through the Marathwada region, including Godavari, Dudhna, Sindphana and Purna.  People residing on the banks of these rivers have been urged to contact the authorities concerned and learn all details about the time-to-time release of water from these dams. Rajendra Kale, superintending engineer of the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) that looks after the Jayakwadi and other dams, said that people are expected to be on high alert during the ongoing monsoon phase though the flood situation across the region is under control. He said that the CADA has set up a control room to keep in touch with the villagers as the water level of rivers could rise any time due to the continuous incessant rainfall. Kale said that the upstream dams of Jayakwadi are filled to the brim, eventually causing release of water in to the Jayakwadi dam, thus filling it to its full capacity. According to Kale, Jayakwadi, Yeldari, Majalgaon and Nimn-Dudhana dams are filled to their 100% capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dist-admin-sounds-alert-for-villages-located-on-river-banks/articleshow/78340566.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Coimbatore||2 burglars arrested, 10 sovereigns recovered||Coimbatore: The Sulur police arrested two men who decamped with 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a house at Pattnampudur near Sulur on the night of August 3. The arrested people were identified as A Nagaraj, 23 and B Sivan, 22, both from Erumadu at Pandalur in the Nilgiris. “They broke into the house of Prabhu, took a steel bureau to the entrance of the house and broke it open using boulders to steal 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments,” a police officer said. “The duo had targeted the houses of Karthi and Kannan in the area, but could not succeed after the inmates woke up and raised an alarm.” Police recovered 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments from the burglars. The duo told police that they used to stay at isolated places along the railway track and selected isolated houses for burglary. They are part of a bigger burglary gang, the officer said. “Last month, the city police had detained B Veeramani, 38, of Pandalur in Nilgiris district, a member of the gang. We are on the lookout for four more people. The gang members used to wear briefs and cover their face using clothes while conducting burglary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-burglars-arrested-10-sovereigns-recovered/articleshow/78340570.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Civic body overworked, Covid patients bail out +ve relatives||Nagpur: With everyone in their family testing positive for Covid-19, some patients have been forced to venture out seeking medical aid, get a household chore done or even drive relatives to hospital when their condition started worsening. This week TOI came across a couple of cases where positive asymptomatic patients themselves had to take their family members to hospital or get an emergency work done. This, they said, happened as the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) failed to provide them ambulance or assistance in other issues. In many cases, the patients waited for help from NMC officials who couldn’t make it to their homes. The helpline numbers for ambulance too didn’t work. A banker from Manewada had to drive his wife in his car to a private hospital after she complained of breathlessness. The banker’s one son was negative while three of them in the family were positive. “I had no option but to take her to the hospital. I deposited all the money and returned. The NMC officials called and asked to inform them, if needed. Later, none of the helpline numbers worked when my wife needed help. Our son who tested negative had to stay with us as even the relatives were not willing to keep him,” said the banker. In another case from Friends Colony, a man had to ask his friend to bring an oxygen cylinder to his home as the former’s mother was feeling breathless. “The friend too was unwell. Yet, I sought his help as my mother’s condition was deteriorating,” he said. A woman from Jafar Nagar too posted a message on social media seeking help as her husband, in-laws and kids were positive and they were unable to find beds. Civic officials admitted that they were overworked to reach out to each positive person. It is not possible to provide any assistance other than medical support which too we are finding it difficult, they said. The civic officials said a couple of NGOs are working to help distressed people. In case NMC officials are not reachable, people can call up the NGOs, they said. Dr Sameer Kedar from NGO Help for Good, who is also an intern at GMCH, said he has come across several cases where everyone in family is Covid positive. “Such family is dependent on goodwill of neighbours, friends and relatives. The biggest problem they face is when anyone among them needs hospitalization and there is no one to go out. We have helped several such families in last one month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-body-overworked-covid-patients-bail-out-ve-relatives/articleshow/78341632.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court wants to refer plaint against minister for reprobe||CHENNAI: In a setback to local administration minister S P Velumani, the Madras high court has said it would decide if there is a need to order a fresh preliminary inquiry by an independent agency into the graft complaints filed by Arrapor Iyakkam and the DMK against him, in relation to allotting tenders of Chennai and Coimbatore corporations. “Upon hearing counsel, we would like to get enlightened on an issue of importance, which is the nature of the order that can be passed by this court in the event of the report (preliminary inquiry report) being found not satisfactory,” said a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha. The court has already refused to accept a DVAC report filed after a preliminary inquiry, that concluded that prima facie no case has been made out against the minister. The pleas, heard at length by a bench headed by Justice M Sathaynarayanan, were later posted before the present bench. Citing the NGO’s submission the court had power under article 226 of the Constitution to direct DVAC to register FIR and thereafter, to pass consequential orders for the investigation by an independent agency, the judge said, “We feel that an issue might arise as to a fresh preliminary inquiry to be conducted by a different investigating agency.” “If that is the case, especially when this court finds that the report filed is not satisfactory either on fact or on law, can the very complaint made by the petitioner itself be referred to an independent agency?” the court wondered. In such a case, is that agency required to be arrayed as a party respondent in the proceedings or not, the judges asked. As counsel for the petitioners sought a small accommodation to address these two issues along with the other issues already raised both by the petitioners and the court, the bench adjourned the hearing September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-wants-to-refer-plaint-against-min-for-reprobe/articleshow/78340574.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s 90% recovery rate boosts bed availability||Nashik: The healthy Covid-19 recovery rate of 90% in the city has ensured that there are more Covid available in many hospitals.There are 83 hospitals in the city, including around 73 private ones, which are involved in treating Covid-19 patients. There are more than 4,200 beds reserved for Covid patients in all the 83 hospitals. As on Friday, 1,890 of those beds were vacant.“Of late, there has been an increase in the number of vacant beds in private hospitals in the city by 10-15%. We are hopeful that there would be a further rise in the number of vacant beds, including oxygen and ICU beds, unless there is a sudden spike in cases again,” senior NMC health officials told TOI.Civic officials said the NMC’s centralized Covid bed management cell, which oversees and controls bed distribution for patients, has been getting calls from many private hospitals requesting patients be sent to their facilities as they have vacant beds. However, in some of the top private hospitals, beds, especially ICU and ventilator ones, remain occupied as there is a huge demand to get patients treated in these hospitals.“The NMC has been aggressively carrying out contact tracing, which is more than 30 per positive patient. This has helped in the early identification and treatment of Covid patients and has aided the recovery rate in reaching 90%. On Friday, there were 4,016 active cases,” said the officials.The officials have made it clear that despite the increasing number of vacant beds, the civic body would still go ahead and continue to add more beds, especially oxygen and ICU beds, to stay prepared to deal with a sudden spike in cases.“We are carrying out the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative. There is a likelihood of more positive cases being identified,” added the civic officials.Sameer Chandrate, the president of the Nashik unit of Indian Medical Association, also said that the increasing number of beds are vacant in the city hospitals as the recovery rate is improving. “In the entire state, Nashik city has one of the highest number of private hospitals involved in treating Covid-19 patients. The doctors and nurses have been working overtime, which has helped achieve an impressive recovery rate. Their contribution must not be undermined,” said Chandratre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-90-recovery-rate-boosts-bed-availability/articleshow/78338870.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 27, 2020||Nashik||Grand resort ready to host tourists in wine capital||Nashik: The MTDC’s first state-of-the-art tourist facility, Grape Park Resort, with 40 luxury rooms, near the Gangapur dam on the outskirts of Nashik city, is ready to welcome tourists. Built at a cost of Rs 25 crore, the resort has amenities like kitchen, multi-purpose hall, children’s play area, restaurant, souvenir shop, administrative hall and swimming pool. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to inaugurate the resort on Sunday, September 27. “This is the first such luxurious resort built in the wine capital of the country and it is now ready for tourists,” said Mahesh Bagul, an official of the MTDC. The project was planned by guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal when he was in that post before 2014, but it was sidelined by the erstwhile BJP government. MTDC officials said the proposed boat club is almost ready and trials of boats have been conducted successfully. “We will inaugurate the boat club project soon after the inauguration of the Grape park resort,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/grand-resort-ready-to-host-tourists-in-wine-capital/articleshow/78340573.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Plans on for three-fold rise in testing||PUNE: The state government is all set to scale up Covid-19 testing by three times by the end of this month. State health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI on Saturday that the Centre has directed Maharashtra to increase both testing and tracing of high and low-risk contacts. Maharashtra is currently carrying out at 46,322 tests per million, compared to the country's average of 48,360. “We have been directed by the Prime Minister to increase our testing. And we said we would scale it up three times as we continue to ease restrictions,” Tope said. The Prime Minister had called for a virtual meeting with top officials from seven states with the highest Covid case loads: Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab. These states have accounted for 63% of all cases and 77% of deaths so far. The positivity rate in these states too is much higher than the national average of 8.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plans-on-for-three-fold-rise-in-testing/articleshow/78340572.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 27, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region’s daily Covid caseload soars past 4,000 again, 93 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 4,180 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, its highest in a week, taking the tally above 2.73 lakh. The recoveries in the region stayed at 3,887 on Saturday, pushing its total cured count to 2.24 lakh. Both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations reported more discharges than new cases in the last 24 hours. However, the rural and Cantonment areas together reported less recoveries than new cases, pulling down the total recovery count. As for Covid-related fatalities, 93 more people died in PMR in the last 24 hours took its total toll to 6,220. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits recorded 1,637, while the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas recorded 1,151 and the rural and the Cantonment areas added 1,392 new patients. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 12,578 samples were tested in the region on Saturday. With this, the total number of samples tested in PMR has reached over 11.19 lakh, including 6.06 lakh from the PMC limits. A PMC report said 3,505 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits till Saturday evening. Besides, 932 patients were at critical stage and being treated at various hospitals. Of these, 514 patients were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-daily-caseload-soars-past-4k-again-93-more-dead/articleshow/78340579.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 27, 2020||Goa||Sugarcane growers cancel proposed strike on Tuesday||PONDA: Sugarcane growers in the state have resolved to cancel the strike they had planned to hold on Tuesday following an assurance from the government that the sugar factory will not be shut down. Following a representation made by the farmers, at a meeting held by chief minister Pramod Sawant with sugarcane growers, in the presence of agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, Sawant announced that Goa’s only sugar factory at Dayanand Nagar-Dharbandora, Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana, would not be shut down. Harshad Prabhudesai, vice-president of the Sugarcane Growers Association Goa, said that they are satisfied with the chief minister’s statement that cane growers will continue to be compensated for their standing crop until the factory restarts operations. The 47-year-old factory has been in a dilapidated state and in need of urgent overhauling of vital machines. “Every year, the maintenance work would normally begin immediately after Ganesh Chaturthi. Howerer, since no work had yet commenced to overhaul the machinery, the farmers were confused whether the factory would start or not during the upcoming crushing season, which usually commences by November,” Francis Mascarenhas, a cane grower from Sanguem, told TOI. Disappointed by the government’s procrastination over the future of sugar factory, the sugarcane growers had threatened to stage a sit-in agitation in front of the factory on September 29 if the government failed to take a decision by September 25. It may be recalled that during the last crushing season, government did not run the factory but procured canes from local farmers and sent them to two factories in Karnataka and Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sugarcane-growers-cancel-proposed-strike-on-tuesday/articleshow/78354942.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||ASHAs threaten to stop survey if not provided with safety gear||Kolhapur: Around 40 accredited social health activists (ASHAs) in Kolhapur district have so far contracted Covid-19 infection while carrying out the survey of Covid suspects. The ASHAs have now threatened to stop the survey if the administration fails to provide them with protective gear. Currently, the ASHAs, called the foot-soldiers of the healthcare system, are undertaking a survey under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign launched by the state government. They are assisted by the Anganwadi workers and local health staff. Netradipa Patil, the president of ASHA’s district association, said: “We have threatened to stop the survey work. During the past surveys, around 40 Ashas had contracted the infection. We are the most neglected personnel of the healthcare system. The administration has not provided us protective gear as was assured in the notification of the campaign. We are assigned duties at any time. The pulse oximeters and thermal scanners are of poor quality and the administration still expects us to find the suspected patients. How we are supposed to do that?”. The first phase of the survey is going to end on October 10. Several activists are also doubting the outcome of the survey given that the surveyors are provided with the faulty equipment. Patil said, “We have been asked to refer the suspected patients to the nearby fever clinics. How will we do that if we are not able to identify them? We know the importance of the survey, however, we are not sure about its efficacy and how the data generated is going to be utilised.” The ASHAs claim that they have not provided with gloves, face shields and masks. Also they are not given the stationery items such as stickers, markers for marking the houses of the suspected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ashas-threaten-to-stop-survey-if-not-provided-with-safety-gear/articleshow/78340580.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||25 candidates shortlisted for SUK V-C post||Kolhapur: A three-member panel constituted by governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for selecting a candidate for the vice-chancellor position of Shivaji University, Kolhapur, has short listed 25 applicants. In all, 169 people had applied for the said position. On Saturday, interviews of ten applicants were held through video conferencing mode. The post is vacant since July and the university is expected to get new a V-C in first week of October. A senior university official associated with the developments said, “The panel will select five applicants through these interviews that are lined up till Sunday. The final five contenders will be called by the governor’s office, following which they will be expected to make a short presentation regarding their achievements and vision for the university. The most eligible candidate with a unique vision will then be selected by the governor.” The university has jurisdiction over 296 colleges across Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts. The university has its own campus with 40 post graduation departments. The varsity is now extending its campus in the Maharashtra-Karnataka border areas too. Among those short listed for the V-C post are the eminent professors of various streams from across the state. The search panel is led by eminent scientist R K Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/25-candidates-shortlisted-for-suk-v-c-post/articleshow/78340589.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||MGNREGS: 58 lakh Tamil Nadu families sought jobs in the past 6 months||Chennai: After a lull following the Covid-19 outbreak, the demand-driven employment programme Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), has come as a succour to rural families. The latest data provided by the Tamil Nadu Rural Development Department shows 57.9 lakh households demanded jobs in the past six months. The government has provided jobs to 66.6 lakh people and person days generated under the scheme have shot up to 15.15 crore. The surge was noticed after the resumption of work in May. It was suspended for a month-and-a-half in April and May due to lockdown. Every worker under the 100-day employment guarantee scheme in the state was paid wages of Rs 256 a day since April. “There is also a great demand for new job cards from adults of registered households, as well as from migrant workers from states such as Maharashtra. In all, TN distributed new job cards to 8.4 lakh workers since the lockdown was announced in March,” said a senior government official. Much of the migrant workforce from districts such as Chengalpet, Tiruvannamalai and Kallakurichi, have returned from Chennai. Similarly, 1.8 lakh job seekers from registered households in Dharmapuri have received new cards, followed by Madurai (35,009), Thanjavur (34,416), and Pudukottai (32,291). Rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated in the Parliament that every adult in a household in the rural areas with a job card is eligible for a job under the scheme. There is no provision to register a job card holder categorized as migrant worker/family under the scheme. “Given the water deficiency in the state, the department has been focusing on construction of soak pit, water absorption trench cutting and desilting of water bodies, besides tree plantation,” the official said. In order to meet additional demand for work due to return of workers from urban areas to rural areas, the Centre has made an additional provision of Rs 40,000 crore under MGNREGS under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, from the budgeted estimate of Rs 61,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mgnregs-58l-tn-families-sought-jobs-in-the-past-6-months/articleshow/78340616.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 27, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Dungarpur still tense, CM appeals for peace||UDAIPUR: Violence erupted again at Kherwada and Dungarpur on Saturday evening when tribal youths rained stones at cops and torched two-wheelers in different areas. Police fired rubber bullets to disperse the mob. Sources said two people were reportedly killed in the violence, though there was no official confirmation. Tension continued unabated in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts for the third day as hundreds of tribal youths remained unmoved on the appeals of the authorities and political leaders. The protesters are demanding that 1,167 vacant general quota teacher seats be filled from the ST category. CM Ashok Gehlot has appealed to the protesting students to maintain law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dungarpur-still-tense-cm-appeals-for-peace/articleshow/78342831.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dungarpur still tense, CM appeals for peace||UDAIPUR: Violence erupted again at Kherwada and Dungarpur on Saturday evening when tribal youths rained stones at cops and torched two-wheelers in different areas. Police fired rubber bullets to disperse the mob. Sources said two people were reportedly killed in the violence, though there was no official confirmation. Tension continued unabated in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts for the third day as hundreds of tribal youths remained unmoved on the appeals of the authorities and political leaders. The protesters are demanding that 1,167 vacant general quota teacher seats be filled from the ST category. CM Ashok Gehlot has appealed to the protesting students to maintain law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dungarpur-still-tense-cm-appeals-for-peace/articleshow/78341599.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘Virtual Diwali’ with 3D tech in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: While Ayodhya was catapulted to the Guinness book after 5lakh diyas were lit on the Saryu banks last year, the pandemic shadow has forced the district administration this year to plan a ‘virtual deepotsav’, riding on 3D technology to keep afloat the grand tradition launched by the chief minister in 2017. However, Dussehra festivities in October may be a dampener with the administration denying permission to restart Ram Lilas in the open, despite fresh guidelines allowing 100 people to congregate for religious functions. On Diwali night, while select volunteers would physically light diyas on Saryu banks in strict adherence to Covid protocols, a mammoth 3D virtual platform will be created for every citizen to illuminate the banks by a simple swipe on their mobiles from the comfort of their homes. Speaking to TOI, director, Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, Y P Singh, said, “A link will be sent to mobile phones of every resident, who can click on an icon and a diya will be lit virtually. A certificate from the government will immediately flash on their mobiles.” However, ambitious plans to rope in celebs and cine stars for the Ayodhya Deepotsav ceremony have been currently put on hold, he said. "We will motivate managements of over 200 temples to light diyas on their campus and atop roofs. And 3,000 security personnel deployed at Ramjanmabhoomi will be asked to light diyas in the premises,” he said. UP minister for tourism and culture, Nilkanth Tiwari, issued detailed instructions to the district administration on Deepotsav celebrations during his visit to Ayodhya late Friday. During a review meeting, he said, “A new record of lighting diyas would be created and the tradition begun by the chief minister will continue while following Covid norms.” A virtual platform would be developed from Saryu banks to Ram Katha Park and only volunteers will be allowed to light lamps. “While crowds will be prohibited on the banks, residents can connect virtually by lighting diyas from their homes,” he said. The fine print on ‘virtual deepotsav’ will be out soon, he said. However, the non-stop Ram Lila in the Ayodhya museum premises will remain suspended, said, officials of Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, a government department that has been organising the performance since May 3, 2017. Talking to TOI, Ram Teerath, manager, Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, said, “At least 300 Ramlila artists are facing difficulty since the Covid-19 pandemic and are jobless since March 21, when the performance was grounded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virtual-diwali-with-3d-tech-in-ayodhya/articleshow/78341600.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 46% excess rainfall this year, highest since 2011||HYDERABAD: With nearly 108 cm rainfall received so far this monsoon, 2020 will go down as the wettest year in the decade for Telangana, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad. The state has received 46% excess rainfall this year from June 1 till date, highest since 2011. After a timely onset and relatively weak start in June, the monsoon activity picked up pace in August as heavy rainfall lashed the state. In a span of 10 days, between August 10 and August 20, the southwest monsoon dumped 270.4 mm of rain as against the normal of 77.2 mm, resulting in reservoirs brimming over, submerging large tracts of agricultural land. So far, Telangana has received 1082.5 mm (approximately 108 cm) rainfall as against normal of 742.1 mm from June 1 till date, a level not witnessed since 2011 when the state received 13% lesser rain than usual for the monsoon. Barring Nirmal, all districts have received excess rainfall between two and 134% this year. Meteorologists have attributed the heavy rainfall activity to higher number of weather systems developed over Telangana this year.  “We witnessed an increase in the number of low pressure systems over Telangana. There was a low pressure area in June and July each. In August, there were five low pressure systems. Of the five developed in August, two triggered massive rainfall. Conditions from Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea were also very favourable for such intense rains,” IMD, Hyderabad, meteorologist Raja Rao said. Experts said the above normal to excess rainfall this monsoon season can, to a good extent, be attributed to La Nina-like conditions, which has been observed in the tropical Pacific since mid-May. The condition and relevant impacts in general are opposite to the El Nino effect, which spike temperatures and cause drought. “The warmer than normal conditions in the western pacific during La Nina also often result in circulation changes favorable to stronger monsoonal rainfall over many regions of India. La Nina can also facilitate atmospheric circulation changes over the Bay of Bengal favorable for more convection and formation of monsoon lies and depressions,” Prof Ashok Karumuri, Centre for Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Hyderabad, said. Westerly movement of the low pressure areas led to massive rainfall in Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. “Number of systems developed over the Bay of Bengal moved westwards and hence states such as Telangana were among the most affected this monsoon. It was the atmospheric instability of the monsoon flow that led to rain producing systems,” Dr R Radhakrishnan, scientist, head of climate change center, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/46-excess-rainfall-this-year-highest-since-2011/articleshow/78340602.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Incessant rains throw life out of gear, link to villages snapped||Hyderabad: Heavy rains lashed several parts of Telangana on Saturday, resulting in rivulets and streams overflowing and road network cut off to several villages. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar put district collectors on high alert. The collectors asked tahsildars and official machinery to be available all the time to handle any emergency to prevent loss of life. All leaves have been cancelled and officials have been asked to be available on Sunday. A pregnant woman was carried by locals on a stretcher through an overflowing stream in Chincholi in Tandur of Rangareddy district. Wading through the stream, the locals carried her to a 108 ambulance which was waiting on the other side to take her to the hospital. Following accumulation of water on Ramayampalli railway bridge in Medak, vehicles were stranded and the traffic jam spilled over to 2 km. In Siddipet district, a motorist who was stranded in an overflowing rivulet was rescued by locals. Locals brought him to safety. With Kudavalli stream in spate, vehicular movement was affected on the roads leaving to the bridge between Mirdoddi and Lingampalli. Traffic between Mirdoddi and Gajwel was also hit. A 60-year-old man who was trying to cross a rivulet also got washed away. Locals rescued six lorry drivers as they got stuck in the Manjira river in Kamareddy. Road link to 10 villages was cut off because of the overflowing Peddavagu in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. In Mahabubnagar, several areas, including Ramaiah Bowli and BK Reddy Colony, were inundated. Road network between Mahabubnagar–Nawabpet and Raichur, Kothakota and Atmakur and Gadwal and Raichur was cut off with water overflowing at several places. In Dhanwada mandal, a house collapsed, but there were no casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incessant-rains-throw-life-out-of-gear-link-to-villages-snapped/articleshow/78340621.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||546 cases take Kolhapur’s Covid-19 count to 42,983||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered as many as 546 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, inlcuding 114 from the city, taking the total number of patients to 42,983. Of these, 9,732 are currently active. The district also reported 10 Covid-related casualties on Saturday, including one from the city. With this, the death toll of the district swelled to 1,363. The number of per day deaths in the district have dropped drastically for the first time in several months. The number of patients getting discharged on a daily basis are also increasing, sparking a ray of hope among the authorities. On Saturday, 416 patients were discharged from various Covid care facilities in the district. Currently, the number of active cases in the district have dropped to 9,732. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has lauded the idea of Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai to start ‘No Mask No Entry’ and ‘No Mask No Goods’ campaigns at private offices and commercial establishments. Through video conferencing mode, Thackeray said that the campaign can be replicated in other parts of the state where coronavirus cases. These campaigns can also be included in the state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign, he added. Meanwhile, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has asked the health authorities to ensure that they are tracing maximum contacts of Covid patients in containment zones of the city. The total number of cases in the city has reached 13,156, of which, 320 have succumbed to the contagion. Sangli reports 615 cases 26 deaths Sangli district registered a surge in coronavirus cases with 615 cases and 26 deaths on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 33,447, of which, 8,267 are currently undergoing treatment at various Covid care facilities. A total of 23,921 people have been discharged after sucessful recovery while 1,259 have succumbed to infection so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/546-cases-take-kolhapurs-covid-19-count-to-42983/articleshow/78340619.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: TOI fetes pharmacists for contribution in Covid fight||LUCKNOW: In a rare and unique celebration, The Times of India and the Nav Bharat Times organised a special felicitation ceremony in the city on September 25 to acknowledge the relentless efforts by pharmacists to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic. September 25 is observed as World Pharmacists Day. Minister for medical education, finance and parliamentary affairs Suresh Kumar Khanna was the chief guest of the event ‘Pharmacist Care - Expressing Gratitude to Pharmacist Community’, at Fortune Park Hotel on Friday. The event was streamed live on social media. The event started with a comprehensive panel discussion chaired by Medical Director at Medanta Hospital Dr Rakesh Kapoor, Alok Kumar Jain from Drug Licensing & Controlling Authority (UP) and general secretary of Dawa Vikreta Welfare Samiti, Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) Davinder Pal Singh. The three panellists along with 23 pharmacists were felicitated and were presented with a ‘tulsi’ plant and memento. The discussion focused on the benefits of generic medicines, high pricing of certain medical products being sold at a cheaper rate and the need for better quality control measures and infrastructure in Indian pharmaceutical sector. Cabinet minister Suresh Kumar Khanna thanked The Times of India for organising the event and stressed on making healthcare affordable for common man. He said the government has increased healthcare infrastructure to fight the pandemic. He said people should follow all safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toi-fetes-pharmacists-for-contribution-in-covid-fight/articleshow/78341639.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Panel for Shahu Maharaj memorial reconstituted||Kolhapur: The planned memorial for Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj at the abandoned Shahu Mill complex in Kolhapur city just got a boost with the state government reconstituting the committee. District guardian minister Satej Patil, who will head the 17-member committee, said, “Once the Covid pandemic ends, we will speed up the paper work and finalise the plan for the memorial. Then the actual construction work will start.” The minister said the meetings of the panel will start soon, mainly through online mode, and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be kept updated about the developments. The panel, formed five years ago, was not re-constituted with a defined role. As per the order issued by general administration department (GAD), the committee should draft the plan with estimates and submit it through the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation in six months. The demand to set up a memorial was made after the Congress-NCP government announced setting up of a memorial for Babasaheb Ambedkar at the Indu Mill site in Mumbai. Then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan had made the announcement on the Shahu memorial in the legislative session in December 2012. As per the GAD order, the urban development department should ensure 26 acre of land is handed over to the KMC. It is under the control of the state textile corporation. According to sources, the corporation had estimated the cost of the land at around Rs 68 crore, but it has to be worked out afresh. The tenure for the panel is fixed for one year and it will have to get primary things done before the tenure ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panel-for-shahu-maharaj-memorial-reconstituted/articleshow/78340635.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Victims, convicts have no say in early release: Madras high court||CHENNAI: When authorities consider case of convicts for premature release/remission, victims of the crime have no right of personal hearing, the Madras high court has held. “Authorities concerned do not conduct a hearing for convicts as they do not have a right of being personally heard in matters of remission. There is, therefore, no justification for the appellants to claim personal hearing when the convicts themselves are evenly placed in the matter,” said the first bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. The judges passed the order on a petition filed by a victim, whose son and brother were killed by a gang in a gruesome manner in broad day light in Puducherry in 2004. Five men were convicted for the double murder and sentenced to imprisonment for life. Petitioner Dhanasekari and two others apprehended that the convicts — Venkatesh, Sathish, Narayanan, Madhan, and Jai Shankar — serving life imprisonment, would kill the entire family if released early on remission. Dismissing the appeal, the bench, however, considered the apprehension of the petitioners and said the authority concerned should take into consideration all relevant material, including the objections raised by the appellants, before deciding on the remission. According to the prosecution, the murder was the result of a gang war in which both sides lost several lives. The five convicts moved an application under a government scheme for early release/remission. When the committee concerned took the applications for consideration, the petitioners filed an objection that the remission should not be decided without giving them an opportunity of personal hearing. On January 2, 2019, a single judge of the court dismissed the original petition moved by the petitioners. Challenging the dismissal, the petitioners have moved the present appeal. Rejecting the appeals, the first bench said, “The scales of opportunity to be offered to the convict and the victim have to be evenly balanced. Remission is a discretion to be exercised as per some settled parameters and not as a routine exercise. The convict has only an opportunity for consideration for premature release as it touches upon the concept of liberty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/victims-convicts-have-no-say-in-early-release-hc/articleshow/78340667.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp’s admin bldg shut after 9 test +ve||Nashik: The administrative building of Nashik civil hospital has been closed to carry out fumigation and sanitisation works after nine staffers in the administration department, mainly officers and clerks, tested positive for Covid-19 between Wednesday and Friday. The building will remain closed till Monday. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said additional staff members have been roped in from other departments so that the administrative work does not get hampered. Meanwhile, swabs of various doctors, nurses and staff, including very senior officers of the hospital, are being tested for the viral infection. Approximately, 50 people work in the hospital’s administrative building. Senior officials said that so far, 29 employees, including doctors, nurses, ward boys and medical and non-medical staffers, have tested positive for Covid-19. The officials added that they were continuously encouraging the staff to provide the best treatment to the patients arriving at the hospital and, at the same time, advising them to take all the precautionary measures to avoid the infection  -Santosh Sonawane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosps-admin-bldg-shut-after-9-test-ve/articleshow/78338929.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 27, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal promises 30 oxygen beds for rural areas of Nashik||Nashik: During a video conference with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said 30 oxygen beds would be made available in the rural areas so that patients with low oxygen levels could be provided better treatment locally. Bhujbal further pointed out that the health agencies in Nashik city were under tremendous pressure as they were not only treating patients from across the district but from all five districts in Nashik division. “It may be noted that the number of active patients in Nashik district has come down by almost 3,000 and the death rate of 1.6%is the lowest in the state,” said Bhujbal.The guardian minister also said the Nashik district administration was tracing upto 30 contacts of every new Covid-19 patients. This, he said, had helped the administration contain the infection spread. Bhujbal also pointed out that the concept of Adarsh Covid care centre (CCC) was being implemented in Nashik city at Thakker’s Dome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-promises-30-oxygen-beds-for-rural-areas-of-nashik/articleshow/78338913.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||BMC water continues to give filter cos run for their money||MUMBAI: The BMC water supply department has continued to maintain the quality of drinking water in the city, one of the largest metropolises in the country. The city now boasts of high quality of potable water that allows one to drink straight from the tap — as long as residents ensure the overhead and underground tanks, internal pipelines in housing societies, and drums and barrels in slums are clean. The 2020 Environment Survey Report shows an overall decline in the percentage of contaminated water samples from each ward. “The overall average for contaminated samples for the city is 0.7%, which is far lower than the 5% limit prescribed by the World Health Organisation,” Ajay Rathore, hydraulic engineer, said. Rathore said the turnaround began in 2016-17 and the BMC was able to maintain the high quality of water by consistent testing of samples at the Bhandup water complex, Panjarapole, Tulsi and Vihar, and at the 27 water reservoirs and the 350 fixed points. “At the major reservoirs, water is tested every hour. At the ward-level reservoirs, we test for chlorine levels and add more if it is found to be less so that quality of water is maintained at it flows through the pipelines,” he said. Last year the BMC replaced 42km of pipeline and 15,000 service connections. At 130 slum locations, it replaced bunches of thin pipes with a single pipeline of adequate length and depth and ensured a water connection to every household. The city now has 17 water tunnels, which ensure there is no tampering of pipelines, no leakages and no pilferage. Work on another three is underway and a feasibility study is being carried out for a Thane-Mulund tunnel. Rathore said the department gives top priority to complaints of contamination. “The water supply to the area is stopped and tankers are pressed into service. In the meantime, the hydrant is flushed, checks are carried out for leakages, and water is first tested for any contamination before the supply is restored,” he said. Marginal dip in air pollution in 2019-20, reveals annual report The city saw a marginal dip in pollution levels in 2019-20 compared to the year before that, though the levels were above the permissible limits. The BMC Environment Status Report 2019-20 said the annual average concentration of the hazardous PM 2.5 (less than 2.5 microns) and PM 10 was 54 micrograms per cubic metre and 93 mg/m3, respectively. The BMC report each year collates the annual average levels for pollutants from monitoring stations run by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research and itself. The most critical of all air pollutants, particulate matter, a mix of solid and liquid particles that include dust, sand, smoke, lead, nickel and arsenic, gets lodged in lung tissues and causes respiratory problems. The annual report revealed that the annual average PM 10 (particulate matter under 10 microns) levels for all the nine locations monitored were above than the Central Pollution Control Board’s permissible limit of 60 µg/ m3 (micrograms per cubic metre).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-water-continues-to-give-filter-cos-run-for-their-money/articleshow/78347288.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Engage at grassroots level: Tagore to cadre||Hyderabad: The newly appointed AICC general secretary in-charge in Telangana, Manickam Tagore, said on Saturday that the only mantra for the party to come to power in the state in 2023 is to “connect with the people”. Addressing the core committee meeting on his first visit as the AICC general secretary, Tagore said that party leaders and cadre need to constantly stay in touch with people through awareness programmed at the grassroot level. To achieve the target of 2023 Assembly election, Tagore said, “teamwork, discipline and unity” among juniors, seniors and veterans at all levels is important. Taking a dig at chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Tagore said that that the CM is choosing his words carefully while speaking about the three farm bills passed by the BJP government at the Centre. “No matter what, Congress will stand by the farmers and fight for their cause,” he said. The core committee also discussed ensuing elections to GHMC and Nizamabad constituencies and by-polls to two graduates’ MLC seats. Party seniors V Hanumanth Rao, Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Bhatti Vikramarka and TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy briefed Tagore on various issues concerning people and failures of ruling TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engage-at-grassroots-level-tagore-to-cadre/articleshow/78340705.cms||Roushan Ali
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Malshiras tehsil emerges new hotspot in Solapur||Kolhapur: Malshiras tehsil has emerged as the new hotspot in Solapur district after a sharp increase in the number of patients and deaths. The tehsil recorded 63 new patients on Friday, which was the highest in Solapur rural. Malshiras tehsil had around 1,346 positive cases on August 31 but it now has 3,811 patients. Almost all the patients in the tehsil are from rural parts. Malshiras tehsil has recorded 73 deaths so far. Pandharur tehsil, however, continues to report the highest number of patients (4,593), followed by Barshi (4,326). Akkalkot tehsil, which had the highest patients initially, currently has 1,011 patients. Barshi has the highest number of deaths (154), while Pandharpur has recorded 112 deaths. On Saturday, Solapur rural recorded 316 new cases, including 192 men and 124 women. The rural parts now have 6,070 active cases. It also recorded 12 deaths, which included two women. Solapur rural has reported 23,561 positive cases so far, which included 14,526 men and 9,035 women. The rural area has seen 645 deaths. Officials said 707 patients were discharged on Saturday. As many 16,846 patients have been discharged so far. Solapur city on Saturday recorded 66 new patients, including 35 men and 31woemn. Officials said that 71 patients were discharged. They included 57 men and 14 women. Eighty-one-year old woman from SouthKasba succumbed to COVID. Solapur city has now 8,251 positive patients, which included 4840 men and 4311 women. The city has recorded 467 deaths, including 314 men and153 women. The number of active patients is 970. As many as 528 men 442 women are being treated currently. Officials said that 6,814 patients have been discharged. They are 3,998 men and 2,816 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/malshiras-tehsil-emerges-new-hotspot-in-solapur/articleshow/78340664.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Waterlogging on SCB roads irks residents||Secunderabad: Life in various colonies of Secunderabad Cantonment was thrown out of gear due to incessant rains in the last two days. Residents of Harshavardhan Colony, Ramreddy Colony and Srinivasa Colony in New Bowenpally were forced to stay indoors with roads inundated on Saturday. The situation was no different in 50 other residential colonies.  “The SCB officials have not to taken steps to repair decades old sewer networks. We have been facing inundation of lanes and bylanes for more than two decades. Our representations to set it right have fallen on their deaf ears,” Shankar Reddy, a resident of Harshvardhan Colony, told STOI. Radhika, a former bank employee of Srinivasa Colony, said: “We pay property tax and water bills promptly, but the Cantonment Board does not spend any money on providing even basic amenities for the residents.” The main road at Bapuji Nagar in Bowenpally, which is used by nearly 50,000 commuters every day, is under 2ft rainwater. “Special teams are monitoring the waterlogging points in Cantonment,” SCB (SWM) senior superintendent M Devender said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waterlogging-on-scb-roads-irks-residents/articleshow/78340666.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Houses inundated after Saroornagar lake breaches||HYDERABAD: Lanes of Kodandaram Nagar in LB Nagar, which received highest rainfall of 133 mm till Saturday morning, turned into rivers after the Saroornagar lake breached. Heavy rains that lashed the city for two consecutive days forced people to stay indoors as many houses were inundated with knee-deep water. Bouts of heavy rainfall, which started during wee hours of Friday, left several parts of Gaddianaram division of LB Nagar inundated. Two-wheelers were seen floating on the roads and many four-wheelers were submerged in rainwater. “After the Saroornagar lake bund was breached, all the excess water started gushing into our houses. In knee-deep water, even cooking was difficult. With children in the house, we were even scared of having water snakes and contracting other diseases,” said Jayashree Kondeti, a resident of Kodandaram Nagar. Adding to their woes, power supply was also snapped around 7 am and was not restored until evening. Situation was much the same at Sisal Basthi of Gaddianaram division of LB Nagar where residents were seen using ropes to help their neighbours cross the road. At Sisal Basthi, the water level was much higher as cars were seen 80 per cent submerged under water. At Reddy Colony in Hasthinapuram division in LB Nagar, people were seen struggling on water-logged roads. Commuters driving through Vanasthalipuram, Sagar Ring road, Tapovan Colony and Hayathnagar also had a tough time due to water-logged roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/houses-inundated-after-saroornagar-lake-breaches/articleshow/78340647.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Man dupes buyer on OLX of Rs 2 lakh, held||CHENNAI: A 22-year-old man was arrested for duping a buyer of Rs 2 lakh, promising a discount upon bulk purchase of mobile phones via an online portal. The victim, 25-year-old S Vignesh of Perambur, who runs a laptop servicing centre, wanted to buy a used mobile phone and got in touch with Aravind, of Chromepet, through OLX on September 19. Aravind told Vignesh that he will sell him 10 new phones for Rs 1.95 lakh and persuaded him to go for the deal since he could profit reselling the phones. Vignesh deposited the sum to Aravind’s bank account. Vignesh realised he was duped after the latter stopped responding properly and lodged a complaint at the Kondugaiyur police station. A case was registered and after investigation, Aravind was arrested and remanded in prison. A cell phone was seized from the offender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-dupes-buyer-on-olx-of-rs-2l-held/articleshow/78340700.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||19 years on, man hacks away father’s murderer||NAGPUR: Kishore Binekar alias Balya, an alleged gambling kingpin from Lalgunj Khairipura, was stabbed and hacked to death with sharp weapons and axe in full public view at Bole petrol pump Square on Saturday evening. Unconfirmed sources stated that Balya was also shot from close range but no empty case was found from the spot. It is learnt, the murder is fallout of a revenge by a man whose father was hacked to death by Balya, his father and his family in 2001. Sources close to Balya’s family also claimed that the assailants fled with cash at least Rs five lakh, substantial gold and some other material. It’s also learnt Balya used to keep some weapon which was not found later in the car. CCTV footage of the murder showed the assailants entering the car and spending some time inside the vehicle after the murder. Sitabuldi police have registered an offence of murder. Crime branch has rounded up one Aseem Lurerkar from Khamla shortly after the murder. The cops are now trying to zero in on Chetan Hazare, named in the notorious jail break incident in which five inmates had escaped, for allegedly planning the murder. Hazare was a minor when Balya had stabbed his father Sunil to death 19 years ago. Cops stated that Hazare too was spotted in the CCTV footage as the man wearing a helmet and smashing the car’s driver side window with an axe. Hazare has several offences including two attempts to murder against him. Hazare had vowed to eliminate Balya who had an altercation with him in the past. The other suspects include Ushar Barse, who is seen firing a shot and later entering the car too along with others, chain-snatcher Bharat Pandit, seen on a bullet in front of the car, along with Rajat Tambe. The CCTV footage, which went viral on social media, showed five assailants hacking Balya to death in a manner straight out of a Bollywood potboiler. A bullet rider (believed to be Pandit) had parked his bike in front as Balya’s car stopped at the Bole Petrol pump signal. As he kept turning back, the other assailants approached Balya’s car and attacked him. It’s learnt, Balya had left his residence at Dharampeth and was heading towards Ravi Nagar from where he used to come to his gambling den at Lalgunj Khairipura. Balya had a ‘Robinhood’ image at Lalgunj Khairipura. His den was located near a railway line and during raids the gamblers would make cops run behind them on the tracks, creating chances of getting run over by a train. Despite having at least 14 offences against him, including a double murder as a juvenile and then again in 2006 (Sanjay Falke), Balya was known for donating to economically weaker families of Lalgunj Khairipura. It’s learnt, Hazare and his gang had thrashed a friend of Balya over a monetary dispute in the past. Hazare and his gang were partners in a gambling den of Balu Taklya who also claimed to be close to a top cop. Balya was also a staunch rival of his own brother Rajesh and cousins Golu and Dheeraj who have been rounded up by crime branch. Golu and Dhiraj had assaulted Balya’s friend last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-years-on-man-hacks-away-fathers-murderer/articleshow/78341663.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Every pandemic has led into increase in suicides: Expert||Nagpur: Vidarbha is going through the worst phase of Covid-19 pandemic and the region is riding a peak in number of cases. Generally, there are reports about people affected, treated and lost due to pandemic. “But its impact is not restricted to physical affliction only. The psychological and social manifestations are immeasurable. Rising trends of suicides can certainly be taken as indicators of the impact,” said Dr Anagha Sinha, consultant psychiatrist from city. “Suicide is the last rung on the ladder. To decrease suicidal behaviour, it is imperative that we decrease stress-related disorders in a crisis situation like the Covid pandemic,” she said. According to Dr Sinha, history suggests that a pandemic hits every few decades and leads to stress, anxiety and depression. “We are the latest generation to have witnessed a pandemic. The statistics are scary. These factors leading to stress, anxiety and depression – the precursors to suicide,” she said. According to her, uncertainty about the future, economic decline, fear of acquiring the disease, fear of losing our near and dear ones are some of the reasons of suicides in pandemic. “The overall vulnerability and stress increases in a pandemic but not all of us our affected to an equal degree. Individuals predisposed to mental illness, illicit substance users, front line workers are at greatest risk. Changing social attitudes around us, the stigma and misconceptions about the disease and the ostracization that comes with it can be an added burden,” she said. Studies on mental illness reveal that family and close proximity to people, such as that seen in the Indian subcontinent, is a significant factor in the mental well-being of people. “We, as people, are culturally conditioned to share the burden of any crises. But in today’s scenario of social isolation this support system has suddenly been taken away from us. Coping with this new normal can be a daunting task for many,” she said. People often complain of loneliness which is a major factor in suicidal tendencies. Dr Sinha further said, “The lack of outdoor and engaging activities which contribute to eustress or good stress such as getting dressed, driving to work, and going to school are missing for many. A set routine with which our bodies and minds were in tune since childhood are no longer there. The constant hammering from the social media painting a dismal picture can act as a catalyst to anxiety, depression and eventually suicide.” Then what can we do in this scenario? “First and foremost, do not be overwhelmed. Seeking out the positives and taking one day at a time will prove to be a good start. Aim at staying connected despite physical isolation,” said Dr Sinha. “While keeping yourself updated, it’s important to focus on authentic sources of information and cutting down on disturbing pieces of news. Make good use of the helplines and telemedicine which have brought doctors to your doorstep. Try to divert your mind from futile thoughts and worries,” she said adding that ‘I will worry about it when it actually happens’ can be the best attitude. “Lastly, keep a vigilant eye for the warning signs of physical and mental illness in oneself and others, and seek timely help,” said Dr Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/every-pandemic-has-led-into-increase-in-suicides-expert/articleshow/78348965.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||Sip of health: CIMAP’s herbal tea to beat ageing, disorders||Lucknow: After a research of almost a decade, the CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) has developed a herbal anti-ageing tea that keeps brain nerves calm and reduces intensity of age-related neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease. A team of 20 scientists and students, led by senior principal scientist Rakesh Pandey, has come up with herbal tea, ‘CIM- Evergreen’, which helps one stay healthy with growing age. The herbal tea was launched during the 79th CSIR foundation day celebrations held at the institute on Saturday. “The formulation strengthens the functioning of the brain, it is anti-ageing and anti-inflammatory and boosts cognitive activities. There is no other tea in the market which has all these benefits in a single pack. The technology of the herbal tea will soon be transferred so that it can benefit general public,” said Rakesh Pandey. “The herbal tea has been successful in animal model test, where it was tested on mice for 28 days. With zero side effects, just a cup of this tea offers several health benefits,” he added. During the programme, CIMAP’s director Prabodh K Trivedi felicitated 11 employees who have served the institute for last 25 years. The e-annual report of the institute for the year 2019-20 and January-June 2020 edition of the the institute’s ‘Journal of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants’ (JMAPs) was also released. The institute also transferred the technology of its three herbal products – hand sanitizer ‘Hankool Plus’, floor cleaner ‘Clean Gem’ and herbal mosquito repellent spray ‘Mospray’ – to a private company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sip-of-health-cimaps-herbal-tea-to-beat-ageing-disorders/articleshow/78341651.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Man washed away in canal||Hyderabad: Days after 12-year-old Sumedha and 45-year-old Naveen Kumar were washed away, another tragedy struck on Saturday when a 45-year-old man was swept away in a canal at Kondurg in Cyberabad police limits. K Jahangir (45), who runs a chicken outlet, was attempting to cross a canal amid heavy rainfall when he fell in the waters. Police launched a search operation for Jahangir. “The small canal was overflowing because of heavy rains. He was seen holding two bags while crossing the canal. He lost his balance and was swept away,” said ACP, Shadnagar, V Surendar. The incident occurred at around 12.30 pm. According to the ACP Shadnagar, V Surendar, passers-by on the other side asked Jahangir not to cross the canal, but he ignored their warnings. “We have formed 10 teams to search for him. Expert swimmers have also been deployed. So far, we haven’t found him. The search operation is on,” said Surendar. Police are yet to register a case. Jahangir hails from Vishwanadhapur village in Kondurg mandal of Rangareddy district. Naveen was swept away into Saroornagar lake on September 20 evening. Prior to this, Sumedha died after falling into an open drain in Neredmet. Her body was recovered from Banda Cheruvu two km away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-washed-away-in-canal/articleshow/78340702.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara adds 622 cases, 28 casualties||KOLHAPUR: Satara district registered 622 fresh Covid-19 cases along with 28 deaths since late night on Friday. Of the recent casualties, as many as 16 were reported from Karad taluka while five were identified from Satara taluka. Meanwhile, Karad taluka reported 103 fresh coronavirus cases, including 21 from the town. In addition, Umbraj and Masur identified nine and six cases respectively. Satara taluka, on the other hand, reported 195 new cases. Nagthane recorded 22 cases. Phaltan taluka identified 69 new patients, including 36 from the town. Also, 12 Covid-19 cases were traced out in Khandala taluka. As many as 42 new cases have been detected in Khatev taluka with 10 of them being reported from Waduj. Visapur and Mhaswad reported seven and six cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-adds-622-cases-28-casualties/articleshow/78340692.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Eight rescued Chennai fishermen to return from Myanmar||CHENNAI: The eight fishermen from the city, who were rescued by Myanmar coast guard personnel after getting stranded mid sea for 55 days, are likely to return on Monday. Steps are being taken by the Centre and the state government to bring them back. The fishermen were in a port town called Sittwe and were flown out to Yangon on Saturday. South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association President K Bharathi said the government is taking steps to bring them back by flight from Yangon to Delhi, and from there to Chennai. “We are trying to bring them to Chennai the same day they reach Delhi. Steps were being taken to bring them by sea route along with the boat with the help of the Coast Guard. That would have been ideal. But plans have changed now,” he added. He added that the men are in good health and happy, waiting to return. “The boat will have to remain there and it may take time and effort to bring it back.” They were among the nine fishermen who set out on a boat on July 23, went missing for 55 days till they were rescued by Myanmar CG after they spotted them drifting close to the nation’s shore. One of the fishermen had gone missing in Myanmar when he jumped into the water at the harbour to rescue a fisherman who was repairing a boat called for help. He had gone to the harbour from the custody of Indian Embassy officials and spotted some fishermen calling for help when a rope got entangled in the engine of a boat during repairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/8-rescued-fishermen-to-return-from-myanmar/articleshow/78340704.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Agra||Massive explosion in 'illegal' firecracker factory destroys two-storey house, leaves 1 dead, 6 hurt||Agra: Residents in Surirkala village woke up to a massive explosion in the dead of the night only to find a two-storey house — where an “illegal” firecrackers factory was being run — in their neighbourhood destroyed completely. The massive blast left one person dead and six injured. Not only a man but also four monkeys sitting on the terrace of the house were killed in the explosion.The explosion took place in a stockpile of firecrackers at one Jogendra’s house around 1 am on Saturday when everyone was sleeping. Jogendra died on the spot, while his wife Shivani (22) was referred to Agra’s SN Medical College with critical injuries. Other injured include Jogendra’s sister Savita (18), mother Indravati (55), neighbours — Suneel Kumar (40), Mahendra (48) and his son Deepanshu (13). Mathura chief fire officer Pramod Sharma, who is investigating the case, told TOI, “Firecrackers being manufactured and stored at the house illegally were destroyed in the blast. A few adjoining houses in a radius of 60 metre were damaged, too, due to the impact of the explosion.”“Two houses were completely damaged,” said the CFO, adding: “We are investigating the cause of the blast, but it seems a short circuit in the room where the crackers and other explosives were illegally stored caught fire and exploded.” Police, meanwhile, seized 15.2 kg explosive and sent it for testing at a forensic lab in Lucknow and registered an FIR against eight people under relevant sections of the Explosive Substances Act for illegal storage of firecrackers on the premises. “The family was running the illegal business since 2017. Earlier, they had a licence for manufacturing and selling firecrackers,” said the CFO.“We were sleeping when the blast rocked the neighbourhood,” said Soniya Devi, who lives in an adjacent house. “We immediately came out of our house and what we saw was devastation. The high-intensity blast left nearby houses damaged badly and cracks in the ceiling of my house.”ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/massive-explosion-in-illegal-firecracker-factory-destroys-two-storey-house-leaves-1-dead-6-hurt/articleshow/78338943.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents rue 8 to 12 hours of power outages||Hyderabad: Power disruptions of 8 to 12 hours plunged many areas across Hyderabad into darkness until Saturday evening, after heavy rains led to tripped feeders and fallen tree branches on power lines. According to the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited, areas such as Mettuguda, Upperpally, Peddamberpet, Tolichowli, Pragathi Nagar were worst hit. At many places, incessant rains led to fallen branches on wires and feeders resulting in power outages. “Power supply in our area was snapped during midnight. Initially we were informed that the supply will be restored by 2.30 pm but it was not restored till late evening causing inconvenience to all residents,” said Shaik Khalid, resident of Rajendra Nagar.  “I work in an IT firm and my wife is a teacher at a private school. Due to power cut in our area, our work was affected,” said Vinay Kumar, a resident of Pragathi Nagar. Problems of low voltage and voltage fluctuations were also reported in areas such as Kondapur and Hafeezpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-rue-8-to-12-hours-of-power-outages/articleshow/78340690.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Agra||Nearly 1,200 inmates infected in 71 jails in UP, says DG Prison||Agra: There are 1,200 active Covid-19 cases, as of now, in 71 jails across Uttar Pradesh, according to Anand Kumar, DG prison administration and reform services. Till date, 1,40,000 tests, including (those on) 5,000 staff members, have been conducted in the state's temporary and permanent jails and over 7,000 had tested positive so far, while two persons died of the virus. Moreover, in the past one week, at least 128 prisoners have tested positive for Covid in Fatehgarh Central Jail. On Saturday, 76 prisoners were found positive and all of them have been kept under isolation in a separate jail barrack for treatment. Senior superintendent of Fatehgarh Central Jail SHM Rizvi told TOI, “The first case was reported on September 20 and since then 128 prisoners have been found infected with the disease.” However, none of the patients' health conditions are serious. Three medical officers have been deployed by health authorities inside the prison for monitoring, he added. The prison in Fatehgarh, at present, has around 2,000 inmates against its capacity of 1,600. “We are providing 'kadha', hot water and homeopathy medicines to all prisoners as a precaution and masks have been distributed to every prisoner,” said Rizvi, adding that Covid tests of all prisoners are being conducted. Meanwhile, Kumar said that despite the precautionary measures, many prisoners have got infected. “The main reasons are the movement of sick patients outside the jail for treatment and infection brought in by Covid positive asymptomatic staff,” he added. “Our priority is to save the lives of prisoners. Hence, regular testing is being conducted in the jail," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nearly-1200-inmates-infected-in-71-jails-in-up-says-dg-prison/articleshow/78338936.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 27, 2020||Nashik||NMC to gift its city bus service to citizens on Diwali||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) plans to roll out its city bus service around Diwali. Civic officials described it as a Diwali gift for the citizens amid the Covid pandemic.The previous state government had given its nod to the NMC to take over the city bus service from the ailing Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). The civic body had plans to deploy 400 buses, including 200 CNG, 50 diesel and 150 electric. As many as 250 swanky buses, including 200 CNG and 50 diesel variants, had arrived in the city by March-end and had even got the RTO passing. But the project was delayed due to Covid-19 outbreak.So far, the NMC has deployed two agencies to operate the city bus service. The agencies will, altogether, operate 250 buses, including 200 CNG and 50 diesel. The NMC has also finalised an agency to operate 150 electric buses, but it has not yet given work order to the agency concerned.NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav told TOI that earlier the civic body had plans to start the city bus service from April, but it could not do so due to the pandemic.Now, the focus is on Covid-19 outbreak. The drop in revenue is another concern as the NMC’s revenue through property and water taxes have reduced. “Therefore, we are planning to launch the city bus service around Diwali, but we will not run all the buses at one time. We would initially ply about 50 buses. Depending on the response, the fleet would be increased at regular intervals,” said Jadhav.The civic commissioner said he will review the project and will also visit various sites to check the infrastructure. “We have to build two bus depots and six terminals. I will review the infrastructure and other related projects with the officials concerned shortly,” he said.The bus service is to be operated on a gross-cutting contract (GCC) for a period of 10 years. This includes the purchase of new buses, maintenance of buses, employing drivers, purchasing fuel, etc. NMC will pay charges to private agencies on a kilometre basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-gift-its-city-bus-service-to-citizens-on-diwali/articleshow/78338950.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU has tested over 5 lakh samples||Lucknow: Testing an average of 5,000 suspected Covid-19 samples daily, King George’s Medical University’s (KGMU) microbiology department on Saturday crossed a milestone by completing 5 lakh tests. From February 3 till Saturday, it has tested 5,02,278 samples. KGMU was the first in the state to start testing. Under the headship of Prof Amita Jain, the entire virology team has been working 24x7 since February. The lab is also mentoring about 40 Covid testing labs in the state. Indian Council of Medical Research has declared KGMU a centre of excellence for testing. KGMU is also validating testing kits and running a quality assurance programme for all RT-PCR labs in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-has-tested-over-5-lakh-samples/articleshow/78341653.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchayats start building consensus against agri bills||Bathinda: Even as the Punjab farmers are leaving no stone unturned in registering their protest against the contentious agriculture bills, various village panchayats are now coming forward to support their cause. These panchayats are not just passing resolutions urging the Union government to withdraw the bills but have also initiated the process to call Gram Sabha sessions to build consensus against the Centre’s legislations. As per the Panchayati Raj Act provision, an announcement has to be made in the village at least a week in advance to call a Gram Sabha session, so that everybody can join it. Accordingly, the panchayats of Jaimal Singh Wala, Dhilwan and Cheema in Barnala district, and Gharacho, Chhahar, Chhajli and Mehla Chowk in Sangrur have called sessions of Gram Sabha on September 30, for which announcements were made on September 23. Besides, a lot of other panchayats have also started making announcements and the Gram Sabha sessions are expected to be convened there in the first or second week of October. Sarpanch Jagjit Singh of Wander Jatana village in Faridkot said, “In a meeting, the village panchayat has rejected the agri bills and asked the Union government to withdraw those, or else they would hold protests. An announcement has also been made in the village for holding the session of Gram Sabha on October 4, where every member will get a chance to speak.” Similarly, sarpanch Veer Singh of Khosa Kotla village in Moga told TOI, “The village panchayat has already rejected the anti-farmer bills. The Gram Sabha session will be convened soon to hold a debate on the issue, which is crucial for the farming community.” “Over a hundred village panchayats in Barnala and Sangrur districts have started the process to call Gram Sabha sessions. Many panchayats have joined hands to oppose these bills. They have even announced to hold protests on their own,” said a member of the panchayat union in Barnala. Earlier, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had also given a call to the panchayats to convene Gram Sabha sessions. Party’s state president and MP Bhagwant Mann had three days ago urged the village panchayats to call Gram Sabha sessions. He had also released a video clip giving finer details of the process to call such sessions. “Following that call, hundreds of sarpanches have contacted me. Rising above party lines, most of the panchayat heads have assured me to call Gram Sabha sessions and pass resolutions with voice vote and send these to the President of India and the Prime Minister through SDMs,” Bhagwant Mann told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchayats-start-building-consensus-against-agri-bills/articleshow/78341659.cms||Neel Kamal
September 27, 2020||Agra||SNMC fails to fulfill increased demand for oxygen||Agra: With all the beds now occupied in the emergency ward and ICU of the Covid care facility, the SN Medical College in Agra is finding it increasingly difficult to fulfill the demand for oxygen. The existing 6,000 kilolitre oxygen tank, earlier filled once in two days, is now required to be filled every day. The existing 22mm oxygen supply pipeline has failed to deliver the required amount of oxygen for ICU. According to sources, on the complaint of doctors, the hospital administration has sent a proposal to the state government to set up a 44mm supply pipeline. Besides, work for replacement of 6,000 kilolitre oxygen tank with 11,000 kilolitre tank has been initiated. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The size of liquid oxygen supply pipeline is small. This is affecting the required amount of oxygen supply to ICU beds occupied by Covid patients. A proposal has been sent to the state government to set up a large pipeline for the high flow oxygen supply. We are also working on establishing an 11,000 kilolitre capacity oxygen tank. The issues related to the oxygen supply caused by the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients in critical condition will be sorted very soon.” He added, “We are trying to keep the emergency beds vacant for new patients. We have started conducting TrueNat testing of patients admitted in emergency wards thrice a day. After testing, patients found Covid-19 positive are being transferred to the Covid care centre. We have kept 30 oxygen cylinders as spare at the emergency ward. Two new dedicated ambulances for suspected Covid patients have been deployed. We are trying to make arrangements for additional ICU beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-fails-to-fulfill-increased-demand-for-oxygen/articleshow/78338965.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain leaves trail of damage||Hyderabad: Heavy rains of over 24 hours left trail of damages in many areas. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s enforcement, vigilance and disaster management wing received 23 complaints up to 8 am. It was a flood-like situation in Shamshabad following incessant rainfall in the area. Water entered houses in Begumpet, Chikote Gardens, Brahmanwadi, Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki among other areas. “Premises of Holy Trinity Church were completely under water. Excess water from Hussain Sagar lake and nearby nala gushed into our houses. Even tap water that we were getting was dirty,” said Hosey Tocher, resident of Begumpet. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-leaves-trail-of-damage/articleshow/78340707.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Agra||Protests in Firozabad over financier's murder||Agra: Several organizations staged a protest in Suhag Nagar area of Firozabad district on Saturday over the murder of a financer, Prashant Pathak alias Jugnu (26), on Friday evening. Superintendent of police (city) Mukesh Chandra Mishra said Jugnu was shot on the back allegedly by his friend, Anshu Yadav, while he was driving his bike in Awas Vikas colony under Dakshin police station. Yadav was sitting on the pillion. "On the basis of a complaint by the deceased's father, an FIR has been registered against Yadav under IPC section 302 (murder),” the SP said. Yadav is absconding and it is not known why he shot Jugnu, police said. While protestors claimed that Jugnu was a social worker and had helped people during the Covid-19 lockdown, police said he was a historysheeter and had eight cases registered against him at Dakshin police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/protests-in-firozabad-over-financiers-murder/articleshow/78338954.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Fill 1.5L job vacancies first, says Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Saturday said the government should first fill 1.5 lakh vacancies in the government sector and also start giving Rs 3,016 per month jobless allowance to over 20 lakh unemployed youth before seeking votes for the ensuing elections to the two graduate MLC constituencies. AICC secretary and former MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy demanded that the government clear the pending fee reimbursement dues and also announce a financial package for teachers and lecturers of private educational institutions who either have lost their jobs or not been paid salaries citing lockdown. “Also, notifications for group-I, II and III category posts have not been issued. Over 30,000 teacher posts have been lying vacant. Several schools have closed down,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fill-1-5l-job-vacancies-first-says-cong/articleshow/78340712.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Let opposition prove graft charge: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: After a seven-and-a-half hour debate in the assembly, rocked by allegations of corruption against chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra, the no-confidence motion moved against the BJP government was defeated by a voice vote on Saturday. The highlight of the debate was the charges levelled against Vijayendra and war of words between Yediyurappa and opposition leader Siddaramaiah. A sting operation by a private TV channel on the alleged involvement of Vijayendra in a land scam was at the core of the heated exchanges. Yediyurappa categorically rejected the Congress demand for an SIT probe into the alleged involvement of his family members in the BDA scam. “It is you who have made allegations and the onus lies on you to prove them. If there is even an iota of truth in allegations, I will resign and quit politics forever. If not, are you ready to resign?” Yediyurappa asked Siddaramaiah. Siddaramaiah dared the government to order an inquiry by a retired Supreme Court judge if Yediyurappa is so sure the allegations are false. Yediyurappa said: “We’re not going to order any probe. You can go to court or Lokayukta and get the matter probed.” The CM also attacked Congress members Krishna Byregowda and Dinesh Gundurao for demanding an inquiry. It all started with Siddaramaiah, during his speech over the no-confidence motion, raising the sting operation and reading out WhatsApp chats alleged to have been take place between Vijayendra and representative of the news channel. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy objected to taking the name of Vijayendra as he’s not a member of the house and said the channel’s allegations are false and baseless. He requested the chair not to allow Siddaramaiah to continue with the issue unless he has proof. Ministers Jagadish Shettar and Basavaraj Bommai and other members also demanded that a discussion should not be allowed. "I have every right to speak. I am not making any allegations and I don't even know who Vijayendra is. The matter is already in public domain,” he said. Later, speaker Kageri pacified ruling party members to allow Siddaramaiah to continue. Siddaramaiah concluded by demanding an SIT probe under the supervision of a Supreme Court judge. "If it is proved there is no truth in allegations, I will resign," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tempers-flare-during-graft-charge-debate/articleshow/78340350.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: All homes in Krishna to get potable water by 2022||VIJAYAWADA: With the administration keen on providing safe drinking water to every household in the district, Krishna district has soon have 100% safe drinking water coverage. According to a recent study by the administration, of the 7.8 lakh households in the district, only 2.61 lakh are connected to the safe drinking water scheme while 95,910 households are under process. Nearly 4.5 lakh households in the district do not have access to water tap connections. The Krishna district administration has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) for the water grid to provide drinking water to all houses. The state government has approved Rs 599.94crore for the purpose. The district administrations push for safe drinking water has made residents of Mylavaram, Nandigama, Kanchikacherla and other fluoride-affected areas breathe easy.cK Narayana Rao, a resident of Rangapuram village in Veerlapadu mandal, said, “We have been drinking water with high fluoride content for the last 30 years. Many villagers have developed kidney-related problems and bone disorders by drinking this impure water.” “We are thankful to the government for providing free medical aid. But providing safe drinking water is a permanent solution to this problem. I hope that the project is grounded soon and our villages get safe drinking water,” he added. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz said that the administration will try its best to provide safe drinking water to every home by the end of 2022. He has directed authorities of rural water supply to focus on executing pipeline works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-homes-in-krishna-to-get-potable-water-by-22/articleshow/78339515.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||These women toil on KIA tarmac to ensure planes can take wing||BENGALURU: The last Saturday of September is observed internationally as Girls in Aviation Day with the aim of encouraging young girls to take up a career in the field. STOI takes a look at two women handling aircraft maintenance — a branch of aviation dominated by men — at Kempegowda International Airport. She has handled many snag situations As a student in Kolar, Archana KY had only one dream — to become a pilot. After passing high school, she was disheartened to realise that the cost of aircraft pilot training was way beyond her family’s reach. “But I was determined not to let go of my ambition to be near an aircraft and pursued aircraft maintenance engineering,” said Archana, who is an aircraft maintenance technician for IndiGo airlines. The 22-year-old examines aircraft from nose to tail to declare them fit for flight. In her two years of experience at KIA, Archana has handled numerous snag situations, including bird hits and engine and blade troubles. “When I began my career, I had to encounter doubtful queries from my friends on how a girl like me can climb over an aircraft and do all the physical work. But I proved all of them wrong,” laughs the young engineer who was the national gold medallist of the Skill India challenge where she had to successfully fix an aircraft engine. Well-versed with the Airbus A320 engine, Archana can be seen toiling over IndiGo planes before takeoff and after landing. She still nurses the dream of flying a plane someday. She specialises in aircraft circuits and panels In 2017, when an aircraft landed in Jaipur, a crack was detected in one of its windshields. A young woman stepped up to the occasion and immediately rushed to the spot to fix a light sensor in the shield. Avionics engineer Shikha Pushp was lauded for her work despite being a beginner. Shikha now works as an aircraft maintenance engineer, the only woman to hold the post for IndiGo airlines at KIA. She began her career in 2012 in Delhi after completing aeronautical engineering from Jamshedpur and her speciality is aircraft circuits, panels and on-board computers. “Very few women choose a profession which entails dealing with airplane panels, which are filed with hundreds of circuits,” said the 31-year-old who was posted to KIA in 2018. Shikha, from Bihar, was always fascinated by aircraft. “In my job, precision and focus are key. Even a single screw has to be dealt with care and utmost professionalism as hundreds of lives may be involved,” she said. She’s the only woman to have passed out from the airbus training centre in Bengaluru (2016 batch) and is among the very few licensed women engineers who can declare an aircraft fit for flying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/these-women-toil-on-kia-tarmac-to-ensure-planes-can-take-wing/articleshow/78340412.cms||Petlee Peter
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Social media helping kitchens source ingredients from across the country||VISAKHAPATNAM: With inter-state travel reduced considerably due to the pandemic, several non-Telugu communities in the city have formed individual WhatsApp groups where they are placing orders for ingredients, which are either unavailable or have unsteady supply in the city, for the community’s favourite dishes. Earlier, they used to procure those ingredients through friends and relatives who used to travel to and fro the city and their home states. “Following the pandemic, travel has reduced and we (Bengalese) were thinking on how to source those ingredients from somewhere. I got in touch with an online essential commodity delivery company in Kolkata and then formed a WhatsApp group adding people from my community in Visakhapatnam and the wholesaler,” 62-year old Ira Tarafdar told TOI. Last week, a section of people from the Bengali community in the city had placed an order for 27 kg of Bangladeshi hilsa fish and packs of Gobindo Bhog rice (scented processed rice) through one of their WhatsApp group. The commodities reached the city on Tuesday morning on a freight train from Santraganchi. Although people from neighbouring Odisha are in a better position when it comes to procurement of ingredients for Oriya cuisine, people from the state living in the city have also followed the trail. “Normally, all ingredients for our cuisine come from Bhubaneshwar, Behrampore and Raygada and are easily available in the city. However, following the lockdown the supply wasn’t steady. So, we also formed a WhatsApp group and are placing order directly to the wholesale merchants,” said BK Mohanty, a software executive. Wholesalers said the railways, after the lockdown, had reduced the freight charges considerably. So, when individuals are placing orders on the groups they are sending the entire consignment in bulk together, generally once a week. This has made the import cost above the cost of the products affordable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/social-media-helping-kitchens-source-ingredients-from-across-the-country/articleshow/78339481.cms||Arpit Basu
September 27, 2020||Agra||79 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 79 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 5,489. The patients included 10 suffering from coronary artery infection, eight of the severe acute respiratory syndrome, six of influenza-like illness and nine of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Moreover, 137 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 5,489 cases, 80.8% have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are now 928 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 4,438 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/79-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78338971.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bhavnagar MP now nat’l VP of BJP||Gandhinagar: Bhavnagar MP Bharti Shiyal has been appointed national vice-president of the BJP. The two-time Member of Parliament from Bhavnagar belongs to the Koli community which is politically influential in the region. Beginning her public life in the mid 1980s, Shiyal headed the Gujarat Rajya Mahila Koli Seva Samaj. She continues to be associated with a number of associations and bodies engaged in public service in Bhavnagar district. She won the Talaja assembly seat in 2012. She contested and won the Bhavnagar Lok Sabha seat twice – in 2014 and 2019. She is also a member of the central supervisory board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bhavnagar-mp-now-natl-vp-of-bjp/articleshow/78341667.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani portal to go live on Dasara day||Hyderabad: Telangana government will launch land portal ‘Dharani’ on Dasara i.e October 26. Chief minister directed officials to complete all works related to Dharani by Vijayadasami. He said registration rates across the state would be fixed survey number-wise and registrations would be done as per the fixed rates. Document writers of SRO office would be trained and licences would be given to them, he said and asked the officials to enter data on all properties on Dharani portal before Dasara. Later, changes and alterations would be done regularly. He said demo trials would be conducted to give hands-on training and create awareness among officials. The officials would appoint a computer operator in every mandal and at every sub-registrar office. Tahsildars, deputy tahsildars, sub-registrars would be given the required training on the changed registration procedure, completing mutations quickly and updating all details online on Dharani portal, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-portal-to-go-live-on-dasara-day/articleshow/78340753.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Himayat Sagar gates may open||Hyderabad: The floodgates of Himayat Sagar reservoir, may open in another few hours, due to heavy inflows from upstream areas. The water level in Himayat Sagar on Saturday was 1754 ft. The full tank level of the reservoir is 1763 ft, with the capacity of 2.97 tmc. HMWS&SB officials who are closely monitoring the inflows have alerted police and revenue wings of Rangareddy and Hyderabad. “Ensure that necessary steps are taken in downstream of Himayathsagar reservoir and along Musi,” HMWS&SB release stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/himayat-sagar-gates-may-open/articleshow/78340709.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Life thrown off gear in AP as floods return||TIRUPATI: Normal life was affected in many parts of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday as incessant rains lashed the state, bringing streams and rivulets to life and causing lakes and tanks to overflow, besides inundating low-lying areas. Several villages remained cut off as flood water overflowed on roads. Nellore, Prakasam and the Rayalaseema districts received heavy rains. These areas normally get rains during the northeast monsoon. This is for the first time in many years that Penna and its tributaries are in spate during the southwest monsoon. All the major reservoirs are full due to heavy flood discharge from the catchment areas.District officials are closely monitoring the inflows and outflows at Srisailam project. Five crest gates were opened and the outflow reported was 1.71 lakh cusecs against an inflow of 2.02 lakh cusecs. The present water level at Srisailam is 884.90 feet. Meanwhile, farmers are in trouble as crops in thousands of acres of land got submerged. Non-stop rains triggered flash floods at several places in Kadapa district as well. People had a tough time as flood waters entered several low-lying areas in the district. Mandavya, Papagni, Penna, Cheyyeru, Bahuda and Kundu rivers are in spate. Veligallu, Gandikota, Jharikona, Pincha, and Srinivasapuram reservoirs are receiving heavy water inflows, creating panic among farmers and people living along the downstream. Meanwhile, non-stop rains have cut off road connectivity to Tadipatri in Anantapur district, with hundreds of vehicles getting stranded along the Gooty-Tadipatri highway. Hundreds of acres of cotton crop submerged in Pedda Vaduguru and Yadiki mandals of the district. Traffic along Chirala-Ongole and other parts of Prakasam district came to a halt as water bodies overflowed due to incessant rains since Friday night. As per Indian Meteorological Department data, eight districts reported heavy to very heavy rainfall since Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rain-misery-back-again-life-thrown-off-gear-across-state/articleshow/78339417.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD left NDA for political compulsion: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has termed the Akalis’ decision to quit the NDA as nothing more than a ‘desperate case of political compulsion’ for the Badals, who, he said, were effectively left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism of the SAD stance on the farm bills. Citing his earlier statement, in which he had said NDA would throw the Akalis out if the latter did not leave themselves gracefully, Amarinder said there is no moral high ground involved in this decision of SAD. The Akalis had no choice after BJP made it clear that it held SAD responsible for not being able to convince the farmers about the positives of the agriculture bills. The SAD decision to quit NDA was just the culmination of their saga of lies and deception, which eventually led to their being cornered on the issue of bills, said the chief minister, adding that Sukhbir Singh Badal was virtually caught between the devil and the deep sea after his initial unprincipled stand on the legislations, followed by the sudden U-turn in the face of farmer protests. Amarinder said with the BJP-led ruling coalition at the Centre exposing the SAD’s web of lies, fabrications and double-speak, the Akalis could not have done anything but leave the NDA. But, their quitting the alliance would not help them save their faces, which they probably hope for, and the Akalis would find themselves in a bigger political mess now, having been left with no place either in Punjab or at the Centre, he added. He said if Sukhbir Singh Badal, Harsimrat Kaur Badal and other SAD leaders have any shame left, they should admit to their deceitful actions while part of the Union government and should be begging the farmers for forgiveness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-left-nda-for-political-compulsion/articleshow/78341684.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Land reforms bill passed in Karnataka with changes||BENGALURU: The state government on Saturday retracted the increase in land ceiling and passed a reamended amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act of 1964 which allows non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land and removes income limits for owning it. The decision to withdraw increase in land ceiling limits, from 10 units (54 acres) to 20 units (108 acres) for a single family member and from 20 (108 acres) to 40 units (216 acres) for a family of over five members comes in the wake of chief minister BS Yediyurappa meeting protesting farmer leaders and discussions with JD(S) floor leader HD Kumaraswamy on Friday evening. The BJP government hopes the decision to withdraw increase in land ceiling will assuage farmers agitating across the state against the amendments. The goverment scrapped sections 79 A & B which restricted people with over Rs 25 lakh income to purchase farm land and also barred non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural properties. The amendment, despite the retraction, did not go well with the Congress which protested and stormed out of the house in protest. Earlier, opposition leader Siddaramaiah said the decision to scrap Sections 79 A&B was only an “excuse” to make way for corporates and housing societies to purchase agricultural land for real estate business. “The entire bill is being tabled to please the corporates and housing societies in Karnataka that hold over 50,220 acres of land,” said Siddaramaiah. He alleged the decision to implement the amendment in retrospect would mean that 13,814 cases lodged against various people will be withdrawn. However, JD(S) floor leader HD Kumaraswamy backed the BJP decision. Citing personal experience of how political rivals in Ramanagara district misused these sections to foist cases against him regarding farm land he purchased in Kethiganahalli near Bidadi, he said the sections would help many people interested in agriculture. Revenue minister R Ashoka mentioned the decision to scrap Sections 79 A & B was not of the BJP government alone but was also proposed by the previous Congress government. “While we may be introducing the bill, the thinking to scrap the section was proposed and endorsed by several senior Congress leaders including RV Deshpande, DK Shivakumar and Mallikarjuna Kharge over the last few decades,” he said. The bill was later passed in its renewed form. Won’t allow land misuse: BSY Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, during the debate, said the government will not allow the misuse of even a single acre of small and marginal farmers or those from scheduled castes or scheduled tribes. “We’ll protect their lands at any cost,” he said in response to independent MLA N Mahesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/land-reforms-bill-passed-with-changes/articleshow/78340401.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP may have strong IT cell, but its Punjab unit is facing online heat||JALANDHAR: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may have the strongest social media team, which often has the capacity to influence the narrative. But in Punjab, the party is facing heat on social media due to agri-marketing bills. Even as the party aggressively defends the bills on its official Facebook page of Punjab unit, most comments were against these bills. Earlier, its alliance partner Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) would ‘market’ most of central government decisions, but after SAD also turned against the bills, the challenge has became bigger for the party. Now, taking matter into their own hands, the party is busy defending the bills in Punjabi too. Apart from reiteration of assurances from the Prime Minister and agriculture minister, several posts have been specifically addressed to farmers of Punjab. However, but for a few positive comments, most of the comments on these posts are acerbically against the bills and also against the BJP. While Punjabi netizens have not posted comments below the other posts – especially those pertaining to anniversary of Jan Sangh founder Deen Dayal Upadhayay on Friday — every post pertaining to farmers came under scores of adverse comments, in a few cases even in hundreds. “Farm bills will bring same benefit to farmers, which Jio brought for BSNL,” commented Sukhvir Singh on BJP Punjab page in one such post. “Come to the farmers’ protest to explain them,” posted one Kulwinder Singh. Netizen Gursewak Singh posted “many benefits of demonetisation were enumerated. Were there any?”. Quite a few netizens asked tongue-in-cheek how can the BJP convince others if they cannot not convince their partner SAD. The flood of anti-bills messages seem to be not only from people with farming background or from rural areas. Many urbanites seem to have taken digs at the Union government and have expressed solidarity with farmers. BOX Attempts to give communal turn Even as Punjab Police top brass claim to have been maintaining close watch on social media, there were attempts on social media to give the protests a communal turn — hate messages against protesting farmers have also been posted apart from spreading fake news. On Friday, a group named “Justice for Punjabi Hindus” apart from using abusive language for the protestors also posted a fake news that “Panthic Jatts” threw stones at a convoy of army vehicles after blocking them on national highway and some army men were even injured. The group had also posted messages chiding Hindus who have joined the farmers’ protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-may-have-strong-it-cell-but-its-punjab-unit-is-facing-online-heat/articleshow/78341664.cms||IP Singh
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ICG efforts help douse major fire on oil vessel||Visakhapatnam: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) successfully doused a fire aboard a tanker vessel carrying three lakh tonnes of crude oil on September 3. The fire could have gone to damage the biodiversity in Sri Lanka and Maldives along with southern India. The ICG spearheaded the seven-day-long operations. The MT New Diamond with 23 crew members was on its way from Kuwait to Paradip Port and reported a fire which was a result of a boiler explosion on board, 40 nautical miles off Tirrukkovil in south-east Sri Lanka. The distress call was picked up by Maritime Rescue Coordination Center (MRCC) Colombo and MRCC Mumbai. ICG authorities said that with its recent efforts, it had recorded a significant achievement in its maritime history by coordinating a major fire fighting operation aboard the very large carrier loaded with Kuwait Export Crude which was protected despite the raging fire intermittent explosions. “Six ICG ships, including specialist pollution response vessels, two Dornier aircraft were also deployed for rescue operations along with Sri Lankan vessels, which doused the fire,” ICG authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/icg-efforts-help-douse-major-fire-on-oil-vessel/articleshow/78339500.cms||Siva G
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||24-yr-old tourist from Delhi drowns in Ganga||Haridwar: A 24-year-old tourist who came from Delhi with his two friends in Rishikesh was drowned in the Ganga river when he went to bathe in the river during the wee hours of Saturday morning. After getting information, the police rescue team reached the spot and started a search operation with the help of divers but could not trace him. RK Saklani, SHO of Muni-ki-Reti police station, told TOI, “Abhishek, a resident of Rohini Sector 17 of Delhi, and his friends Shashank and Anjali had reached Muni-ki-Reti on Saturday morning. Abhishek went to take a bath on Yusuf beach in Shivpuri where he slipped and got washed away in the strong current of the river and disappeared. We tried to find him but failed. We informed his parents and the search operation will resume tomorrow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/24-yr-old-tourist-from-delhi-drowns-in-ganga/articleshow/78338976.cms||MS Nawaz
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC workers embroiled in culling of strays controversy||VISAKHAPATNAM: A section of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) volunteers has been culling stray dogs after failing to implement the animal birth control (ABC) programme and control the population of stray dogs, alleged an animal activist in the city. The activist, Pradeep Nath, filed a complaint with GVMC commissioner G Srijana and district collector V Vinay Chand on Saturday afternoon. “The GVMC workers are secretly killing at least 10 dogs a day starting from August at its Arilova unit and are dumping them at the Arilova dumping ground. This is illegal and inhumane. I have requested the GVMC commissioner and the district collector to carry out a detailed investigation and punish the offenders,” Nath, who is the founder-member of Visakha Society for Protection and Care Of Animals (VSPCA), told STOI. Speaking to STOI, GVMC commissioner G Srijana said she ordered an inquiry immediately after some photographs of dead stray dogs went viral on Twitter. “As per protocol, we (GVMC) don’t kill stray dogs. So, a detailed inquiry has been ordered to see what has actually happened,” the GVMC chief added. On Thursday, TOI reported that the implementation of the ABC and anti-rabies vaccination (ARV) programmes for stray dogs in the city had been poor following the Covid-19 outbreak, leading to fears of a growing stray dog problem and cases of rabies. “But in no way is the killing of dogs like this acceptable. We have carried out a primary investigation seeking information from one of our sources at the civic body. It was found that GVMC workers are killing these dogs by feeding them magnesium sulphate solution. In fact, a senior GVMC official had registered a police complaint and a criminal proceeding has been started against the volunteer who was informing us,” added Nath. Earlier in June, a similar complaint surfaced at Siddipet municipality in Telangana after four municipal workers allegedly poisoned 40 stray dogs. Following an investigation, Siddipet district collector Venkatarama Reddy suspended the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-workers-embroiled-in-culling-of-strays-controversy/articleshow/78339387.cms||Arpit Basu
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Smartening up: More areas in Visakhapatnam to get solar street lights||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the introduction of solar street lights on the Beach Road, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has now decided to extend the all-in-one solar LED street lighting system to wards 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the area-based development (ABD) part. Around 2,300 street lights in these wards will be replaced with LED streetlight poles. Taken up under the Vizag Smart City initiative with a budget of around Rs 20.5crore, GVMC initially installed around 5,480 poles with solar LED integrated lighting fixtures. The civic body spent Rs 11crore on the project on the Beach Road nearly two years ago. According to officials of the GVMC Smart City wing, the bidder has already started laying foundations of solar poles in the ABD area and foundation has been laid for around 600-700 poles. The standalone solar street-lighting system does away with the need of field cabling with no maintenance costs as the solar panels last more than 20 years. The aesthetics of these lights will also be enhanced Apart from commissioning the project, the bidder will also take care of all operation and maintenance of the project for the next five years. A wireless remote monitoring and control system will be embedded into the lighting system to control lighting levels and remote monitor battery charging and discharging levels. Before embracing the solar street light system, GVMC was also a pioneer in adopting LED street lights in the country. Nearly 1 lakh incandescent lights were replaced with LED lights. Following the introduction of the LED lights project, energy consumption came down from nearly 20 lakh units a month to 12 lakh units per month on average. The 2MW floating solar project, set up at a cost of Rs 13.4crore at Mudasarlova, will alone save Rs 2.3crore on electricity bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/smartening-up-more-areas-in-vizag-to-get-solar-street-lights/articleshow/78339448.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 27, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Statue of Unity jungle safari to reopen from October 1||VADODARA: After a gap of over six months, the Sardar Patel Zoological Jungle Safari Park (SPZJSP) spread over 375 acres near Statue of Unity (SoU) at Kevadiya colony in Narmada district will be thrown open for tourists from October 1. Popularly known as the ‘Jungle Safari’, the park, one of the biggest tourist attractions at Kevadiya colony, had opened on trial basis in February this year. But just within a month of its opening, it was closed down for tourists in the month of March due to Covid-19 induced pandemic and lockdown. It is being re-opened ahead of the likely visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is expected to formally inaugurate it along with the seaplane service between Ahmedabad and SoU on October 31. It is the first attraction surrounding SoU which is being opened for tourists who can book online tickets for the park that has over 1,000 animals and birds from SoU website. “We have received permission to open the park on a trial basis. Only 50 visitors will be allowed to enter the premises in an hour following social distancing norms while wearing masks is compulsory,” said SPZJSP director Ram Ratan Nala. The park has rhinoceroses, tigers, giraffes, bison, leopards, 12 types of deer, antelopes and many other animals in 16 enclosures. It also has the facility of golf e-cart. The park, developed by the state forest department in record six months, has been divided into seven elevations from entrance plaza to wild enclosures. The park has been designed in such a manner that people would feel as if they are in a jungle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sou-jungle-safari-to-reopen-from-oct-1/articleshow/78339317.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nashik||60 state buses from Nashik to boost Mumbai bus service||NASHIK: The Nashik division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has sent 60 buses to Mumbai to ease the burden on its city transport service. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) provides bus services within Mumbai city and it has been carrying the load of passengers for the past month as the suburban railway services have not fully resumed. According to senior officials of MSRTC, Nashik division, they received a call requesting transfer of a few buses to Mumbai. At present, the buses have been sent till October 15. “The suburban trains are being run in limited numbers in Mumbai along with restrictions. Therefore, people are using BEST buses to travel to their offices. We received a call from our central office asking us to send our buses to Mumbai,” a senior officer said. Accordingly, 60 buses from Igatpuri, Sinnar, Nashik, Pimpalgaon and other depots were sent to the state capital. Nearly 120 staff members have also been shifted to Mumbai, where the buses will be run in two shifts. The officer said there was some dispute about the lodging of the staff in Mumbai, but the issue was soon resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-state-buses-from-nashik-to-boost-mum-bus-service/articleshow/78338974.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government proposes toy manufacturing clusters||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government has proposed setting up dedicated toy manufacturing clusters in the state and has invited top Indian and multinational toy manufacturers, as well as startups to set up operations in Gujarat. In his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio talk last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked people to make the country a hub for the manufacture of world-class toys. The PM also urged startups and entrepreneurs to develop “toys and games, for India and of India” to meet domestic demand and increase the country’s share in the global toy business, estimated to be worth Rs 7 lakh crore. International toy manufacturing companies like Nintendo Co Ltd and Tomy Co Ltd from Japan, Hasbro and Mattel from the US, Siumba Toys from Germany along with Namco Bandai, Lego, and Jakks Pacific have been invited by the Gujarat government to start their production units in the state. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary (ACS), chief minister’s office (CMO) and in-charge ACS, industry and mines department has written to top international toy manufacturers from the USA, Canada, Europe and Japan and assured them the best possible assistance at toy manufacturing clusters in Gujarat. In his letter to a top Japanese toy manufacturing company, Das wrote that with more than 25% of India’s population in the age group of 0-14 years, the PM has underlined the potential strength and sizable market for companies to set up toy manufacturing facilities in India. “Gujarat is the epicentre of industrial growth in India and has been witnessing double-digit GSDP growth (13% in 2018-19) for more than a decade. The state has the highest industrial output in the country and recorded the highest growth in FDI which grew by 240% in the last year. We have made this possible with our investor-friendly approach, investor hand-holding and robust industrial infrastructure,” the letter said. The letter added that Gujarat has a well-developed ecosystem for plastic products, wood products, rubber products, specialty chemicals, metals, etc. which ensures easy availability of materials required for toy manufacturing. “In terms of infrastructure, Gujarat offers a variety of options such as plug-and-play industrial estates developed by Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC), Special Economic Zones and even Special Investment Regions,” the letter said. The letter lists incentives available under the new industrial policy. “The policy offers several path-breaking incentives in the form of 12% of capital subsidy with no ceiling, government land on lease, incentives for research and development entities and special incentives to companies planning to move operations from abroad to the state. The government of Gujarat is keen on inviting the best industries to set up toy manufacturing units in Gujarat,” the letter said. Das said, “We have a plan to develop clusters for toy manufacturing in Gujarat and the government has invited international and Indian toy manufacturing companies along with startups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-proposes-toy-manufacturing-clusters/articleshow/78341698.cms||Kapil Dave
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||La Martiniere welcomes royal-bred horses in style||LUCKNOW: Anandi and Bajirao came in a royal entourage, alighted in style and trotted through manicured lawns of La Martinere College campus to a red-carpet welcome. The guests of honour — two thoroughbred horses — would soon be exalted members of the school stable. They arrived on Saturday in a specially designed vehicle — an air-conditioned horse trailer — from farms in Mumbai and Ajmer and were a gift to the college by former students, Monish Bhandari and his wife, Priya. There are already 35 horses in the stable of the school, which has been imparting horse riding lessons for many years. Both are of the Kathiawadi breed, a good cavalry mount and an endangered species found in Kathiawar peninsula of western India. When Anandi and Bajirao stepped out of the horse trailer with three caretakers in tow, they were the cynosure of all eyes. The trailer was equipped with air conditioners, fans, a room to stock feed, adequate cross ventilation and other provisions. “We have already gifted our college seven horses as we feel endangered species can only be reared with care at La Martiniere College. We want to promote indigenous horses by gifting them to the right hands. While Bajirao is a bouncy five-year-old stallion, Anandi is an eight-year-old mammoth mare. Both are a class apart and belong to the Kathiawadi breed,” said Priya Bhandari. The government banned export of Kathiawadi breeds after the horses got the endangered tag. “It’s a pleasure to witness institutions like La Martiniere taking keen interest in supporting indigenous breeds and ensuring they get their due place,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/la-martiniere-welcomes-royal-bred-horses-in-style/articleshow/78341694.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||PRTC faces Rs 60 lakh loss; pvt operators provide buses to farmers||Patiala: The Punjab Bandh called by farmers in protest against agri ordinances exacerbated the losses incurred by Punjab Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and private bus operators. PRTC, which has been facing losses in daily receipt since it resumed operations after the lockdown, faced Rs 60 lakh daily receipt loss on Friday. PRTC was running around 60% of its 1,075 buses since resumption of operations. The daily receipt of the corporation has come down to Rs 60 lakh from Rs 1.45 crore during the unlock period. Surinder Singh, PRTC general manager, operations, said, “We are running 60% of our total bus fleet. Due to the complete shutdown on Friday, we announced on Thursday that buses would not be operational. The corporation faced a loss of Rs 60 lakh as daily receipt.” Private bus operators also faced heavy losses during the pandemic and were getting fewer passengers during the unlock period. On Friday, bus operators extended help to agitating farmers by providing them with buses only on fuel cost. “We provided free buses to farmers as support to their Bandh call. Farmers only had to bear the expense of fuel for their travel. Around 70 buses from Bathinda and 50 from Mansa were provided to farmers a day before the protest. Across Punjab, around 2,000 buses were given to farmers without any charge or driver fee or any other profit. There are around 6,500 buses, including around 3,000 mini buses being run by private operators across the state. Of these, only 50% buses were operational during unlock period as passengers are far less than expectations,” said Baltej Singh, convener, Malwa Zone private bus operators’ union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prtc-faces-rs-60-lakh-loss-pvt-operators-provide-buses-to-farmers/articleshow/78341695.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB inspects open nalas after TOI report||Secunderabad: Residents of areas abutting open nalas will heave a sigh of relief as officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) have decided to construct retaining walls around the nalas. After TOI reported on the open nalas posing danger to the residents and commuters alike, a team of officials, led by SCB deputy CEO Vijay Kumar Balan Nair, visited six such spots on Saturday. The team was also accompanied by SCB senior sanitary inspector M Devener and SCB engineer Mohd Iqbal Ahmed, The officials visited various areas and even put up a temporary iron barricade around the Patny nala at Begumpet. The Patny nala covers around 5 km length of drainage system and a barricade around it will help safeguard residents of 10 to 15 colonies. “We have spent Rs 1.50 lakh and desilted the nala ahead of monsoon to ensure free flow of the drainage. Now, a retaining wall will be constructed as a permanent solution, keeping in view the safety of locals,” M Devener told STOI. “We also identified certain dangerous spots on open nalas in SAIL colony, Jai Nagar colony, Malani colony, Pavan Vihar and Anand Vihar colony in the Cantonment,” he added. The officials also be visited Viman Nagar colony at Balamrai. “Soon, a report on the danger spots will be submitted to SCB CEO B Ajith Reddy, who directed us to identify them and construct a retaining wall,” said a n official. The official added that over 70% of open nalas have been covered by retaining walls and complaints of overflowing nalas have come down drastically this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-inspects-open-nalas-after-toi-report/articleshow/78340787.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||With 949 fresh cases, Covid tally now over 46k in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: With 949 fresh cases of Covid-19 being reported on Saturday, Uttarakhand’s Covid tally reached 46,281. A senior judge and the director of the power corporation were among those that tested positive. Meanwhile, three Covid-19 positive prisoners of Sitarganj Central Jail escaped the district hospital, Rudrapur, where they were admitted, by breaking a ward window. The incident created a panic in the area. Earlier this week, eight prisoners quarantined at a temporary jail in Haridwar had escaped. SP Crime Pramod Kumar confirmed the incident and said that CCTV footage is being scanned and nearby areas are being searched to find the whereabouts of the prisoners. “A prisoner lodged at a Covid Care Centre in Dehradun also escaped. So, a total of four Covid-19 positive prisoners are on the loose in the city at this time,” Kumar said. Once again, Dehradun reported the maximum number of cases on Saturday at 295. It was followed by 178 from Haridwar, 65 from Nainital and 63 from Udham Singh Nagar. Among the hill districts, Almora reported maximum fresh cases at 92, followed by 80 in Pauri and 59 in Uttarkashi, 48 in Pithoragarh and 37 in Champawat, 15 in Chamoli and 12 in Tehri. Rudraprayag and Bageshwar reported three and two cases respectively. Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room informed that 11 Covid-19 patients had died across the state, taking the tally of Covid deaths in Uttarakhand to 566. With 1,007 people recovering, the total recoveries reached 34,649 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-949-fresh-cases-covid-tally-now-over-46k-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/78338987.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat yet to clear 54% of PMFBY dues||AHMEDABAD: Even though the agriculture sector clocked a growth of 3.4% in the first quarter of 2020-21, outperforming other sectors amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, it does not seem to have augmented the income of farmers, at least in seven Indian states including Gujarat. According to data tabled in the parliament, Gujarat government has not cleared dues worth Rs 858.72 crore, towards premium subsidy amount under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) for the kharif season of 2019 and rabi season of 2019-20. Consequently, farmers have been unable to get claim settlements for crop damages, leaving them bereft of revenues. The said amount accounts for at least 54% of the total premium subsidy worth Rs 1,573.51 crore that is supposed to be paid by the state government to insurers. When asked why the dues were not cleared, sources in the state government blamed the insurance companies which have not cleared farmers’ claims in the past. “The state government has been clearing the dues from time to time and has been paying insurance companies. However, last year, the insurance companies did not settle claims put forth by several farmers for crop damage. Nearly 4 lakh farmers from Gujarat had sought settlement of the claims under PMFBY. However, despite state government’s timely payments, a number of claims were rejected. Therefore, the state stopped giving funds to the companies,” said the source. Under the PMFBY, a small share of the premium is borne by the farmer and the remaining is cleared by state and central government through subsidy. Since the state government has not cleared premium subsidies to the insurance companies, farmers are not eligible for getting any claims settled, which only dents their income further. Explaining this, Sagar Rabari, president, Khedut Ekta Manch said, “Once the state and central governments clear premium funds, then only insurance companies release the claim amount. Last year, due to unseasonal rainfall, a number of farmers suffered crop losses and are still awaiting claim settlements. It is a double whammy for farmers. On one hand, they are losing money paid for premium, which are not being refunded by insurance companies. On the other, neither are their claims settled for crop damage nor are they earning anything out of their harvest.” “As a result, farmers are unable to repay their debts, adding to the bad loan burden in the agriculture sector,” he further added. According to the report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), the total agriculture NPA (non-performing assets) stood at Rs 6,282 crore in 2019-20, up 10.5% against Rs 5,690 crore in 2018-19. Farmers claim that in 2017-18 and 2018-19, several insurance claims remained unsettled by insurance companies and as a consequence, farmer’s net income took a further hit over the years. “Unsettled claims has caused piling of debts for farmers because their sources of income through selling the crop are drying up and they are also losing out on cost of cultivation and their share of the premium,” said Ratasinh Dodiya, a farmer from Surendranagar. Economists indicate that non-payment of subsidy to the company will not address the issue of augmenting the farmers’ income. “The sole purpose of PMFBY was to provide farmers with a safety net in the event of crop failure or damages. If the insurance companies have not settled claims in the past, stopping premium subsidies is no solution, because farmers continue to suffer. Instead, a better regulation is required to monitor how claims are cleared by companies,” said Sebastian Morris, professor, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-yet-to-clear-54-of-pmfby-dues/articleshow/78341712.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 27, 2020||Nashik||Morcha calls for peaceful stir from October 2 on Maratha quota||NASHIK: The state committee of the Sakal Maratha Kranti Morcha has called for a peaceful agitation in front of the residences of all MLAs and MPs across the state on October 2. It has also categorically announced that it was not party to the October 10 bandh called by some other outfits. The committee met in Nashik on Saturday under the leadership of MP Sambhaji Raje Chatrapati. It has rejected any government move to provide reservation to the Maratha community under the economically weaker backward (EWS) category and also warned the government against carrying out any recruitment before the issue is resolved. Prominent leaders of the community — Narendra Patil Rajendra Kundri, Virendra Pawar — were present at the meeting. MP Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Bhosle, who could not attend the meeting due to some personal reasons, extended his support to the Sakal Maratha Kranti Morcha meeting at Nashik and requested everybody to join the agitation for its final fight. The committee adopted a resolution about holding agitations outside the residences of MLAs and MPs on October 2, when the elected representatives would be asked to write a letter demanding reservation for the community. The committee also decided to hold agitations in front of the offices of tehsildar and district collector from October 5 to October 10. It appealed to each of the community members to write a letter to the prime minister and the President requesting them to grant reservation to the Maratha community in Maharashtra. Another demand in the resolution was that the state government should appeal to the Centre to lift the 50% capping of reservation in the country. The resolution stated that if the government failed to do so, the Marathas would hold protests in Delhi. On the education front, the morcha demanded that the state government immediately provide 12% more seats across government education organisations for the Maratha community and bear all costs for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/morcha-for-peaceful-stir-from-oct-2/articleshow/78338985.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||SFJ tries to find support from farmers by dangling $1m offer||AMRITSAR: To earn sympathy of farmers of Punjab, United States (US) based Sikh body, Sikh for Justice (SFJ) and its legal counsel Gurpatwant Singh Pannu , a designated terrorist, have now given a call for ‘Gherao Modi’ rally on September 30. Pannun claimed that SJF would start distributing $1 million among the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, following the Delhi rally. Pannun told TOI on Saturday, “A day after the rally, SFJ will start distributing $1million among farmers who have defaulted agricultural loan payments”. Stating that the government may not allow farmers to travel freely to the national capital, Pannun has urged truckers who transport produce from Punjab, Haryana, Jammu, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to flock at Modi’s residence on Wednesday and burn copies of farm bills. Earlier, Pannun had promised reimbursement of $20 service fee to pilgrims levied by Pakistan on the Indian devotees going to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib. He had also offered to give $5,000 and $500 to any Sikh offering Khalistan ardas at Akal Takht and other gurdwara’s respectively on August 23. He had offered to reimburse students’ airfare to London, if they were travelling to attend pro-Khalistan functions in any airlines except Air India. However, SFJ never declared the names of beneficiaries whom it had extended financial help. Indian government had declared Pannun a designated terrorist in July following which National Investigation Agency ordered to attach his immovable property in Amritsar under Section 51 A of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA ) 1967.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sfj-tries-to-find-support-from-farmers-by-dangling-1m-offer/articleshow/78341699.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 27, 2020||Goa||Private groups get govt support for rejuvenating neglected water bodies||Panaji: To promote the restoration of neglected waterbodies in the state, the Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) and the Goa State Wetland Authority is now open to extending support to local organisations who are interested in carrying out the work Recently, an organisation CATCH2O got in touch with the bodies after it had carried out restoration work in three waterbodies in Saligao. The work was conducted voluntarily and the organisation had sought support from the government bodies. Subsequently, a team of a representative of the water resources department, the member secretary of the GSBB and a scientific officer was formed. This team will access similar proposals from any local organisations or associations who want to carry out conservation and restoration of waterbodies. Some financial assistance will be approved on a case-to-case basis for the work based on the extent of the waterbody and the restoration work required, said an official. The work of restoration will include job of clearing the waterbody of any invasive species of vegetation and removal of any waste dumped in it. Many rivers, lakes, ponds and other water bodies are polluted beyond their self-recovery capacity due to release in them of untreated sewage, debris and dumping of garbage. Years of neglect of waterbodies also leads to the growth of invasive vegetation, which at times covers nearly the entire water surface of the body, leading to choking of the eco-system. Such invasive species out-compete native organisms for nutrients, which can spell doom for the native species and the waterbody as a whole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-groups-get-govt-support-for-rejuvenating-neglected-water-bodies/articleshow/78340755.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Dempo, kin give phones to orphan girls at Santa Cruz||Panaji: Less than five days after TOI reported the plight of girl students in a Santa Cruz orphanage who lacked smartphones to access online classes, Dempo Group and co-founder of a Hyderabad-based IT start-up PerspectAI have ensured that each of the six students in need now have individual devices. Director of the home Care and Compassion-Goa, Prince Aaron Golden, said that the girls are ‘excited’ about their new smartphones and will not have to attend classes using phones borrowed from the orphanage’s staff. “I read the report in TOI and felt it was our duty to help. One, it is an orphanage. Two, it is run from the village of Santa Cruz, where my family house is. Six smartphones was their main requirement. It is our duty to make the world a better place and give access to youngsters who have the aspiration to study,” said Dempo Group chairman Shrinivas Dempo. “I would like to thank the TOI and I would want newspapers to get more such stories reported so more responsible citizens can come forward to help,” he said. Brother-in-law Purnajaya Singh, co-founder of PerspectAI, who provided two of the six smartphones to the home, said he wanted to help with the cause all the more as it involved education of the girl child. “This is for the education of the girl child. The way we received good education and love of our parents, these are children of an orphanage who want to pursue education. They are the future of our country and it was our duty to help,” said Singh, who has a doctorate in psychology and whose start-up works in the area of human resources technology. Golden said that thanks to the donation from the Dempo Group and Singh, each of the students studying in the higher classes from the home has a dedicated phone for their studies, as was the requirement of their schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dempo-kin-give-phones-to-orphan-girls-at-santa-cruz/articleshow/78340789.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||27-yr-old Khammam student dies in UK||Hyderabad: A 27-year-old student from Khammam passed away in London on Friday after suffering a seizure. His friends have now started a ‘Gofundme’ campaign online to raise funds to repatriate his body home. Rakesh Jangala hailed from a family of farmers in Khammam. He arrived in London in September 2019 to pursue his masters in engineering management at Greenwich University. “He used to say that he came from a poor family. If he was able to settle well in life, he could improve the life of his family members as well,” said Laxman Gudipudi, a colleague who worked with Jangala part-time at a warehouse. Speaking about the campaign, Gudipudi said we hope to raise £50,000 (approx Rs 47lakh) part of which will go towards transporting the body and the other part towards helping the family in this devastating time. “We are making arrangements for the body to be sent back on Tuesday evening,” he said. Jangala passed away in his sleep on September 24 at his residence, Manor Park, East London due to seizures caused by fits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/27-yr-old-khammam-student-dies-in-uk/articleshow/78340828.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||Another escaped Haridwar jail inmate caught||Haridwar: Days after eight inmates managed to flee from Haridwar jail, police on Saturday caught an undertrial prisoner from Selaqui, Dehradun. With this, the police have now nabbed seven inmates who had escaped from the jail. “He has been identified as Shubham Panwar, a resident of Chamoli, who was arrested by Jawalapur police for firing on a property dealer last week. He was the shooter of notorious criminal Kaleem who had demanded Rs 1 crore extortion money from the property dealer in question. We have registered a case against the escaped prisoners and Shubham was arrested from Dehradun. We are also searching for the prisoner who is still at large,” LS Butola, SHO of SIDCUL police station, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/another-escaped-haridwar-jail-inmate-caught/articleshow/78339002.cms||MS Nawaz
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||No lockdown for science education||Ahmedabad: When the state went into lockdown due to Covid-19 on March 25, Science City was among the public institutions that was locked for visitors and six months later, it is yet to open. However, Science City and regional science centres kept students and science enthusiasts engaged through a number of webinars and e-activities. To commemorate this, the state department of science and technology (DST) on Friday launched an e-book, ‘Science Popularization Programmes 2020’. The e-book was unveiled by Hareet Shukla, secretary (science and technology) in the presence of S D Vora, executive director, Science City. “The idea is to document our efforts during the lockdown. The book explains how to engage with us on social media platforms,” said a Science City official, adding that it will be available on the Science City website. On Saturday, Science City and the community science centres celebrated International Observe the Moon Night. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-lockdown-for-science-education/articleshow/78341731.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||Minor reshuffle in police dept; Manikant made SP Bageshwar||Dehradun: In a minor reshuffle in the police department, the state government gave new transfers and postings to four officers. Manikant Mishra, who was the SP in CID, Dehradun sector, has been made the Superintendent of Police for Bageshwar district. Ajay Anushman, who was serving as the IG Jail, has been given additional charge of Intelligence as well. P Murugesan, who is IG Provisions and Modernisation in PHQ, has been given additional charge of administration. Chandra Mohan Singh has been made additional police superintendent for CID, Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-reshuffle-in-police-dept-manikant-made-sp-bageshwar/articleshow/78339017.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 27, 2020||Goa||Voices of protest resonate in Panaji||Panaji: A group of citizens gathered at the Panaji church square on Friday to demonstrate against the three projects coming up through the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park in Mollem. The protestors said that they want to urge the government to listen to the wishes of the people. They said they are not opposed to development, but are against infrastructural projects coming up at the cost of protected areas of Goa. “We want to create awareness about the scam being carried out in the name of development. Mollem forest is centuries old, preserved through the ages by our ancestors. It is being destroyed today in the name of development. Who exactly knows what the projects consist of? We get lakhs of tourists every year due to our heritage, which is our greenery. If this greenery is gone then why would they come,” said a protestor. “People from Margao, Mapusa and across the state have come here. Today, our attitude is that we are not bothered as long as we ourselves or something that belongs to us is not directly affected. We say why are we bothered? But if it is connected to Goa we should be bothered. Because all such decisions on these projects are being taken during the lockdown. It is being done as people are afraid to come out during the pandemic. But today you see people have come out here because they want to save whatever is left of Goa,” said activist Cecille Rodrigues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/voices-of-protest-resonate-in-panaji/articleshow/78340785.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab & Haryana to start paddy procurement today||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana on Saturday decided to advance the paddy procurement season, complying with directions from the Centre. The paddy procurement season has now been scheduled from September 27 to November 30. The directions came as a surprise for the Captain Amarinder Singh government in Punjab as the state is dealing with the ongoing farmer agitation against the Centre’s agri-marketing bills. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told TOI that since the state government had all arrangements already in place, it will have no problem in immediately starting the procurement, which was earlier scheduled from October 1. The Centre’s decision could well be a diversionary tactic as it had come amidst the farmer protests, he added. Even though the Centre has ‘allowed’ Punjab and Haryana to begin early procurement, the arrival of stocks is expected to pick up only in the first week of October. Haryana too announced that its paddy procurement season will start from September 27 instead of October 1. While the state government has taken this decision “keeping in view the interests of farmers,” sources confirmed that it seems to be a diversionary tactic by the central government to make the farmers divert from protest and start paddy harvest immediately. Confirming the development, Haryana additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs) P K Dass said the procurement would start with PR-126 variety of paddy. This variety has been harvested by farmers of Kurukshetra, Karnal, Ambala and Kaithal districts. Around 4 lakh quintals of paddy has already arrived in the mandis of these four districts. Adequate arrangements in Haryana have been made by the procurement agencies, including Hafed, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department. Gate pass being issued by the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board to farmers to enter the mandis is being verified through the staff of the market committee. Haryana will also check whether farmers bringing crops to mandi have registered on Meri Fasal-Mera Byora portal. The e-Kharid portal will also start from September 29 to help farmers in Haryana. Punjab has issued directions for staggered procurement as farmers will be allowed to enter the mandis with passes issued to them 72 hours in advance and only one trolley will be allowed on one pass. Mandi yards have been marked with 30ft X 30Ft blocks to maintain the social distance, said chief secretary Vini Mahajan, who reviewed the state’s preparedness for the procurement process on Saturday. The Mandi Board will start issuing passes from September 29 and the Punjab government will explore possibility of increasing the number of centres to over 4,500 to ensure hassle-free, smooth and timely procurement of paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-to-start-paddy-procurement-today/articleshow/78340803.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Impossible to run hospitals at capped rates: Pvt doctors||Nagpur: Private doctors in Nagpur met state health minister Rajesh Tope, FDA minister Dr Rajendra Shingne and home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday and submitted a memorandum in which they claimed that the state government has failed to understand the difficulties of the doctors and hospitals. “Doctors endured all sorts of injustice, contempt, abusive treatment for the last five months. They kept on working, only for the sake of the life of the patient affected by Covid-19 and for the purpose of social commitment that we follow,” said Nagpur IMA president Dr Archana Kothari. “Today, it is almost impossible to run hospitals at these measly rates given by the government,” she said. Dr Anil Laddhad said that it’s not possible to segregate the Covid and non-Covid patients in small hospitals. “Small hospitals must not be forced to keep Covid patients. This will be counterproductive and will lead to a disaster. Instead, bed strength in government institutes and big hospitals should be increased,” he said. Doctors also requested the health minister not to appoint government employees as auditors to check hospital bills. They also raised objection against the prejudiced statements made by ministers and politicians those are insulting doctors. Dr Sanjay Deshpande, former president IMA, said that a large number of Covid hospitals were attacked at several places. He requested that local police should file FIR and take action against the culprits immediately. IMA had requested that the home department of Maharashtra government should inform all police stations to take action in such cases under Maharashtra Medical Services Act and the Epidemic Act 1897, Ordinance- April 2020. Till today the request has not met the terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/impossible-to-run-hospitals-at-capped-rates-pvt-doctors/articleshow/78340696.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sex predator in empty office||AHMEDABAD: A 33-year-old woman from Vatva lodged a complaint against one Gaurishankar Yadav on Saturday for molesting her. Inspector of Vatva police station H V Sisara said they lodged an offence and have arrested the accused after testing him for Covid-19. According to the complainant, who works as a translator and lives alone in Vatva, she had bought a piece of land at Vaidehinagar near Ropda village for Rs 2 lakh. For this she was paying a monthly instalment of Rs 2,000 at a builder’s office. According to the FIR, on September 14, she went to the builder’s office to pay the instalment. The builder was not there and his office boy Gaurishankar was alone in the office. The FIR states that Gaurishankar took advantage of their being alone and grabbed the complainant by her hand and pulled her towards him. “He then touched her inappropriately. She managed to free herself and ran out of the office and went home as she was traumatized,” said Sisara. Police sources said the victim initially thought she would forget the incident and move on but later reconsidered and lodged a complaint on Saturday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sex-predator-in-empty-office/articleshow/78341735.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||In 5 years, all houses in Delhi to get water 24x7, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that after ensuring 24x7 electricity supply, the state government would now strive to provide water 24x7 to every city household. Fulfilling this election promise will end the woes of Delhiites who are forced to install water pumps and overhead tanks to store water supplied at fixed times. Delhi government will begin by hiring a consultant to suggest how to make 24x7 supply possible. Rubbishing claims of opposition leaders that water supply in Delhi was being privatised, Kejriwal said nothing of the sort was being done. “We promised you that like 24x7 electricity supply achieved in the last five years, we will also ensure 24x7 clean water in every household over the next five years,” the CM said. “I am glad to share we have started this process. It got delayed a bit due to Covid-19, else it would have been completed in March or April next year.” Unlike in capitals of developed countries like London, Tokyo and Paris, water pressure in Delhi is low and requires people to install pumps to send water to overhead tanks. And when one house installs a pump, it has a cascading effect down the line, so every household is eventually forced to install pumps and water tanks. “We must bring all this to an end. Like citizens of global capitals, Delhiites too will receive 24x7 water at full pressure,” the CM assured. Every day, around 930 million gallons of water are processed in Delhi, giving each citizen around 176 litres of water. But this volume includes all purposes, such as industrial, swimming pools, farming water, etc. “We have to increase the availability of water in Delhi, so we are in talks with the governments of UP, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and some other states that have enough water to help Delhi achieve sufficiency,” Kejriwal said. The CM also noted that there was no accountability of the 930 MGD of current available water, some of it being pilfered or wasted through leaks. “The consultant will tell us how to rectify the water management system and ensure accountability without the wastage of even a single drop of water. We have to induct state of the art technology,” Kejriwal said. He said there is technology where Delhi Jal Board can operate a valve remotely from a control room. The water utility’s central control room will have full information on which pipeline and which areas gets how much water, and full information on the availability of water would be available on real-time basis. “This is called the SCADA system. The consultant will tell us about this technology. It will help us move towards providing day-long supply of water to Delhiites,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-5-yrs-all-houses-in-delhi-to-get-water-24x7-says-cm/articleshow/78340849.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 27, 2020||Goa||Follow Covid norms, Rane directs ITIs||Panaji: With industrial training institutes (ITIs) starting classes as per the Centre’s directions, health minister Vishwajit Rane has urged ITI students and faculty to follow all the protocols to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Attendance at ITIs has remained around 60% and the directorate of skill development expects attendance to pick up by Monday. The department expects 90% attendance at the government and private ITIs. “It is my sincere appeal to all students and trainers to ensure all protocols and SOPs are followed for the smooth functioning in these challenging times,” said Rane. All the 10 ITIs started functioning from September 21 after the Centre’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines with a mix of online classes, practicals and workshop training while also maintaining social distancing as far as possible. The government has provided students with masks and has placed hand sanitizers at specific locations at each of the ITIs. Since the lockdown in March, the ITIs have been shut and exams have been delayed due to the pandemic. “ITIs across the state have commenced classes amid the pandemic in adherence to Covid-19 guidelines laid by the Union ministry of health and family welfare,” said Rane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/follow-covid-norms-rane-directs-itis/articleshow/78340821.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||BJP minister gets Rs 172 light bill, Congress demands inquiry||PANAJI: Seeking an inquiry into the issuance of an electricity bill of Rs 172 for 50 days to urban development minister Milind Naik, Congress questioned how Naik’s power consumption at his official residence could be so low during Ganesh Chaturthi. It also slammed the executive electricity engineer for justifying the bill. “An inquiry has to be conducted to find out how the minister received a bill of just Rs 172 when his entire family was staying at the bungalow,” said state Congress vice-president Sankalp Amonkar. “There are photographs showing the bungalow was fully lit during Ganesh Chaturthi, although the electrical engineer claimed there was no power load issued and the bungalow had not been occupied.” Congress said it was inappropriate for the state to issue power bills for an official residence in the name of the minister, as the bills could be misused at a later stage. “Why should the electricity engineer offer clarification for the minister’s bill? There must also be a thorough inquiry into bills being sent to the official bungalow on a personal name,” said Amonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-minister-gets-rs-172-light-bill-cong-demands-inquiry/articleshow/78340819.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||O2 beds give hotels edge over NMC-run CCCs||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) three Covid care centres (CCC) are having large number of vacant rooms, yet citizens are preferring private hotels which are being converted into CCCs with oxygen beds and round-the-clock medical support. Except for oxygen facility, around 10 hotel CCCs don’t have anything additional as compared to NMC’s CCCs. The civic body-run centres too have oxygen but only for emergency use. The NMC CCCs are free-of-cost and the medical staff is also entrusted with shifting patients who develop symptoms to hospitals. The hotels are charging around Rs6000 per day for almost similar facilities and shift patients to private dedicated hospitals with whom they have tied up. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said that around 10 hotels have been given permission to run CCCs. “Generally, we advise citizens to get admitted to our CCCs. But it is up to them if they wish to avail paid services. We don’t have oxygen beds at our CCCs. The private CCCs are also offering doctors, nurses and check-ups,” he said. In July end, the administration had permitted all private hotels to start CCCs by tying up with private hospitals. The per day room rent had been fixed at Rs2,500, though it was not clear what services would be offered against the fee. Depending on their type, private hotels are charging Rs3,500 to Rs6,000 per day which includes food, doctor and medicines charges. However, oxygen, if required is charged at Rs800 per day separately while Rs400 is additional cost for pick up and dropping of patient. The rates are higher for double occupancy. Some hotels have leased out their properties to enterprising professionals and group of doctors who are offering a range of services. “There is no proven treatment for Covid-19. Mostly, patients are given generic drugs. People must have faith in system and avoid unnecessarily spending out of sheer panic,” a doctor posted at a CCC said. As on Friday, only 267 patients are collectively admitted at VNIT (41), MLA Hostel (140) and Pachpaoli (86) CCCs. MLA hostel is as good as a hotel, having attached washrooms. VNIT and Pachpaoli too have newly-constructed buildings having posh rooms. In addition, the NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rughnalaya (IGR) offers around 130 oxygenated beds and has only 43 admissions. The private CCCs have a combined capacity of over 300 beds and most of them are full. A doctor from another CCC said the NMC must run only CCC and transfer doctors and paramedics to tertiary hospitals grappling with staff shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/o2-beds-give-hotels-edge-over-nmc-run-cccs/articleshow/78340807.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Covid-19 positivity rate dips to 3.2% in past week||LUCKNOW: The case positivity rate or the number of persons testing positive against those tested has been on the decline in Uttar Pradesh. The state health department data shows the CPR dropped to 3.2% in the past week from 4% in the September 13-19 week. In fact, CPR dipped to 2.8% on Saturday from 4.1% on September 20. “This is a positive sign, but it surely does not mean that the risk of infection is any less now. The risk of contracting coronavirus infection still remains the same. Also, even a small lapse or deviation in prevention protocol can be a problem. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance are still must to keep trouble away,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. The Covid-19 recovery rate in state is rising while the number of active cases is decreasing, he added. “The recovery rate has climbed to 83.6% while active cases have come below 60,000,” he said, adding that the community’s role in weakening and breaking the Covid-19 chain is extremely crucial to ensure the second wave doesn’t raise its head in UP. “On the one hand, an improving recovery rate is good news, but it also means that the stage for second surge is set. In fact, many states faltered and have already borne the brunt by failing to check the second surge. The role and behaviour of community over the next few days will decide if UP manages to prevent a second wave or faces the same fate. Wearing masks, washing hands and social distancing our still the key weapons,” he said. Meanwhile, 4,412 cases in the past 24 hours took UP’s Covid-19 tally to 3,82,835, while 6,546 patients were discharged from government and private facilities. While total recoveries rose to 3,20,232, the Covid toll crossed 5,500-mark with 69 casualties in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/case-positivity-dips-to-3-2-in-past-week/articleshow/78341722.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 27, 2020||Goa||‘Consult locals before commencing new projects’||Panaji: Since the tourism industry uses natural resources of villages, local communities must be consulted before any new projects are started. This was the sentiment echoed by speakers at a webinar held by the Centre for Responsible Tourism on the eve of World Tourism Day, which is celebrated on September 27. The theme of the webinar was ‘Coastal communities and their livelihood in Covid-19 times’. Geraldine Fernandes, a guest house owner, said that more powers must be given to local bodies so that problems can be redressed at the ground-level. Anabel da Gama of Eco footprints and Ranjan Solomon, executive director at Badayl, Commitment spoke about the importance of sustainable development. “Local communities must own tourism because they can tell the story of Goa. Maintaining balance between ecology and economy is the need of the hour,” Solomon said. “Tourism serves as the backbone of the local community, it is mandatory that the local self-governing bodies and the state machinery do their best to support stakeholders,” travel agent and guest house owner, Joseph D’Souza, said. The webinar was moderated by Fr Freddy Braganza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consult-locals-before-commencing-new-projects/articleshow/78340838.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Decline in city deaths, but experts say Covid curve not flattening yet||Nagpur: On the cusp of 2,000 Covid deaths, the city has started to witness a decline in the number of fatalities and fatality rate (number of deaths against positive cases). As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) data, there were 18 Covid deaths on Saturday. This is the lowest single day spike since 13 deaths were registered on August 13. On Saturday, the fatalities till date was 1,999. From March to July, there were 83 deaths and 3,645 positive cases for a CFR of 2.27%. By end of August, total deaths were 960, positive cases 26,593 and CFR 3.6%. The CFR only for August was the highest at 3.82% as city recorded 877 deaths and 22,948 positive cases. The daily average of deaths was 28 and positive cases 740. Between September 1 and 7, there were 336 deaths for a daily average of 48. The CFR was 3.68% as positive cases were 9,120 for a daily average of 1,303. September 8 to 14 saw a slight reduction in deaths. There were 293 deaths and positive cases were 9,150 for a CFR of 3.20%. The daily average of fatalities was 42 and positive cases 1,307. The trend of decline in deaths continued between September 15-21. It was 266. Positive cases were 8,618 and the CFR 3.08%. The daily average was 38 deaths and 1,231 positive cases. In the last five days, the number of deaths was 41, 36, 25, 24 and 18 for a total of 144. The daily average was 29 fatalities. Positive cases were 5,699 for a daily average of 1,140. Thus, the CFR of last five days was 2.52%. The city’s overall CFR was 3.37% as on Saturday (deaths 1,999, positive cases 59,150) because of high CFR in August and two weeks of September. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde feel that decline in deaths and CFR cannot be considered as flattening of curve and that the data will have to be monitored for another 15 days. “Positivity rate is yet to go down. We seem to be on a plateau now. The scenario is likely to be clear in the next three weeks,” said Dr Shinde. NMC’s additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI that declining deaths is a good sign. “The reasons could be that symptomatic patients started to get beds in hospitals, comorbid reporting early to hospitals and so on. The number of positive patients going down is probably due to decline in number of tests. On Saturday, we planned few things for increasing the tests. If positive cases increase, then CFR will decline to a great extent,” he said. As against the daily average testing of 3,096 in August, testing increased to 6,811 in September 1-7 and 10,261 in September 8-14. It reduced to 6,598/day during September 15-21. The daily average testing of last five days was 5,308. Joshi said that the number of people visiting NMC testing centres and UPHCs “are declining”. “We will now reach out to people to get more tests done,” he said. The civil surgeon’s data has only 1,711 deaths. As reported by TOI on Friday, the CS has started to do reconciliation and bring data on par with NMC. Though he has matched the positive cases and recoveries, there is a difference in deaths (288).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decline-in-city-deaths-but-experts-say-covid-curve-not-flattening-yet/articleshow/78340754.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Sambhajiraje rapsKMC corporators||Kolhapur: Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje on Saturday took strong objection to a motion moved by corporators in the civic general body (GB) meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi denied him time for a meeting over the Maratha reservation issue. The Rajya Sabha member’s reaction came a day after the Congress and NCP corporators moved the motion condemning the Union government for the Maratha quota fiasco, leading to the adjournment of the GB meeting. “I would have been happier had the corporators taken a decision on more important issues like piped-gas supply,” he said.. “I can meet the PM any time. However, I want to go along with all the MPs to make it more accommodative”, said Sambhajiraje in a statement adding that the PM had not turned down any of his request for a meeting after the Supreme Court stayed the Maratha reservation. Sambhajiraje said the PMO may have denied him time as meeting so many people is not advisable in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have been fighting for Maratha reservation for 14 years, but never brought politics in the issue”, he said. The BJP and Tararani Aaghadi, meanwhile, said that “casual approach” by the Uddhav Thackeray government led to the Supreme Court bringing a stay on Maratha quota in jobs and education recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sambhajiraje-rapskmc-corporators/articleshow/78339040.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||Two states on one heritage trail||It’s a journey made by the Buddha himself, a journey which overcame the boundaries of kingdoms. And in the centuries after the master had passed, thousands followed in his footsteps. They ranged from rulers to humble monks, from warriors seeking peace to curious pilgrims from foreign parts, such as Hiuen-Tsang. The visitors who came carried the faith back with them, spreading the word of the master beyond the mountains of the north and the oceans of the southeast, in a cultural conquest that no sword could have matched. Perhaps in the current age, it is time for India to build on the heritage of the past and showcase this trail in a manner that benefits the citizens of today. The recent announcement by chief minister Yogi Adityanath for international flights from Kushinagar clearly indicates that the current establishment is planning on the same lines. However, the opportunity is bigger—much bigger than what just one city or one airport can throw up. Today, there exists the never-before chance to create what might become India’s most profitable tourist circuit by leveraging global adherents of the Buddhist faith. The key pre-requisite to this will be that two states—Uttar Pradesh and Bihar—work together and create both tourist infrastructure as well as joint marketing plans to showcase this heritage to a worldwide audience. he modern-day pilgrim’s journey could begin in the holy city of Varanasi and moving in a giant clockwise circle, culminate in Bodh Gaya in Bihar. While there can be various permutations and combinations, here is what the circuit, beginning with a landing at the international airport at Varanasi, could look like: Sarnath is a holy spot in Buddhism. Also called Rishipatana or Mrigadaya in Buddhist archives, its current name is probably a mutation of Saranganatha which means lord of deer, coming from a deer park here. This is the place the Buddha came to, after attaining enlightenment at Bodh Gaya, and preached his first sermon to five disciples here. The event is called the ‘Dharma Chakra Pravarttana’ – turning of the Wheel of Law. The extensive complex here includes the remains of the Dharmarajika stupa as well as the Dhamekh and Chaukhandi stupa, along with numerous votive stupas and monastery remains. A site museum gives a snapshot of the place’s past. Move next to Prayagraj, where the Allahabad Museum set in the historic Alfred Park is the best place to get a comprehensive understanding of the region’s history over time. The museum even has Buddhist remains from sites that now lie in Madhya Pradesh. A short drive west of Prayagraj is Kaushambi, home to a massive archaeological site. Texts identify it as the seat of the Vatsa kingdom ruled by Udayana, a contemporary of the Buddha. The Buddha himself visited the city on more than one occasion, with some scholars piecing varied accounts to date at least two of these visits, to 521 and 518 BCE. An exploration of the site shows massive remains, including an Ashokan pillar. The next leg of the journey involves a long drive northwards to Shravasti. Visitors may want to break journey at Lucknow too. Shravasti was the place where the Buddha spent many years teaching and the place bears the signs. Excavations near the village of Sahet-Mahet here have thrown up extensive remains of stupas, monasteries and more. The road will now swing eastward towards Kushingar, where the Buddha breathed his last. This event is known as the Parinirvana and the Ramabhar stupa here is believed to have been built over the ashes of the master. At Kushinagar, the visitor could be asked to make a choice. One option is to depart from here via the new airport. Or, if the two state governments could work together, the trip could leap into being the planet’s finest Buddhist experience. A Bihar leg would comprise an eastward journey from Kushinagar to encompass the Kesariya stupa, the extensive remains at Kolhua-Vaishali, the museums at Patna that are filled with Buddhist heritage, before going further south to the UNESCO World heritage site at Nalanda and the former Magadhan capital at Rajgir. A swing westward would bring a visitor to Bodh Gaya, the site where the master attained enlightenment under the Bodhi tree. The tree that currently stands in a vast complex here is said to be a sapling brought from Sri Lanka, from a tree that had originally been grown from a sapling taken from the original tree that was here. Gaya also has an airport which can become a departure point. There can be no better place to end this lengthy trip than a spot for enlightenment. If the itinerary is limited to Uttar Pradesh, a traveller could spend 10 leisurely days going through the places. However, if Bihar also joins hands, this time could be doubled. Imagine a bus tour or perhaps a train like the Palace on Wheels. A small effort by the government would encourage private operators to leap into the fray too, creating more employment. Some food for thought for both governments to mull over on this World Tourism Day!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-states-on-one-heritage-trail/articleshow/78341739.cms||Arjun Kumar
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Violators undeterred over ASI notice on encroachments near Golconda fort||Hyderabad: Works on an unauthorised structure in the prohibited area near Golconda fort are in full swing. A single room is being built in violation of the rules. Confirming the illegal construction, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials said that a notice had been served on the trespasser, but the notices were serving no purpose as the encroachers seem to be having a field day. “We are identifying at least 10 such unauthorised constructions in the prohibited area of the fort every month. We issue red (show-cause) notices promptly, but they (encroachers) ignore them,” an official at the fort told TOI. Expressing distress on numerous encroachments springing up in and around the fort, the official said individual habitations and commercial units dot the fort’s ramparts. “The fort’s marvellous grandeur is shrinking gradually,” he rued. Officials said unauthorised constructions can be seen on three major entries leading to the fort — Fateh darwaza (east side to the fort), Moti darwaza (north side) and Banjara darwaza (north-east side). “Even narrow stretches en route to the fort are not spared by these trespassers,” he added. In another violation, an unauthorised construction is coming up near Masqati lane at Charminar. Sources said officials had already served a notice over it. TOI obtained a copy of the show-cause notice through an RTI application. Citing Rule 33 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (AMASR) 1959 Act, the ASI identified the structure as an unauthorised structure. When asked about measures to control the encroachments in and around ASI-protected sites, superintending archaeologist, ASI, Hyderabad circle, Milan Kumar Chauley said they are keeping a vigil at Golconda and Charminar areas. “We are issuing notices and stepping up efforts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/violators-undeterred-over-asi-notice-on-encroachments-near-golconda-fort/articleshow/78340851.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hotelier sedated, raped by prospective employer||AHMEDABAD: A hotelier from Rajasthan who came looking for a job in Ahmedabad has accused a city transporter of sedating and raping her. The woman, 28, is currently a Sola resident. She lodged a complaint on Saturday stating that Suresh Jat of Narol spiked her cold drink and raped her after she fell unconscious. Inspector S A Gohil of the Narol police station said that the accused has been sent for the pre-arrest Covid test. According to the complainant, who has a PhD, she and her husband used to run a hotel in Rajasthan. The lockdown forced them to close down the business. The FIR said the couple came to Ahmedabad in search of work and have been staying in Sola for the past 15 days. The complainant mentioned in the FIR that she had earlier come to Ahmedabad for a business summit. “Jat met her in that period. He said he runs a transport business and gave his number to the complainant,” said a police source. “Jat asked her to call him if she needed a good job. In the time of crisis, the complainant got in touch with him.” Jat called her to his office in Narol with documents on Friday evening. According to the FIR, Jat led her into his office, checked her documents, and offered a cold drink. “The complainant has alleged that after having the drink, she felt giddy and eventually fell unconscious,” the police source said. “When she regained consciousness, she found that her shirt was unbuttoned and her jeans was pulled down to her knees. She said that she was bleeding from her private parts. She mustered strength and went home.” The FIR said that the woman told her husband what Jat had done and on Saturday lodged a complaint. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hotelier-sedated-raped-by-prospective-employer/articleshow/78341744.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie-Doon ropeway to be ready in 3 years: Secretary of Tourism||Mussoorie: The proposed Mussoorie-Dehradun ropeway is expected to be functional in three years, said secretary, Tourism, Dilip Jawalkar. “At 5.6 km, it will be the country’s longest ropeway and the world’s second longest. The time period for construction is three years but the work could be completed even earlier,” Jawalkar said. Every hour, more than 1000 persons would be able to take the ropeway, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs 300 crores, Jawalkar said. A parking facility, which can accommodate up to 1,500 vehicles, is also being constructed at Purkul – the proposed starting point of the ropeway. “The project is being done on a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) mode. The private firm involved in the construction will get a 17.5% share in the revenue generated by the ropeway. An agreement for 30 years – extendable by 20 years – has been entered into with the firm,” the secretary said. Once ready, the ropeway will not only be a major tourist attraction but is also expected to relieve traffic on the Dehradun-Mussoorie road. On Saturday, Jawalkar also visited George Everest house at Hathipaon, which the tourism department is developing as a cartographic museum, in partnership with Asian Development Bank (ADB). “We are developing a cartographic museum along with an open theatre, heritage trek, log huts and stargazing domes at this site at a cost of Rs 24 crore,” Jawalkar said. Sir George Everest, who served as Surveyor General of India, measured the Great Meridional Arc from Kanyakumari to the Himalayas. The world's highest mountain peak (Mount Everest) is named after him. He owned the house and observatory at this place (about 7 km from Mussoorie) from 1832 to 1843.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-doon-ropeway-to-be-ready-in-3-years-secretary-of-tourism/articleshow/78339042.cms||Anmol Jain
September 27, 2020||Goa||Cops oppose bail plea of accused in Margao jeweller murder case||Colva: The crime branch on Friday opposed the bail plea of Omkar Patil, an accused in the Margao jeweller Swapnil Walke’s murder case, stating that he was part of the criminal conspiracy hatched by other accused, Evender Rodrigues and Mustafa Shaikh. Police told a local court that Patil procured the gun, used to kill the jeweller, from Bihar along with the other accused. Crime branch sleuths stated that when Rodrigues was in Delhi and in need of money, he contacted the other two accused and disclosed his plans to loot jewellery shops in Goa using the deadly weapon. On June 30, 2020, Rodrigues booked two airlines tickets for his accomplices to Delhi. From Delhi they flew to Bihar and procured the gun. Patil and Shaikh then had firing practices with the gun, the investigation agency said. Rodrigues came down to Goa on July 28 and resided in Panaji at some premises taken on rent by Omkar. After surveying jeweller shops in Margao, they zeroed in on ‘Krishni jeweller’ as they saw Walke sitting alone in the shop. Few days prior to the commission of the crime, one of them had entered the shop to view the interiors, police informed the court. After commission of the crime, Rodrigues and the bail applicant, Patil, burnt the blood-stained clothes of Shaikh and Rodrigues at Dona Paula to destroy evidence. The knife was also recovered following the statement made by the applicant. On September 2, Shaikh entered the shop, shot and stabbed Walke in a bid to commit robbery and escaped. Police have booked the accused under sections 302, 398, 201 read with 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act.Post-mortem report has revealed that the victim suffered 21 brutal injuries including entry and exit gunshot wounds, nine stab wounds and 11 abrasions and bruises. The arguments in the case will be heard on October 1 as the defence lawyer sought time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-oppose-bail-plea-of-accused-in-margao-jeweller-murder-case/articleshow/78341063.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Active corona cases decline, recovery rate rises to 81% in Goa||PANAJI: On Saturday, Goa’s tally of active cases dropped to 5,423 with 688 recoveries which were higher than new cases detected during the day. As many as 503 new cases were reported, while the mortality count touched 392 with five deaths. The state has witnessed a rise in recoveries during the last three days, pushing the recovery rate to 81%. A total of 25,759 patients have been cured so far, while the tally of Covid cases stands at 31,574. Of five deaths, four occurred at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim and one at ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. Four men - a 70-year-old from Morjim, a 64-year-old from Margao, a 60-year-old from Salvador do Mundo, a 70-year-old from Curtorim and a 75-year-old woman from Nadora succumbed to the virus. All five had comorbid conditions. On Saturday, Panaji reported 22 more new cases that brought its tally of active cases to 330. Many of the cases were found at Fontainhas, Mala, while quite a few were detected at Altinho. Some people in St Inez, Miramar and Ribandar were also found positive. All 22 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital opted for home isolation. The number of people choosing home isolation has gone up since the last month. As many as 352 people across the state on Saturday opted for home isolation. The government has already closed two Covid care centres in Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) residencies in view of the trend. On Saturday, Porvorim’s tally of active cases dropped slightly to 392, while that of Sakhali increased to 425. Both primary health centres have been witnessing a spike since last month, with health officials attributing the rise in numbers to higher tests conducted and aggressive contact tracing. Porvorim primary health centre has introduced some changes since last two weeks, after health officer Dr Roshan Nazareth was given additional charge following the transfer of health officer Dr Sikandar Talwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-corona-cases-decline-recovery-rate-rises-to-81/articleshow/78340841.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRG loses Rs 24L in realty con||Ahmedabad: Devi Nandkumar Gandhi, 77, a Canada citizen, filed a complaint on Friday at the Ellisbridge police station stating that two Ahmedabad men have cheated her of Rs 23.80 lakh. Gandhi said in her complaint that Chirag Purohit of Paldi and Ashok Parmar of Raikhad duped her of the money under the pretext of helping her buy a house in Paldi. Ellisbridge police sources said that they have lodged a complaint of cheating and are searching for the accused. Gandhi said in her FIR that her husband had died of cancer in 2006. She said that in February 2016, Purohit came to her house and offered to help her buy a flat. “Purohit showed her some flats to win her trust and later asked her for money to seal the sale,” a police official said. “She gave four cheques to Purohit. He gave her nothing in return.” Gandhi flew to Canada in May 2016. On her son’s instruction, she came back to India in 2019 and asked Purohit for the money. He gave her some cheques; all of them bounced. At the time, Gandhi had filed an application of complaint against Purohit at the Ellisbridge police station. But Parmar stepped in to broker a compromise. She then undertook another trip to Canada. On her return, Purohit and Parmar made more promises but gave no money back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nrg-loses-rs-24l-in-realty-con/articleshow/78341766.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Diabetic, high BP, obese, above 51? You are in Covid danger zone||Nagpur: Diabetes and hyper tension are the biggest causes of Covid deaths. An analysis by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) of toll due to comorbidities reveal that 77% had these two diseases. Also, 26% of the deceased were brought dead and passed away within 24 hours of hospitalization in Covid hospitals. The civic body has analysed 904 Covid deaths between August 31 and September 20. 723 (80%) were comorbid and 181 (20%) had no comorbidities. Among the comorbid, 278 (38.45%) were patients of diabetes and hyper tension. 199 (28%) of the deceased had diabetes and 32 had hyper tension (4.43%). 33 (4.56%) of the deceased were patients of asthma with diabetes or hyper tension, or both. Similarly, 15 (2%) deceased had kidney-related diseases along with diabetes or hyper tension, or both. Intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI that most of the deceased might have had obesity. “The chances of saving a Covid patient with diabetes and hyper tension with obesity is very less, especially if they are hospitalized late. The number of asthma patients contracting Covid might be higher, but it claims fewer victims. Immunity level and resistance of patients with diabetic and hyper tension is very low. Therefore, infection spreads rapidly,” he said. Those with diabetes, hyper tension and obesity need to take more care. “They should compulsorily test and report to hospital on Day-1 of symptoms and also if oxygen saturation level is below 93. Hospitals should give priority admission as well as take extra care of such patients,” said Dr Balankhe. Along with comorbidities, 82.96% of the total deceased were in the age group of above 51 years. Out of 904 deaths, the NMC could get details of admission of 518 deceased in hospitals from the time they first showed symptoms. 125 (24.13%) had reported after five days while 203 (39.19%) within 2-5 days and 190 (36.67%) within 1 day. The civic body could get details of hospitalization of 631 deaths only. 68 (10.77%) were brought dead, 98 (15.53%) died within a day, 231 (36.60%) within 2-5 days and 234 (37.1%) after more than five days. The NMC’s analysis also revealed that 468 (51.77%) had visited private hospitals, clinics and taken treatment for an average of three days before testing for Covid. “Private facilities did not inform about these patients to NMC,” the report pointed out. 228 (25.23%) deceased had visited hospitals run by government and NMC. 208 (23%) had not visited any hospital. 833 (92.14%) of the deceased, most of who were above 51 years and comorbid, contracted the virus from outside their families.  The authorities had constantly asked those with comorbidities not to leave their homes. There is also a change in zone-wise deaths. In the initial stage, deaths were reported only from Gandhibagh and Satranjipura zones.  In August, the deaths were higher in Ashinagar and Gandhibagh zones. This time, the highest deaths were from Hanuman Nagar followed by Mangalwari and Nehru Nagar zones. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma have directed all zones to also undertake analysis of Covid-19 deaths at their levels to identify reasons and chalk out measures to control the fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/diabetic-high-bp-obese-above-51-you-are-in-covid-danger-zone/articleshow/78340856.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||It’s not a title suit like Ayodhya, says petitioner in Mathura case||LUCKNOW: Ranjana Aginhotri, the ‘next friend’ of Bhagwan Shrikrishna Virajman, who filed the civil suit in a Mathura court on Friday claiming the ownership of the entire 13.37 acre of Krishna Janmabhoomi land in the temple town and the removal of Shahi Idgah Masjid, feels that this suit may not be as “challenging” as the Ayodhya’s title suit. “No ownership has to be decided here. This is not a title suit,” Agnihotri, one of the plaintiffs in the suit, told TOI, adding “Our plea is for removing encroachment.” She is not new to such suits. A veteran lawyer, based in Lucknow, she represented Hindu Mahasabha in Ayodhya title suit both in high court and the Supreme Court. When asked about the SC shutting the door for fresh litigation to alter the status quo of sites such as Kashi and Mathura after the Ayodhya verdict in November last year, her advocate HS Jain said, “SC ne aisa koi order nahin diya hai. Media reported wrongly. (SC passed no such order).” As per the petition, up to 2 bighas of land at Katra Keshav Dev has been encroached upon by the Committee of Management Alleged Trust Masjid Idgah and UP Sunni Central Waqf Board. A “superstructure” has been illegally built at the place. “We are seeking removal of encroachment and superstructure from Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi. It should not be difficult,” Jain said. He denied that the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, (which barred courts from entertaining litigation that would alter the status quo of religious places as it existed in 1947) will come in the way of the suit. “The superstructure was illegally raised after a compromise was reached between Shrikrishna Janma Sthan Sewa Sansthan and Committee of Management of Masjid Idgah in 1968.” “We have provided enough proof to say how the temple was demolished during Aurangzeb’s reign and rebuilt later. And, how the mosque was broken by Marathas in 1770 and then came up after 1968.” The Mathura suit has been moved through Agnihotri and six other devotees to ‘reclaim the entire 13.37 acre land at Katra Keshav Dev, Mathura’ which, they claim, belongs to Shrikrishna Virajman, the deity. Katra Keshav Dev is the place where Shrikrishna was born in ‘karagaar’ (prison) in Mathura, she says. The petition elaborated, “ Shrikrishna is the incarnation of Lord Vishnu. He took birth in human form on the day of Ashtami in Krishna Paksh in the month of Bhadrapada about 5,132 years ago in Dwapar Yug in a prison at Mathura the place known as Katra Keshav Dev in Vrishni Kingdom ruled by Kans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/its-not-a-title-suit-like-ayodhya-says-petitioner-in-mathura-case/articleshow/78341755.cms||Neha Shukla
September 27, 2020||Delhi||At 46, Delhi records highest single-day Covid deaths in 2 months||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 46 Covid-19 deaths, its highest single-day toll in more than two months, on Saturday. With this, the city’s death toll has gone up to 5,193. In the last 24 hours, officials said, 57,688 people were tested for Covid-19. Of them, 3,372 (5.85%) tested positive. The total tally has crossed 2.67 lakh, while there are 29,717 active cases. There are a total of 2,231 containment zones in the national capital. Health minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting with medical directors and superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing. Latest data shows 6,833 out of 15,797 Covid beds are occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds with a ventilator and without ventilator is 63% and 77%, respectively. Total 17,600 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, officials said. Covid-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month. The daily surge in cases in Delhi had breached the 4,000-mark for the first time on September 9 while the number of fatalities recorded that day was 20. From September 9-19, fresh cases have been recorded more than 4,000 per day except on September 14 when the figure stood at 3,229 with 26 deaths being recorded that day, according to official data. In the last 26 days, data shared by the state government shows, 749 people have died due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-46-delhi-records-highest-single-day-deaths-in-2-months/articleshow/78340879.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Forest dept moves wildlife week competitions online this year||Panaji: The state forest department will mark Wildlife Week, 2020, in the first week of October by holding online competitions for school students in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. From ‘Make your own bird nest’ to forest photography, the competitions will be held online for children as young as five years. Debate, story-telling and quiz competitions will also be held virtually. Wildlife week is observed annually across the country to coincide with the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The 69th wildlife week will be celebrated by the state forest department around the theme, ‘Sustaining all life on Earth’. “All heads of government, aided, unaided primary, secondary, higher secondary and special schools are hereby required to motivate their students to participate in the competitions and spread awareness and generate appreciation on the need to protect wildlife biodiversity,” schools have been told. Students have been asked to confirm their participation by email on dcfwlnorth-forest.goa@nic.in or send their entries by September 30. All participants will be handed participation certificates. An online story-telling competition and poster competition will be held for students in the age group of 5-12 years. The debate competition will be held for students in the 15-18 years category on the topic, ‘Community participation in wildlife conservation’. A limited number of schools will be able to participate in this contest on a first-come-first-served basis. In the ‘Build the bird nest’ do-it-yourself activity, children up to 14 years of age have to make a three-minute video on preparation of a bird house and submit it online. In the drawing competition, there will be a separate category for special children who can submit entries on the theme, ‘Forest and biodiversity’. ‘Shades of Goa forest’, on the other hand, will be an open category photography competition. “Photographs should be taken from any forest area in Goa and should contain a message about wildlife conservation,” the forest department has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-dept-moves-wildlife-week-competitions-online-this-year/articleshow/78340854.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||PM to inaugurate 8 STPs in U’khand under Namami Gange||Dehradun: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate eight sewerage treatment plants (STPs) of Uttarakhand on September 29. While four of them are in Haridwar, two are in Rishikesh, and one each at Muni-ki-Reti, and Badrinath. Rawat said that all STPs are state-of-the-art and are used to make compost from solid waste. The modern technology used in the STP at Jagjeetpur was also praised by King Carl Sixteenth Gustaf of Sweden during his visit to Uttarakhand. The projects to be inaugurated by the PM include 68 MLD plant at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar worth Rs 230 crore, 27 MLD STP plants at Sarai Haridwar worth Rs 19.64 crore, 18 MLD STPs at Muni-ki-Reti worth Rs 12.99 crore, and five MLD STPs at Chandreshwar Nagar Rishikesh worth Rs 39.32 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-to-inaugurate-8-stps-in-ukhand-under-namami-gange/articleshow/78339064.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake notes & magic stone: Cops end run||Ahmedabad: Gujarat ATS (anti-terrorism squad) on Saturday arrested a man involved in printing fake notes in the quest to acquire a magic charm he and his gang believed acted as a shield during knife attacks. Kamlesh Parmar of Himmatnagar — held on Saturday — was part of a gang that was also chasing X-ray glasses. Parmar had been on the run for three years, soon after the city crime branch charged him and seven others with printing Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN). “The gang was ‘Sulemani Stone’,” a police source said. “The stone is touted to protect the bearer during assaults with sharp-edged weapons.” To buy the stone, the accused had printed FICN with the face value of Rs 11 lakh. ATS officials said that on Saturday inspector C R Jadav, sub-inspector K S Patel, and sub-inspector K M Bhuva got a tip-off that Parmar was hiding at his village, Jivanpur, in Prantij taluka. They immediately headed towards Prantij and caught Parmar while he was sleeping at his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-notes-magic-stone-cops-end-run/articleshow/78341754.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Hoteliers to open tourism doors for needy students||PANAJI: Despite facing tough times during the pandemic, the Small and Medium Hoteliers’ Association of Goa has decided to celebrate the World Tourism Day by reaching out to those in need. The association is getting its members to contribute to help needy students looking to study and enter the tourism industry. Till date, 11 members of the association have contributed towards the scholarship programme and more are expected to join in. “Some local students who passed SSC are facing financial difficulties in pursuing their ambition to enter the tourism industry in Goa. The members of the association are getting together to sponsor students for the hotel management course conducted by Don Bosco Vocational Training Institute, Quepem,” association president Serafino Cota said. “If this goes well, we will also provide scholarships to those who want to do the short diploma course in nursing as nurses are the need of the hour,” he added. “Instead of regular activities like beach cleaning and tree plantation drive, and despite facing difficulties in paying salaries to staff, loans, electricity bills, etc, we decided to celebrate World Tourism Day by giving back,” he added. Meanwhile, the association met tourism secretary Ashok Kumar on Friday to press for a crackdown in illegal tourism by unregistered guest houses operating from gated communities. The association has proposed that gated community operators (Second home) be given B Category registration as the government is losing revenue on electricity, water, GST and pollution fees as they are not treated as commercial billing. In various representations to the chief minister and government this month, the association has called for a tourism tribunal to address grievances from service providers in the industry as well as complaints from civil society and where necessary provide a temporary resolution within 24 hours. The association has also asked for a 50% reduction in excise license fee which has been increased to Rs 60,000 from Rs 13,000 and also for a single window clearance with long term certificate of registration and trade license issued for five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hoteliers-to-open-tourism-doors-for-needy-students/articleshow/78340850.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kochi||Health dept on the hunt for intensivists in Ekm dist||Kochi: With the daily surge in Covid-19 cases, the health department is staring at a shortage of intensive care unit (ICU) specialists, who play a critical role in treating seriously ill patients. The looming scenario forced authorities to initiate a hunt for specialists (medical intensivists), and they even approached private hospitals. The response was underwhelming. Now, the department has invited applications from qualified medical practitioners. Speedy appointments and free accommodation for two years are some of the perks being dangled to lure qualified personnel. Kalamassery Medical College Hospital has five specialists and PVS three. “We need three more intensivists for both Covid hospitals as their services will be necessary when cases rise in the future. We have approached private hospitals in this regard. The service of intensivists is necessary in both the private and government sector. We have trained qualified people in many other sectors,” said Dr Mathew Numpeli, NHM district programme officer. Shortage of intensivists is a problem that is likely to weigh down the health system when cases surge further in the district. Intensivists observe critically ill patients in ICUs and take decisions on their course and levels of treatment. Specialists in tertiary-care hospitals say intensivists are already overburdened as manpower is divvied up between treatment of Covid and general patients. “In proportion to Covid cases reported every day, the number of patients requiring ICU admission is very small. Problems arise when each patient will have to undergo treatment for two to three weeks at a critical-care unit. The number of patients in ICU will accumulate suddenly in such scenarios, raising the burden on critical-care treatment,” said Dr T V Sreevalsan, senior consultant and head of critical care medicine at Lisie Hospital. “Each intensivist can treat six to eight patients a day, ” said Dr Sreevalsan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-on-the-hunt-for-intensivists-in-ekm-dist/articleshow/78339876.cms||T C Sreemol
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Gate tiff: Corporation warns of more action; RWAs cite safety||NEW DELHI: A day after South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) demolished eight gates in Safdarjung Enclave and Green Park Extension, the civic agency on Saturday said that notices would also be issued to other colonies asking them to follow norms. “We will do a survey of other areas and issue notices to RWAs/residents to obtain permission from the traffic police and NOC from the fire department. If norms are still not followed, gates will be removed from other colonies as well. Also, it will be ensured that the colony gates remain open for the general public during daytime,” said an SDMC official. “In case of the two neighbourhoods, the matter was discussed with the residents before taking the action. Some residents had earlier complained about the gates remaining closed during the daytime,” the official added. On Saturday, the Green Park Extension RWA members met the deputy commissioner, south zone. “We were never served the notices. We demanded a copy of complaints (without mentioning residents’ names) but those were also not shared. How can we believe them ? One of SDMC’s officials asserted that they were not bound to serve us notice or share a copy of complaints with RWA, something we immediately raised objection to,” said Neha Puri, general secretary of Green Park Extension RWA. “We had installed the gates on residents’ demand and none of them were on the main road,” she added. RWAs across south Delhi, meanwhile, said that colony gates are necessary to avoid unchecked entry of outsiders and contain the spread of Covid-19. “There are lakhs of such gates in the city and majority of them did not require any permission. If they are removed, it will only increase law and order problems. In our area also, the gates were installed 40 years back after a police initiative ‘Neighbourhood watch’ was introduced,” said Panakj Agarwal, resident of Safdarjung Enclave. He added that on Saturday, SDMC officials asked them to remove three more gates. MK Gupta of Greater Kailash-I S-Block said that SDMC seldom responds to complaints of encroachment, pruning or cleaning backlanes, but when it comes to taking action against some good work done by RWAs, it immediately reacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gate-tiff-corpn-warns-of-more-action-rwas-cite-safety/articleshow/78340933.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 27, 2020||Goa||HC notice to Centre over PIL to protect khazans||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has issued notice to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change on a PIL challenging a recent amendment made to the CRZ Notification 2011, to protect khazan lands that are unique to Goa. Filed by the NGO Goa Foundation, the PIL states that the amendment, which gives protection to the mangroves within khazan lands, will effectively destroy the khazans. It says destruction will occur “unless it is clarified to mean protection for only those mangroves outside khazan bunds on the seaward side and not the mangroves within the khazans as stated in the amendment”. The petitioner has sought deletion of only a part of the clause in the amendment to the CRZ notification on the grounds that it is contrary to the objectives of the notification itself. The PIL claims that mangroves within khazans are a result of mismanagement of the embankments and sluice gates and are therefore an undesirable development. It, however, does not challenge the definition of the HTL in the state of Goa, introduced by the same amendment. “The protection of the khazan system and its embankments is a mandatory requirement in view of climate change and expected sea level rise,” Goa Foundation director Claude Alvares, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-notice-to-centre-over-pil-to-protect-khazans/articleshow/78340888.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Youth molests 10-year-old girl||AHMEDABAD: A 10-year-old girl, a resident of Kagdapith, was allegedly molested by her neighbour Umesh Solanki on Friday afternoon. The parents of the girl have lodged an FIR at Kagdapith police station. Police registered an offence of molestation and added sections of POCSO against the accused. “The accused has fled after locking his house. We are searching for him,” said a senior Kagdapith police official. According to the FIR, the girl, who is studying in class 5 of a nearby school, was sent by her mother to get milk from a shop nearby. At about 3.30pm the girl came home crying and said that Umesh called her in his house on the pretext of giving her a chocolate and made her sleep beside him. The FIR mentions that the accused then kissed the girl. The girl’s mother and her other relatives, who live in the same area, then went to Umesh’s house but found it locked. The girl’s mother then called up her husband, who works in a cloth shop. He rushed home and along with his wife approached Kagdapith police to lodge an FIR. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-molests-10-year-old-girl/articleshow/78341771.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government cancels Navratri events||AHMEDABAD: The nostalgia creeps up each time one passes by Law Garden bazaar, a place which this time of the year used to be bustling with enthusiasts piling up on each other for their choicest jewellery, turbans, and traditional wear for the nine-day revelry. The streets now bear a deserted look with practically no buyers for the Navratri paraphernalia. On Saturday, even the Gujarat government announced that it plans to cancel the October 17-25 Navratri events this year. The government in an official release has stated that they do not desire another round of pandemic boost. What came as a double whammy to artisans of traditional wear sellers at Law Garden was that a police patrol instructed them to shut after 6pm. This has never happened in several decades. “As such there has not been any sale this week. And now the police is forcing us to shut shop,” says Geeta Soni , one of the agents who sell traditional wear at the law garden market. Even event organizers are withholding events. After Karnavati and Rajpath clubs called off the events, there is not much to expect.  Himanshu Shah of SOI Events says, “As such advertising and sponsorships have been dwindling over the past few years. This year, many sponsors had no budget for outdoor events. There is lot of reluctance. In this environment , it is better to keep off from events this year.” Bhargav K a software engineer and a garba enthusiast has never missed Navratri in a decade. “Public health comes first. I or anybody could be passive carriers of the disease, we don’t want such events to put the lives of people with co-morbidities or other health vulnerabilities at risk. This is the time to be empathetic towards others.” He has welcomed the state government’s decision to call off its event. “I will surely miss Navratri this year.” Nishant Makwana, a pharmacist welcomed the state government’s decision of cancelling the events and said, “For me and other colleagues, this is the first time we wouldn’t be asking for Navratri leaves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-cancels-navratri-events/articleshow/78341010.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||No illegal structures razed yet: RTI||Hyderabad: No unauthorised structure on encroached lands near historical sites, recognised by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) across the state, has been demolished yet, an RTI inquiry revealed. Hundreds of requisitions made by ASI officials to local police and state administration, seeking help in razing the unauthorised structures, seem to have only fallen on deaf ears. . ASI officials have said that razing unauthorised structures might just remain a daydream for them. “ASI needs cooperation from different government agencies, including police, revenue (district collectors) and civic bodies, to go ahead with the demolition works. But politicians’ involvement in these cases has become a major hurdle for us,” an ASI official said. When TOI contacted the superintending archaeologist of ASI Hyderabad, Milan Kumar Chauley, he said: “We are making efforts continuously and urging police and other departments for their cooperation. We expect a positive reply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-illegal-structures-razed-yet-rti/articleshow/78340915.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 27, 2020||Goa||‘Work on to build party in state’||Congress will focus on strengthening the organisation in the state before exploring ties with other political parties, opposition leader Digambar Kamat said on Saturday. He told reporters that the party’s voter base has not eroded even though 13 of its MLAs deserted switched over to BJP. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that in the run-up to the 2022 state assembly elections, many prominent individuals are expected to join the party. “We are making Congress strong and only when the party is strong will the opposition will be strong,” said Kamat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-to-build-party-in-state/articleshow/78340918.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Ram Madhav, Murlidhar out, Tejasvi youth chief in rejigged BJP line-up||NEW DELHI: Seven months after taking over as the full-fledged BJP chief, J P Nadda on Saturday announced the new team of office-bearers, dropping several prominent faces and bringing in new ones in a restructuring that marks a conscious effort to give representation to all regions. High-profile names like Ram Madhav, Murlidhar Rao and Rajya Sabha MPs Anil Jain and Saroj Pandey didn’t figure among the general secretaries, raising eyebrows. Rajya Sabha MP and ICCR chief Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Uma Bharati were not retained among the cast of vice- presidents, which included three former CMs — Vasundhara Raje, Raman Singh and Raghuvbar Das and new entrants Mukul Roy, Baijayant Panda and Annapurna Devi. While retaining Bhupender Yadav, Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arun Singh as general secretaries, Nadda appointed D Purandareshwari, daughter of NTR, Dushyant Kumar Gautam, C T Ravi, Tarun Chugh and Dilip Saikia. Saikia is widely reckoned to be a promising talent from Assam for the crucial organisational job. Nadda promoted Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni as “chief spokesperson”, a position which had so far been occupied by only two others — Arun Jaitley and Ravi Shankar Prasad. Baluni will also continue as national media head with Sanjay Mayukh as his deputy. Significantly, Amit Malviya was retained as the convenor of the IT and Social Media cell despite Subramanian Swamy’s demand that he be dropped. Malviya thanked PM Modi, Nadda , Union home minister Amit Shah and B L Santosh, general secretary in-charge of organisation, for reposing faith in him. Congratulating the new office-bearers, the PM said, “I am confident they will uphold the glorious tradition of our party of serving the people of India selflessly and with dedication. May they work hard to empower the poor and marginalised.” Rajesh Agarwal, former UP minister, will be the new treasurer, a post earlier held by Union minister Piyush Goyal. Sudhir Gupta was named the joint treasurer. Tejasvi Surya, Bengaluru South MP, will head the youth wing of the party in place of Mumbai MP Poonam Mahajan. Two known names from Maharashtra — former ministers Vinod Tawade and Pankaja Munde — were included among national secretaries. More than the inductions, it was the exclusions of Madhav and Rao, both on loan from RSS, which grabbed the attention of political circles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ram-madhav-murlidhar-out-tejasvi-youth-chief-in-rejigged-bjp-line-up/articleshow/78342317.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||End booze ban drama: Bapu||Ahmedabad: Former CM Shankersinh Vaghela while tweeting his support for the ‘#AgainstLiquorBanChallenge’ on Saturday admitted , “Even I stopped drinking long back, but to fight for Gujarat’s future we need to stop this drama.” Vaghela tweeted that withdrawing the liquor ban could help increase revenues. “Money will go into state treasury as tax.” He further tweeted, “Such hypocratic policy has given rise to illegal money collection in state. Therefore, it is time to rethink on Liquor Ban Policy in Gujarat.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/end-booze-ban-drama-bapu/articleshow/78341773.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Induction of 8 officers into IAS cadre gets approval||Panaji: While a proposal to induct eight officers of the Goa Civil Service into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) cadre has been approved, only seven will be inducted as one has taken voluntary retirement from the state administration. The proposal was approved at the recently held meeting of the Union Public Service Commission. A formal order on their induction is likely to be issued in the next few days. Elvis Gomes has been promoted from the 2015 quota, while Menino D’Souza, Narayan Sawant, Sanjit Rodrigues, Yatindra Maralkar and Sanjeev Gadkar have been elevated from the state’s 2016 quota. Prasad Lolayekar and Michael D’Souza have been promoted from the 2018 and 2019 quotas, respectively. Menino, Sanjit,Sawant, Gadkar and Maralkar joined the junior cadre of the Goa Civil Service in 1998 while Michael and Lolayekar joined in 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/induction-of-8-officers-into-ias-cadre-gets-approval/articleshow/78340945.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials, residents call to maintain cleanliness at tourist destinations||Hyderabad: Ahead of World Tourism Day on September 27, officials and residents are urging people not to litter the few spots that are being visited by tourists during the pandemic. Recently, Kondapochamma Sagar was in the news for trashed being spewed by visitors there, raising renewed concerns about keeping tourist destinations clean. The Kondapochamma reservoir is among the new travel destinations that several residents flocked during the lockdown. Located in in Markook mandal of Siddipet district, it is about 45 km from the city. Nagesh Reddy, an IT employee who headed to the reservoir recently, said: “There were plastic cups and plates everywhere. I went on a weekend and was surprised that there were so many people, not many bothered about basic cleanliness.” Ragini Kasarla, who went to the Fakhruddingutta rock formations, had a similar experience. “The hillock is scenic, but there are no dustbins for people to discard waste. People were enjoying a picnic at the spot, but leaving behind trash.” The call to maintain cleanliness comes even as the tourism industry faces one of its hardest battles to woo back visitors. Leading travel and tourism associations of India have also come together to appeal to authorities to strengthen the packaging waste collection and recycling ecosystem. Pronab Sarkar, president of Indian Association of Tour Operators said, “Tourism sector is the key for the revival of Indian economy and cleanliness will play a pivotal role in the post-Covid era to attract tourists. Tourists will seek destinations that are safe, hygienic, and clean. Pollution with respect to tourism encompasses air emissions, noise, solid waste and littering, release of sewage, and chemicals, even architectural/visual pollution. Most of these are easily avoidable.” Subhash Goyal, honorary secretary of Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH) said, “The pandemic has made us realize that the health of our planet is the priority. Collective efforts, not only by the government and municipalities but by all individuals, social, voluntary organizations and resident welfare associations have to be made to curtail littering and improve waste collection and recycling efforts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-residents-call-to-maintain-cleanliness-at-tourist-destinations/articleshow/78340948.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand has better per capita income than national average: Govt||Dehradun: Provisional estimates of the Gross State Domestic Product released by the state government on Saturday said that Uttarakhand has a better per capita income when compared to the national level. A communique by the CM’s office said that while the national average for per capita income was Rs 1.34 lakh for financial year 2019-20, it was Rs 2.02 lakh in Uttarakhand. It added that while the national growth rate of the economy in 2019-20 was 4.2%, it was 4.3 % in Uttarakhand. According to official data, the state outperformed the average of the nation in per capita income. The national per capita income was Rs 1.15 lakh in 2017-18, Rs 1.26 lakh in 2018-19, and Rs 1.34 lakh in 2019-20. Meanwhile, the per capita income of Uttarakhand was Rs 1.80 lakh in 2017-18, Rs 1.91 lakh in 2018-19, and Rs 2.02 lakh in 2019-20. Similarly, on comparing the national average growth rate with that of Uttarakhand, it was found that the hill state has performed better in this area as well. The national economy growth rate was 7.2% in 2017-18, 6.1% in 2018-19, and 4.2% in 2019-20. On the other hand, the Uttarakhand economy growth rate was 7.9% in 2017-18, 5.8% in 2018-19, and 4.3% in 2019-20. Notably, Uttarakhand suffered the sharpest year-on-year fall of 42% in GST collections in the March-July period, data released recently in the Lok Sabha had said. A possible reason for Uttarakhand’s massive dip in GST is anticipated to be the lockdown and the recession that followed which coincided with the state’s peak tourism season. Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “There is no denying the fact that Covid-19 had impacted our economy and we were hit comparatively more as Uttarakhand is a tourism-based economy. Tourism forms the financial backbone of the state and with tourists not coming during the peak season, the impact was visible economy-wise. However, things are coming back to shape and we are confident of a good performance in the next few months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-has-better-per-capita-income-than-national-average-govt/articleshow/78339111.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 27, 2020||Nashik||11 criminals on police record externed from Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 11 criminals on police record residing in the jurisdiction of Satpur police station have been externed from the city and the district for a period ranging between two months and two years as per the nature of cases registered against them. Senior inspector at Satpur police station Rakesh Hande said each of the criminals who was being exterened had more than two offences registered against his name. The offences were related to gambling, outraging modesty of women, thefts, burglaries and body offences like voluntarily causing hurt, rioting, etc. Hande said that the proposal for the externment of the criminals was sent to senior officers who, after hearing the criminals, gave approval to the same. “There are 10 more criminals in the Satpur area against whom we are preparing proposals of externment,” said Hande. In a bid to control the menace by habitual criminals in the city over the past two years, the police came up with the decision to extern all those who have two or more crimes registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11-criminals-on-police-record-externed-from-nashik-district/articleshow/78339089.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 27, 2020||Bareilly||Primary school headmaster arrested for harassing student||Bareilly: Headmaster of a primary school under Bareilly's Sirauli police station has been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a Class V student by forcibly clicking her photographs and taking selfies with her and touching her inappropriately. In their complaint with police on Friday, the 11-year-old girl's family alleged that the headmaster called the child and her brother to school for collecting their uniforms. He took them to a vacant classroom and sent the boy outside. Then, he allegedly misbehaved with the girl. On reaching home from school, the girl told her mother about her ordeal. Her family immediately approached police and he was arrested.Naresh Kumar Tyagi, Sirauli police station SHO, said, “Based on the complaint received, an FIR has been lodged under IPC section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (POCSO) Act. Further investigation is on."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/primary-school-headmaster-arrested-for-harassing-student/articleshow/78338282.cms||Maria Khan
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Purvanchal Expressway to be open for public in January||LUCKNOW: The 341-km Purvanchal Expressway is most likely to be dedicated to the public in January next year when its carriageway is thrown open for traffic. After a review meeting on Friday, UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi said that not only the carriageway would start from January, but all the tolls booths would also be functional from April. The expressway, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 22,000 crore and considered the longest in the country so far (the proposed Ganga Expressway between Meerut and Prayagraj would be around 600 km), will connect Ghazipur with the state capital. It will pass through nine districts -- Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. It will also have a passage to Gorakhpur through a 95-km link expressway. If one takes into account Yamuna Expressway and Agra-Lucknow Expressway as well, the three super highways would provide a seamless connectivity between Delhi and the eastern corner of Uttar Pradesh and also Bihar. More than 60% construction work has already been completed and Awasthi is confident that it would be over in time. Earlier, the expressway was to be inaugurated on Diwali, but Covid-induced lockdown delayed the launch. The speedy completion of the Purvanchal Expressway has already increased the 'value' of Agra-Lucknow Expressway and the toll bid has doubled to Rs 402 crore this time as compared to Rs 200 crore last time, Awasthi told TOI. "These expressways would be the most preferable mode for those coming from Delhi and going towards said eastern UP. That's why the toll bid has doubled," he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/purvanchal-expressway-to-be-open-for-public-in-january/articleshow/78341774.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,417 new Covid cases, 13 deaths||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Saturday added 1,417 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 1.31 lakh. It was the eighth day for the state to record 1,400-plus cases. The new cases in Gujarat include 297 from Surat, 195 from Ahmedabad, 168 from Rajkot, 136 from Vadodara, and 110 from Jamnagar. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad crossed 36,000 at 36,134 as cases in Surat reached 27,904, Vadodara 11,550 and Rajkot 8,633. The state also crossed 3,400 deaths of Covid-19 patients with the death toll climbing to 3,409 with addition of 13 deaths in 24 hours. The latest deaths included three each from Ahmedabad and Surat, two each from Vadodara and Rajkot, and one each from Bhavnagar, Gir Somnath and Patan. The last 100 deaths were recorded in seven days. With the update, the deaths in Ahmedabad and Surat districts reached 1,800 and 750 respectively. The two districts cumulatively account for 74.8% of Gujarat’s Covid-19 deaths. The deaths in Vadodara and Rajkot are 179 and 136 respectively. A total of 1,419 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.11 lakh. The discharges include 295 from Surat, 268 from Rajkot, 182 from Ahmedabad, 107 from Jamnagar, and 94 from Vadodara. The number of active cases in Gujarat reached 16,490, which is 12.5% of the total Covid-19 positive cases recorded so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 84.9% and 2.6% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-1417-cases-13-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78341058.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam changes testing strategy as Covid-19 cases shoot up||KOCHI: The district administration has decided to change the testing strategy as Covid-19 cases shoot up. It has been decided to test all symptomatic and vulnerable people who are contacts of positive cases. To create awareness and encourage symptomatic people to come forward for testing, services of rapid response teams (RRT) have been constituted at ward levels in each local body. Asymptomatic primary contacts of the positive cases will not be tested. But they will have to undergo mandatory 14 days quarantine. Health officials said the new move is to strengthen symptom surveillance, failure of which will lead to deterioration of the condition of patients and increase mortality rate. “Already family healthcare, community health centres, taluk, district, general and private hospitals have been equipped with antigen test kits. Irrespective of contact history, all symptomatic people will be tested. Besides co-morbid people, children, elderly and the pregnant that are primary contacts will also be tested. Priority is to provide treatment in the early stage and arrange ICU facilities for critically ill patients. Testing all of them and then treating severe cases won’t be a judicious decision. Our resources are limited,” said a district health official. Another district health officer said that many are not turning up. “If we call 10 people for testing, only a few are turning up. Others switch off their phones. We seek help of local body members to trace the symptomatic.” Symptom surveillance has come down in the district as many health workers have been posted for data entry work especially in periphery of Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-changes-testing-strategy-as-cases-shoot-up/articleshow/78339892.cms||T C Sreemol
September 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops raid spa, rescue 4 women||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad police on Saturday afternoon raided a spa in an upscale area of the city and rescued four women who had been forced into flesh trade. The police have arrested two men and are on the lookout for three others. The Pundaliknagar police of Aurangabad city arrested 32-year-old Nashik resident Bablu Ingle and Akash Pagde, a 25-year-old from Aurangabad. Police said the suspects had confessed to starting the spa as a partnership firm, but using it for flesh trade. A team led by assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne led the raid. “The rescued women from Nagaland revealed that they were brought to Aurangabad on the pretext of a job at the spa and were later forced into the flesh trade,” Sonawne told TOI. These women have been staying in the city for over nine months, while two 21-year-old women from the city were trapped only about a month ago. The rescued women have been produced before the women and child welfare committee and sent to the correctional home. Police said the suspects operated the racket by circulating their contact numbers through social media. When anyone contacted the given number, the spa employees would offer body massage service. They would mention the flesh trade only after the customer reached the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-raid-spa-rescue-4-women/articleshow/78339113.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Kataria blames admn for tribal unrest||Jaipur: Deputy leader of opposition and MLA Udaipur Gulab Chand Kataria on Saturday held the administration responsible for the violent clashes between tribal youths and the police. “Since long, the issue of providing jobs to tribals on the non-reserved category is going on. The tribal youths have been registering protest for the last 18 days and it was in the knowledge of local administration. It is hard to believe that police failed to sense the protesters’ move,” said Kataria. He asked CM Ashok Gehlot to take strict action against the protesters who committed arson and looting in the area. “If the administration fails to act on time, it is going to create social disharmony in the region,” said Kataria. He also urged the tribal youths to follow a constitutional method to resolve the issue, as violence is not acceptable. Meanwhile, state BJP has formed a three-member committee to examine the issue in Dungarpur and submit the report to the BJP state president Satish Poonia. State general secretary Madan Dilawar, MP Chittorgarh CP Joshi and MP Udaipur Arjun Lal Meena are the committee members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kataria-blames-admn-for-tribal-unrest/articleshow/78340942.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||10 days on, no headway in Hanumangarh bank loot||Jaipur: Ten days after the bank heist in Hanumangarh where the accused looted a private bank and made away with Rs 1.13 crore are yet to be traced. While cops are awaiting the FSL report of the CCTV cameras, teams have been sent to Punjab and Haryana to find the accused. On September 17, three accused had taken off with Rs 1.13 crore from a private bank in Sangariya police station area. While the cops have accessed the CCTV camera footage placed outside the bank where the accused are visible, though their faces are covered, the bank did not provide the footage from inside the bank which was finally seized three days later and sent to FSL in Jaipur. Sangariya SHO Inder Kumar said, “The FSL report is still awaited, but we are trying out all possible ways to find the accused and recover the money. For the same, we have sent teams to neighbouring states to investigate.” On the day of the incident, the accused entered the bank and threatened the security guard as well as another employee with weapons following which they took the cash from the locker and locked the two individuals inside the vault. The accused made their escape in a vehicle used by the bank. Police have not found any evidence against any of the bank employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-days-on-no-headway-in-hanumangarh-bank-loot/articleshow/78340953.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Wildlife tourism during Covid will be an eye opener’||Naturalist Himanshu Bagde (42) started his career in sales and marketing in a multinational organization but quit his job in 2009 to pursue his passion of forest and tigers. Bagde has sighted over 500 tigers in the jungles of India over the last 25 years. He chose to follow his passion of becoming a ‘tiger trailer’, a wildlife photographer, a nature guide, and now a wildlife tourism consultant and an environmental conservationist. With wildlife parks opening from October 1, TOI talked to him about tourism during Covid-19 times. September 27 is also celebrated as World Tourism Day. Excerpts from an interview... Q. Wildlife parks are opening from October 1. What is uppermost on tourists’ minds? A. Domestic tourists, professional photographers and others related to nature staying within a 300km radius and nearby cities and those who can travel by road will surely keep the date. There are a lot of apprehensions due to Covid and I think this will affect the psyche of people visiting. The ones who stay nearby will go for safaris. Tourists who travel from metro cities and other parts of the country too would be apprehensive to check-in at resorts and it is likely that they will skip their travel plans for the holidays. Professionals like photographers and other scientific communities will take this risk and visit the park since it is their profession. Owing to travel restrictions, chances of foreign tourists visiting parks are bleak, at least till there is a considerable respite from the pandemic in the origin country as well as India. Q. What is the situation in other most-sought-after tiger reserves? A. Lockdowns were absolutely necessary but, as a tour consultant, I can say that Covid has wiped out tourism business for tour operators, resort owners and those living around the park who are completely dependent on it. The losses were huge but everyone is supporting each other to survive. We thought that before October everything will be back to normal, but with cases flaring up it appears that normalcy in any tiger reserve is a distant dream. Confidence of tourists is at an all-time low, travel arrangements are not at par and further insecurities surrounding stay at hotels and resorts make things difficult. Q. With Covid-19 at its peak, how can tourists and animals remain safe? A: Tourists have no other choice than to follow distancing norms for their own safety. Existing safari rules are very strict which makes sure that man and animal do not come close. Tourists will have to be more disciplined and should not spit anywhere. Guides and drivers in Vidarbha have a habit to consume ‘kharra’ and spit in the open. Parks will have to ensure urinals, which are usually in bad shape, are sanitized. Maintaining hygiene should be the park’s top priority. If all precautions are taken by tourists and park management, the risks for both tourists and animals will be minimized. Q. When corona is spreading alarmingly, is it wise to open the parks? A. I think we have to learn to live with this pandemic till the vaccines are out. Everyone develops antibodies to endure this virus. So, we cannot close everything and sit quiet. To what extent should we rely on the government to support us? Therefore, it is a bold and good decision to open the parks. Once a few people visit parks and share their experiences, others will develop confidence and this sector may witness revival soon. The bottom line is that we have to be strict while following Covid-19 guidelines. Q. Are foreign tourists visiting or showing interest? A. Tourist visas are not being issued. So, foreigners will be unable to visit the parks at least until February next year. Very few are taking special permissions and making travel arrangements. Q. Do you think NTCA diktat on the number of visitors will affect tourism? A. NTCA has a primary role to play for tiger conservation. Ever since the pandemic has engulfed the country, it is also worried about Covid-19 spread. Though the restrictions are from the ministry of home affairs (MHA), I strongly feel NTCA should push for allowing six persons in one safari vehicle if they belong to the same family. In Madhya Pradesh, online bookings can be done for six persons. I also feel restriction on children below 10 and above 65 years for safari should be removed. This will affect domestic tourism flow in parks. Q. Are our parks equipped to take on the Covid-19 spread? A. Parks have to gear up with basic amenities required to safeguard from spreading the virus. There are few initiatives like the use of sanitizers and tyre bath that have been taken up by the authorities to tackle the situation. Q. In Covid-19 times, how should wildlife tourism be viewed? A. Wildlife tourism, especially in testing times like Covid, will be an eye-opener in the real sense. Tourists will realize how things in nature go on regardless of no emergencies there. Humans due to multiple reasons have destroyed our nature and therefore we are in trouble. Looking to wildlife and nature may prompt humans to act proactively to conserve nature. Here no one asks you to let go of your economic interests but we just ask you to conserve nature. Ecotourism is the only thing that can be done without harming nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wildlife-tourism-during-covid-will-be-an-eye-opener/articleshow/78340962.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Poonia asks CM to re-launch awareness campaigns to curb Covid||Jaipur: BJP has asked the government to re-launch awareness campaigns on Covid in the state to control the spike in cases. The suggestion came during a meeting between CM Ashok Gehlot and the opposition leaders. BJP state president Satish Poonia advised that people were under fear due to rising cases. “Efforts need to made to dispel fear among people so that they shouldn’t be scared of going for testing. Also, testing needs to be increased to arrest the infection on time,” said Poonia. He referred to the central government schemes to provide better medical facilities. “The central government has increased the percentage of the sum from 35% and 50% under the NDRF on health so that states can fight it better,” said Poonia. Taking up the issue of shortage of oxygen, Poonia said the demand for oxygen cylinders had increased from 4,200 to 8,000 cylinders in the state. “The expected demand is around 11,000 oxygen cylinders. Steps should be taken to meet this demand,” said Poonia. He referred to media reports on how the shortage has led to the deaths of those recovering from coronavirus. This is second meeting by Gehlot with the opposition leaders to discuss ways to control the virus. Raising the issue of fleecing money by private hospitals, Poonia said the government should put a cap of the price of treatment. “Ideally, the regulated price should be spread across to create awareness on it,” said Poonia. He asked the CM to follow the model of monitoring at the block level for better control. “It will enhance the confidence of grassroots corona fighters,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poonia-plea-to-cm-to-re-launch-awareness-campaigns-to-curb-covid/articleshow/78340956.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||‘Lockdown harsh on poor, must be avoided’||JAIPUR: The NGOs during interaction with the chief minister emphasized the need for strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocol to control the spread of infection rather than resorting to any kind of lockdown. The NGOs said the lockdown and restrictions have been harsh on the poor and such restrictions should be avoided. They stressed on the need for more concerted campaign to create awareness on health protocol on maintaining social distancing and wearing masks as people have been found to be casual in their approach to such preventive measures after unlocking. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot held a series of meetings with political parties, NGOs and doctors on Saturday in the light of serious concern expressed on the increasing cases of corona after unlocking and to seek their suggestions to fight the menace. The chief minister said the state government had imposed prohibitory orders in 11 worst-affected districts to prevent people from crowding at places and spreading infection. Gehlot said some states have adopted weekend lockdowns, but the central government thinks such lockdowns are not effective and would only delay the revival of economy. Health minister Raghu Sharma assured the CM of arranging sufficient number of oxygen beds, ventilators and ICU beds in dedicated Covid hospitals. He said the testing capacity has now reached 51,000. He said the Cobas machine being procured for SMS hospital will have a capacity to test 4,500 patients in a day. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health, said the state now had a capacity of 15,000 oxygen cylinders, 35 testing labs, over 8,000 oxygen beds, 1,700 ICU beds and 1,352 ventilators. He said under helpline 181, beds and ambulance services are provided to critical patients immediately on receiving call. Nikhil Day of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan appreciated the anti-hunger measures taken by the government during lockdown and the improvement in health infrastructure. Social activist Aruna Roy said social security measures like advance payment of pension, ration and NREGA had come as a great relief to the poor. She suggested more enrolment under NREGA to provide jobs to the poor. PUCL state president Kavita Srivastava suggested proper dissemination of health protocol to those who are in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-lockdown-create-more-awareness-on-covid-protocol-ngos/articleshow/78340949.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||Restore promotions of 896 PAC constables: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Taking serious note of a recent decision by the UP Police to demote 896 PAC constables who had earlier been promoted while on deputation to the civil police, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the state police chief to immediately restore their promotions. The CM also expressed his displeasure over the manner in which the PAC brass decided to recall these jawans from deputation and cancel their promotions that were awarded during their service in the civil police. He also instructed the DGP to fix the responsibility of the officers who carried out such an exercise without informing the state government. Director General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy told TOI that he had already instructed the ADG, PAC, to restore the promotions of the constables who returned to their parent cadre from the civil police depending upon vacancies and following all the procedures. In November 2019, during a review of non-gazetted ranks' promotions in civil police, a four-member committee found that 910 of them belonged to the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC). In November 2019, during a review of non-gazetted ranks' promotions in civil police, a four-member committee found that 910 of them belonged to the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC). The panel found that they had been shifted to the civil police on deputation and were given promotions in due course of time. In all, 932 constables from PAC were found working in the civil police: 910 of them were promoted while the remaining 22 remained constable even in the civil police. As many as 890 out of these 910 were promoted as head constables while six were promoted to the rank of sub-inspector. Remaining 14 either retired or passed away after promotions. Senior police officials at the establishment board said that there are two ways of recruitment in non-gazetted ranks, one is constable in civil police and the other is constable in PAC. “Both have separate exams and are separate cadres. But after 2008, there was a proper system of transfer from one cadre to the other,” they said. Civil police often takes help of PAC jawans in various duties and over a period of time, they become part and parcel of the civil police. But technically they are not part of the civil police and should not consider them so, he clarified. However, these PAC jawans had been given promotions in the civil police after due course of time. "It was not their fault that they had been promoted in another cadre. They earned it. That's why the CM ordered the restoration," said a government spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/restore-promotions-of-896-pac-constables-cm/articleshow/78341786.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Five held for stealing water meant for army||Jodhpur: Five persons were caught stealing water from the pipeline of the Military Engineering division here on Saturday. The pipeline supplies water to the military station at Banar in Jodhpur. Police have registered cases against the five, three of whim had been stealing water for their stone cutting units, one for his under-construction marriage palace and the other was found storing water in a huge underground water tank for selling. This operation was carried out jointly by Jodhpur Military Intelligence, Garrison Engineer (MES) and police on Saturday following a complaint of low pressure of water at the station. According to police, a garrison engineer had checked a 15 km pipeline meant to supply water to the military station at Banar after repeated complaints of low water pressure. “On checking, they found water being pilfered from the pipeline at five places by connecting PVC pipes to this high pressure main supply line,” police said. All the connections were removed and points were sealed by the MES. According to sources, though it appeared a simple case of water theft, it can have serious repercussions if civilians have such easy access to resources meant for military use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-held-for-stealing-water-meant-for-army/articleshow/78340959.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Corona crisis deepens in Jaisalmer amid poor health infra||Jaisalmer: The Covid-19 situation in Jaisalmer has deteriorated further with many succumbing to the virus of late in addition to lack of health infrastructure. In the last three days, Covid has claimed five lives while around 45 patients were referred to Jodhpur for treatment after complaining of breathlessness. The three Covid care centres in Jaisalmer are full and a search is on for new centres while less serious patients are being home quarantined. Moreover, sample collection facility is being provided at three places at Jaisalmer district headquarters. On the directions of the district administration, corona sampling is being done from 8am to 2pm at Jawahar Hospital, the dispensary at Gandhi Colony and at the urban primary health centre at Gafoor Bhatta. District collector Ashish Modi has directed to ensure all arrangements for sampling at the three places. The collector said seeing the increase in Covid cases, instructions to set up a new Covid centre at Soni Dharamsala has been issued. Municipal council chairperson and UIT secretary have visited the new centre. There are 17 ventilators in Jaisalmer which are lying unused since there is lack of oxygen supply due to which patients are being referred to Jodhpur. On the other hand, many claim that the health department is hiding the real figures of infections. Box - Govt deploys 15 docs to Jaisalmer Jaisalmer: After The Times of India published a story on September 23 about the 17 ventilators in government hospitals lying unutilised for want of doctors in Jaisalmer and Pokhran and patients being referred to Jodhpur, district collector Ashish Modi has made many efforts to fill the vacant posts of doctors, after which the state government on Friday issued an order to immediately deploy 15 doctors who were on APO at the directorate in Jaipur and directed them to join within 12 hours. After this, ICU and oxygen-cum-ventilator beds will start in Jaisalmer. Confirming the deployment of 15 doctors, he said that total 17 ventilators in Jaisalmer district are not being operated due to lack of doctors. The state government has deployed 15 doctors including many experts, surgeons and physicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-crisis-deepens-in-jaisalmer-amid-poor-health-infra/articleshow/78340969.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||20-year-old shoots self in forehead, survives||Kota: A 20-year-old youth from Mewat district of Haryana shot himself in the forehead with an illegal country-made pistol at a house in Aklera town of Jhalawar district on Friday noon. Mohammad Kaif was later rushed to Jhalawar district hospital from where he was referred to Kota, where he is reportedly under treatment. According to police, Kaif was on the run after he allegedly fired at his lover in Khilchipur police station area of Rajgarh district in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. He worked as an earthmover operator with his uncle. The injured youth was booked under Section 307 in Khilchipura police station in MP for allegedly firing at his lover. Kaif’s condition is critical as the bullet is stuck in his forehead, said sub inspector Abdul Rashid. Following the Thursday’s firing incident in Khilchipura, Kaif’s uncle on Friday noon asked him to surrender at the police station in MP. After his uncle left for work, the youth took out the country-made pistol and shot a bullet into his forehead, he added. Kaif was booked under Section 309 of IPC for attempting suicide and under sections of Arms Act for possession of illegal arm, he said. The youth is undergoing treatment in Kota and the investigation into the matter is yet to begin. MP police has been informed of the incident and injury to the youth, the SI added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20-year-old-shoots-self-in-forehead-survives/articleshow/78340966.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cong launches online campaign against farm bills||Jaipur: The Congress leaders on Saturday launched an online campaign — #SpeakUpForFarmers — deploring the three farm bills passed in Parliament. PCC president Govid Singh Dotasra and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot described the legislation as ‘black laws’ passed in undemocratic way. The party campaign trended at the national level. The Modi government passed three anti-farmer bills. All three bills will weaken the farmer. These bills are a conspiracy to hand over the produce of the farmer to the big capitalists, said Dotasra. Accusing the central government of betraying farmers, Pilot on Saturday asked how will the Centre pacify farmers about the farm bills when it failed to convince its own minister. He demanded that the Centre withdraw the three bills in the interest of farmers. “The central government should admit its mistake and withdraw the bills. The way the bills were passed... pushed in the Rajya Sabha was undemocratic. Therefore, dissenting voices are emerging in the country today,” Pilot said in a video message. He said that a Union minister from NDA’s ally resigned from the Cabinet over the issue. He said that BJP’s promise to double the farmers’ income has been sidestepped and the farmers have been badly hit. The Congress leader said that the bills were introduced hurriedly, without consulting the states and farmers. “We all want investment and reforms, but these bills are anti-farmer and anti-national,” he said. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the leaders of the BJP are cheating the farmers by lying on the Kisan Bill.Khachariyawas alleged that BJP leaders are playing in the hands of industrialists. The whole country knows about demonetisation, privatisation of rail, GST, privatisation of airports and BSNL, crude oil despite being cheap in the international market, is the most expensive in the country. Mahendra Chaudhary, Congress deputy chief whip in the assembly, in a video alleged that, “BJP is anti-farmer party. The is Centre bent on ruining farmers.” He asked why not talk about MSP in law? It is part of a conspiracy to mortgage farmers’ land to the capitalists. The Modi government must withdraw all three bills immediately, he said. box Batting for the new reforms in the agriculture sector, union minister of state for agriculture Kailesh Choudhary on Saturday says that bills passed in both the houses of the parliament will bring a transformational change in the lives of the farmers. In a presser held at Jaipur, he says that farmers will get an option to sell their produce anywhere will give them the freedom from the Mandi system. “The farmers' community can now get the actual price of their produce. The buyers can give them the price according to the produce leaving no scope for the middlemen in the new system,” said Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-launches-online-campaign-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78340964.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Khaunte: CM responsible for death of industries||Panaji: Wading into the ongoing debate about the health of Goa’s industrial sector, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Saturday said chief minister Pramod Sawant had undone the efforts of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar. Khaunte also said the outburst by Goa Industrial Development Corporation chairman Glenn Ticlo and Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kochkar, has proved how frustrated people are with the state regime. “Ticlo, a BJP MLA himself, has accused Sawant of not allowing him to function, due to which the industrial sector has been suffering immensely,” Khaunte said, adding, “The GIDC chairman’s and Kochkar’s frustration has exposed how the Sawant-led government is a divided house on all fronts.” Taking a dig at the state for spending Rs 2.5 crore on Vibrant Goa, Khaunte said the funds should have been utilised to upgrade infrastructure at the 23 industrial estates. Khaunte also accused Sawant of compromising on the welfare of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khaunte-cm-responsible-for-death-of-industries/articleshow/78340973.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur youth found murdered in Tonk||JAIPUR: A youth from Sodala was murdered allegedly by his two friends in Todaraisingh police station area in Tonk district on Friday and his body was found on Saturday morning. The accused are yet to be apprehended and cops have registered a case of murder against the duo. The deceased was identified as 27-year-old Amit Acharya while the accused named in the FIR were Sonu and Vikas, both in their mid-20s. Todaraisingh SHO Amar Singh said, “The accused under the pretext of going to Bisalpur took the victim with them on Friday from Jaipur. It appears that they never reached Bisalpur and also consumed alcohol on the way. While no missing person’s report was filed, we found the victim’s body on the highway near Malpura.” According to preliminary investigation, the accused first made Acharya consume alcohol following which they strangled him using a cloth before dumping the body in a shallow water body close to the highway. “The victim’s family has registered a case of murder against the two accused who are yet to be caught. We will hand over the body once the autopsy is completed,” added the official. While the cops are still investigating the motive behind the murder, sources claimed that the victim was possibly in touch with one of the accused’s sister despite being asked to refrain, though officials have not confirmed this detail. The accused and the victim stayed in the same locality in Jaipur and were known to each other. Cops claimed that they are trying to trace the mobile locations of the accused and they will be arrested at the earliest. Also, officials said that the murder appeared to be pre-planned though it is unclear as to who was the mastermind. A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-youth-found-murdered-in-tonk/articleshow/78340972.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 3 lakh yet to give Aadhaar details for land updation||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government may have made Aadhaar details mandatory for registering and updating non-agriculture properties details online for purification of records and authentication, but nearly three lakh people (khatadars) did not provide their Aadhaar card details to the government during the land records updation programme (LRUP) which was taken up in 2017. While some refused to give their Aadhaar details, some khatadars still do not have Aadhaar cards, especially NRIs. As a result, the revenue department did not issue pattadar passbooks (PPBs) to the owners till date. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has recently announced that all the non-agriculture properties such as houses, plots, flats and farm houses in the urban areas would be updated on Dharani land web portal. Registrations for both agriculture and non-agriculture properties will be done based on the information available on the web portal. “The revenue department wrongly entered Aadhaar card numbers and names in the land records which need to be rectified now. Everyday, thousands of people approach Aadhaar centres in the urban areas for rectification. The government should give an opportunity to rectify the Aadhaar details in agriculture lands and take other alternative documents while registering properties,” Chepuri Venkateshwar Rao, president of Forum for Citizens, told STOI. “Now, people come forward to give their Aadhaar numbers as it is linked to property registrations. In case of NRl properties, government may issue orders taking details like passport number instead of Aadhaar numbers,” a senior official of CCLA said. Meanwhile, the government officials are also clueless on part-B lands, which were placed under the category due to various reasons like court cases, disputes between the two parties and other mistakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3l-yet-to-give-aadhaar-details-for-land-updation/articleshow/78340975.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Visitors start arriving, but marketing should be priority||JAIPUR: A little over a year ago, the tourism industry was buzzing. Not only the number of tourist arrivals had crossed 5 million mark in Rajasthan, but the Walled City in Jaipur got the UNESCO heritage tag. A couple of months later, UNESCO again joined hands with the state tourism department to revive and preserve the intangible heritage of western Rajasthan, home to Langa and Manganiyar artistes. Cut to now. All seems to have happened a long back. The promise of the strategic moves may lie in some unknown future. The immediate urgency is survival and then revival. At stake is livelihoods of lakhs of people engaged in the sector, who come from various walks of life and economic conditions, from poor camel riders, folk singers to well-paid hospitality professionals. But there is so much the department can do. Neither the Central government nor the state has announced any tangible relief to the sector. Rather taxes have been increased. Adding to the woes is the state government’s austerity measure that has reduced the department’s normal budget. All that the department can do is to watch the trends and hope situation becomes better with more and more people starting to travel again. And there is a small relief as well. Tourism officials said occupancy in the hotels across Rajasthan has inched up, ranging between 25-30%. On weekends, it crosses 50%. “We are witnessing a momentum in tourism arrivals during weekends which has started spilling over to weekdays as well. We expect the numbers will further rise as we enter the festive season. Our present focus is on igniting domestic tourism as foreign tourist arrival scenario is yet to become clear,” said Alok Gupta, principal secretary, department of tourism. The number of visitors to the monuments and museums has also seen an increase after they were opened on June 1. Rajasthan was the first in the country to open its state monuments for the visitors. Mugdha Sinha, secretary, Art & Culture, Archaeology, said, “Things returning to near normal is a heartening sign and we look forward to balancing the need for safety in Covid times with art and entertainment as something that can heal people and societies in the difficult times we are passing through.” After Gupta joined the department in July, his first task was to roll out the tourism policy which the state cabinet cleared early this month. But implementing the policy measures requires funding which is not there now. “There is no money. The best they can do is to create strategies right now. As soon as the situation improves a little, they should start implementing the projects on a war-footing. Marketing initiatives need to be taken up with priority so that we don’t lose out,” said the member of an industry association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/visitors-start-arriving-but-marketing-should-be-priority/articleshow/78340979.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Positive bizman uses personal experience, starts NGO to help other Covid-19 patients||Nagpur: Soon after completing home isolation period, a 24-year-old businessman started an NGO based on his experience, to arrange tests, ambulance, oxygen, hospital bed and even food for helpless citizens. Ashutosh Punyani, a resident of Wardhaman Nagar, had tested positive along with all family members. His 52-year-old father was the first to test positive on August 19, which forced all of them too to take a test. His father was symptomatic and breathless right from the first day of falling ill. Yet, Ashutosh could find medical oxygen and hospital bed only after prolonged delay. Once his father was admitted on August 23, Ashutosh immediately made his contact number public on his Instagram account, offering guidance and support on phone from home. After he completed his isolation period, he and 12 other friends formed NGO ‘Help For Good’ and the members increased to 60 within two weeks. “We have helped people find eligible plasma donors, ambulance, ventilator, teleconsultation and above all hospital beds,” he said. GMCH’s Dr Sameer Kedar, music producer Siddarth Panchmatia, food blogger Shruti Bhoyar, fashion designer Juhi Sethi, interior designer Malvikar Trivedi, lawyer Disha Khandewal, BCom student Palak Surana and Yash Bajaj were among the founding members of the NGO. Shoeb Memon, Dr Arati Jain, Dr Akshanta Sharma, and Dr Kapil Jain too joined the cause later. Ashutosh said from the day his father became breathless to the time he finally got admitted in a private hospital, he realized the plight of hundreds of fellow citizens battling similar issues. “I offered all help and my number on my Instagram account. Instantly I started getting calls. In some cases, I too would call up those seeking help after finding their SOS messages online,” he said. In one instance, he also offered to donate plasma while responding to a post, unaware that asymptomatic patients are not eligible donors. “We have built a network now and work as a bridge between affected citizen and resources,” he said. The NGO has also been simultaneously working on identifying prospective plasma donors to help local authorities ramp up collection and help critical patients. “Each member is asked to identify at least five recovered Covid patients and talk to them. We counsel them about the therapy and resources they carry to help save lives,” said Ashutosh. The NGO doesn’t promote any blood bank or hospital but leaves it to the discretion of people. “We just furnish all information.Ultimately, it depends on the donors. Likewise, our volunteers suggest hospitals and liase with them for patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/positive-bizman-uses-personal-experience-starts-ngo-to-help-other-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78340985.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Dungarpur: Peace talks fail, violence erupts on NH-8||UDAIPUR: Violence erupted once again on Saturday evening at Kherwada and Dungarpur when tribal youths rained stones at cops and torched some motorbikes in different areas. While the peace talk was going on at Parsad, the reports of mob attack came in and authorities left the meeting immediately to rush to the spot. Police opened fire and shot rubber bullets to disperse the uncontrollable youths who created ruckus. Two people were killed reportedly in the violence, however, authorities were not available for confirmation. Three senior police officers Dinesh MN, M L Lathar and Anand Srivastava rushed to Dungarpur to control the situation. Tension continued unabated in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts on the third day as hundreds of tribal youths remained unmoved on the appeals of the authorities and political leaders and continued to camp in jungles and hills at Kankri Doongri in Bicchiwads of Dungarpur district on Saturday. Additional forces were deployed on the 10 kilometre-long stretch between Bicchiwada and Kherwada and police patrol teams continuously made vigilant rounds to check any untoward incident. IG Binita Thakur, SP KailashChandra Bishnoi and other officers have been camping in Kherwada since Friday and the cops said efforts are being made to restore peace and law. Meanwhile, TAD minister Arjun Bamniya, member of the Congress Working Committee and ex-MP Raghuvir Meena and other influential tribal leaders from Udaipur and Dungarpur held a mediation talk with the protesters’ representatives at Meena’s residence in Parsad in the evening. The minutes of the meeting would be discussed with chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the issue would be resolved soon, Meena told TOI. “A joint appeal has been made to the protesters to maintain peace and not resort to violence.” Meanwhile, Udaipur collector Chetan Ram Deora issued a prohibitory order for the entire district preventing assembly of more than five persons at a time, carrying arms or lathis, prohibiting rallies, procession or any kind of congregation. Internet services were suspended in Rishabhdev tehsil adjoining Dungarpur district, while at Kherwada too, the internet suspension order was extended for further 24 hours till Sunday. At Kherwara more than 500 residents, including shopkeepers and traders, gathered at the police station and raised their dissent over the anarchical situation prevailing in the area. Dharnendra Jain, an activist, said non-tribal communities have been living in constant fear since Friday’s episode of vandalism. At Dungarpur, the situation continued to be tense throughout the day. The protesters paid no heed to frantic appeals made by the police and administrative officers. Police sources said cases have been lodged against more than 500 people for the violence causing harm to lives and public property. Meanwhile, the protesters refused to move from the area or withdraw the agitation until all of their demands were met. The agitators asked for unconditional withdrawal of all the criminal cases lodged against their men. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to the protesting students at Dungarpur and Udaipur to maintain law and order on Saturday. Gehlot, held series of meetings with state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, secretary home Abhay Kumar, DGP Bhupendra Singh Yadav and senior IPS officer M L Lathar during the day to take stock of the sitution. ‘Miscreants from Guj, MP behind violence’Former MP Raghuvir Singh Meena said the movement had been going on peaceful for all these days but some miscreants tried to take advantage of the situation. “When any agitation takes place, outsiders who have nothing to do with the issue try to add fuel. Tribal population in South Rajasthan is peace loving and law abiding people. They do not disrupt peace or toss with law and order but miscreants from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh too got into the agitation and made it worse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/peace-talks-fail-violence-erupts-on-nh-8/articleshow/78340991.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Disappoinment over response to LRS in dists||Hyderabad: While response from plot owners of gram panchayat layouts located in districts closer to Greater Hyderabad has been very good, not many are coming forward to avail the LRS from the districts far away from the state capital. The lack of response from the owners of unauthorised plots and layouts from the districts of Peddapalli, Mahabubabad, Mulug, Narayanpet, Nirmal and Jayashankar Bhupalpally has come as a shock to the officials who were expecting a windfall of applications. On the other hand, applications have been pouring in from gram panchayats located near the city. From Rangareddy district alone, over 42,000 applications from individual plot owners have been received. Another 100 applications seeking regularisation of an equal number of layouts as a whole have been submitted from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disappoinment-over-response-to-lrs-in-dists/articleshow/78341027.cms||Roushan Ali
September 27, 2020||Udaipur||Dungarpur: Peace talks fail, violence erupts on NH-8||UDAIPUR: Violence erupted once again on Saturday evening at Kherwada and Dungarpur when tribal youths rained stones at cops and torched some motorbikes in different areas. While the peace talk was going on at Parsad, the reports of mob attack came in and authorities left the meeting immediately to rush to the spot. Police opened fire and shot rubber bullets to disperse the uncontrollable youths who created ruckus. Two people were killed reportedly in the violence, however, authorities were not available for confirmation. Three senior police officers Dinesh MN, M L Lathar and Anand Srivastava rushed to Dungarpur to control the situation. Tension continued unabated in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts on the third day as hundreds of tribal youths remained unmoved on the appeals of the authorities and political leaders and continued to camp in jungles and hills at Kankri Doongri in Bicchiwads of Dungarpur district on Saturday. Additional forces were deployed on the 10 kilometre-long stretch between Bicchiwada and Kherwada and police patrol teams continuously made vigilant rounds to check any untoward incident. IG Binita Thakur, SP KailashChandra Bishnoi and other officers have been camping in Kherwada since Friday and the cops said efforts are being made to restore peace and law. Meanwhile, TAD minister Arjun Bamniya, member of the Congress Working Committee and ex-MP Raghuvir Meena and other influential tribal leaders from Udaipur and Dungarpur held a mediation talk with the protesters’ representatives at Meena’s residence in Parsad in the evening. The minutes of the meeting would be discussed with chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the issue would be resolved soon, Meena told TOI. “A joint appeal has been made to the protesters to maintain peace and not resort to violence.” Meanwhile, Udaipur collector Chetan Ram Deora issued a prohibitory order for the entire district preventing assembly of more than five persons at a time, carrying arms or lathis, prohibiting rallies, procession or any kind of congregation. Internet services were suspended in Rishabhdev tehsil adjoining Dungarpur district, while at Kherwada too, the internet suspension order was extended for further 24 hours till Sunday. At Kherwara more than 500 residents, including shopkeepers and traders, gathered at the police station and raised their dissent over the anarchical situation prevailing in the area. Dharnendra Jain, an activist, said non-tribal communities have been living in constant fear since Friday’s episode of vandalism. At Dungarpur, the situation continued to be tense throughout the day. The protesters paid no heed to frantic appeals made by the police and administrative officers. Police sources said cases have been lodged against more than 500 people for the violence causing harm to lives and public property. Meanwhile, the protesters refused to move from the area or withdraw the agitation until all of their demands were met. The agitators asked for unconditional withdrawal of all the criminal cases lodged against their men. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to the protesting students at Dungarpur and Udaipur to maintain law and order on Saturday. Gehlot, held series of meetings with state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, secretary home Abhay Kumar, DGP Bhupendra Singh Yadav and senior IPS officer M L Lathar during the day to take stock of the sitution. ‘Miscreants from Guj, MP behind violence’Former MP Raghuvir Singh Meena said the movement had been going on peaceful for all these days but some miscreants tried to take advantage of the situation. “When any agitation takes place, outsiders who have nothing to do with the issue try to add fuel. Tribal population in South Rajasthan is peace loving and law abiding people. They do not disrupt peace or toss with law and order but miscreants from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh too got into the agitation and made it worse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/peace-talks-fail-violence-erupts-on-nh-8/articleshow/78343257.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Calicut crash report not out even after a month||MUMBAI: Unlike Indonesia, Ethiopia and Pakistan, India has stood out as the only country in recent years to not release a preliminary report within a month of a major airline accident. Fifty days ago, 19 people were killed when an Air India Express aircraft overshot the table-top runway of Calicut airport and crashed. To learn what went wrong, pilots, passengers and other stakeholders will need to wait till January when a final report of the crash is likely to be released by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau. A total of 193 countries, including India, follow aircraft accident investigation norms laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). Under these norms, within a month of an accident, a preliminary report on the incident is required to be sent to ICAO. The final report comes within a year. The civil aviation ministry did not respond to TOI’s specific query on whether a preliminary report on the Calicut crash has been sent to ICAO. In a responce to TOI query on the Calicut incident, ICAO said that it doesn’t maintain record of preliminary reports. Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert said, “Withholding important safety data or overlooking known safety issues is detrimental since they have the capacity to prevent future accidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/calicut-crash-report-not-out-even-after-a-month/articleshow/78342335.cms||Manju V
September 27, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Tourism industry feels betrayed, seeks relief||JAIPUR: This year, the World Tourism Day will be celebrated on Sunday under the shadow of the pandemic. Instead of celebrations, the industry is pleading with the government to extend relief so that it can survive. Apurv Kumar, former chairman of CII-Rajasthan, said, “It is for the first time we are asking for some reasonable assistance in terms of waving fixed charges of electricity bills and exemption of bar licence fee for this financial year.” Even though tourism industry has been declared as industry long back, it pays the electricity charges at commercial rates, which is much higher. Similarly, the water charges are higher for industry, and here tourism units are classified as industry. Surendra Singh Shahpura, promoter of a group of hotels, said, “It’s high time such step-motherly treatment to tourism is stopped. No time better than now when the industry is struggling to survive.” He said that for one year, all the renewal of licences of the hotel industry should be deemed approved and the competition deadline of all ongoing tourism units should be extended by at least two years. “Date of completion for real estate and other infrastructure projects has been extended, but the same has not been done for hospitality units. Cash flows of hotels have dried up and they have to pay salary to staff and service their debt. Keeping the difficult situation in mind, the completion dates should be extended by two years,” added Shahpura. In a letter to the tourism minister, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan (HRAR) said that many hotels cannot pay back the loans they have taken due to the disappearance of business and they need relief. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of HRAR, said, “We urge the state government to convince the Centre for announcing moratorium on loans taken by hospitality units for at least two years.” Chandela said that unless the sector revives, the rising unemployment will continue and lakhs people will be deprived of livelihoods opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/tourism-industry-feels-betrayed-seeks-relief/articleshow/78342948.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur to get 2,000 beds for Covid treatment within a week||JAIPUR: With the number of active cases continuously increasing in Jaipur, the state government in coordination with private hospitals, is now aiming at developing 2,000 beds within a week for Covid-19 treatment. Health minister Raghu Sharma has already stated that there is a need to increase infrastructure facilities in Jaipur, as the active cases are rising. On Friday, Sharma had directed the in-service private hospitals at Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Ajmer and Bikaner district headquarters to keep 30 per cent beds reserved out of their total bed capacity, for corona-infected patients. “We are in touch with private hospitals and also arranging for extending facilities at Rajasthan University of Health Sciences(RUHS). Hopefully, in Jaipur we will have 2,000 beds for Covid treatment in association with the private hospitals as well,” said Dr Narottam Sharma, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Jaipur. Facilities are further extended at the RUHS and medical colleges at the district headquarters. “In order to check fatalities and ensure good recovery percentage, we need to focus on continuously reviewing the infrastructure and upgrade it. Thus, the increase in number of beds and Covid care centres is a continuous process,” said a senior officer of health department. The health department had issued a notification on Friday in which private hospitals were asked to keep at least 30 per cent beds of their total capacity for Covid treatment. “Private hospitals with capacity of 80 beds or more in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur district headquarters will have to keep 30% of their beds reserved for corona-infected patients. It will be compulsory for private hospitals with capacity of 60 beds or more in Ajmer and Bikaner district headquarters to keep 30% beds for corona patients,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-to-get-2000-beds-for-covid-treatment-within-a-week/articleshow/78341013.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||Schools not letting students access online classes for fees, complain parents||DEHRADUN: After several complaints from parents regarding their child being blocked from accessing school’s online classes for not paying fees, the state education minister Arvind Pandey has asked all district education officers to look into these cases with immediate effect. There have been several incidents of parents complaining of schools forcing them to pay the tuition fees with immediate effect while some schools have been accused of giving poor quality education in the name of online classes. “I have received several complaints that private schools are violating the government’s order. Strict action will be taken against the private schools if found guilty,” said Pandey. Notably, the state government’s order issued in July states that schools are allowed to just charge the tuition fees only if they are conducting online classes. This has led to many schools doing simple Whatsapp forward in the name of online classes so that they can be eligible to charge the tuition fees. Also, many schools have been accused of including other charges, which aren’t allowed currently, in the tuition fees which has made it exorbitantly high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-not-letting-students-access-online-classes-for-fees-complain-parents/articleshow/78339194.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Virtual admission to Delhi University: Be alert about eligibility||NEW DELHI: With the admission process at Delhi University (DU) going online this year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the process of changing colleges upon declaration of consecutive cutoffs may be a risky affair for students. College principals advise students to be very careful while checking their eligibility. DU is likely to announce its first cutoff list on October 12. “Suppose during the admissions, a college finds that a student is unfit for the course. Earlier, we used to send such students to other colleges but now the process won’t be so easy. There is not much provision of rectification,” said Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College. Sanjeev Singh, director of the university’s computer centre, said: “Changing the course and college after the cutoff’s declaration will be allowed, but the risk will be high. The process is dynamic and there is a large number of applications for all courses and colleges. It may happen that the situation changes by the time the student cancels and takes admission to any other college. Colleges, too, need to be very careful while approving and cancelling any admission.” Singh added: “The admission process is the same like last year but everything will be done online. The colleges will calculate the cutoff and the systems will provide them assistance. The details of students and their documents will be available with the college. Once the colleges approve the admission, students will be able to pay the fees.” Unlike previous years, there will be no physical verification of original documents during admissions this year. “That is why the admission will be on a provisional basis. There is also a ruling of the Supreme Court, which states admission is provisional subject to the verification of documents till December 31,” said Singh. SP Agarwal, principal of Ramanujan College, said that verification of uploaded documents would not be a problem. “Most of the results these days are available digitally,” added Agarwal. He stated that the new system would not be very difficult provided the university portal works well. “The college IT system will also have to be equipped,” he added. Sinha, too, said that online admissions would be convenient for both parents and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-admission-to-du-be-alert-about-eligibility/articleshow/78341051.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||CID constable shot at in Kota, hospitalised||Kota: A 36-year-old constable of the CID, posted in Kota sustained critical bullet injuries in the stomach after two unidentified men shot at him while he with his two friends, one a property dealer, were having tea at a tea stall on Friday evening at Talwandi circle under Jahawahar Nagar police station area here. The assailants reportedly fire at the property dealer but missed the target and the bullet pierced into constable’s stomach. The constable was rushed to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment.“Pramod Sharma along with his property dealer friend Subash Bangdi and advocate Ahatisham was having tea at a stall at Talwandi circle at around 7pm when two unidentified men reached there and fired 2-3 bullets at constable and his two friends,” circle inspector at Jawahar Nagar police station Ramkishan Verma said. Two of the three bullets missed the target while the one pierced into Sharma’s stomach below the heart causing him to collapse, he said, adding the two assailants fled the spot .The reason behind the firing is not known, however, prima facie, it appeared that some dispute over property dealing between the property dealer and the unidentified men was the possible cause behind the crime, he said.Police have registered a case against the two unidentified men under relevant sections of the IPC and efforts were underway to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cid-constable-shot-at-in-kota-hospitalised/articleshow/78341039.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Udaipur||For 2 straight days, Rajasthan records over 2k Covid cases||JAIPUR: For two days in a row, Covid cases breached the 2000 mark in the state. On Saturday, 2,045 new infections were recorded, the single-day highest so far, taking the overall count to 1,26,775. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the death tally to 1,426. Jaipur continued to remain the worst-hit district registering 415 cases. The district also has the highest active cases at 7,141. Majority of the hospitals, both private and government, are full with Covid patients. “Patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at their homes and those requiring oxygen support and ICUs are getting admitted to hospitals,” said a senior officer of the health department. Areas in the city which saw spike in cases included Mansarover (55), Sanganer (44), Malviya Nagar (27), Jhotwara (26), Jagatpura (26) and 20 cases each in Gujjar Ki Thadi and Durgapura. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 335 cases were reported, Alwar (153), Bikaner (108), Udaipur (103) and Ajmer (100). “Elaborate arrangements have been been made in these districts which definitely require enhancement in health infrastructure. We are also in touch with private hospitals which have also been asked to dedicate 30 per cent of their total beds for Covid treatment,” said an officer. Out of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, one death each was reported from Ajmer, Banswara, Baran, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. Jaipur has highest number of Covid cases as till Saturday with 19,841 followed by Jodhpur (18,859), Alwar (10,402), Ajmer (6,538), Bharatpur (4,243) and Bhilwara (3,711). Out of 1,26,775 cases, 1,04,686 patients have been discharged from various hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/for-2-straight-days-state-records-over-2k-cases/articleshow/78342919.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ajmer||For 2 straight days, Rajasthan records over 2k Covid cases||JAIPUR: For two days in a row, Covid cases breached the 2000 mark in the state. On Saturday, 2,045 new infections were recorded, the single-day highest so far, taking the overall count to 1,26,775. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the death tally to 1,426. Jaipur continued to remain the worst-hit district registering 415 cases. The district also has the highest active cases at 7,141. Majority of the hospitals, both private and government, are full with Covid patients. “Patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at their homes and those requiring oxygen support and ICUs are getting admitted to hospitals,” said a senior officer of the health department. Areas in the city which saw spike in cases included Mansarover (55), Sanganer (44), Malviya Nagar (27), Jhotwara (26), Jagatpura (26) and 20 cases each in Gujjar Ki Thadi and Durgapura. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 335 cases were reported, Alwar (153), Bikaner (108), Udaipur (103) and Ajmer (100). “Elaborate arrangements have been been made in these districts which definitely require enhancement in health infrastructure. We are also in touch with private hospitals which have also been asked to dedicate 30 per cent of their total beds for Covid treatment,” said an officer. Out of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, one death each was reported from Ajmer, Banswara, Baran, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. Jaipur has highest number of Covid cases as till Saturday with 19,841 followed by Jodhpur (18,859), Alwar (10,402), Ajmer (6,538), Bharatpur (4,243) and Bhilwara (3,711). Out of 1,26,775 cases, 1,04,686 patients have been discharged from various hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/for-2-straight-days-state-records-over-2k-cases/articleshow/78342921.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tourism industry feels betrayed, seeks relief||JAIPUR: This year, the World Tourism Day will be celebrated on Sunday under the shadow of the pandemic. Instead of celebrations, the industry is pleading with the government to extend relief so that it can survive. Apurv Kumar, former chairman of CII-Rajasthan, said, “It is for the first time we are asking for some reasonable assistance in terms of waving fixed charges of electricity bills and exemption of bar licence fee for this financial year.” Even though tourism industry has been declared as industry long back, it pays the electricity charges at commercial rates, which is much higher. Similarly, the water charges are higher for industry, and here tourism units are classified as industry. Surendra Singh Shahpura, promoter of a group of hotels, said, “It’s high time such step-motherly treatment to tourism is stopped. No time better than now when the industry is struggling to survive.” He said that for one year, all the renewal of licences of the hotel industry should be deemed approved and the competition deadline of all ongoing tourism units should be extended by at least two years. “Date of completion for real estate and other infrastructure projects has been extended, but the same has not been done for hospitality units. Cash flows of hotels have dried up and they have to pay salary to staff and service their debt. Keeping the difficult situation in mind, the completion dates should be extended by two years,” added Shahpura. In a letter to the tourism minister, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan (HRAR) said that many hotels cannot pay back the loans they have taken due to the disappearance of business and they need relief. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of HRAR, said, “We urge the state government to convince the Centre for announcing moratorium on loans taken by hospitality units for at least two years.” Chandela said that unless the sector revives, the rising unemployment will continue and lakhs people will be deprived of livelihoods opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-industry-feels-betrayed-seeks-relief/articleshow/78341014.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Tourism industry feels betrayed, seeks relief||JAIPUR: This year, the World Tourism Day will be celebrated on Sunday under the shadow of the pandemic. Instead of celebrations, the industry is pleading with the government to extend relief so that it can survive. Apurv Kumar, former chairman of CII-Rajasthan, said, “It is for the first time we are asking for some reasonable assistance in terms of waving fixed charges of electricity bills and exemption of bar licence fee for this financial year.” Even though tourism industry has been declared as industry long back, it pays the electricity charges at commercial rates, which is much higher. Similarly, the water charges are higher for industry, and here tourism units are classified as industry. Surendra Singh Shahpura, promoter of a group of hotels, said, “It’s high time such step-motherly treatment to tourism is stopped. No time better than now when the industry is struggling to survive.” He said that for one year, all the renewal of licences of the hotel industry should be deemed approved and the competition deadline of all ongoing tourism units should be extended by at least two years. “Date of completion for real estate and other infrastructure projects has been extended, but the same has not been done for hospitality units. Cash flows of hotels have dried up and they have to pay salary to staff and service their debt. Keeping the difficult situation in mind, the completion dates should be extended by two years,” added Shahpura. In a letter to the tourism minister, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan (HRAR) said that many hotels cannot pay back the loans they have taken due to the disappearance of business and they need relief. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of HRAR, said, “We urge the state government to convince the Centre for announcing moratorium on loans taken by hospitality units for at least two years.” Chandela said that unless the sector revives, the rising unemployment will continue and lakhs people will be deprived of livelihoods opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/tourism-industry-feels-betrayed-seeks-relief/articleshow/78342947.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Tourism industry feels betrayed, seeks relief||JAIPUR: This year, the World Tourism Day will be celebrated on Sunday under the shadow of the pandemic. Instead of celebrations, the industry is pleading with the government to extend relief so that it can survive. Apurv Kumar, former chairman of CII-Rajasthan, said, “It is for the first time we are asking for some reasonable assistance in terms of waving fixed charges of electricity bills and exemption of bar licence fee for this financial year.” Even though tourism industry has been declared as industry long back, it pays the electricity charges at commercial rates, which is much higher. Similarly, the water charges are higher for industry, and here tourism units are classified as industry. Surendra Singh Shahpura, promoter of a group of hotels, said, “It’s high time such step-motherly treatment to tourism is stopped. No time better than now when the industry is struggling to survive.” He said that for one year, all the renewal of licences of the hotel industry should be deemed approved and the competition deadline of all ongoing tourism units should be extended by at least two years. “Date of completion for real estate and other infrastructure projects has been extended, but the same has not been done for hospitality units. Cash flows of hotels have dried up and they have to pay salary to staff and service their debt. Keeping the difficult situation in mind, the completion dates should be extended by two years,” added Shahpura. In a letter to the tourism minister, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan (HRAR) said that many hotels cannot pay back the loans they have taken due to the disappearance of business and they need relief. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of HRAR, said, “We urge the state government to convince the Centre for announcing moratorium on loans taken by hospitality units for at least two years.” Chandela said that unless the sector revives, the rising unemployment will continue and lakhs people will be deprived of livelihoods opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/tourism-industry-feels-betrayed-seeks-relief/articleshow/78342946.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||For 2 straight days, Rajasthan records over 2k Covid cases||JAIPUR: For two days in a row, Covid cases breached the 2000 mark in the state. On Saturday, 2,045 new infections were recorded, the single-day highest so far, taking the overall count to 1,26,775. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the death tally to 1,426. Jaipur continued to remain the worst-hit district registering 415 cases. The district also has the highest active cases at 7,141. Majority of the hospitals, both private and government, are full with Covid patients. “Patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at their homes and those requiring oxygen support and ICUs are getting admitted to hospitals,” said a senior officer of the health department. Areas in the city which saw spike in cases included Mansarover (55), Sanganer (44), Malviya Nagar (27), Jhotwara (26), Jagatpura (26) and 20 cases each in Gujjar Ki Thadi and Durgapura. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 335 cases were reported, Alwar (153), Bikaner (108), Udaipur (103) and Ajmer (100). “Elaborate arrangements have been been made in these districts which definitely require enhancement in health infrastructure. We are also in touch with private hospitals which have also been asked to dedicate 30 per cent of their total beds for Covid treatment,” said an officer. Out of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, one death each was reported from Ajmer, Banswara, Baran, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. Jaipur has highest number of Covid cases as till Saturday with 19,841 followed by Jodhpur (18,859), Alwar (10,402), Ajmer (6,538), Bharatpur (4,243) and Bhilwara (3,711). Out of 1,26,775 cases, 1,04,686 patients have been discharged from various hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-2-straight-days-state-records-over-2k-cases/articleshow/78341022.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Jodhpur||For 2 straight days, Rajasthan records over 2k Covid cases||JAIPUR: For two days in a row, Covid cases breached the 2000 mark in the state. On Saturday, 2,045 new infections were recorded, the single-day highest so far, taking the overall count to 1,26,775. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the death tally to 1,426. Jaipur continued to remain the worst-hit district registering 415 cases. The district also has the highest active cases at 7,141. Majority of the hospitals, both private and government, are full with Covid patients. “Patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at their homes and those requiring oxygen support and ICUs are getting admitted to hospitals,” said a senior officer of the health department. Areas in the city which saw spike in cases included Mansarover (55), Sanganer (44), Malviya Nagar (27), Jhotwara (26), Jagatpura (26) and 20 cases each in Gujjar Ki Thadi and Durgapura. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 335 cases were reported, Alwar (153), Bikaner (108), Udaipur (103) and Ajmer (100). “Elaborate arrangements have been been made in these districts which definitely require enhancement in health infrastructure. We are also in touch with private hospitals which have also been asked to dedicate 30 per cent of their total beds for Covid treatment,” said an officer. Out of the 14 deaths reported on Saturday, one death each was reported from Ajmer, Banswara, Baran, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. Jaipur has highest number of Covid cases as till Saturday with 19,841 followed by Jodhpur (18,859), Alwar (10,402), Ajmer (6,538), Bharatpur (4,243) and Bhilwara (3,711). Out of 1,26,775 cases, 1,04,686 patients have been discharged from various hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/for-2-straight-days-state-records-over-2k-cases/articleshow/78342920.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Madurai||Min hints at Madurai becoming 2nd capital||Madurai: Madurai becoming the second capital of the state is not impossible, said minister for information and field publicity Kadambur C Raju adding that minister R B Udayakumar always achieves what he wants. He was speaking at the 96th annual general body meeting of the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The minister said that while former chief minister J Jayalalathaa had sought AIIMS for the state, it was minister Udayakumar who had brought the project to Madurai with his grit and determination. Udayakumar was able to get what he wanted from the former CM and it is the same with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, he said. The minister recalled the contributions of the chamber in bringing many developments to Madurai, including international connectivity to the Madurai airport, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, and the regional passport office. Earlier, the minister inspected the Amma Kitchen, which was functioning on the premises of the chamber building, and lauded their efforts in giving food to Covid-19 patients and frontline workers in the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-hints-at-madurai-becoming-2nd-capital/articleshow/78341806.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||With a never-back-down attitude, doctors rejoin duty after battling Covid infection||KOLKATA: Refusing to back down, several doctors have returned to work after Covid-19 nearly claimed their lives in the line of duty. Being on the frontline, healthcare workers (HCWs) are the most vulnerable to the infection. Covid has claimed at least 37 doctors in the state and hundred other healthcare workers have been infected. “I did not let any negative thought overcome me when I fought the infection at the hospital. I kept telling myself that I need to be back on my feet so that I could return to duty,” said Makhan Lal Saha, general surgery head at SSKM Hospital. The 64-year-old had tested positive in June. He fought for 14 days, including seven days in ICU. Now back on duty, Saha is setting up a minimal excision wing in his department in addition to conducting surgeries. “I have seen death up close. But that is history. Now I am focussed on my patients,” said Arunava Sengupta, ENT head at SSKM hospital, who spent 18 days in the intensive care unit in May. With comorbid conditions like diabetes, COPD and hypertension, it was a tough fight for the senior doctor. “No doubt mortality among doctors infected by Covid is high. That is the risk we take because of the profession we love. There is no looking back for me either,” said head and neck onco surgeon Sourav Datta. He had suffered severe lung damage because of the infection and had been in hospital for 14 days, including four days in the ICU in late July. He is now back to work full-fledged conducting surgeries either at Narayana Superspecialty Hospital or SSKM Hospital in addition to leading the state’s Covid protocol team in Howrah. “Covid rendered me incapable of dispensing my duties for over a month. Although I was discharged from hospital after three weeks, the weakness stopped me from returning to work. But there will be no looking back now,” said Monoj Mukherjee, ENT head at Bankura Medical College. Mukhejee was transferred to Bankura from NRS Medical College in June during the pandemic. He was tending to patients, including those diagnosed with Covid-19, in the ICU before he contracted the virus in August. “We are vulnerable, but it is our profession. Chest physicians are especially vulnerable. I am happy to be back despite a little bit of fatigue, vertigo and disturbed sleep rhythm, which many recovered patients suffer from,” said pulmonologist Raja Dhar of Fortis Hospital, Anandapur. Dhar has been part of the Covid team at the hospital right from the beginning. He had tested positive in August. Among the 40-odd Covid patients under the care of his team is his mother who. His wife was discharged on Monday. Despite the high mortality among doctors — from the young post-graduate trainees to senior doctors, with a host of comobidities, and other HCWs — most have conquered the infection to bounce back and return to care for patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-a-never-back-down-attitude-docs-rejoin-duty-after-battling-covid-infection/articleshow/78339981.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Colleges asked to send update on seat de-reservation status||KOLKATA: The state higher education department has asked all colleges, which have de-reserved seats after securing a nod from the competent authority, to update it on the status. It has also asked for the approval letters of the backward class welfare department in case de-reservation of seats has been done. “Those colleges that have completed the admission process and who have no general category seat vacant are eligible to request for conversion of the reserved seats,” a state official said. The state had earlier instructed the institutes to keep no seat vacant and extended the last date for admissions to October 30. Hence, those colleges with vacancies in reserved seats will apply for the de-reservation. “Since the de-reservation can be done after filling-up of all the general seats and with no possibility of any reserved candidate applying, we shall approach the authorities when our admissions are over. However, some colleges in the districts have reported that their seats have been filled up. They may seek de-reservation,” said a CU-affiliated college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-asked-to-send-update-on-seat-de-reservation-status/articleshow/78339985.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Big firms interested to revamp railway stations||NEW DELHI: More than two dozen companies, including Tata Projects, Adani Group, GMR Group, Anchorage Infrastructure, I Squared Capital and French national state-owned railway company, SNCF, have shown interest in the two biggest railway station redevelopment projects in the country, at New Delhi Station and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in Mumbai. Officials said these companies participated in a combined pre-bid meeting on Friday. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), which is implementing the New Delhi station has set November 6 as the deadline for submitting bids. The redevelopment is likely to be completed by mid of 2025, sources said. RLDA officials claimed the redevelopment of New Delhi station will transform it into a world-class one-stop destination for transport, retail and entertainment needs. It will also boost the real estate development of the surrounding areas and augment the tourism potential. The project would include a significant commercial component entailing a mix of retail, office, and hospitality developments such as five-star hotels, budget hotels and serviced apartments on approximately 30 acres. It also envisages a business district to be located close to the Civic Centre. The private players will redevelop nearly five lakh square metres at the New Delhi station and another 2.6 lakh square metres surrounding it for commercial purposes. The railways is hopeful of getting prime bids as private players will have a concession period for 60 years, ensuring good return on their investment. Moreover, the concessionaire will earn revenues from several components including passenger handling fees collected from passengers via ticket sales, revenues from passenger facilities within the station such as retail areas, lounges, parking, advertisement spaces, food and beverage and income from the development and lease of the commercial space. Watch Big firms interested to revamp railway stations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-firms-interested-to-revamp-rly-stations/articleshow/78341119.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to regularise unregistered Hyderabad notary properties soon||Hyderabad: All notary land in the city without any litigation is set to be identified and regularised. State MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday directed officials of line department, including MAUD, revenue and GHMC, to address issues related to land and asset ownership rights without imposing financial burden on people. In a meeting held at GHMC head office, the minister said that there are 24.5 lakh properties in the city. Out of these, only 16.5 lakh properties have been assessed. The remaining do not have property tax identification number. All unregistered properties among these, which have been sold or purchased with notary assisted documents, will now be regularised. District collectors of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal Malkajgiri and GHMC officials were present at the meeting. Other MLAs, corporators and members of resident welfare associations were gathered at GHMC zonal officers to attend the meeting virtually. “The government does not have any intention of collecting fee from people. The idea is only to facilitate and address all ownership rights,” said KTR. The minister asked all public representatives to actively participate in the process of uploading assets and property details on the Dharani portal. As per norms, the exercise is to be implemented for free. KTR directed officials to categorise land-related grievances into six categories and submit a report by Monday. “Issues related to Ayyapa society in Madhapur will also be taken up,” said a GHMC official. The state has claimed that the Ayyapa society land belong to Gurukul trust while the society owners refute it. After the list of grievances is submitted a decisions will be taken to regularize the properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-regularise-unregistered-city-notary-properties-soon/articleshow/78341086.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 27, 2020||Madurai||Cops use face recognition app to identify criminals||Madurai: The Madurai city police have introduced a mobile application which helps police officers on vehicle checks to identify criminals at the touch of a button. After feeding the digital image, the app will process the image using face recognition technology and match it with the database consisting of 3,000 criminals in Madurai since 2016.Police would usually take the suspects to the station for verification and use the database available in Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS). It is a time-consuming process and innocents would have to undergo unnecessary distress. The new application named FACETAGR can solve the issue.Deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Madurai city R Shiva Prasad said, “The app is in use for the past 10 days and it has been working seamlessly. Already many suspects have been identified through the application and appropriate actions have been initiated against them.”Police officials said the database will be updated time to time with the details of criminals not only from Madurai but also from other neighbouring districts. The city police have been fully utilizing the technological advancement in crime prevention and detection. Recently, an app was introduced by the city police commissioner, Prem Anand Sinha, to effectively track rowdy elements by compiling details of 700 rowdies and their leaders. Police are also concentrating on installing automatic number plate recognition camera at important junctions and roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-use-face-recognition-app-to-identify-criminals/articleshow/78341811.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pandemic forces pandals to tweak plans, week-long showers add to problems||KOLKATA: Regular showers in the past week have hit Durga Puja preparations across the city with several organisers shifting the work indoors and others planning to extend working hours after the rainy phase is over. Parks that had been shut in several parts of Kolkata, Salt Lake and New Town due to Covid-19 restrictions, were made available to the Puja committees last week for setting up of pandals and other activities. The rain made the grounds and parks muddy, making it difficult for the workers to set up the pandals. The fact that this time the pandals won’t be as elaborate as the previous years, brought some relief to organizers. But they also want to finish the work before Tritiya when people start visiting the pandals. The preparations this year started late as organizers were not sure of the safety guidelines the government had been preparing. Raja Banik of AK Block in Salt Lake said they had shifted the work to their community hall for the time being as AK Park, where the puja is held every year, was muddy and workers were finding it difficult to set up the pandal. “As soon as the weather gets better, we shall put the components together at the park. We shall not miss the deadline,” said Banik, executive member of the AK Block Puja committee, which started in 1988 and is one of the biggest crowd-pullers in Salt Lake. There was some uncertainty around the biggest festival of the state due to the pandemic and economic distress. The state government then stepped in and granted an allowance of Rs 50,000 for every Durga Puja. It has also handed over a list of safety guidelines which all Puja committees will have to follow. Many committees are contemplating increasing the work hours after the weather improves. “It has been raining every day for the past eight days. Many organizers may have to increase working hours. Some may have to work even after sunset so that the pandals are completed on time. The work started late this year anyway. The organizers will also have to ensure that all the Covid safety guidelines are adhered to,” said Tushar Saha, assistant secretary of Forum for Durgotsab and secretary of the Ultadanga Sangrami Durga Puja. At the iconic Kumartuli Park Puja venue, work is being done throughout the day and even at night. “The schedule went haywire due to the rains. It was very tight to begin with because all the permissions came in late. We are setting up some of the infrastructure outside the park, which will be put together once the weather improves,” said Ajoy Ghosh, president of Kumartuli Park Sarbojanin Durgotsab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-forces-pandals-to-tweak-plans-week-long-showers-add-to-problems/articleshow/78339979.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||After third attack, orders given to kill or trap leopard||PITHORAGARH: The leopard on prowl near Pithoragarh town attacked yet another local on Saturday. The latest attack on 40-year-old Lalit Mohan Joshi took place at Dharapani (Chandak) when he was working in his garden. He has sustained critical injuries in the attack. Following the attack, the state’s chief wildlife warden issued orders to trap or kill the ‘man-eater’ leopard prowling near Pithoragarh town. Earlier, the leopard had killed two persons in the district. On 22 September, the leopard killed a 30-year-old man in Badoli village, and on 24 September, it killed an 11-year-old girl when she was returning from an agriculture field along with other women. These attacks, which have taken place within a span of five days, have led to panic in the district. Naveen Pant, SDO (Forest) Pithoragarh, confirmed that orders have been issued to trap or kill the leopard and added that the forest department has installed cameras at six spots to track the movements of the leopard. Also, cages have been installed at Badauni and Chhana villages and two teams of forest staff are patrolling the area, he added. “The department’s first priority is to catch or tranquilise the animal. If no other option works out only then the animal will be killed,” Pant told TOI. The official further informed that hunter Sayad Ali Bin has been deputed for the purpose and he will come soon at Pithoragarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-third-attack-orders-given-to-kill-or-trap-leopard/articleshow/78339204.cms||Prem Punetha
September 27, 2020||Jaipur||Aide of drug smuggler fires at police team||Kota: An aide of a wanted drug smuggler fired at a police team late on Friday night and freed the smuggler from police grip near Ghatakhedi village under Dug police station of Jhalawar district. A 35-year-old constable of Gangdhar police station of the district sustained critical bullet injuries in the firing and was rushed to Kota where he was operated upon to remove the bullet stuck in his spine. He is currently in ICU of the hospital in Kota. A police team led by Gangdhar SHO Sanjay Prasad Meena was in Ghatakhedi village to arrest a wanted accused under NDPS Act identified as Arif, 25, on Friday night when one of the aides of the accused, identified as Ameer, opened fire at police team and succeeded to free Arif and fled away on motorbike between Ghatakhedi and Chachola, DSP and circle officer Brijmohan Meena said. Constable Matadeen sustained bullet injury in the firing as the bullet pierced into his jaws and got stuck in his spinal cord, he said Around seven separate teams are in the field and carrying out raids at suspected locations to nab the accused and they would soon be arrested, the DSP said.Arif is a habitual criminal wanted for long under NDPS Act in Gangdhar police station and on the tip off on his movement in his native village Ghatakhedi, a police team was sent on Friday night, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aide-of-drug-smuggler-fires-at-police-team/articleshow/78341068.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Don't exceed judicious portions, avoid harm from 'magic' potions||Good things in right proportions are effective but too much of the "good stuff" can prove to be deleterious. In Covid times (which have dragged on), the nutraceutical and supplement advice has also piled on and we are now seeing a surfeit of hypervitaminosis and elemental overload, taken in good faith. Physiology says that the human body needs finite quantities of essential elements for normal metabolism. During times of metabolic stress, heightened doses of the same are desirable to combat this, since they may have a role to play. When Covid appeared on the horizon it was brand new, almost unprecedented in its pathophysiology and uniquely unpredictable in its presenting and attacking features. It was natural, then, for one and all to scrape the bottom and pull the rabbits out of the hat and bring out concoctions of nutraceutical ingredients to fight this invisible and virgin enemy. Zinc and Vitamin C were the most pronounced to be tweeted and preached from the books and social media. The moment some endorsement appeared, capsules even remotely containing these magic potions flew off the shelf and hungry, apprehensive gullibles began gulping them down like manna from heaven. Without taking away from the credits of zinc and Vitamin C in helping to stave off potential infection, note that the role is finite. In the same vein, other immunostimulants also came on to centre court and began seeing brisk sales. Not to be left out, the traditional Indian 'kadha' with haldi and ginger and a host of delightful culinary ingredients was also being lapped up hot. Even admitted patients were bringing with them this holy mixture and coming in with prescriptions, where they had self-doubled the doses of all the immuno-protectors despite having taken them religiously over the past five months. We even had patients who, because a partner had tested positive, had enthusiastically begun drinking extremely hot water - some had even scalded their throats - and had started experiencing severe hyperacidity. Doctors started reporting hypervitaminosis, wherein patients were swallowing 60,000 units of Vitamin D3 daily, which were supposed to be taken monthly, after a few weeks and presenting with this overdosed picture. In fact, manufacturers have posted on their websites how NOT to overdose (Up Rise and D Rise India). Articles regarding turmeric and 'methi' toxicity have already started surfacing with subtle signs of overdose. Irritant dermatitis from overuse of alcohol sanitisers is common. It is mandatory to have medical supervision with adequate punctuation to deliver optimal, and maybe a little more, but not to drown in the possible side effects. Covid continues to deceive the clinicians, fox the epidemiologists and has taken everyone in all countries by surprise, with a novel presentation just when we seem to have caught up with it. The maze of apprehension and fear continues to cloud the community. Common sense, healthy eating, adequate sleep and IMPORTANTLY, masking and distancing cannot be undermined. We still do not have a vaccine and, thus, a rounded approach with rational thinking should be the answer. Herd immunity is desirable but herd mentality is to be shunned. Do not take "panga" with health. (Dr Hemant Thacker is a consultant physician and cardiometabolic specialist attached to the Times of India and south Mumbai hospitals. Email: dochpt@gmail.com)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-exceed-judicious-portions-avoid-harm-from-magic-potions/articleshow/78347509.cms||Dr. Hemant Thacker
September 27, 2020||India||Over 5K flights landed in Calicut after friction test||MUMBAI: Three weeks before the Air India Express aircraft crashed on landing in Calicut airport, the civil aviation regulator had carried out an audit of the airport, which found that its runway surface was not friction-tested in over seven months when it should have been tested once every quarter. The said information was shared by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in response to an RTI query sent by an activist, post the crash. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) audit also found that the AAI-run Calicut airport did not have rescue equipment like prying tool, oscillating saw, and BA spare mask, implying that it was ill-equipped to handle an emergency. The audit found the “runway friction test is overdue” as it was last carried out on December 30, 2019. After the audit on July 15, AAI sent an “Action Taken report” to DGCA on August 6, stating that the friction tester equipment will reach Calicut Airport on August 7. That was the very day the ill-fated Air India Express Boeing 737 aircraft sped off the table-top Calicut airport runway. It dropped into a gorge, the fuselage broke into three, killing 19 people. The breaking action afforded by the runway surface on that rainy evening, is one of the factors the investigators will look into. Why is periodic runway friction testing important? Air safety expert Captain Amit Singh said: “A medium to big aircraft typically lands at a speed of 220-260 kmph. The primary means of stopping the aircraft is with the wheel brakes. With each touchdown, an aircraft leaves about 700gm of rubber from the tires. If the rubber deposits are not removed periodically, the runway surface get filled with rubber and becomes smooth.” After the December friction test, over 5,100 flights landed in Calicut between January and July end, according to AAI data. Moreover, the DGCA July 15 audit was carried out remotely, probably due to the pandemic and so findings that could come only following a physical inspection, like probable rubber deposits on the runway, are absent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-5k-flights-landed-in-calicut-after-friction-test/articleshow/78342316.cms||Manju V
September 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana plans at least one woman teacher in its co-ed schools||GURUGRAM: The state government has decided to tweak its existing teacher transfer policy after a report by the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights highlighted that many government schools in the state lack women teachers. It aims to depute women teachers to over 30% government schools in the state which don’t have any at present. As many as 4,283 schools with over 1.5 lakh girl students, out of over 14,000 schools in the state, don’t have women teachers. In Gurugram, at least 123 schools don’t have women teachers, while in Mewat the number is even higher — 510. This gender imbalance in the deputation of the teachers in the government schools has often been highlighted by academicians, human rights bodies and opposition parties. It is only now, after the commission’s report published earlier this month raised the consequences of this disparity like high dropout rates of girl students, that the government has decided to change the transfer policy. According to sources in the school education department, the government has directed them to formulate amendments in its transfer policy and make it mandatory for each co-education school in the state to have at least one woman teacher. The matter is under discussion and the government is expected to take a final call soon. “The issue was taken up with the chief minister, who directed the department to initiate consultations and discussions to bring necessary changes in the transfer policy. The government wants to come up with a mechanism so that every school has a woman teacher. This will not only improve the gender ratio among the teaching staff in government schools, but will also be instrumental in giving a major boost to the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme,” said a senior school education department official. Earlier this month, the state child rights commission took cognizance of the lack of adequate women teachers after it received a complaint from a girl student in Adampur accusing a male teacher of sexual harassment. An inquiry into the matter revealed that the girl had been facing harassment for long and wasn’t able to narrate her ordeal to anyone as the school had no women teachers. Thereafter, the commission analysed the gender ratio of teachers deployed in government schools across the state. The commission then issued a letter to the state government, demanding immediate attention on the issue. It stated that as several cases of sexual harassment and violence against are regularly reported from the schools, teachers have the primary task of teaching girl students about ‘good and bad touch’ and how and where to raise their voices. “In such a scenario, it is essential for the government to ensure that all the schools have required women teachers,” an official from the commission said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-plans-at-least-1-woman-teacher-in-its-co-ed-schools/articleshow/78341901.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Separated inter-faith couple gets HC help||Ahmedabad: As an inter-religion couple was finding it extremely difficult to register their marriage in Vadodara town, the Gujarat high court has arranged for the registration procedure and ordered the authorities concern to provide “hand-holding” till they finally get married.  The man and woman are residents of Makarpura. They are in love since their schools days, but their family members are against their marriage. This led them to ink a live-in relationship agreement last year. They have even got married according to Hindu rituals. But they were separated earlier this month as soon as they applied for marriage registration under the Special Marriage Act. The woman was taken away by her brother and her friends on September 14 and she was forced to withdraw the marriage registration application. The man approached the high court to free the woman from her family members, said his advocate Nisarg Jain. On Friday night, Vadodara police produced the woman before the high court through video conference from Vadodara’s court campus. On court’s inquiry, the woman said that she was regretting her decision to withdraw application for marriage registration, but that she was firm in her decision to marry her boyfriend. The court took into consideration “the ground realities” which prevent them to get the marriage registered, and the judges ordered police to provide protection to the couple. The woman chose to stay in a protection home till the marriage is solemnized. The HC ordered the authorities to arrange for the procedure for their marriage. The Vadodara’s principal district judge was directed to provide legal aid to the couple. As the condition is not so conducive for the couple, the HC ordered that the couple’s marriage application should be sent through video conference only on Monday, and it directed the registrar office to exempt their presence, which is an essential part of the proceeding. “Let no insistence be made by the Registrar for their physical presence in the present situation as both of them have shown their willingness before this court,” the court said. The HC ordered the district legal service authority to guide and help the couple in procedure and ordered further, “Hand-holding also shall be provided all throughout till the procedure gets culminated into the couple getting married at the end of 30 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/separated-inter-faith-couple-gets-hc-help/articleshow/78341106.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New mantra for old ritual to make Puja safer||KOLKATA: Several Durga Puja organizers have decided not to distribute flowers during anjali on Ashtami and will urge residents from the neighbourhood to bring flowers on their own that will be offered to the Goddess after the prayers. Also, instead of five to six rounds of anjali, major Pujas will have 14-15 rounds to ensure that devotees offering prayers are evenly spread out. Many are considering limiting the number of devotees to around 25 per round. “At Sib Mandir, we will not distribute flowers during anjali. People can bring their own flowers that will be collected in baskets and offered to the Goddess. Also, we will have at least twice the number of rounds of anjali than we usually do. The worshippers will be spread out in an open area and the priest will chant the mantras on a microphone to ensure that everyone hears him loud and clear,” said Partho Ghosh, one of the leading organisers of the Puja and founder of the Forum for Durgotsav. At Maddox Square, the anjali will be restricted to only club members. The Puja itself will be a private affair and held in the club shed instead of the expansive Maddox Square ground. “We have also decided that whole fruits will be laid out before the Goddess instead of slicing them,” said committee member Ranajit Chakraborty. Kajal Sarkar, the current president of the forum and the man behind the puja at Bosepukur Sitala Mandir, said even those allowed to enter the pandal for conducting or facilitating the puja will be subject to thermal scan and sanitization rules. “While the Goddess will be worshiped with piety and devotion, we have to ensure the safety of those who are in charge of the puja,” he explained. Many Pujas, including Badamtala Ashar Sangha, 66 Pally and Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street, will go the digital way to avoid any risk. The three Pujas that have a unified theme are planning online anjali as well as bhog distribution. “We will make this year’s Puja as contactless as possible,” said Badamtala Ashar Sangha general secretary Sandip Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-mantra-for-old-ritual-to-make-puja-safer/articleshow/78340000.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Tigress crosses into Adilabad for 3rd time, yet to find home||HYDERABAD: A tigress from Maharashtra’s Tipeshwar tiger reserve has crossed over into the farthest corner of Telangana’s Adilabad district for the third time in search of a territory. The two-and-a-half-year-old tigress named ‘i’ because of a mark beside it’s left eye, is currently moving in the 30 km area connecting Hathighat, Pippalkuti, Tamsi (K) and Arli villages in Bheempur Mandal of Adilabad. While the tigress has been moving in the region for the last two months, sources informed that no direct or indirect sighting was reported in the last couple of days. The tigress was also sighted moving in the area in February and August this year. “This is the fourth or fifth tiger migrating into Telangana from Tippeshwar. Considering the increasing tiger population in Tippeshwar and number of villages along the tiger corridor between both the states, the tigers migrating from here, including this tigress which crossed over the state border and has entered Adilabad thrice so far, will definitely find a suitable habitat in Kawal tiger reserve, if it proceeds in that direction,” said Ajinder Singh, a wildlife photographer and conservationist. Authorities from the forest department who are regularly monitoring the movement of the tigress in Bheempur Mandal informed that the big cat is currently living in an agricultural field which is a non-forest area right beside a village. “Tigers have started migrating into Telangana from Tippeshwar only from last two-three years,” said V Chandrashekar Rao, forest divisional officer, Adilabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tigress-crosses-into-adilabad-for-3rd-time-yet-to-find-home/articleshow/78341114.cms||Moulika.KV
September 27, 2020||Madurai||Gang hacks two women to death near Tirunelveli||Tirunelveli: Two women were hacked to death by an armed gang near Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district on Saturday. The murdered have been identified as A Shanmugathai, 50, and S Shanthi, 50, of Marugalkurichi village. Police suspect the women might have been murdered to avenge the double murder that took place in the same village on March 14. So far, five people have lost their lives in the dispute that started between two families after a young couple eloped. According to police, A Nambirajan, 21, son of Shanmugathai – Arunachalam couple, eloped with T Vanmathi of the village. Vanmathi’s brother T Chellasamy beheaded Nambirajan in November last year. In return, Vanmathi’s relatives Arumugam and Suresh were hacked to death at an eatery run by Arumugam on March 14. Nambirajan’s parents and relatives, who were accused arrested in the double murder incident, were released on bail recently. Police suspect that Vanmathi’s relatives may have Murdered Shanmugathai and Shanthi. A police officer said that a gang consisting of at least 10 people reached Shanmugathai's house on Saturday afternoon. They hurled petrol bombs at the house. When Shanmugathai came out, the gang attacked her and severed her head. Following this, the gang headed to Shanthi's house located nearby in search of her husband Murugan. Murugan was one of the accused in the double murder. As Murugan escaped from the spot, they attacked Shanthi. A minor girl who tried to save Shanthi suffered injuries. Shanthi died on the spot. The gang escaped after the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-hacks-two-women-to-death-near-tirunelveli/articleshow/78341815.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Min, VCs meet today to plan campus route||Kolkata: The meeting called by education minister Partha Chatterjee on Sunday with all the state university vice-chancellors is likely to lay the road ahead for higher education institutions over the next year. The meeting, which is scheduled at 1pm, will see a host of discussions over the academic calendar that has been proposed by the University Grants Commission (UGC). This apart, some other topics of discussion will be the remaining seats in colleges across Bengal and the beginning of classes for the intermediate semesters. Higher education department officials have already sought the list of vacancies from vice-chancellors, who have requested the affiliating college principals to send the data. “There has been a continuous debate that this year, because of the influx of marks in West Bengal Higher Secondary Education, students from other boards like CISCE and CBSE have been deprived of securing the best seats in the most popular colleges of Kolkata,” said an official at the education secretariat in Bikash Bhavan. He added: “Also, the lesser migration of students outside Bengal has worsened the matter. These issues require an elaborate analysis. Since the government has extended the last date for admissions up to October 30, a stocktaking is necessary about where the seats are vacant, in which subjects and in which colleges.” The UGC calendar to be discussed in details because assembly elections will be held in 2021. “If the calendar has to be followed, then colleges will have to hold six-day classes. Also, there is no provision for any vacations. The minister requires to know the challenges the varsities are likely to face if the proposed calendar is adopted,” pointed out a vice-chancellor. Also, discussions will be held on the problems being faced due to the online mode of teaching. Since the colleges have been asked to start classes for the first-year students from November 1, the state will fix their own SOPs apart from those that have been sent by the UGC. “There is a massive overhaul in the UG system as per the National Education Policy (NEP). The UG programme will be held over four years. The proposed calendar of UGC this year has gone into micro-detailing that till now was left to the universities, which enjoyed certain autonomy,” pointed out another VC. She added that it is also another issue that will be discussed if at all NEP proposals will be implemented in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/min-vcs-meet-today-to-plan-campus-route/articleshow/78339997.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Madurai||Central TN reports 677 cases, 14 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The central region of the state recorded 677 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 49,409, which include 5,185 active cases. The region also recorded 14 deaths pushing the toll to 686. Meanwhile, the south Tamil Nadu reported 592 fresh cases and nine deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,09,389, which include 1,02,114 recoveries, 5,443 active cases and 1,832 deaths. Kanyakumari recorded 96 new cases on Saturday, but, the number of active cases (938) in the district has crossed the 900-mark after 20 days. Tirunelveli recorded 90 fresh cases taking the tally to 12,350, including 890 active cases and 196 deaths. Madurai reported 81 new cases, which took the active cases in the district to 721. The southern districts that reported less than 50 Covid-19 cases on Saturday include Tuticorin (49), Virudhunagar (38), Sivaganga (28), and Ramanathapuram (21). The nine Covid-19 deaths in the region were reported in Theni (3), Madurai (2), and one death each in Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, and Tuticorin. The total number of deaths in Theni is 176, with the district death rate of 1.2%, which is below the regional and state average. Theni had been steadily seeing a decline in the number of cases and deaths. The Covid-19 death rate of the southern region is 1.7%. In the central region, Thanjavur reported 179 positive cases, the highest in the region, and six deaths. Six men aged between 54 and 67 in Thanjavur died of Covid-19. Next to Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Trichy recorded 141 and 96 fresh positive cases. Trichy reported one death. Pudukottai reported 88 positive cases and four deaths. In case of Karur, the number of new positive cases was 71, while it was 45 in Nagapattinam. Covid cases were also reported in Ariyalur (32) and Perambalur (25).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-tn-reports-677-cases-14-deaths/articleshow/78341830.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three big single screens to walk the cineplex way||KOLKATA: Pandemic-induced shutdown of cinemas has forced the owner of Minar, Bijoli and Chhabighar to rethink. He has resurrected plans of converting his theatres to double screens that were aborted due to demonetization. The owner now wants to retain the movie experience at his chain of theatres but do away with the single-screen format. He is hoping that the state government allows single window clearance to turn them into cineplexes. In 1930, Hari Priya Paul had built the Chhabighar cinema hall. Five years later, he inaugurated Bijoli. Minar was inaugurated after another seven years, on May 2 in 1942 with the film titled ‘Nan’. It was in Bijoli that Satyajit Ray had organised special shows of ‘Pikoo’ and ‘Sadgati’. ‘Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne’ had run for 60 weeks at Bijoli. Ritwik Ghatak’s ‘Jukti Tokko Aar Goppo’ was also released there. Rituparno Ghosh’s ‘Unishe April’ initially had no takers and was released in this chain with a premiere at Bijoli. Paul’s grandson Suranjan, the current owner of the chain, is keen on running the show. “My son, Siddhanth, is a student of cinematography and my daughter, Attisa, is studying management. Like me, they too want to join this profession of movies. All of us want Minar-Bijoli-Chhabighar to continue the tradition of screening movies while reinventing the original format. Keeping in mind the changed viewing patterns, double screens are the best option,” he said. In July 2016, there were plans to convert these three theatres into double-screen properties with shopping malls. The halls were shut to kickstart the process. “However, demonetization upset everything and we opened the theatres as single screens. In between, our theatres did get attention. The Oscar awards jury meetings for Indian entry were held at Bijoli. Screenings of Kolkata film festival movies were done at Bijoli and Minar. We introduced 3D viewing in these two theatres for screening ‘Avengers’.” The pandemic, he said, has helped firm up his mind. “During the pandemic, we decided on going the double-screen way. The façade will remain the same. Since the structures are old, the revamp work has to be done slowly and with care,” he said. After converting to double screens, he intends to pull back the crowds. “We pray that the government gives us tax holidays for recovery of investments. A single-window clearance for all formalities and speedy sanction of permissions will help us immensely to save our theatres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-big-single-screens-to-walk-the-cineplex-way/articleshow/78340026.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Man arrested for burglaries in northwest Delhi; Rs 4.7 lakh, gold seized||NEW DELHI: A man has been arrested for allegedly stealing from houses in upscale residential colonies of northwest Delhi. Police said that the man would recce the colonies for locked houses during the day on his sports bicycle and targeted the area at night. Gold jewellery and Rs 4.7 lakh in cash has been seized from the man. The burglar has been identified as Shravan Mehtav, a resident of jhuggi cluster in Pitampura. Mehtav came under the scanner after a house owner in Pitampura reported a burglary on Wednesday. Police checked CCTV footage from near the house and zeroed in on a suspect riding a sports bicycle wearing a red Tshirt and blue trousers. “At least 75 clips from different areas were screened to track the man and he was finally identified as a resident of a jhuggi cluster in Pitampura. He was arrested on Friday,” said a police officer. During questioning, Mehtav initially denied his role. However, when he was confronted with the footage, he confessed to have burgled the house. On Mehtav’s instance, police recovered cash Rs 4.7 lakh from his jhuggi along with stolen jewellery. A chisel and a hammer used to break into the houses were also seized along with his bicycle. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said Mehtav used the bicycle to avoid suspicion while checking out houses. “With his arrest, we have solved eight cases of burglaries in and around Maurya Enclave and Pitampura. We are also checking whether he had any associates,” Arya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-arrested-for-burglaries-in-nw-delhi-rs-4-7l-gold-seized/articleshow/78341148.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||City jumps to 23 in Smart Cities activities ranking||Nagpur: Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) has improved its ranking from 48 to 23, In Maharashtra, barring Pune and Nashik all other cities are behind Nagpur. Smart Cities Mission director Kunal Kumar recently took a review of eight cities in Maharashtra and expressed happiness over the improvement of ranking of Nagpur which improved rankings in 2 months. “Nagpur did utilise 100% grant of Rs 196cr received from Centre under the mission,” said Mahesh Moroney, CEO of Smart City, Nagpur. He thanked mayor Sandip Joshi and municipal commissioner Radhakrishna B for their guidance. Mahesh Pathak, the UDD principal secretary, and CEOs of all smart cities were present during the review held via video-conferencing. Kumar also expressed happiness over the activities going on in Nagpur under ‘India Cycles 4 change challenge’ and ‘Streets for people challenge’ launched by ministry of housing and urban development under smart cities mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-jumps-to-23-in-smart-cities-activities-ranking/articleshow/78341121.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Madurai||MKU, MSU see more than 90% attendance for online exams||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU), Tirunelveli, have both recorded more than 90% attendance for the online exams held so far for final semester students. This is the first time an online format for exams is being followed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Both universities were conducting the exams by sending question papers to students online and then submission of answer scripts written on paper, either online or offline within the allotted time. At MSU, out of the 1,47,601 registered candidates who were to take part in the exams held so far, 98% had completed the exams and only around 2,000 were absent. The university had recorded 94% submission of answer scripts by online upload while 4% submission was through android application. “We had better attendance than expected. Since we already had an automated system in place, students faced hardly any difficulties. Since the students only required internet connectivity to download the question paper, even those from rural areas did not face any difficulty,” said K Senthamarai Kannan, MSU Registrar (in charge). Collection centres had also been set up for direct submission of the answer scripts in person to co-ordinators who can then upload them online. MKU university authorities meanwhile said that they are trying to ensure all students complete their exams without any difficulty or delays in a smooth manner. “There were a few issues during the first three days as this is the first time for students and faculty. However, it was sorted and since students were also allowed to make direct submissions to their respective exam centres, there were no complaints. Parents have also been highly supportive and co-operative. As of now, we recorded 94% attendance,” said M Krishnan, vice-chancellor, MKU. The last exam for final semester students of both universities is on September 30. Though concerns were raised by educationalists and college principals about the possibility of malpractices like copying answers, looking up answers on internet, and impersonation, the universities have assured that measures for scrutinizing the answer scripts are in place to prevent such practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-msu-see-more-than-90-attendance-for-online-exams/articleshow/78341826.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||CCP to outsource waste collection to reduce cost, improve efficiency||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) intends to outsource door-to-door garbage collection and transportation services to a private agency. The move, said CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues, is aimed at improving the efficiency of waste management and making the process cost effective. CCP has categorised the work in two packages – wet waste and dry waste – and plans to outsource the entire process for a period of five years. “There has been a paradigm shift in recent years in the way the municipal solid waste should be managed,” stated Rodrigues in the tender document. The corporation has been toying with the idea of outsourcing garbage collection since 2014. The tender for wet and dry waste collection, which was issued last fortnight, does not include door-to-door wet waste. CCP hopes that by outsourcing the contract, the capital city’s waste management services will become regular and function as per the schedule timings with proper frequency and route management. The civic body will provide six trucks for dry waste collection and five waste compactors for wet waste while the agency will have to provide the workers. CCP plans to procure new garbage compactors which would be provided to the selected agency. “The dry waste from residential colonies, hotels and restaurants, commercial establishments, sorting stations, Panaji Municipal market, from litter bins and domestic biomedical waste from residential colonies is to be transported to the material recovery facility at St Inez in the vehicles handed over to the service provider. The wet waste from the litter bins is to be transported to the wet waste processing facility behind Heera petrol pump site located near KTC bus stand, Panaji,” an official said. To ensure that the agency abides by the contract, CCP has sought a Rs15 lakh security deposit. The CCP may increase or decrease the number of residential colonies and commercial establishments from where waste would be required to be picked up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-to-outsource-waste-collection-to-reduce-cost-improve-efficiency/articleshow/78341156.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Cops prepare list of bad roads for pre-Puja repairs in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Kolkata traffic police has provided a list of over 200 spots to KMC and other civic bodies with photographic evidence to highlight the need for urgent road repairs. The list has been compiled at Lalbazar after taking data from 25 traffic guards. An assessment of the road condition is carried out before Durga Puja each year but it has been delayed this year due to the Covid situation. Last week, KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim had carried out a review meeting. Among the major roads identified for repair are EM Bypass, Diamond Harbour road, SP Mukherjee Road, Deshapran Sasmal Road, Central Avenue, Strand Bank Road and MG Road. The key stretches include Hyatt crossing and Beliaghata Main Road crossing on the Bypass, Ramlochan Mullick Road Road crossing on MG Road, Madan Chatterjee crossing on CR Avenue, the Phalpatti Crossing on CR Avenue and the Behala Chowrasta Crossing on DH Road. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar said the list includes stretches that need both major repairs and those which need a patchwork. Among other important roads in the list are the BK Pal Avenue, Nimtala Ghat Street and Taratala Road as well as roads maintained by Kolkata Port Trust, Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority and state Public Works Department. Hakim has said the repair of all bad stretches will be complete by October 15. KMC will not allow any roads to be dug after October 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-prepare-list-of-bad-roads-for-pre-puja-repairs/articleshow/78340007.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to Centre on razing of mosques||Hyderabad: Another writ petition was filed in the high court questioning the demolition of two mosques and a temple in the old secretariat complex. A bench, which heard four PILs so far on the same subject, directed the registry to tag the current plea with them and issued notices to the state and central authorities and sought their replies within two weeks on the contentions raised by the petitioner. The plea was filed by Mohammed Mushtaq Mallik of Chaderghat, who wanted the Centre, minority welfare ministry, the central waqf council along with the Telangana State Waqf Board, police and revenue authorities to take action against the state council of ministers for ordering unilateral demolition without resorting to the laws related to waqf and endowments properties. The petitioner, who is president of Tahreek Muslim Shabban, an organisation working for the welfare of miniorities, said the cabinet headed by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao did not keep people informed of its decision to demolish the places of worship inside the secretariat complex. Initially, the government said the places of worship were crushed under the weight of the debris of a nearby building, but later admitted that they had demolished it, the petitioner said. He also narrated about the government’s assurance to rebuild the mosques with modern amenities and urged the court to summon the map of the new secretariat to ascertain the same. The case will come up for hearing after two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-centre-on-razing-of-mosques/articleshow/78341123.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AMC seals more eateries for Covid protocol violations||AHMEDABAD: The solid waste department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which has been instructed to enforce Covid protocols, sealed Chai Sutta Bar on HL College Road after it was found to be violating social distancing rules and people there were not wearing masks. AMC’s Harshad Solanki said Danny’s Coffee Bar near IIM was fined heavily along with another eateries. Solanki said for the last two days there has been a drive at SG Road and near Sindhu Bhavan and at various eateries in the city, but officials have found that there is little impact of it on compliance. The drive against such eateries was taken up after Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, appealed to the youth to not go out in groups to eateries and to maintain social distancing. AMC teams recently sealed six eateries on SG Road and also issued an SOP for eateries. Officials said that at all these places it was observed that youths are sitting in groups of 8 to 10 people and 80% of them are without masks. Officials said that apart from fining such individuals Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks, the authorities will impose heavy penalties on such eateries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-more-eateries-for-covid-protocol-violations/articleshow/78341319.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||6 Covid-19 deaths, 269 recoveries in Amravati||Amravati: While the number of recovered patients outscored the number of new cases on the second successive day, the death toll again rose on Saturday. 269 patients were discharged and 244 new patients occupied the beds in Covid hospital today. The total number of recovered patients is now 9,748 while the Covid-positive case count has reached 12,478. The district, which recorded three deaths yesterday, posted six today to take the toll to 268, a civil surgeon office report said. The report further added that four men aged 79, 40, 45 and 40 from Morshi, Anjangaon Surji, Chandur Bazar and Achalpur towns respectively, and two women aged 70 and 43 from Paratwada and Anjansingi in Dhamangaon Railway taluka, respectively were among the six who died during treatment. This has left 2,462 active cases, that includes 1,449 in Covid hospital, 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 1,001 put in home isolation, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-covid-19-deaths-269-recoveries-in-amravati/articleshow/78341158.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||78k owners paid Rs 174 cr property tax||Hyderabad: After the government’ decision to extend the deadline of the one-time amnesty scheme till October 31, a total of 4,62,873 property owners in the city have a chance to avail the offer. Extension of the offer has received a mixed response from owners of commercial establishments and self-employed. While some appreciated the move pointing out towards Covid-19, some said discount should be given based on financial condition of the property owner and rental value. As on date, 78,137 property owners have paid the dues under the scheme and Rs 174.27 crore has been collected. “When the scheme was rolled out, businesses in the city had just started picking up after the lockdown. It is difficult to clear arrears. Extending the scheme couldn’t have come at a better time,” said Faraan Rokadia, managing director of Luxury Ridez, Jubilee Hills. Akhil Agarwal, a city-based businessman who supplies construction material, said: “Discount should be given only to the poor and an income slab should be fixed. If everyone gets a discount, people who pay taxes on time will also be discouraged.” Under the scheme, those who have to pay property tax dues with interest need to pay 10% of their accumulated interest along with principal amount up to 2019-20. According to GHMC officials, the scheme has been receiving a good response. “Property owners initially were apprehensive. But, are optimistic now and are coming forward to clear the arrears,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/78k-owners-paid-rs-174-cr-property-tax/articleshow/78341174.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Three held for killing man over Rs 4,000 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Three men have been arrested for allegedly beating a meat shop owner to death in outer Delhi's Narela Industrial Area over a dispute of Rs 4,000. The body was then dumped in a canal in Sonipat, Haryana. The arrests were made on Friday, 23 days after the shop owner went missing. The accused have been identified as 31-year-old Vakil Kumar, the main conspirator who is a resident of Sonipat in Haryana and two accomplices Pintu Kumar, 27, from Bihar, and Anil, 26 who is also from Sonipat. A woman from Vijay Colony in Bawana reported her husband missing to police on September 11. She told the cops that she had last seen 35-year-old Irshad on September 2 with Vakil, a meat supplier. Vakil assisted cops in looking for Irshad and was initially not under their radar, until the cops discovered the shop owner owed him Rs 4,000. “When questioned, he confessed to the murder over the unpaid amount and disclosed the identities of his associates, Pintu and Anil,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-held-for-killing-man-over-rs-4000/articleshow/78341217.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Focused on getting corruption down to zero level, says Goa CM||PANAJI: A day after he lashed out at the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) for alleging corruption, CM Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that his “focus would be to bring it down to zero level”. Speaking to reporters after the BJP state executive committee meeting,he said that he has tried to stop corruption from day-1, and wherever possible, he has stopped it. Sawant said he would hold a meeting with the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) to review the ease of doing business in the state. On Friday, Sawant lashed out at the GSIA for saying that he failed to keep his promise to improve ease of doing business. The GSIA had said that the government was making “life more miserable” for entrepreneurs. “People have the habit of criticising everything when they do not get benefits, and that is the trend,” Sawant had said. After Goa’s rankings in the ease of doing business rankings slipped to 24 from 21, Sawant had promised to improve the state’s business environment. The association also led a scathing attack on the functioning of GIDC, and said “corruption has scaled new heights” in the corporation. “Under-the-table rates are being fixed for every routine service,” association president Damodar Kochkar had said. “They (GIDC) have even fixed their commission for allotment of new plots in various industrial estates.” “What happened to the chief minister’s promise about a meeting to improve ease of doing business in Goa? Like all other political assurances, this too seems to have been forgotten. It looks like the industry is also at the bottom of his priority list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/focused-on-getting-corruption-down-to-zero-level-says-cm/articleshow/78341184.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Goa CM announces ‘massive recruitment’ from January||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday said that the state government would start “massive recruitment” in government departments from January. He also said that the state would implement the new education policy from 2021. “We have stopped recruitments till December 2020, but we will start recruitments in government departments in a big way,” Sawant said. Sources said that the state government would fill more than 5,000 vacancies since it’s election year in 2022. He said that the government has taken steps to ensure that even private employment is created in the state. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that people expect that they should get employment. He also said that the new education policy should be in the mother tongue, and that the state has not opposed that. “We support and promote education in the mother tongue, and we are of the opinion that primary education should be in the mother tongue,” he said. Sawant said that the state government requested banks to extend the moratorium on loans by another three months. The BJP’s state executive meeting, conducted mostly virtually, congratulated the Centre for the completion of a successful, eventful, and challenging first year. He said that even though the state has slipped in the ease of doing business rankings, the government has taken up with the Centre its plan to bring industries to the state. Sawant said that revenue collection of the state government is around 35-40% (of normal). “When I became CM, the total state loan was around Rs 20,240 crore,” he said. “I have taken a loan of Rs 2,500 crore, but repaid Rs 3,500 crore.” Sawant also said that a study has been conducted to put the state’s finances in place by March 2021. He also said that the new education policy was discussed at the executive committee. He also said that BJP would start training its karyakartas with the 2022 assembly election in mind. The CM said that despite the Covid pandemic, the state government has continued all schemes for the welfare of society. He also said that state government will complete all scheduled projects by 2022. Sawant also said that the electronics hub at Tuem would be expedited. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that the party would return to power in 2022 under Sawant’s leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-announces-massive-recruitment-from-jan/articleshow/78341207.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘Nagin’ revenge rumour busted, gram pradhan, aides arrested for murder||LUCKNOW: A farm caretaker’s murder in Barabanki was hushed up as a snake-bite death by the propaganda machinery of the village head, who termed it as ‘revenge of the naagin (female cobra)’. But cops got breakthrough two weeks back when they acted on a tip-off and extricated the body from the burning pyre and sent it for autopsy, which revealed it was death by strangulation, not snake poison as peddled by the village head, Vijendra Shukla. He along with brother and two accomplices were arrested on Saturday for murder of the caretaker, Ramu Trivedi. They were all residents of Behleempur Majra village under Haidergarh police station. The gram pradhan wielded considerable influence in the village and spread a rumour that Trivedi died of snake bite. He took a cue from 2019 incident in which a snake had died in a thresher and churned out the theory that its mate had extracted its revenge by snuffing out Ramu, said police. Superintendent of police, Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi, who supervised the probe said, Vijendra lived in Lucknow, but his location was found near the crime spot at odd hours on September 11, 12 and 13. “We also enquired in the village about Ramu and got to know that he had begun talking abut his romance with Vijendra’s wife,” said Chaturvedi. It was also learnt that Ramu worked as a care-taker in the fields and would often come and stay in the pradhan’s home after getting friendly with Vijendra’s wife. “This angered the pradhan and he tried to deter Ramu from visiting his wife, but to no avail. Finally, he decided to eliminate him. And he along with his brother, driver and domestic help met on September 11 and 12 to plan the murder. The next day, Ramu was strangled to death,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nagin-revenge-rumour-busted-gram-pradhan-aides-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/78341853.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Vid now has more than 1 lakh recoveries||Nagpur: With 2,911 people recovering from Covid-19 on Saturday, the total number of patients recovered and discharged from Vidarbha reached 1.03 lakh. Total 3,028 new patients were reported during the day, taking the case load to 1.40 lakh. Vidarbha’s recovery rate has reached 74% now. However, it is still less than Maharashtra’s 77% and tbe national average which surpassed 82% mark on Saturday. It is still very early to comment on whether Vidarbha’s Covid curve is flattening, but the number of cases and deaths have shown a slightly downward trend in the last three days. Despite all 11 districts of the region reporting Covid deaths, the death toll of the day was 74, which is less as compared to other days in September. Total deaths in Vidarbha has now reached 3,706. The case fatality rate, however, is still hovering around 2.7% which is a major cause of concern. Saturday’s 74 deaths include Nagpur (38), Chandrapur (7), Wardha (6), Amravati (6), Bhandara (5), Gondia (3), Akola (3), Yavatmal (3), Gadchiroli (1), Buldhana(1), and Washim (1). After reporting less than 3,000 cases per day for the last five days, Vidarbha reported 3,028 cases on Saturday. These include Nagpur (1,205), Chandrapur (439), Amravati (245), Gondia (236), Buldhana (184), Yavatmal (173), Bhandara(166), Wardha (166), Akola (88), Washim (82), and Gadchiroli (44). The total number of cases has reached 1,39,278. Recoveries were slightly less than the number of cases on Saturday. The recoveries include Nagpur (1,536), Gondia (278), Amravati (269), Chandrapur (169), Yavatmal (155), Washim (133), Buldhana (127), Wardha (98), Gadchiroli (57), Bhandara (53), and Akola (36). Total 1,03,183 patients have recovered from Vidarbha. BHANDARA: In a first, an FIR was registered against a Covid positive patient who was wandering in the open in the district. A woman patient from Sakhra village in Sakoli Tehsil was asked to stay in home isolation from September 18 onwards. However, when members of the village vigilance committee visited her house, she had gone to nearby public hand pump to fetch water. According to members of the committee, the woman refused to to follow home isolation laws and created a scene. With five deaths in a day, the district’s toll surpassed the 100-mark and reached 101. Bhandara became the fourth district of Nagpur division and 8th in Vidarbha to report more than 100 Covid deaths. With 166 new patients and 53 recoveries, the total cases reached 4,673 and recoveries 2,888. Now, 1,684 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: The district registered 236 new cases and 3 more fatalities. With this, the district’s caseload reached 6,167 and death toll 86. However, the recoveries were higher than the number of patients. As many 278 recoveries were reported during the day. GADCHIROLI: The district reported death of a 30-year-old Covid positive youth. He was a resident of Chamorshi Tehsil. With this, the death toll in Gadchiroli has reached 16. On Saturday, 55 patients got discharge from hospitals taking the number of recoveries to 1,791. Total 44 new patients were added taking their number to 2,419. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is about 74%. Now, 612 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: The district reported 88 cases of the 361 reports received on Saturday. This took the case load of Akola to 7,092. Three male patients aged 58, 65 and 84 years died during treatment taking the death toll to 224. Akola now has 1,497 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: A 50-year-old man from Malkapur died during treatment in the district. 188 new cases were detected and 127 patients got discharge during the day. Now, Buldhana has 6,603 cases, including 5,431 recoveries and 84 deaths. Total 1,088 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: While 82 new cases were reported, 133 patients got discharge in the district on Saturday. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district over 4,000 and recoveries to 3,214. Washim reported 84th Covid after a 50-year old woman patient succumbed during treatment. Now, 719 patients are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-now-has-more-than-1-lakh-recoveries/articleshow/78341201.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 27, 2020||Madurai||Govt doctor invests retirement benefits on farm to shelter abandoned dogs||Madurai: A government doctor from Madurai has invested Rs 40 lakh from his retirement benefits on a farm on the outskirts of Madurai to shelter community dogs, where around 200 previously abandoned dogs are already being sheltered.Dr A Paramasivam, who worked as an anaesthesiologist in government hospitals including the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai said that he has always been drawn towards the gratitude that dogs express even after being fed only a little. “This is something I find missing in the humans and always tried to do something for these community dogs,” he said.“I always fed street dogs near my house in Viswanathapuram in Madurai. I set up cages and kept some dogs there but it caused problems with my neighbours, so I bought the farm with my retirement benefits in Lakkampatti near Palamedu and took my dogs there after my retirement three years ago,” he said.This shelter has sheds and playing space for the dogs, said Dr Paramasivam, who felt that the dogs seemed unhappy when they were confined to their cages. There are four caretakers who make food, using 10 litres of milk, 50 eggs and rice for a meal for these dogs every day and their diets include buttermilk and curd also. Working post retirement in a hospital in Kulasekharam in Tuticorin district, Dr Paramasivam said that this salary helps meet his monthly expenditure for the shelter, which comes to around Rs 50,000. “I do not want to turn it into an NGO funded by others and do not want to make money or draw fame from it,” he said. His wife Dr P Vijayalakshmi, who also retired from government service, recently shares his love for dogs and his two children, both doctors have assured him that they would take care of the shelter in future too.“My only instruction to the caretakers is that the dogs should always be happy, and I vaccinate and deworm them regularly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-doctor-invests-retirement-benefits-on-farm-to-shelter-abandoned-dogs/articleshow/78341851.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Trichy||Spl teams to check quacks treating Covid-19||Trichy: Following the directive from the director of Indian medicine and homeopathy, Tamil Nadu, the district siddha medical officer (DSMO), Trichy, Dr S Kamaraj said that special teams will be checking quacks practising ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush) for treating Covid-19 patients in the district.“The team of doctors will be visiting the centres, which offer treatment in Indian medicine for Covid-19. The objective of the visit is to check whether the physicians are qualified for treating patients under the banner of Ayush,” Kamaraj told TOI.The decision came up following the circular dated September 25, 2020 from the director of Indian medicine and homeopathy, Tamil Nadu, S Ganesh who asked all the DSMOs in the state to form a committee with the representation of Ayush doctors.The team should visit all the centres in the district to check the qualification of the person who is treating patients. In case of siddha physician, the doctor should have enrolled in Tamil Nadu siddha medical council. He also appealed to people to verify the veracity of the educational qualification of the doctors before consulting them. Kamaraj said that people can report to the office of DSMO, Trichy, over phone: 0431-2770342 in case of suspicion about any medical practitioner of Indian medicine and homeopathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-teams-to-check-quacks-treating-covid-19/articleshow/78341854.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Palarivattom flyover demolition works to commence tomorrow||KOCHI: If everything goes as planned, the demolition works of Palarivattom flyover will begin on Monday. Sources with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) confirmed that they are set to start the work. The Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society Ltd and DMRC have decided to demolish the flyover in phases. DMRC principal adviser E Sreedharan had assured the government that the flyover will be reconstructed within eight months. The city police said all measures will be taken to avoid any traffic congestion due to the works. In the initial stage of demolition, the tarred portion of the flyover will be removed. In this stage there wouldn’t be any need for traffic diversion. But when they begin demolition of the concrete structure there might arise a need to divert traffic. “We are yet to decide on traffic regulations that have to be put in place during the demolition phase. A meeting will be convened on Sunday to discuss on the traffic movement when works on the flyover begins,” said ACP (traffic east) Francis Shelbi. Meanwhile, the office of PWD minister G Sudhakaran stated that DMRC could begin work at any time. “In the present scenario there is no hindrance to start the work,” said an official. The funds which remain with DMRC after execution of various projects undertaken by them in Kochi will be used for the reconstruction of the flyover. The state government has decided to open Vyttila and Kundanooor flyovers on NH 66 for traffic in December. Meanwhile, it is pointed out that Palarivattom flyover is equally significant in addressing the traffic blocks on NH 66 as well as to ease down traffic flow through Kochi city. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had pointed out that more than a year was lost as the government fought legal battles for going ahead with the reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover. The state government decided to proceed with reconstruction of the flyover after a Supreme Court order. The court asserted that the state government is allowed to take immediate action to reconstruct the flyover considering public safety. Earlier, the high court had issued an order directing to conduct a load test before demolishing the flyover. Later, the government moved the apex court against this order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palarivattom-flyover-demolition-works-to-commence-tomorrow/articleshow/78339280.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy gets 25 charging stations for powering 100 TNSTC e-buses||Trichy: The central government has sanctioned 25 charging stations for Trichy under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric (Fame) II scheme. The charging stations shall be utilised to power 100 e-buses sanctioned for Trichy under the same scheme last year. Welcoming the move, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Trichy has proposed to establish the charging stations at Dheeran Nagar bus depot on the outskirts.The allotment by the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises was part of the 241 charging stations sanctioned for four states including Tamil Nadu. While Trichy is the only city from Tamil Nadu, others include Indore, Thiruvananthapuram and Surat. The announcement was based on a proposal submitted by the TNSTC mentioning the viable locations. “Since Dheeran Nagar bus depot has adequate space, we have proposed charging stations to be established there. The sanctioned number is adequate,” a senior TNSTC official said. Meanwhile, locals have sought a status report on the e-bus project since its been close to a year, the TNSTC had identified potential routes. “Trichy was missed in the JnNURM scheme, so e-buses should be commissioned here at the earliest to improve urban transport infrastructure,” N Manivannan, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES) said. TNSTC officials cited the delay in implementing the project due to Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-gets-25-charging-stations-for-powering-100-tnstc-e-buses/articleshow/78341856.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 27, 2020||Goa||Need new strategy to take tourism forward: Stakeholders||PANAJI: As Goa tourism takes baby steps towards normalcy, it will have to re-strategise to remain relevant post the pandemic. Stakeholders feel the “old formula” of marketing and promotion will not work since the world is experiencing dramatic changes due to Covid. “When we are marketing Goa, it is very important that standard operating procedures (SOPs) and checks and balances have to be in place. Secondly, the theme should be healthy and safe Goa,” hotelier Ralf de Souza said. Every state, he said has their own SOPs in place, but in Goa there is nothing. “Anybody and everybody can walk-in. In that terms it is a dicey situation,” he said. “If we promote Goa as before that will be a joke. The previous campaign that Goa is a 365 days destination does not hold good in the changed circumstances,” de Souza said. The primary step would be working towards having more recoveries and less infections. An healthy Goa will be the biggest USP, feel stakeholders. The state government is yet to take a call on how the destination should be promoted to take the industry forward, secretary tourism J Ashok Kumar said. However, the inclination will be towards using digital platforms for promotion and marketing, he said. “We will need to wait for the industry to open up because right now we are in the grip of the pandemic. Few hotels have reported good occupancy this month and hopefully, the situation will improve. We will see the trend in October and accordingly chalk out a strategy,” Kumar said. He said that the government will not like to spend on promotion and marketing like earlier as the finance department has imposed restrictions. All marketing and promotion activity will have to be carried out in a focused manner,” he said. Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) president Nilesh Shah said that presently things are difficult and the state will have to become more creative and innovative in pushing the industry forward. “There will have to be synergy between various stakeholders of the industry such as travel agents, hotels and tour operators as was seen over a decade ago,” he said. The key to marketing will be sending a right message to potential travellers, Shah said. It is the wrong notion that the cases in Goa are rising because a lot of people are visiting the state since borders have been opened, he said. “I want to know which part of the state has seen a surge in Covid cases only due to the tourists. First of all this kind of negative publicity has to stop as it is making things difficult for the destination” the TTAG president said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-new-strategy-to-take-tourism-forward-stakeholders/articleshow/78341223.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Highest 439 Covid cases in a day, tally past 9k in Chanda||Chandrapur: The district witnessed the highest single-day surge of 439 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the caseload past the 9,000-mark to reach 9,350. Chandrapur also registered seven deaths during the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 142. The day also witnessed 169 discharges, taking the total recoveries to 5,362. Now, 3,864 patients are under treatment. The first patient in Chandrapur was detected on May 2. Even as it took 148 days to breach the 9,000-mark, the last 7,000 cases were reported in just 28 days. The infection rate has surged in September and district is reporting around 1,000 cases in just five or less days. While patients are struggling to find beds in the hospitals, efforts like janata curfew and campaign like ‘My Family-My Responsibility’ have failed to curb the spread. The deceased included a 84-year-old person from Dadmahal, a 58-year-old person from Tukum, a 71-year-old person from Jagannathbaba Nagar, a 59-year-old person from BEd College locality, a 54-year-old woman from Indira Nagar in Chandrapur city, a 70-year-old person from Bhandrawati and a 64-year-old person hailing from Gadchiroli. They all had comorbidities and died at Chandrapur GMCH. Date —————-Cases May 2 —————1 August 14 ———-1,000 August 29 ———-2,000 Sept 3 —————3,000 Sept 7 —————4,000 Sept 11 ————-5,000 Sept 14 ————-6,000 Sept 18 ————-7,000 Sept 21 ————-8,000 Sept 26 ————-9,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/highest-439-covid-cases-in-a-day-tally-past-9k-in-chanda/articleshow/78341224.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Trichy||Highways dept displays info on Karur road project||Trichy: After a public outcry, the state highways department has installed a couple of information boards with details of the ongoing Karur road widening project on the outskirts of Trichy city. Last week, the denial of information by the state highways on the project had caused uproar.The boards have details of the project cost and other technical details including length of the road to be widened under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development (CRID) programme. The length of the retaining and a protective walls along the banks of the Cauvery and the name of the contractor were also displayed. Welcoming the move, road safety activists said that such details will help the public comprehend the purpose of the project. “Transparency in the execution of road projects is what we demanded. Glad to notice that the state highways department has disclosed the width of the road. That was denied earlier,” RTI activist P Aiyarappan said. The boards were placed near the Ayyalamman ghat entrance. It states that the road project will be completed by November 2021.Meanwhile, senior officials from the department (construction and maintenance) headed by superintending engineer S Palani inspected the road projects including the Karur Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/highways-dept-displays-info-on-karur-road-project/articleshow/78341855.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal scores high with Bhatnagar Prize||Kolkata: As many six scientists from Bengal won the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize that was announced by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research on Saturday. Of the six winners from Bengal, two are now based in the state, while the rest work in leading institutes across the country. Among the winners are Rajat Subhra Hajra, a professor of mathematics at Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), Surajit Dhara of Hyderabad University, Jyotirmayee Dash of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (IACS) and geologist Abhijit Mukherjee of IIT-Kharagpur. Physicist Kinshuk Dasgupta of Bhaba Atomic Research Centre (BARC) and Subhadeep Chatterjee of Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, Hyderabad, are also on the list. Hajra, among the two winners for maths, is an alumnus of St Xavier’s College, Kolkata and Calcutta University. A PhD from ISI, Hajra did his post-doctoral research at a university in the US. He has been awarded for his work on mathematical models of probability, which he plans to use to study social media. Kolkata boy Mukherjee studied at South Point High School and Calcutta University before moving to the US for PhD and post-doctoral research. He worked in Canada for several years before returning to work at IIT-Kharagpur. “I have tried to find out how we can predict arsenic contamination in ground water globally. Yes, I am extremely happy that my work has been recognized,” Mukherjee told TOI.  Dash from IACS was born in Odisha. After her post-doctorate in the US, she has been working in Kolkata ever since. RNA structures and their functioning is the area of her research. Surajit Dhara was born in Deulpara near Tarakeshwar and studied at Burdwan University. He did his PhD from Raman Research Institute in Bengaluru and researched abroad on liquid crystal. The other winners are Vatsala Thirumalai of Neural Circuits and Development Laboratory, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Subi Jacob George of Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, Suryendu Dutta of IIT Bombay, Amol Arvindrao Kulkarni of Chemical Engineering and Process Development, CSIR National Chemical Laboratory, Pune, U K Anandavardhanan of the department of mathematics at IIT Bombay, Bushra Ateeq of the department of biological sciences & bioengineering at IIT Kanpur, Ritesh Agarwal of the department of pulmonary medicine at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh and Rajesh Ganapathy of International Centre for Materials Science Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-scores-high-with-bhatnagar-prize/articleshow/78341243.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, Gujarat colleges may also cut fees by 20-25%||AHMEDABAD: After schools agreeing to a 25% cut in tuition fees, colleges have now come forward to offer similar relief for students for the academic year 2020-21 keeping in view the Covid-19 situation. The spokesperson for the Fee Regulatory Committee (Technical) Jainik Vakil said fees in colleges will be reduced on the same lines as that of schools. Sources said that the tuition fees of technical colleges in the state are likely to be reduced by 20-25% and it will benefit students across 700 colleges. The decision is likely to be announced in October. In response to a PIL filed in the Gujarat high court recently, the court had asked that if fees can be reduced for schools, why can’t students of self-financed colleges get the same benefits? “In response to an oral order passed by the Gujarat high court on September 17 pertaining to a PIL filed in connection to college fees reduction, Fee Regulatory Committee (Technical) has decided to deliberate the issues mentioned in the petition with the representatives of the university,” the official on special duty (OSD) to Fee Regulatory Committee has informed all universities of Gujarat in writing. The universities have been asked to name two representatives along with their contact details by September 26, according to the letter. The letter was also addressed to SFI Colleges Association, Ahmedabad, Association of AICTE Approved Self-financed Colleges of Gujarat, Rajkot, and Association of Gujarat Engineering and Technical Diploma Colleges based in Ahmedabad. Nehal Shukla, president of Association of AICTE Approved Self-Financed Colleges of Gujarat said all college authorities are on the same page for reduction of tuition fees. “We believe that fees should be reduced in the wake of Covid-19 this year. How much the reduction should be, will be decided only after discussion with the members. Our representatives will hold discussion with the Fee Regulatory Committee for a final decision on the matter.” The committee will look into the issue of reduction in fees for all technical courses including engineering, pharmacy, architecture, diploma courses, MBA, MCA, among others. Earlier this week, the authorities of various self-financed schools agreed to the state government’s proposal of reducing tuition fees by 25% for the 2020-21 academic year. The decision was arrived at during a meeting between education minister Bupendrasinh Chudasama and representatives of various schools on Thursday, said Jatin Bharad, vice-president of Self-Finance Management Association of Gujarat. The move is expected to offer respite to over 30 lakh students in the state across 20,000 schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-colleges-in-state-to-consider-20-25-fee-cut/articleshow/78341237.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 27, 2020||Trichy||28 villagers go into hiding after testing +ve; admitted to care centre||Thanjavur: Villagers from Kazhanivasal who refused to believe they were infected with Covid-19, even demanding a retest, were traced and brought to a care centre in Pattukottai on Saturday. Health officials said 28 people from the village, on being informed they were positive, went into hiding on Friday.“As all the patients were asymptomatic, they refused to accept that they were infected,” said Peravurani tahsildar Jayalakhshmi. However, health officials pacified them by explaining about asymptomatic cases and took them to a Covid care centre for further treatment. As part of containing the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the collector has instructed health officials to conduct special medical camps and door-to-door screening in rural pockets. Medical camps were held in Sornakkadu and Kazhanivasal village panchayats in Sethubavachathiram block on September 22. The swab samples of 200 villagers were collected and sent to Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. The results released on Friday revealed that 28 people from Kazhanivasal, 12 from Sornakkadu and one from Veeraraghavapuram villages tested positive. The patients from Sornakkadu and Veeraraghavapuram volunteered themselves and got admitted at the Covid-19 care center in Pattukottai. However, the villagers from Kazhanivasal refused to turn up at the centre and even demanded another test to confirm if they were positive, refusing to accept that they were infected by the virus.As they did not come to the care centre, a team comprising health and revenue department officials headed by Peravurani tahsildar Jayalakshmi rushed to the village along with local body representatives. They could not locate anyone as their homes were found locked. Officials managed to locate them from neighbouring houses and villages and brought them back. After Unlock 4.0, Thanjavur has been witnessing more positive cases, as people are not adhering to social distancing and not wearing masks. As a result, health officials have been asked to intensify screening process in rural areas. According to officials, 2.2 lakh people have been screened in 4,729 medical camps, of which 10,369 have tested positive with 161deaths and 1,236 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/28-villagers-go-into-hiding-after-testing-ve-admitted-to-care-centre/articleshow/78341862.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Trichy||IndiGo service from Trichy to Kozhikode||Trichy: For the first time after 13 years, Trichy will have an air connectivity with Kozhikode in Kerala with IndiGo Air operating a special flight on September 27. The flight 6E 8207, which is coming from Sharjah, is scheduled to take off from Trichy at 8.20pm on Sunday.As part of the ongoing repatriation services operated by IndiGo Air from various destinations to Trichy, the carrier has scheduled to operate a service from Sharjah to Trichy on Sunday. “The flight coming from Sharjah will be extended to Kozhikode as an additional service. The flight will arrive here at 7.20pm on Sunday,” a senior IndiGo official from Trichy airport told TOI.Though the service is a one-day special, which is going connect both the cities, it is considered significant as this comes after a gap of 13 years, air travel enthusiasts said.Earlier, Indian Airlines was operating two flights a week pn the Trichy - Kuwait sector via Kozhikode. While one service was connected with Fujairah, the other was operated via Ras-Al-Khaimah. However, the services were withdrawn in 2007 citing operational reasons. Meanwhile, Air India Express will extend its repatriate flights to Muscat under Vande Bharat Mission in October. The carrier will operate three flights on October 7, 15 and 21, airport sources further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/indigo-service-from-trichy-to-kozhikode/articleshow/78341865.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 27, 2020||Trichy||BDU expects to declare results by mid-October||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has planned to release the results of final semester students by mid-October. The exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students which began on Monday (September 21) concluded on Saturday. Around 50,000 students appeared for the examinations. Students were asked to appear for the online examination from home. The question paper was downloaded from a dedicated portal created for the purpose. After writing the answers in A4 sheets, students were asked to upload them back on portal or send it through email. They were also asked to send the hard copy of the answer scripts to colleges either by post or in-person. The university on Friday asked non-autonomous affiliated colleges to send a list of faculty members to interested in carrying out evaluation of answer scripts received through the university portal and email. Faculty members must come in person to the university to conduct the evaluation while following standard operating procedure for Covid-19. For the next two days, BDU computer staff will segregate the answer scripts received online. “The answer scripts stored in the server will be distributed to over 200 computers in the university informatics centre where faculty members will carry out evaluation,” said S Srinivasa Raghavan, BDU controller of examination.He added that hard copies of answer scripts will be collected from colleges in the next two days and the hard copies of those students who could not upload their answer scripts online will be taken for evaluation. “A section of students either could not upload the answer scripts or they uploaded them in an improper way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-expects-to-declare-results-by-mid-october/articleshow/78341868.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 27, 2020||Goa||SC likely to hear plea of mining firm tomorrow||Panaji: The Supreme Court is likely to hear the petition filed by a mining company seeking extension for transportation of royalty paid ore on Monday, advocate general Devidas Pangam said The court had directed the registry to place the application filed by a mining company seeking extension for transportation of ore before the bench presided over by the Chief Justice of India (CJI). A three-judge bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud noted that in January, the bench presided by the CJI had granted six months’ time to lift the mineral/iron ore mined before March 15, 2018. Hence, it requested the registry to place the matters seeking extension before the CJI. The mining company approached the court stating that the extension was being sought as factors beyond their control had affected ore transportation. The court had allowed mining leaseholders in the state to transport mined iron ore extracted between February 7 and March 15, 2018, and lying at the pitheads, stockyards or any other storage places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-likely-to-hear-plea-of-mining-firm-tomorrow/articleshow/78341300.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Trichy||Manage salary of ad hoc teachers: BDU to colleges||Trichy:Bharathidasan University (BDU) has asked its constituent colleges to manage the salary of ad hoc teachers who draw them through the parents teachers association (PTA) funds. The university has been supporting colleges in the payment of the salary of a section of PTA teachers. Now it has asked the respective colleges to manage it on their own.Till last year, there were 10 constituent colleges under BDU out of which four were converted into government colleges. However, the university is managing the cost of running the colleges as the government had promised to reimburse the same at a later stage. Besides regular teaching and non-teaching staff, the colleges have ad hoc employees, which have outnumbered the number of regular staff in the recent years. There are three types of ad hoc teaching staff in these colleges, which include guest faculty, teachers on hourly-basis and PTA teachers. The salaries of the guest faculty and teachers on hourly-basis are managed by the university, besides partially managing the payment of the PTA teachers. Salary of the PTA teachers was managed by collecting Rs 500 from each student per annum. Since the number of teachers increased in numbers, colleges could not manage the salary of these teachers and the university started supporting them for paying their salary. However, vice-chancellor P Manisankar in a letter, dated September 21, to the model and constituent colleges asked constituent colleges to manage the salaries of the PTA teachers on their own. While Manisankar was unavailable for comments, a senior official from the university said all the government arts colleges are managing PTA staff on their own. Similarly, the constituent colleges too have been asked to do the same. So far, 51 PTA employees were given salary from the university, but it was stopped this month. The respective college principals can place a request to the vice-chancellor to roll back the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/manage-salary-of-ad-hoc-teachers-bdu-to-colleges/articleshow/78341871.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||18 months after, puzzle parking projects yet to take off in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: To deal with the issue of parking in congested markets, South Delhi Municipal Corporation had laid the foundation of three pilot projects for constructing automatic tower and puzzle parking lots at Green Park, Lajpat Nagar and Adchini in March 2019. They were supposed to create space for 400 cars and the projects were to be completed in just 6-9 months. But even after one and a half years, not even a single parking lot is completely ready. Prior to state elections, the civic agency had inaugurated the partly constructed 17-floor automated tower parking at Green Park in January 2020, but the site couldn’t be used by the public as work was still in progress. TOI visited the Green Park automated parking site on Friday and found labourers still busy with laying tiles, stones and giving finishing looks to the complex. The lifts were, however, installed at the site. Attributing the delay to ban on construction work and Covid crisis, an SDMC official said that the project would take another 12-15 days to be completed. “We have completed more than 95% work. Initially, there was a plan to construct three towers but after land was made available, a fourth tower was also constructed. We will open all the four towers for the general public from the beginning of next month,” added the official. In Lajpat Nagar, the traders and locals are desperately waiting for the puzzle parking lot. “Due to Covid-19, the market saw no footfall. But now, people have started venturing out and we are expecting things to become normal during festivals. It would be great if SDMC makes the project operational next month,” said Ashwini Marwah, general secretary, Traders’ Association of Lajpat Nagar. On Friday, some welding and fabrication work was going on the ground floor while the upper structure looked completed. Lifts were yet to be installed. The market has space for 845 cars and 190 two-wheelers while space required is for minimum 1,200 vehicles at a time, said the traders. Regarding the delay, an SDMC official said that these parking lots were different from convention lots. “We need specialised workers for steel fabrication, welding and modular design. It took contractor time in getting these workers in sufficient numbers post lockdown. Around 75% of work is completed and the public may be able to use the facility in Lajpat Nagar from November beginning,” added the official. Residents are, meanwhile, miffed over the delay. “The parking project was supposed to get completed in 2019 itself. How can officials blame it on Covid-19? Since they are taking too much time, we expect them to install the latest technology so that the parking lots can function without hindrances,” said Pankaj Aggarwal, resident of Sarvodaya Enclave. In Adchini, SDMC claimed to have completed 75% work but a visit to the parking site revealed the work was far from completion and labourers were also not seen. Only concrete base and steel frame were constructed and no fabrication or other work was going on here. These automated parking lots aimed to save time, money and create space in limited area. The retrieval time of a vehicle will be just three minutes compared with 15 minutes in the conventional parking, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/18-months-after-puzzle-parking-projects-yet-to-take-off-in-south-delhi/articleshow/78341247.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 27, 2020||Goa||Resurvey land for high-tension power lines in Mollem: Goa CM||PANAJI: The state government has directed officials to resurvey the land for the new 400 KV electricity line, which will be laid in Mollem as part of the Goa-Tanmar Power Transmission Project, and ascertain the number of arecanut and coconut plantations that can be saved from felling. Chief minister Pramod Sawant recently held a review meeting regarding the power project. Power minister Nilesh Cabral said that during the meeting, officials explained the project alignment to the chief minister. He said that contractors have been granted all permissions to commence work. The land acquisition process has started, Cabral said, and it has been decided to pay two times the government fixed price for executing sale deeds with the land owners. “The CM has directed officials to submit a detailed report on how many planations can be saved, and a resurvey will be undertaken,” he said. Cabral said that the officials will also study if the tower height can be increased, which could save plantations. “If the plantation cannot be saved as the power line will pass through it, then we will try to avoid cutting the trees. People want reliable electricity. When there is no power, people blame the government. I understand we have to save trees. We are trying to save it. We will work out a solution,” Cabral said. Recently, Cabral and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar held a meeting with people at Mollem to explain the advantages of the project and dispel apprehensions. However, that meeting witnessed heated arguments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/resurvey-land-for-high-tension-power-lines-in-mollem-cm/articleshow/78341242.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Asymptomatic +ve patients in dist to be stamped on hand, divn commr to HC||Nagpur: After directives from Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the district administration has decided to stamp all asymptomatic Covid-19 patients on their hand, so that they can be identified in case they move freely in public. In an affidavit submitted in HC, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar stated that all patients testing positive would be stamped on the backside of their hands, mentioning the isolation period. If a person undergoes antigen test, s/he would be asked to wait till the result, which usually takes 30 minutes. If they are asymptomatic and found positive, they would be stamped on their hands, the undertaking said. If the patients have opted for RT-PCR test, whose results are given the next day, their names, mobile number and address is recorded by the officials. “If their results are found to be positive, a Rapid Response Team (RRT)/surveillance team member will visit their address immediately as per protocol and put stamp on their hands mentioning isolation date. All such patients would be telephonically contacted from control rooms maintained by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration,” the affidavit stated. Justifying the decision, Kumar added that to prevent infected persons from roaming or mixing in public and to treat them properly, as per guidelines, it’s necessary to identify and acknowledge them. “Therefore, it’s must to stamp such Covid positive patients, as per HC directives,” he stated in the affidavit. The affidavit was filed through additional government pleader Deepak Thakare during hearing of suo motu PIL based on TOI report on shortage beds. Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed as amicus curiae and assisted by Nidhi Dayani. Citing Covid-19 infection which is riding a peak, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala on Wednesday had come up with a suggestion that all those testing positive should be stamped as ‘Quarantined’ on the wrist, like in case of international travellers. The commissioner had then opposed the suggestion contending that patients would face social stigma. “The method of inking index finger can be followed for persons who have undergone Covid test and found positive. If tests are conducted on multiple occasions, next finger should be marked with indelible ink. Such marking will enable others to know that person is infected and help in maintaining Covid distancing,” the HC bench had advised. Quoting lawyers from all parties in the PIL, they added that persons tested positive should be identified, if they are moving around, be it for purchase of essentials or attending duties or in connection with business and profession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asymptomatic-ve-patients-in-dist-to-be-stamped-on-hand-divn-commr-to-hc/articleshow/78341254.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 27, 2020||Trichy||Late Chola inscriptions found in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Two inscriptions dating back to the period between 10 AD and 15 AD have been found near Budalur in Thanjavur district. The pillar and inscriptions were found in a dilapidated mandapam in front of a Shiva temple. Belonging to the late Chola period, the inscriptions were found in Eswaran temple at Sanjeevipuram in Veeramarasanpettai by a group of historians headed by Professor S Kannadasan, department of Tamil, Rajah Serfoji Government College, Thanjavur and G Thillaigovindarajan, headmaster of a government primary school at Ponthiyakulam.They found a fragment inscription belonging to 10-11 AD on the Mukha Mandapam of the temple and another one dating back to the 14th-15th century in the Adhishtana of the mandapam. According to the duo, the fragment inscription mentions the gift of land with clearcut limits as well as of the gift of gold. In another inscription found in the Adhishtana, no mention has been made either of the kings or his period though the day has been inscribed. The individual is mentioned with his family suffix but in a disfigured condition. It can be inferred from the inscriptions that the end of Pandiya rule must have been the reasons for not mentioning the name of the king. The temple must have been subjected to periodical maintenance by Valappakudiyan, Punganur kilvan, Alvar Nayagan and his brother Valathar. The temple at Sanjeevipuram belongs to Purakiliyur Nadu. During the reign of Rajaraja Chola, Punganur Kamadamangalam (kamathi) also existed without Chola rule. This area must have had people who enjoyed the political backing of the rulers, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/late-chola-inscriptions-found-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78341884.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Ekbalpore attack: Two sisters remain critical in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The condition of sisters, Shagufta (20) and Taiba (17) remained critical on Saturday, over 30 hours after they were attacked by a relative at their Ekbalpore home. Though the two girls and their mother, Akida Khatoon (45), tried to fight off Sultan Ansari, he refused to back off, attacking them first with a knife and then, with a grinding stone. Khatoon, wife of Haroon Rashid, a cleric at a central Kolkata mosque, died after being taken to hospital. “Taiba’s condition is particularly critical,” said a senior police officer. The victims were found with grievous injuries on their faces, necks, chests and hands. Ansari was the step-cousin of Rashid, who lived in Ekbalpore, opposite Bodyguard Lines, with his wife, two daughters and two sons, police said. While Rashid and his sons were away at the time of the attack, Khatoon, Taiba and Shagufta were at home, police added. Rashid has two more daughters who are married. After the attack, Ansari, a private tutor who lived in Rajabagan area, reportedly walked to the Ekbalpore police station and surrendered himself. He was on Saturday sent to police custody till October 3. “Ansari (25) said his and Rashid’s families have been caught in a dispute for long. He arrived at Rashid’s home around 12.30pm on Friday and tried to talk to Akida and sort out the differences. He wanted to talk about his wish to marry one of the daughters. But Akida asked him to leave. Ansari claimed twice in the past three months, his parents had tried to settle the dispute but were rebuffed, too,” said an officer. DC (Port) Syed Waquar Raza said Ansari did not carry any weapon. Told to leave, Ansari barged into the kitchen, picked up a knife and attacked Taiba even as Akida tried to stop him, police said. Shagufta rushed to the rescue of her sister and mother, who had fallen to the ground. The two sisters reportedly forced Ansari to drop the knife. But he ran to the kitchen and returned with a grinding stone, with which he attacked all three, police said. As the three collapsed to the ground, Ansari walked to the police station and and told cops to shoot him “for his major crime”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ekbalpore-attack-two-sisters-remain-critical/articleshow/78341287.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 27, 2020||Ludhiana||MC launches city roads cleaning drive||LUDHIANA: Before the beginning of festival season the MC officials have launched an extended cleanliness drive on city roads, where employees from all branches have been deployed on this task. The drive will continue during the festival season as well. The aim is to catch the attention of residents towards these cleanliness drives so that they should give better opinion at the time of Swachhta Survekshan rankings. The drive will be carried out regularly every Saturday and Sunday. For this special sanitation drive the officials have selected 34 roads totalling 76km. The drive was inaugurated from the bus stand and it was carried out at various locations, including Jalandhar bypass to Buddha Nullah, Gill road, Rahon road central verge, Atam Park to Bharat Nagar. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal flagged off the teams of MC employees for the drive. On one road at least 20 employees were deputed. The sweepers were sweeping the roads while horticulture staff was deputed to clear the wild growth from central verges and roadsides. Apart from this, construction and demolition waste as well as heaps of sand collected along roads were also lifted. Chief sanitary officer and nodal officer of Swachhta Survekshan Ashwani Sahota said they would clean the roads on regular basis every Saturday Sunday, apart from regular cleaning work. He said public opinion matters most in survekshan and when people would see there is change, they would definitely vote in favour of the MC. The MC commissioner said, “During festival season there will be proper cleanliness in the city and after that it will become a routine thing. But we also require support from public in this drive.” He said the shopkeepers should keep two dustbins and residents should not litter here and there and keep this city clean like they clean their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-launches-city-roads-cleaning-drive/articleshow/78340159.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Sukhbir blames Congress MPs and Capt for not stalling farmers’ bills||LUDHIANA: Having taken a dig at chief minister Amarinder Singh, the Shiromani Akali Dal president and former deputy CM, Sukhbir Badal, while addressing the party workers here on Saturday said, “For almost one and half years Amarinder Singh was fully aware of any such farming bills in the making but he did not disclose it to anybody. If he had talked about it earlier, we could have stopped it there only.” He also attacked Congress MP Ravneet Bittu and other Congress MPs for walking out of Parliament instead of voting against the bills. Sukhbir was here at Gurdwara Alamgir on Saturday to address the party workers from 14 constituencies of Ludhiana district. He declared that the Shiromani Akali Dal would whole heartedly support the Punjab chief minister in this initiative. “We urge him to first immediately issue an ordinance declaring Punjab a mandi and follow it up quickly by convening a special session of the Punjab assembly to convert the ordinance into an Act. The Akali Dal urges every political party to rise above political considerations to ensure a unanimous passage of such a bill to declare Punjab a market for farm produce.” Sukhbir also showed a copy of the election manifesto of Amarinder and claimed that in the manifesto the latter was also talking about bringing the concept of private mandi system in the state. In the Congress manifesto for the parliamentaty elections too it was mentioned that they would bring only private mandi concept by ending the government mandis. He said instead of fighting with Akali Dal the Congress should fight with the central government for the rights of farmers. Sukhbir also attacked Bittu by saying that at the time of voting the Congress MPs walked out and only he and Harsimrat stood up against this ordinance, where 350 BJP MPs voted in favour of the bills. Through his address Sukhbir tried to give a message to the farmer community that only the Akali Dal was the party in favour of farmers and in the past whenever a situation had come only Akali leaders had sacrificed their lives and also remained in jails. He said they were not for power and ministries and Harsimrat’s resignation from the Union ministry was a proof of the same. He said when they came to know about this ordinance they tried to convince their alliance party BJP that farmers would not agree for these bills and for more than two months he had been meeting the farmers’ organisations for discussion over these bills. He said he also raised the issues of farmer organisations with the BJP government that farmers were saying that MSP and mandi concept would end with these bills but he was given assurance that both things would remain in the bills. While addressing the party workers, Sukhbir said only one year was left for the elections and all party workers should get ready for a long fight. He said he would have to frame a five-member committee to find out where the chief minister was because during his regime nobody knows where he was.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sukhbir-blames-cong-mps-and-capt-for-not-stalling-farmers-bills/articleshow/78340153.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay told to reply to petition seeking admission orders||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Saturday directed IIT-Bombay to file a reply by October 8 to a petition filed by a 23-year-old Navi Mumbai resident, that sought orders for his admission to a postgraduate course at the institute. The petition, filed by Prathamesh Pedamkar, states that he did not receive an email about his offer letter for the course in Industrial Design, which he had applied for under a category reserved for scheduled castes. The institute said the email was sent on August 2. A counsel for IIT-B, via video-conference, submitted that the IIT computer cell that "19 emails" could not be sent to candidates, including the petitioner, as they were "blocked" by a spam folder. Counsel Arsh Mishra said email was not the "only mode" via which candidates could check the status of their applications. Successful candidates could find out about their admission on the IIT portal as well, which was accessed by 14 of them who paid fees on time. The petitioner's counsel, Ashraf Shaikh, said that through no fault of his, the petitioner had failed to receive an email or SMS after the final interview on July 22. Shaikh said before this, the student had received both SMSs and emails throughout the year-long selection process. Shaikh said the student was told that successful candidates would receive an email "soon". After the student's queries, Shaikh said on September 1, IIT asked Pedamkar to pay the fees. In a few hours, they emailed him again, asking him to "ignore" the congratulatory email. IIT counsel Mishra said that the petitioner himself had on August 28, checked the portal and seen his status as 'fees not paid'. Mishra said this indicated that the petitioner was aware that he had to check the portal for updates. The high court asked Mishra whether they could increase the number of seats to accommodate the petitioner. Mishra said it could not be done, as admissions were concluded on August 10. The court adjourned the matter to October 13. “When did you know of the technical glitch,’’ a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni asked the IIT counsel.  “Petioner has been denied admission because of alleged failure to pay fees on time and allegation of petitioner that he was not informed of such last date has not been specifically denied by IIT Bombay but at the same time the IIT has said that petitioner himself by due diligence could have found out the last date,’’ observed the HC in its order adjourning the matter to October 13 for further hearing. Shaikh said, as an autonomous institute it could. He pleaded that the petitioner at least be permitted to attend online-classes or receive their videos. The HC orally said it was giving a short date and “no interim relief right now.’ The student’s in his petition said that he wrote to the IIT on August 21 when he received no email and again later on August 28 when he saw his ‘unpaid fees’ status to seek its guidance. In reply, he got emails on August 31 and September 1 appending a ‘forwarded message’ from the IIT of the August 2 email to him and Ashraf informed the court that his plea for a PDF copy of the ‘sent mail’ was denied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-bombay-told-to-reply-to-petition-seeking-admission-orders/articleshow/78347590.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 27, 2020||Trichy||Schools flaunt students clearing JEE on their website||Trichy: As Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) 2020 results were declared a few days back, schools are highlighting the names of their students who have cleared the entrance on their websites as achievers, as entrance examination coaching has become a priority for many parents nowadays than board examination scores so that their wards can get into top institutions.While many CBSE schools have started JEE and Neet coaching in the recent years, highlighting students who have cleared these exams have also become way to attract admission. Since admission activities are mostly carried through school websites owing to Covid-19, it has become a tool for promotional activities. A random visit to a CBSE school website shows a window popping out showing pictures of students who have cleared JEE (mains) 2020. Congratulating students for their achievement, the message also asks parents to kickstart education of their toddlers on Vijayadashami.Mala Siva Kumar, principal of Kamala Niketan CBSE school, said, “Since we give dedicated coaching for NEET and JEE, we release the outcome of coaching by publishing students who clear the exams. However, board examination is our priority and we highlight students who score well in board examination as well.”“Though only a section of the students opt for coaching, taking up JEE and NEET have become a trend over the recent years. We want students to understand their capabilities and not blindly opt for these entrance examinations just because their friends have opted for it,” said principal of another CBSE school in the city, adding, “such coaching is ideal for students who are really focused and want to get into these respective fields because only such students get through.” A CBSE school teacher said that unless students are fully thorough in NCERT syllabus, they cannot clear competitive exams like JEE or NEET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/schools-flaunt-students-clearing-jee-on-their-website/articleshow/78341879.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation removes 55 temporary kiosks||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has removed temporary encroachments from Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar with the help of local police on Saturday. The action was taken on the directions of Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). Officials said that the area has been identified among hotspots for increasing pollution levels especially in winters and EPCA has given advance direction to take measures for mitigating dust pollution. “Since the area belongs to the civic body, we were leading the drive and the encroachments were removed in a joint action by the licensing, engineering, horticulture and health department of Civil Lines zone. A total of 55 temporary kiosks from pavements, 15 trucks parked in the ‘no parking zone’ were removed with the help of cranes. Seized material were taken to the corporation’s store,” said a north corporation official. “Unlike residential areas, open sites are available and often used by trucks for parking purposes illegally. They are also being parked on roadsides. Similarly, kiosks or temporary hutments are constructed after damaging the pavement or road sides leading to pollution in the area. Considering it to be a sensitive area, members of EPCA visited the place in the past and after that direction was issued to strengthen the measures in view of upcoming winters. Also, tendering is done for construction of roads in the area but we are taking additional measures to avoid dust pollution,” said the official. About 2,700 square meters of road was cleared. The department said that the action will be intensive in the coming days in other areas, especially those mentioned as pollution hotspots. Delhi government has identified 13 pollution hotspots in the city based on the annual average of PM10 and PM2.5 levels — Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R K Puram and Jahangirpuri. The civic and other agencies have started working on plans to cover these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-removes-55-temporary-kiosks/articleshow/78341313.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Toy stories from Bengal to be retold on Tourism Day||Kolkata: Traditional toys crafted for generations in four villages of rural Bengal will get a pan-India stage when their stories are showcased by indiatourism on World Tourism Day this Sunday. With the focus on rural tourism this year, toys stories from Natungram in Burdwan, Panchmura and Bikna in Bankura and Ghurni in Nadia would be part of our tourism campaign, said a senior indiatourism officer. Wooden toys of Natungram, terra cotta toys of Panchmura, clay toys of Ghurni and dokra toys and artefacts of Bikna are all well known. Hundreds of domestic and foreign tourists visit these villages and buy the artefacts. Yet, no one stays in and around the villages to explore and experience how these original indigenous art is practised. The ministry of tourism was now attempting to develop an ecosystem so that investment came to develop ecotourism in and around the industries without violating essential character of these places, said a ministry of tourism official. Indiatourism Kolkata will conduct a series of live sessions on social media on rural toy stories and how tourism can be woven around these industries. Indiatourism Kolkata will conduct a social media Live (Facebook page of Indiatourism Kolkata) on ‘Tourism & Rural Development’ with Banglanatok.com (UNWTO Partner in India) as cultural partner and ACT as conservation partner. World Tourism Day will coincide with ‘Paryatan Parv-2020’ and ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ campaign from September 27 to 30 in Kolkata, Siliguri, Dooars, Sittong, Takdah in Bengal, Bhubaneswar in Odisha, Patna in Bihar and Port Blair in Andaman and Nicobar. Indiatourism Kolkata will participate in Rural Tourism Award Function of Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network on Sunday in Siliguri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/toy-stories-from-bengal-to-be-retold-on-tourism-day/articleshow/78341320.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power equipment makers eye biz from RE projects||Vadodara: Their business had been plummeting over the last few years with power distribution companies (DISCOMs) in other states closing doors and pursuing protection policies for their local manufacturers. Combined with this, the Covid-19 pandemic and a sharp fall in orders from Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (GUVNL) brought power equipment manufacturers in Gujarat almost on their knees. Despite the crisis they are going through, Vadadora, which is a national hub for the sector, finds power equipment entrepreneurs upbeat and looking for their place in the sun. The proposed solar and wind hybrid park in Kutch, billed as the world’s largest renewable power generation project at a single location, has brought new rays of hope for the industry in Gujarat. The state government has recently begun the process of allotting about 50,000 hectares of land in the district to various power producers for solar and wind projects. The state-run NTPCs have already firmed up plans for a 5,000 MW ultra-mega solar plant in Kutch. Besides the NTPCs project, the Kutch hybrid park, with a proposed capacity of about 28,000MW, will also house projects of Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL), Sarjan Realities, Gujarat Industries Power Company Ltd (GIPCL) and Gujarat Electricity Corporation Limited (GSECL). Of the 10,000MW capacity being planned by AGEL, 8,000MW will be solar and rest will be of wind, said sources. Many power equipment manufacturers said that the park will generate considerable business for them and help in turning around the fate of the sector that is facing a slump in the state. “When work on the park begins, there will be a huge demand for power equipment products. Vadodara, being home to hundreds of manufacturers, will benefit a lot from the project. We are expecting significant business,” said Harshyam Jadeja, president, Gujarat Electrical Equipment Manufacturers Association (GEEMA) that has 300 members from the state. GEEMA, however, feels that the government should keep a quota for the local manufacturers. Jadeja said Vadodara is home to 90% of power equipment manufacturers in the state, and they are sufficiently equipped to supply quality products. GEEMA also plans to write to the government seeking reservation in orders for the local firms. “Most power equipment makers in the state used to get a major part of their business from GUVNL. But the state is now 100% electrified, and hence the demand for new power equipment has gone down. The Gujarat government is giving a lot of facilities and land for the Kutch renewable energy park. It will surely help revive the power equipment industry in the state. But the state government should ensure that local manufacturers get more business from the park,” said Shailesh Patel, managing director, Topline Switchgears Pvt Ltd, Ahmedabad. Just four years ago, the city boasted of commanding about 30% of the country’s power equipment manufacturing business. Power products including transformers, cables and switchgears made in Vadodara were supplied to industries across the country. But many state governments introduced protection policies for their local manufacturers and gave them most of the business, leaving the power equipment makers from Gujarat high and dry. Sources in the industry said due to fall in demand for their products and intense competition for GUVNL business, some SMEs in Vadodara are even mulling to close down their facilities within a year. “When we run a business, such disruptions are expected. The power equipment manufacturers from Gujarat can look to the solar power products as it is a sunrise industry,” said Nimish Phadke, director of Comfort InstaPower Ltd that makes power equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-equipment-makers-eye-biz-from-re-projects/articleshow/78341314.cms||Tushar Tere
September 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Sewage water floods roads||Residents of Basant Avenue are passing through a tough phase for a long time due to poor upkeep of civic amenities there. The situation is such that there is overflow of sewerage water on roads as well as vacant plots due to which certain water-borne diseases can spread in the locality. The residents rued that some of them are already feeling sick and in the absence of proper fogging and cleaning, there are chances of dengue outbreak as well because there are so many mosquitoes in the locality. P 3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sewage-water-floods-roads/articleshow/78340192.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Rains continue as T sees wettest year in decade||Hyderabad: City witnessed its third wettest day of September in the last 10 years after it received an average rainfall of 59.6 mm up to 8.30am on Saturday. This was followed by another 7.3 mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Saturday. As per IMD (Hyderabad), the city had received a record rainfall of 153.2 mm on September 27, 1908. Over the last decade, the city received highest rainfall of 90.2 mm on September 6, 2017, and 73.1 mm on September 23, 2016. Torrential rains led to a sharp drop in mercury levels with the maximum temperature recorded seven degree below normal at 24.8 degree Celsius. Minimum temperature recorded was 21.1 degree Celsius, normal for this time of the year. Meteorologists attribute sudden downpour to weather conditions becoming favourable for withdrawal of southwest monsoon from northern parts of country “When the weather becomes favourable for withdrawal of the southwest monsoon in the northern parts of the country, all weather systems such as depression, trough shift southwards and towards the central region. Due to this, states like Telangana and Madhya Pradesh receive heavy rainfall during September-end,” said Rama Rao, consultant meteorologist, Telangana State Development Planning Society. Over a 24-period (8.30 am on Friday to 8.30 am on Saturday), south Hasthinapuram received the highest rainfall of 133.8 mm followed by 99 mm at Kandikal Gate and 90.5 mm at Lingojiguda. Many other areas received 60-100 mm rain in a span of 24 hours. Heavy rains started lashing the city late Friday evening and continued for the second consecutive day. On Saturday, Patancheru received the highest rainfall of 72.5 mm followed by 65.8 mm at Madhapur till 9 pm. Many areas in the western corridor such as KPHB, Lingampally and Gachibowli received rainfall of up to 40 mm. Following Saturday’s incessant showers, meteorologists forecast that light to moderate thunderstorms will continue for the next two days and heavy rains might make a comeback by September 29. While withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from Rajasthan is expected to commence by September 28, withdrawal from Telangana is likely by October 8-10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rains-continue-as-t-sees-wettest-year-in-decade/articleshow/78341315.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Case filed as actor’s ‘manager’ dupes many||Mumbai: Oshiwara police recently registered a case of impersonation and cheating against a person who was using social media to dupe people after posing as actor Sonu Sood. The cyber fraudster makes calls to victims, asking them to fill an online form and pay a processing fee of around Rs1,700 for help from Sood. The actor said he did not want to punish the fraudster but help him get a job and get on the right path. Bollywood actor Vishal Lamba came across a victim and filed a complaint with Oshiwara police on Thursday. Lamba said, “The person got a call from a fraudster who claimed he was Sood’s manager and told the victim if he wanted help from Sood, he would have to deposit Rs1,700 into a bank account as processing fees. The fraudster stopped receiving calls after the victim deposited the money.” Sood told TOI, “Fraudsters are misusing my name. They are telling people to fill a form and pay processing fees to get financial aid, jobs or other help. Those in dire state during lockdown are being duping. We are getting several complaints. I have been posting on social media that people must not believe such calls. The fraudster may have duped many using my name.” Sood even posted on social media messages urging the fraudsters that if they were in need of money, they can contact him and will arrange good jobs for them but they must not cheat the needy. “I have helped fraudsters from Bihar get on the right track after they were caught. My intention is not to punish, but to show the right path to these fraudsters. In one case, a woman who needed an ambulance for her mother was told to deposit Rs8,000-10,000 by someone who said that he was from my team. The woman deposited the money but did not get an ambulance, because of which her mother died. I learnt about the incident and we helped her,” he said. Police have zeroed in on details of the fraudster and action will be initiated soon. Senior inspector Dayanand Bangar said they have registered a case and are contacting victims. Sood has helped over 20,000 migrants reunite with families in Jharkhand, Assam, Bihar or Odisha by arranging buses, trains, and in some case plane tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/case-filed-as-actors-manager-dupes-many/articleshow/78340388.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||App-based parking in New Town||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) on Saturday launched its first app-based car parking system under which, motorists can locate and reserve slots on their mobile in advance. The facility was launched as a pilot project with 14 slots at the parking bay beside Tata Medical Centre and the app—New Town Smart Parking—will gradually be extended to entire New Town. An official said geo-sensors had been embedded in the parking slots that will transfer data to the app. “The sensor-based app will give accurate information on the availability of slots in a specific parking area and guide motorists to the exact location,” he said. “There will be a reservation fee and motorists can book a slot in advance by paying an advance reservation charge,” said a NKDA official. Currently, there are several fee car parking lots in New Town, located at Eco Park, Rabindra Tirtha, Nazrul Tirtha, Tata Medical Centre, Mothers Wax Museum, Eco Urban Village, Axis Mall and near Central Mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-based-parking-in-new-town/articleshow/78341331.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 27, 2020||Goa||After transfer of PI, Goa’s cyber crime cell turns non-functional||PANAJI: The cyber crime cell (CCC) of crime branch turned non-functional on Saturday after Goa police transferred CCC inspector Rajesh Job to Police Training School (PTS), Valpoi. After the transfer of the CCC inspector, investigation of around 50 cases has come to a halt and no new cases can be registered at the CCC. A senior police officer said as per the act, an inspector is empowered to file the first information report (FIR) in a cybercrime case. “With no PI at CCC, no new FIR can be registered at the CCC,” he said. The transfers have come after six PIs have been promoted to deputy superintendent of police (DySP) level. Suraj Halankar has been once again posted as Anti Narcotic Cell (ANC) PI from Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) Crime branch PI Jivba Dalvi has been transferred to Pernem police station, while PI Deepal Pednekar has been moved to Quepem from ACB, PI Mahesh Gadenar shifted as PI Bicholim from legal cell. PI Sanjay Dalvi has been posted at ACB from Bicholim police station. PI ANC Sudesh Velip has been posted at the traffic cell, Bicholim. PI traffic cell Vijay Rane Sardessai has been posted at Agasaim police station. PI Somnath Mhajik who was at the crime branch has been posted at traffic cell, Panaji and PI traffic cell, Panaji, Brenden D’ Souza has been moved to traffic cell, Calangute. PI traffic cell, Colva, has been posted at Konkan Railway police station. Konkan Railway PI Sherif Jaques has been posted at Verna police station, while Verna PI Mohan Gaude has been posted at Ponda police station. PI Gautam Salunke who was at special branch, Vasco, has been posted at traffic cell, Margao and PI traffic cell, Margao, Suraj Samant has been posted at special cell, Panaji. PI Anant Gaonkar and PI Laxi Amonkar have been posted at the crime branch. PI PHQ, Panaji, Vijaynath Kavlekar has been transferred to traffic cell, Colva and PI security Tulshidas Naik has been shifted as PI South Goa district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-transfer-of-pi-states-cyber-crime-cell-turns-non-functional/articleshow/78341402.cms||Murari Shetye
September 27, 2020||Ludhiana||A 45-yr-old woman takes care of 200 stray dogs at her shelter home||LUDHIANA: At a time when people are talking about adopting stray dogs, especially when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged to focus more on the adoption of Indian breeds, the story of 45-year-old Puja Rani, who is taking care of 200 dogs at her shelter home in Khasi Kalan village on Tajpur Road, deserves appreciation. Rani, with the help of a few animal lovers, has been providing shelter to stray dogs and cats for the last seven years. She also provide shelter to pet dogs when their pet parents are not around. Talking about her journey with TOI, Rani said she had an exceptional attachment with animals ever since she was a kid. While describing her journey, she said, “Since my childhood days, I was having special attachment with animals and I could not see them in pain. Initially, I had kept 30-35 dogs at my home but when people objected about barking of these dogs, I set up a shelter home at Khasi Kalan in an open area so that nobody should get disturbed.” She said she fed these dogs and cats and they were living with her with great love and affection. She said people keep on calling her about stray dogs in various areas and she brings those dogs at this shelter home. “Every dog has it’s own story and I have given names to all dogs,” she said while adding that these dogs remain with her like kids. Regarding expenses on the food and medicine of these dogs and cats she said, “I have support of some good people who donate money for the upkeep of dogs and for medicine also I put message in the group and people give medicines. Also one leading bread company is giving bread for these dogs free of cost.” She said they are soon going to establish an NGO where there would be place for more dogs. About her personal life, she said she had one son and her house was in Laxman Nagar. She said her daughter-in-law had left her son because she had a problem with these dogs and now only she and her son were there in family. She said her son took away seven dogs from the dog shelter and he was taking care of them at home while she remained most of the time at the shelter. She said she does not leave these dogs alone. While giving a message to other people she said people should not hate dogs or other animals because even these are creation of God like human beings. “The problem of stray dogs can be resolved only when all people will take responsibility of these creatures at least in their areas. If you give food to the dogs or other animals they will always remain loyal to you, so start loving them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-45-yr-old-woman-takes-care-of-200-stray-dogs-at-her-shelter-home/articleshow/78340195.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Dehradun||Deadlock between minister & official continues; both write to CS||Dehradun: The rift between state minister Rekha Arya and IAS V Shanmugam refuses to be resolved as both of them wrote letters to Uttarakhand's chief secretary (CS) on Saturday to explain their respective stands. Taking cognisance of the tussle, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had tasked additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar to probe into the matter. However, Arya has expressed her apprehensions over the fairness of the probe, saying that an inquiry by an IAS officer involving another IAS officer will hardly be impartial. She added that she will quit politics if found guilty in the matter. “I completely respect the decision of the CM but at the same time I have doubts as an IAS officer is probing a matter linked with another IAS officer. It would have been better if a retired High Court judge would have led the probe,” Arya told reporters. In her letter to the CS, Arya has highlighted the issue of a tender process to finalise an outsource agency which provided jobs to 350-400 persons in different projects of the women empowerment and child development department. The minister maintained that the department did not take the matter seriously and though the time period of the selected agency expired in May 2020, the process of finalising an agency could not be completed timely. Citing a number of other issues linked to the matter, she said that the decisions taken by Shanmugam, who is the director of the department, caused a major setback to around 400 outsourced employees who had not been paid for the past few months. On the other hand, sources pointed out that Shanmugam too has written a three-page letter to the CS apprising him of various facts, including his decision of self-isolation. Notably, Arya had written to Dehradun district DIG on September 22, alleging that Shanmugam had “gone missing and might have been kidnapped” as he was not responding to her calls. However, the Dehradun police team found that the IAS officer was under self-isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/deadlock-between-minister-official-continues-both-write-to-cs/articleshow/78339390.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers block highway over crop loan demand||Yavatmal: Members of Kisan Sabha and unemployed youths from Mahagaon and Umarkhed tehsils of Yavatmal staged a rasta roko on Nagpur-Tulzapur national highway on Saturday at village Mudana to press for their demands. They were demanding fresh crop loan from banks on par with State Bank of India after taking an undertaking from eligible farmers.DB Naik, Devidas Mohakar and Arjun Rathod led the protest. The protest led to traffic snarl on the highway. The protest was called off after senior bank officials met the agitators and reportedly promised to solve their problems by Monday. Earlier, women protested by begging in front of Union Bank of India’s Mudana branch and Central Bank branch at Fulsavangi village. A few days ago, a farmer’s delegation led by farm activist Manish Jadhav had met with RDC Lalitkumar Warhade to demand immediate survey for damage caused to soyabean crop due to heavy rain in July and September. Taking cognisance of a TOI report, guardian minister Sanjay Rathod had ordered the district administration and agriculture department to start the survey immediately and submit a report to the state government for necessary action to grant compensation to affected farmers. The minister on Saturday toured Madkona village and inspected damage caused to soyabean crop at farm of one Dinesh Gothe. He promised to take up the issue in the cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday. The minister also pointed out that similar situation was prevailing in Amravati, Buldhana and Wardha districts. The minister also visited the ‘Poly house’ of farmer Sachin Jirapure where he is growing flowers that are sent to Nagpur, Yavatmal and Amravati. He earns Rs12,000 per day from the flowers. The minister urged farmers to follow Jirapure and adopt modern technology to increase their income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-block-highway-over-crop-loan-demand/articleshow/78341337.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maha govt tells teachers to record weekly tasks on portal||Mumbai: With remote learning expected to continue for some time, school education department has set up a portal for teachers to record weekly tasks. All teachers from state-run and aided schools will have to regularly update what they have been teaching through the week, how many students attended class and if they made calls or home visits for students not connected online. In a circular on Friday, the department said teachers must submit a weekly report of remote learning programmes. They have to register on the portal and update details. The decision has not gone down well with teachers. “The government has not provided training on to teach online but is expecting us to submit reports. Not all teachers have access to a computer or internet, and this exercise will only add to a teacher’s non-academic work,” said Teachers’ Democratic Front vice-president Rajesh Pandya. Uday Nare, a teacher from Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri, said it was unfair to burden teachers. “We submit reports to school heads. We are constantly making extra efforts to reach out to as many children as possible, and are job has only got more difficult during the pandemic. Why does the government constantly seek reports only from teachers?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-govt-tells-teachers-to-record-weekly-tasks-on-portal/articleshow/78340391.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi residents share woes at TOI meet||NEW DELHI: As part of the #MySocietyPride initiative, TOI on Friday evening organised its second virtual town hall in the capital where East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) chief engineer (headquarter) Pradeep Khandelwal, deputy director (horticulture) Narpat Singh and technical expert Arun Kumar answered several questions related to civic and infrastructure issues in east Delhi during an hour-long session. The following are some of the major issues that the residents of IP Extension, Shakarpur, Mayur Vihar and Vasundhara Enclave raised during the town hall.  Our society came up in 1978 and the Ghazipur landfill in 1984. We were not told at the time of allotting land that a landfill close to IP Extension and a huge nullah at the rear of the apartment would come up later. For the sake of our health, we demand their immediate removal. Dinesh Walia, president, Indraprastha Apartments It was decades back when the garbage site was identified in Ghazipur. We are making all efforts to reduce the height of the landfill and process the legacy waste through biomining. As far as nullah is concerned, most of the major drains were developed before 1976. We can’t change their route and not even cover them as per NGT’s order. But their desilting is being done regularly. Pradeep Khandelwal, chief engineer  Is structural audit compulsory for all societies? If yes, why not rates are fixed for the structural audit? Puneet Chandra, Deshbandhu Society, Mayur Vihar Structural audit of the societies that have come up before 2000 is made mandatory. We have already served notices to societies and shared a list of empanelled engineers who can do the job. It is impossible to fix a common rate for the audit. Still, we will follow up the matter with Indian Association of Structural Engineers. Pradeep Khandelwal  Sanitation workers don’t have tippers or trolleys to collect the waste and there have been instances where the garbage is not lifted for days. Chandra Prakash Suryavanshi, Samaj Kalyan Parishad RWA, Shakarpur We have recently given tender for door-to-door collection of segregated garbage to a private concessionaire. Similarly, arrangements to lift waste from roadsides have been beefed up and residents will soon see the difference. Arun Kumar, technical expert, EDMC  Pruning of trees has not been done for the past many years. Jag Mohan, secretary, Saini Co-op House Building Society Ltd We can’t cut trees or their branches without taking permission from the forest department. It will be better if the residents simultaneously write to both the departments so that a joint inspection can be conducted and if permission is granted, we can take action. Narpat Singh, deputy director, horticulture department  Encroachment on roads has increased due to illegal hawkers and haphazard parking. SR Sangar, secretary, Federation of Indraprastha Extension Housings Societies Due to Covid pandemic, action on the ground was affected. But now, we will again intensify the drives. Arun Kumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-delhi-residents-share-woes-at-toi-meet/articleshow/78341350.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctor whose patient died after fistula surgery told to pay Rs 14 lakh||MUMBAI: A consumer forum has ordered a Goregaon doctor to pay a compensation of Rs 14 lakh to the wife of a dialysis patient who died a month-and-a-half after an arteriovenous fistula surgery led to gangrene in his hand. It was clear that the death occurred due to gross negligence of the doctor, the consumer forum said. It refuted Dr Shrikant M Badwe’s submission that as Alok Deshpande was being treated by many specialists during that period the fistula must have been infected. Observing that the defence was not convincing, it said material showed that from the time the fistula was implanted, Ashok complained of pain, and three days after the operation it was bleeding. It said records of another hospital where Alok was treated showed the pain and fever persisted for 15 days after surgery, and the hand had become gangrenous. “This shows a direct nexus between creation of fistula and gangrene developed at the site of fistula, resulting in death of the patient. Conduct of the opponent is grossly negligent and unbecoming of a doctor,” it said. Sandhya, who moved Mumbai Suburban District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum on November 19, 2014, said her husband underwent surgery on December 31, 2013 and died on February 19, 2014. She told the forum that though her husband was diabetic, the doctor did not perform any test confirming his blood sugar level before the operation. The doctor denied the allegations and said he had taken care and diligence. He said that in 29 years of practice as one of the senior-most urologists and androgolists, he had done more than 3,000 AVF fistula surgeries for patients requiring dialysis and had the best track record. He said the complainant was damaging his reputation. The forum said in no case one can expect a surgery to be 100% successful. “But the relationship of doctor and patient is of a fiduciary nature, so it is always expected that a medical practitioner should take reasonable care and precaution and perform necessary tests as circumstances demand. The doctor’s conduct falls short of this requirement. On account of lapse of duty, the fistula resulted in gangrene,” the forum said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctor-whose-patient-died-after-fistula-surgery-told-to-pay-rs14l/articleshow/78340392.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Cyber fraud: Ludhiana resident used to get the entire cash||LUDHIANA: Local resident Pawan Kumar arrested by Sangrur police for cyber fraud, which was being operated from Jamtara of Jharkhand, was the person who was receiving the entire cash fraudulently being transferred from the accounts of victims. According to police, the network of the accused was spread across the country. The police say that Pawan and his accomplice Noor Ali of Mandi Gobindgarh were just matriculates. On September 19, Sangrur police arrested Pawan of Subhash Nagar, Jodhewal area, and his accomplice Noor Ali of Mandi Gobindgarh for being involved in inter-state cyber frauds. The police have also recovered Rs 7.60 lakh and two mobile phones from their possession. Investigating officer Sangrur DSP Mohit Aggarwal told TOI, “Basically, it is a gang which used to call people by impersonating as bank officials, claiming the customers that their KYC (know your customer) is pending. They also got the internet banking details and then would make people download QS Teamviewer app in their mobiles on pretest of certain verifications. This particular app gives access of your mobile phone to the fraudster. After downloading the application they used to ask people to switch off their mobile phones and during that time they would transfer money from their accounts.” “Noor Ali is the kingpin of this cyber fraud in Punjab. During investigations, the police have identified that each member of their team had a different task. Like they had one person who was a data provider. He steals data, like names and mobile phone numbers of people, from different websites and sold it to fraudsters. One gang member sitting in Jamtara, Jharkhand, made all calls and money was transferred to the account of another gang member. Then the money was again transferred to the e-wallet of Noor Ali and further to Pawan Kumar,” added the DSP. On asking how many people from Ludhiana or Punjab have been targeted by the gang, DSP Aggarwal said, “The accused played smart to avert their arrest. If the fraud call was being made from Jharkhand, the victim would be from down south region and the money would be withdrawn from Punjab or other north regions. Thus, the fraudsters made it difficult for the police to visit so many states and investigate the case. Moreover, due to Covid-19 it has become more difficult. So, when the money was being received by Pawan Kumar in Ludhiana, then the victim was not from the same region. If they have duped people of Ludhiana or Punjab then the money would be sent to their gang members sitting in other states. Further investigation is on to trace their accomplices.” The police have also identified that both the arrested accused have their hometown in Jamtara, therefore they came in touch with each other. Usage of cash collected DSP Mohit Aggarwal said that Pawan Kumar used to receive the money in his e-wallet being used on a mobile phone purchased on Fake ID proofs. Pawan runs a mobile recharge shop in Subhash Nagar area. There he used to give offers to his customers for paying their electricity bills online with some discount. He used to make payment from the e-wallet for the electricity bills and used to get cash from the people. Further, the money was divided among all gang members. How to escape being duped The DSP said different applications and websites store your data like name and mobile phones when we use them and this cannot be stopped. The only way to escape is awareness. Even if fraudsters have your mobile number and name they cannot dupe you unless you provide further information like OTP or some password. Just remember that no bank official will ask for an OTP, passwords and would never ask to download any other application or a link to click on. If a caller asks for any of such details, he/she is a fraudster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cyber-fraud-ludh-resident-used-to-get-the-entire-cash/articleshow/78340198.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Gujarat firm booked in duping 2 Hisar traders||HISAR: Hisar police have registered a criminal case against a Gujarat-based firm for allegedly duping a sum of more than Rs 2 lakh from two business firms of Hisar in the name of selling spray pumps. The police have started investigation in the case, but so far no arrests have been made. The Hisar City police have registered a case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Bahadur Bhai Bhima Bhai of Olympus International Trading in Rajkot, Gujarat. In their complaint to the police, the Hisartraders have stated that they had placed orders to get spray pumps from the Rajkot firm and and accordingly, they deposited around Rs 1 lakh each in the company’s account. However, the firm has neither delivered the pumps nor any person from the said company was taking their calls. According to the cops, a case has been registered in this regard, but so far no arrests have been made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/guj-firm-booked-in-duping-2-hisar-traders/articleshow/78341341.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||River rafting returns to Uttarakhand after 6 months||RISHIKESH: Days after the Uttarakhand government lifted restrictions on entry of tourists and adventure tourism activities resumed in the state on Saturday after a six-month hiatus, 400 thrill-seekers — many from Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana — flocked to Rishikesh to enjoy rafting on the gushing waters of the Ganga. The months-long lull on sandy beaches was broken as raft operators armed with thermal scanners and sanitisers distributed tickets to eager adventure enthusiasts. While the average turnout of tourists pre-pandemic was more than 1,000 a day, most operators said even 400 visitors should be considered a “bumper footfall” given that the country is still grappling with Covid-19. Vicky Pal from Haryana, who was on a weekend trip to Uttarakhand with his friends, said it was refreshing to be in the hills after being cooped up for months. “Besides enjoying scenic views in the state and rafting, I also wanted to spend some time in the holy town of Rishikesh to feel spiritually alive,” he said. Dinesh Bhatt, president of Rafting Association of Rishikesh, said all Covid-related precautions were being followed and new norms have been rolled out to maintain social distancing. The number of people per raft has been capped and masks are mandatory. “Only four persons are permitted in a raft compared to eight people that were allowed pre-pandemic. Everyone has to wear a waterproof mask,” said Bhatt. Operators expect the number to increase in the coming days as October to November is peak season. The rafting business generates an average revenue of Rs 100 crore annually. At least 10,000 people are directly employed in the adventure sport in Rishikesh while 30,000 people are indirectly connected to it, said Bhatt. The state government had announced Rs 1,000 per month for registered tourism industry personnel but that had bought little cheer. Adventure sports were allowed only after the state government on Wednesday lifted curbs such as exempting tourists from producing Covid-19 negative reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/river-rafting-returns-to-uttarakhand-after-6-months/articleshow/78342342.cms||MS Nawaz
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: With new law, fate of 300 APMCs hangs in balance||MUMBAI: Even as cabinet members Balasaheb Thorat and Ashok Chavan on Saturday declared that Congress will intensify its agitation against anti-farmer legislations, it appears the fate of Congress-NCP controlled 305-odd Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) hangs in the balance due to massive losses following enactment of the new law. The new legislation will free farmers from the clutches of APMCs, which have become cartels of leading traders, and farmers can sell produce directly to anyone, so there will be more competition among buyers and farmers will get better prices.  “The new law gives liberty to farmers to sell produce outside APMC yards, so they do not need to pay cess to APMCs. The cess was 0.7% on sale of goods worth Rs 100. Total earnings of APMCs from cess was Rs 800 crore a year. When the new law comes into force it will be Rs 300 crore a year,’’ a senior bureaucrat told TOI. Maharashtra has 305 APMCs, 598 subcommittees, with a turnover of Rs 45,681 crore and 7,000 employees. “If the new law comes into force, most APMCs will become unviable, as there will be less income, as most farmers will prefer to sell produce outside the jurisdiction of APMCs. Thus, APMCs’ income will reduce drastically,’’ he said. He said the biggest flaw in the new law was lack of provision for minimum support price (MSP). “If a trader buys produce cheaper than MSP, there is no mechanism to check it. There will be less protection for farmers, who are unorganized, while traders are well organized. Chances of exploitation of farmers are bright. If there is a complaint, it will be difficult for farmers to approach arbitrators. Small and marginal farmers will be worst hit,’’ he said. Even if farmers are freed from APMCs’ clutches, there are doubts if private traders will set up adequate infrastructure outside APMCs’ jurisdiction, as the central legislation is silent on it. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that NDA government is determined to destroy the agriculture sector. “We were expecting that in his policy statement (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi will speak on MSP for protection of farmers, but he maintained discreet silence. He must speak up,’’ Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-new-law-fate-of-300-apmcs-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/78340393.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||28 test +ve at Kalupur station||Ahmedabad: During screening for Covid-19 at the Kalupur railway station on Saturday, 18 passengers from Delhi who had arrived on the Rajdhani Express were found to have Covid-19. Since at the Ahmedabad station began, most of the those testing positive have been passengers of the Rajdhani Express. AMC officials said 1,223 passengers from Delhi, Gorakhpur and Muzaffarpur were checked on Saturday of whom 28 tested positive for Covid. Of the 580 passengers of the Rajdhani Express, 18 were positive. Some 274 passengers from Muzaffarpur were checked of whom two tested positive. A total of 369 passengers of the Gorakhpur Express were tested and eight were found to be positive. Of the 28 persons who tested positive, 11 were sent to the Railway covid care centre while 17 preferred home quarantine.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-test-ve-at-kalupur-station/articleshow/78341397.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Forest team forced to give up seized sand-laden tractor||Chandrapur: Armed henchmen of sand mafia cornered a raiding team deep into forest and wielded swords to whisk away a seized tractor loaded with illegally excavated sand on Friday midnight. Both forest department and police have registered offence and launched manhunt for the henchmen. Official sources said that acting on a tip-off about illegal sand mining in nullah under compartment no. 494 of Ballarpur forest range, a team led by RFO Santosh Thipe raided the spot in the midnight and seized a tractor filled with sand. The driver and workers loading the tractor managed to flee. The RFO told TOI that they were returning with the seized tractor when around 10 henchmen of sand mafia came on five bikes and surrounded them in the forest. “Armed with swords, knives, cudgels and stones, they threatened us with dire consequences and forced us to give up the tractor,” he said RFO. He claimed to have learnt about two names Rupesh Morey and Manoj Kshirsagar from the henchmen. Thipe filed complaint with Ballarpur police station where offence was registered against Morey, Kshirsagar and others under relevant sections of IPC and Arms Act. Ballarpur forest range too has registered offence under different sections of forest laws. Earlier in 2017, ACF Niranjan Talmale was assaulted, kidnapped and his service gun stolen by the sand mafia henchmen in Mul range for seizing illegally smuggled sand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-team-forced-to-give-up-seized-sand-laden-tractor/articleshow/78341400.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Congress jolts MGB, says can go it alone if not ‘respected’||PATNA: There could be more trouble in store for the opposition Mahagatbandhan over seat-sharing. After RLSP, now Congress has declared that it can go it alone and contest on all 243 seats if not given a "respectable number of seats". The former general secretary of the All India Congress Committee and the party’s screening committee chairman for Bihar, Avinash Pandey, made it clear on Saturday that Congress will not compromise this time. The screening committee is tasked with selecting Congress candidates for the polls. “We have prepared for all seats, and if we remain in alliance, then we will help our alliance partners on their seats. But all our leaders want respect, and if there is a lack of respect towards Congress or our party leaders, then we are ready to fight on all 243 seats,” Pandey said, even hinting at the Left parties joining hands with his party. Though Pandey talked of a "respectable number" of seats, he did not spell out the exact figure that Congress wants for itself. Pandey, who played a key role during assembly polls in Rajasthan as state incharge, said membership drives conducted by his party in Bihar and surveys done on seats have proved that the party has its strength in Bihar. Asked if his party accepts RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the alliance's chief minister candidate, Pandey said, “Every party has the right to choose its leader, and a party is not dependent on the face of one person.” However, he later clarified, “Definitely, they (RJD) are the major partner in the alliance and Congress will accept it (Tejashwi as CM face).” Reacting to Pandey’s comment, RJD state Spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said every party prepares for all seats and they too have done their preparation on 243 seats in Bihar. “Even though we prepare on all seats, in alliance we support candidates of all the partners from wherever they are contesting. Talks are going on with Congress in a smooth way and soon everything will be clear.” However he added they will be giving respect to all and expected the same respect from others too. On RLSP leader Upendra Kushwaha, who recently raised questions over Tejashwi’s leadership, and is all set to leave the alliance, Pandey said, “We respect him, and we wish all the forces to come together against the 15 years of misgovernment in Bihar and the BJP. We are fighting for the betterment of Bihar.” Pandey, who has come for two days to Patna with two other team members of the screening committee, said the party will give a chance to those who have been with Congress for long and hardworking candidates who believe in the ideology of the party. He then hit out at the NDA government at the Centre over border issues with China and the farm bills that have led to farmers' agitation across the country. He also attacked CM Nitish Kumar for doing away with the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) and said others should learn a lesson on how farmers in Bihar are now suffering. Pandey said, "The Bihar election will be a revolution and will also decide the fate of PM Modi." Apart from conducting closed-door meetings with senior Bihar leaders on Saturday, Pandey also held a meeting with the members of various committees of the state Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-jolts-mgb-says-can-go-it-alone-if-not-respected/articleshow/78342933.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 27, 2020||Delhi||DPCC gets cracking on pollution ahead of winter in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee has started cracking down on different sources of pollution in the capital ahead of the winter season. An inspection of all ready mix concrete plants and construction sites with an area of more than 20,000 sqm was conducted this week and fines of Rs 3.1 crores have been imposed on RMC plants found to be violating dust norms. Construction sites violating norms, meanwhile, were fined Rs 80 lakh by DPCC. Of the 93 RMC plants inspected, 54 were found to be operational, while 31 were found to not be taking adequate measures against dust pollution. DPCC said at 11 of these sites, directions have been issued to stop operations. “But in all 31 sites, notices to impose a penalty ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh have been issued,” DPCC said in a statement on Saturday. Officials said the violations at RMC plants included uncovered building materials, like sand and cement, unpaved roads leading to the working area, no sprinkling systems in place, uncovered conveyor belts and non-operational wheel-washing facilities. “All RMC plants operating in Delhi have been provided with detailed guidelines to prevent dust emissions from all possible sources and if followed scrupulously, the possibility of dust generation will minimize. Accordingly, all RMC plants have also been directed to remove the deficiencies pointed out in each case, failing which the defaulting units will be closed down and there will be zero tolerance in this regard,” DPCC said on Saturday. DPCC also inspected construction sites with an area of over 20,000 sqm and found three sites not using anti-smog guns, with their work halted until they install these guns. For violating and not following dust-control measures, eight sites have been issued notices with fines ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh. “The drive against construction sites has only begun and one-third of the sites have been covered so far. In the coming week, the remaining two-third sites will also be covered,” a DPCC official added. Watch Delhi pollution: DPCC cracks down on pollution hotspots ahead of winter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dpcc-gets-cracking-on-pollution-ahead-of-winter/articleshow/78341398.cms||---
September 27, 2020||---||Bihar: Congress jolts MGB, says can go it alone if not ‘respected’||PATNA: There could be more trouble in store for the opposition Mahagatbandhan over seat-sharing. After RLSP, now Congress has declared that it can go it alone and contest on all 243 seats if not given a "respectable number of seats". The former general secretary of the All India Congress Committee and the party’s screening committee chairman for Bihar, Avinash Pandey, made it clear on Saturday that Congress will not compromise this time. The screening committee is tasked with selecting Congress candidates for the polls. “We have prepared for all seats, and if we remain in alliance, then we will help our alliance partners on their seats. But all our leaders want respect, and if there is a lack of respect towards Congress or our party leaders, then we are ready to fight on all 243 seats,” Pandey said, even hinting at the Left parties joining hands with his party. Though Pandey talked of a "respectable number" of seats, he did not spell out the exact figure that Congress wants for itself. Pandey, who played a key role during assembly polls in Rajasthan as state incharge, said membership drives conducted by his party in Bihar and surveys done on seats have proved that the party has its strength in Bihar. Asked if his party accepts RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the alliance's chief minister candidate, Pandey said, “Every party has the right to choose its leader, and a party is not dependent on the face of one person.” However, he later clarified, “Definitely, they (RJD) are the major partner in the alliance and Congress will accept it (Tejashwi as CM face).” Reacting to Pandey’s comment, RJD state Spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said every party prepares for all seats and they too have done their preparation on 243 seats in Bihar. “Even though we prepare on all seats, in alliance we support candidates of all the partners from wherever they are contesting. Talks are going on with Congress in a smooth way and soon everything will be clear.” However he added they will be giving respect to all and expected the same respect from others too. On RLSP leader Upendra Kushwaha, who recently raised questions over Tejashwi’s leadership, and is all set to leave the alliance, Pandey said, “We respect him, and we wish all the forces to come together against the 15 years of misgovernment in Bihar and the BJP. We are fighting for the betterment of Bihar.” Pandey, who has come for two days to Patna with two other team members of the screening committee, said the party will give a chance to those who have been with Congress for long and hardworking candidates who believe in the ideology of the party. He then hit out at the NDA government at the Centre over border issues with China and the farm bills that have led to farmers' agitation across the country. He also attacked CM Nitish Kumar for doing away with the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) and said others should learn a lesson on how farmers in Bihar are now suffering. Pandey said, "The Bihar election will be a revolution and will also decide the fate of PM Modi." Apart from conducting closed-door meetings with senior Bihar leaders on Saturday, Pandey also held a meeting with the members of various committees of the state Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/cong-jolts-mgb-says-can-go-it-alone-if-not-respected/articleshow/78340235.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM writes to Centre for backing stubble chemical||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday to endorse a chemical developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute scientists for managing crop stubble, which is currently burnt and causes heavy pollution in Delhi-NCR. Kejriwal had sought an appointment with Javadekar, but unable to meet him for two days, decided instead to write to him. “Soon smoke caused by stubble burning will present a problem before us. I wanted to meet you in this regard. But you may think why now when it's already very late. Why did I not meet you earlier? Its because recently IARI scientists got in touch with me. They informed me that they have hit on an easy and affordable solution for this,” Kejriwal said in the letter, attaching with it the letter of IARI director Dr A K Singh. Admitting there was little time for the intervention this year, Kejriwal said some stubble might even now be prevented. “Even in the limited time, the farmers of the nearby states should be encouraged to use the (IARI) solution,” Kejriwal wrote, adding that Delhi government would employ the new technique to ensure no stubble was burnt in the capital. Kejriwal reported that a chemical developed by IARI decomposed crop remnants into manure. “The farmers wouldn’t need to burn the stubble. The scientists believe that stubble burning kills the good bacteria in the soil and reduces its fertility. But the use of the chemical to turn stubble into manure will reduce the need of fertiliser, and the soil quality and productivity will increase,” Kejriwal said, advocating the IARI innovation as an effective solution to stubble burning. Kejriwal observed that everyone was currently focused on innovating machines to deal with stubble, but the costs involved had deterred farmers from taking to such machines. “The IARI technique involves only a negligible cost for farmers. If the fertiliser benefit of this technique is calculated, the farmers will enjoy a net profit,” the letter said. IARI has developed an innovative bio-decomposer technique to deal with the problem of ridding the fields of rice harvest stubble. The chemical determined by the institute can be sprayed in the fields after the harvest and before the fields are prepared for the wheat sowing. The spraying hastens the decomposition of biomass into manure that reinvigorates the soil and reduces the need for fertilisers. Kejriwal had reviewed the innovation at IARI on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-writes-to-centre-for-backing-stubble-chemical/articleshow/78341414.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Thane civic official says crucial files stolen||Thane: An assistant municipal commissioner attached to Diva ward of Thane Municipal Corporation has filed a criminal case against his predecessor for allegedly stealing important and confidential files. Police said Dr Sunil Vasant More, attached to TMC's election department and Firoz Khan, were booked on a complaint by Mahesh Aher. Police said Aher was on August 17 transferred to Mumbra ward office as assistant commissioner. More had requisitioned and obtained two computers from the headquarters that day and got one installed in his office, and another one in the administration department. The complaint stated that on learning about his transfer More returned to office at night, and with help of disaster control cell staff took both computers and files of unauthorized constructions of Mumbra, and files of purchases of accessories for coronavirus in Khan’s car. Security staff forwarded a recording of this to Aher. The matter was reported to municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma, who ordered Aher to register a police complaint. Police said the offence was registered under sections 409, 380 and 34 of IPC. Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thane-civic-official-says-crucial-files-stolen/articleshow/78340396.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Goa||Opa plant receives highly turbid water||Ponda: The water treatment plant at Opa received highly turbid water on Saturday after the entire catchment area of the Khandepar river turned muddy in the afternoon. Officials at Opa Water Works said it is for the third time during the ongoing monsoon that they have received water of such high turbidity. On Saturday afternoon, the water turbidity level recorded was 360 NTU (Nephelometric turbidity unit). Earlier, the plant faced high turbidity on September 21 (up to 370 NTU) and on June 16 (up to 146 NTU). The normal turbity level is 50 NTU, said Nivruti Parsekar, PWD’s executive engineer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opa-plant-receives-highly-turbid-water/articleshow/78341490.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
September 27, 2020||Hubballi||Poor hygiene at Covid wards in North Karnataka||HAVERI: Adequate sanitation and hygiene are indispensable to fight Covid-19, and a lack of these can seriously impact Covid patients in Haveri district and also in North Karnataka (NK). Many Covid wards in most of the districts in NK, including Haveri, lack proper sanitation facilities and hygiene is also not maintained in them. Many patients are forced to use unhygienic toilets. There are unsanitary conditions prevailing at the Haveri district Covid ward. A Covid patient who was admitted in the Gadag Covid hospital said, “The Covid ward is just like hell. Hygiene is not being maintained and there are unsanitary conditions prevailing. A total 30 patients share a single toilet in the ward, and there is a foul odour emanating from it, which troubles patients. “The staff clean the ward only once a day, which is why it is so dirty. We have appealed to the authorities to take some action in this regard, but to no avail,” he said. “The group ‘D’ employees are not maintaining the washbasin as well. Water leaks from the tap, and there is a faulty water connection to the ward. The unhygienic environment has further complicated the recovery of Covid patients and put them at great risk. Despite making frequent appeals in this regard to the authorities, we have got no response,” said another patient admitted in the Haveri Covid hospital. Somashekhar Patil, who has recovered from Covid-19 in Ranebennur, said that he recovered as he was in home isolation, because he didn’t want to be admitted to the Covid hospital due to the poor hygiene there. Many patients, friends and relatives who were admitted to the Covid hospital advised me not to get admitted in government Covid hospitals. “Not only me, many of our friends avoid Covid hospitals because of poor sanitation and hygiene,” he said. Haveri DHO Rajendra Doddamani admitted that Covid wards are not being maintained properly, and said that they have received many complaints regarding this issue. “I will soon visit some wards to take stock of the situation and initiate necessary action to improve the condition in Covid wards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/poor-hygiene-at-covid-wards-in-north-karnataka/articleshow/78339470.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
September 27, 2020||Mysuru||Government promotes cashew cultivation through MGNREGS||MYSURU: Cashew production has become stagnant across the country and to increase it, the Centre has modified the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme allowing farmers to take up plantation in their lands from this year. The department of horticulture will provide farmers saplings, material along with labour cost, sources told TOI. After Mysuru betel leaf, farmers in the district can take up cashew plantation under MGNREGS. The Union government is encouraging farmers to take up several horticultural crops under MGNREGS apart from National Horticulture Mission schemes by including papaya, drumsticks, coconut, banana, mango, guava and other local specific plantation crops like rubber from this year. Deputy director of horticulture Dr BT Rudresh told TOI that farmers having job cards issued by local gram panchayats can take up plantation especially in dry lands, areas with degraded soil and marginal land as such land is good for cultivation of cashew. The department will provide farmers up to 400 saplings per acre after purchasing them from cashew cultivation areas of Kodagu, Kolar, Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi. Dr Rudresh said farmers can get assistance up to a maximum of Rs 80,000 per acre for buying saplings, other material and for labour. He said that the department has received many enquiries for cashew cultivation from HD Kote, Hunsur, Periyapatna and Nanjangud taluks. Yield from third year The high-yielding H-30 variety saplings will be supplied to farmers. Farmers can plant up to 600 saplings in their land depending upon space. Though the cashew plants will start flowering within a year of plantation, they will start yielding only from the third year. The hybrid variety of plant will yield nuts weighing 12- 13 grams. Farmers can harvest 18 to 23 kilograms of nuts from each tree per year and an acre of cashew plantation can produce 1,300kg nuts per year, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-promotes-cashew-cultivation-through-mgnregs/articleshow/78338549.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Answer key for NEET 2020 released||Mumbai: National Testing Agency (NTA) released the answer key for NEET 2020 on Saturday. Candidates can visit ntaneet.nic.in to get the answer key. NTA, which uploaded advance answer keys for candidates for all sets, said a notice inviting challenge of the keys will be released later. The notice stated, “Please note that this notice is not for inviting challenge of keys which will be done later, and a proper notice will be issued. Do not email responses or clarifications on the keys, but please wait for the process of raising challenges.” But students and coaching classes claimed two questions on restriction enzymes and cell cycle had more than one correct answer, Sudha Shenoy, a parent representative, said. Nearly 15 lakh students appeared for the three-hour exam at over 3,900 centres. In view of Covid-19, the exam was conducted with stringent checks and protocols like students queuing up as per designated time-slots, adhering to social distancing norms. Different slots were allotted to students for entry to ensure staggered movement and maintain social distancing. The exam, scheduled for May 3, had been deferred twice due to the pandemic; it was postponed to July 26, and then to September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/answer-key-for-neet-2020-released/articleshow/78340397.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ranchi||Walls turn into blackboards to beat internet woes||Ranchi: With poor students of government schools suffering because of the lack of resources for online education, the headmaster of an upgraded middle school at Dumarthar, a remote tribal village 40km from Dumka, has come up with an innovative idea to ensure children continue learning without compromising with Covid-19 safety norms. Principal Sapan Kumar said despite the government launching schemes -- like DigiSaath – to augment online education infrastructure, all academic activities for 290 children from the four villages covered by the school had come to a complete halt due to poor internet connectivity and the inability of the students to buy smartphones. Left without an option, he converted the walls of mud houses in the village into blackboards so that students could sit beside them while he and other three teachers walked around taking classes. Kumar said, “The students could not access online content due to lack of internet services and it wasn’t possible for us to go to each student’s house so we decided to hold classes for them in groups at their homes, using the walls as blackboards.” Now, each student has a separate blackboard outside their home and they has been provided with a stock of chalk and duster to write out their tasks or ask questions. Wearing their uniform, they sit beside these boards at a distance from each other and attend classes as per schedule. The teachers assign one of the blackboards for themselves and read out lessons and clear doubts on microphones connected to speakers. Four teachers, including Kumar, conduct the classes in rotation for students of Class IV to VIIII in batches of 50 students each while the education of younger children are being looked after by educated villagers due to an acute shortage of teachers. This unique approach worked and children are attending classes with enthusiasm. “Tribal children have an inherent inclination towards wall paintings – Sohrai, Khovar and other many wall art forms are rooted in adivasi culture — and we decided use this for their learning. The idea was an instant success and children started paying more attention to what was being taught,” Kumar said. Kumar has named his initiative ‘Shiksha Aapke Dwar Samuday ke Sath (bringing school to the doorsteps with community help)’ and the effort has been recognized and applauded by chief minister Hemant Soren and Niti Aayog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/walls-turn-into-blackboards-to-beat-internet-woes/articleshow/78341162.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 27, 2020||Ranchi||Armed men in Covid masks, shields loot jewellery shop||SINDRI: Criminals are exploiting the social acceptance of face masks due to the coronavirus pandemic in order to stage robberies. On Saturday, eight men wearing surgical masks and anti-Covid face shields barged into a jewelry shop in Bank More locality in the heart of the Dhanbad town, and looted jewellery worth lakhs of rupees at gunpoint. The armed men entered Jewar House in Rajkamal Mansion around 10.30am, barely 10 minutes after shop owner Tripurari Barnwal and aide Abhishek Gupta opened the store for business and took the two took in control at gunpoint, demanding for the keys to the locker. They hit Barnwal on the head with pistol butt and fled with the jewellery and the DVR of the CCTV footage in bags they had brought with them. The profusely bleeding shopkeeper raised an alarm for help, but the criminals escaped. Dhanbad SSP Asim Vikrant Minz reached the spot with DSP (law and order) Mukesh Kumar and launched an investigation. They are also searching for the footage cameras installed at nearby to identify the criminals. Sources at the Bank More police station, barely 50 meters from the shop, said the precision with which the robbery was committed indicates it is the handiwork of professional criminals. While the district administration is trying to implement guidelines regarding masks and face shields to stop spread of coronavirus, it has become a tool in the hands of miscreants who are using it to conceal their identity while committing crimes. Prabhat Surolia, president of the Bank More Chamber of Commerce, said the district police administration should do something concrete to instill confidence among businessmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/armed-men-in-cov-masks-shields-loot-jewellery-shop/articleshow/78341323.cms||Anil Ashutosh
September 27, 2020||Ranchi||Sita Soren, Kishore meet Lalu at Rims detention centre||Ranchi: A day after the Election Commission announced the dates for Bihar elections, RJD president Lalu Prasad, serving prison terms in various fodder scam cases, expressed confidence that his party will improve its performance at the hustings. Former MLA Radha Krishna Kishore, who resigned from BJP to join Ajsu Party before last year’s assembly election in Jharkhand, met Lalu at Kelly’s Bungalow on Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) campus on Saturday, said, “Even though I met him only to enquire about his health, Laluji was upbeat about the polls and expressed hope that RJD will perform better than the previous election.” Lalu has been admitted to Rims for various ailments and was shifted to the plush bungalow in August in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Claiming that the visit was personal, Kishore said, “I was a member of the Bihar legislative assembly when Lalu and later his wife Rabri Devi were the chief ministers. No political discussion took place at the meeting and I found Laluji in reasonably good health.” Earlier in the day, JMM MLA Sita Soren, the widowed daughter-in-law of party president Shibu Soren, met Lalu in what she said was a personal visit. Sita said Lalu’s and her family have close relations. When asked whether she discussed the upcoming elections, she said Shibu and CM Hemant Soren are handling the issue. “However, I am ready to campaign in Bihar if required,” she said. Hemant had also visited Lalu at the bungalow recently and his party is gearing up to contest on 12 seats in Bihar as a part of the mahagatbandhan with RJD and Congress. Politicians, particularly from Bihar, have been queuing up at Kelly’s Bungalow for the past several weeks with the jail administration lifting the restriction on Lalu’s meetings with outsiders that was imposed in view of the pandemic. Now, three persons are allowed to meet him every Saturday while following all safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sita-soren-kishore-meet-lalu-at-rims-detention-centre/articleshow/78341116.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||State dept to be heard in PIL on e-hearing of RTI petitions||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Saturday directed that the state General Administration Department also be heard in a PIL for e-hearings of RTI pleas, as there are three vacancies for information commissioners that need filling. The HC was hearing a petition by former chief information commissioner Shailesh Gandhi and other RTI activists to ensure that the Maharashtra State Information Commission takes up hearings on pending appeals via video-conferencing. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni asked Gandhi's counsel Sunil Ahya to also make GAD a party, saying, "Since you are espousing the cause in public interest, is it not an appropriate that vacancies be filled up?" The HC gave commissioner's counsel Seema Chopda three weeks to file an affidavit and asked assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan to represent GAD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-dept-to-be-heard-in-pil-on-e-hearing-of-rti-petitions/articleshow/78347724.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 27, 2020||India||Fresh Covid-19 cases cross 89,000, highest in a week||NEW DELHI: India’s daily Covid-19 cases nudged upwards again with fresh infections crossing 89,000 on Saturday, the highest in a week. The daily tally of cases this week has so far stayed well below the numbers recorded last week, pointing to the possibility that the infection was past its peak, but the pandemic continues to surge in several states. With 89,104 fresh cases on Saturday, India’s cumulative caseload rose to 59,88,643, as per data collated from state governments. This was the highest daily count of cases since last Saturday (September 19), when 94,145 infections were reported. The day’s death again crossed 1,100, with 1,131 fatalities reported in the country. However, active cases continued to fall, with the count having dropped by nearly 6,000 on Saturday to 9,63,843. Several states reported a surge in Covid-19 numbers on Saturday, led by Kerala where daily cases zoomed past 7,000. The state reported 7,006 new infections, overtaking Friday’s record high of 6,477 cases. This was the fourth peak in daily cases in Kerala in as many days and the fifth in the past seven days. Two other states also reported their highest single-day spike in infections — Odisha (4,356 new cases) and Rajasthan 2,045. Besides, Karnataka reported 8,811 fresh cases, the highest in nine days while Maharashtra’s tally crossed 20,000 again after a two-day break. In Chhattisgarh, 3,896 fresh cases were recorded, the second highest count in the state and the highest since September 12 Meanwhile, daily cases continued to fall in Uttar Pradesh, which reported 4,412 fresh infections on Saturday. New cases in the state have been declining more or less steadily after hitting a peak of 7,103 on September 11. Andhra Pradesh reported 7,293 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,68,751. This is the seventh day in a row that the state has registered less than 8,000 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fresh-covid-19-cases-cross-89000-highest-in-a-week/articleshow/78342378.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||CBI chargesheets nine Tamil Nadu cops for murder in Sathankulam case||CHENNAI: The CBI has chargesheeted nine Tamil Nadu policemen for murder, conspiracy and destruction of evidence in the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks of Sathankulam in Tuticorin district in June this year. The nine suspended policemen — Sathankulam inspector S Sridhar, sub-inspectors K Balakrishnan and P Raghuganesh, head constables S Murugan and A Samadurai, and constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, X Thomas Francis and S Veilumuthu — were also charged under IPC for misconduct by a police official, intentionally giving false evidence, making false charges and criminal act. The chargesheet filed before the chief judicial magistrate in Madurai on Friday revealed that the father and son, arrested on June 19 evening, were tortured at the Sathankulam station in the evening as well as in the intervening night. Nine CBI officials tested +veThe victims died in the intervening night of June 22 and 23 due to the injuries. CBI officials said nine CBI team members, while camping in Tamil Nadu in connection with the case, tested positive for Covid-19. A CBI team had camped continuously in Madurai and worked on the case amid the pandemic. The CBI registered two cases on July 7 in the custodial deaths of the two traders. The agency is continuing its probe to investigate the role of other people in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cbi-chargesheets-nine-tamil-nadu-cops-for-murder-in-sathankulam-case/articleshow/78342379.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Monika More goes home, her doctors get 24 hand transplant inquiries||MUMBAI: As the city’s first hand transplant patient, Monika More, got discharged on Saturday, doctors treating her said they received 24 online and face-to-face inquiries for a similar procedure from other amputees during her four-week hospital stay. Hand transplants started in the West almost 22 years ago, but are neglected in India, with More’s being only the 12th in the country. More told mediapersons on Saturday she is living the dream her father wanted for her since she lost her hands after falling into the gap between a train and a platform at Ghatkopar station in 2014. “It will take me another year to be able to use my hands fully well, and I plan to be disciplined with my medication and physiotherapy in order to ensure that,” she said before her discharge from Global Hospital, Parel. As More’s hospital bill was Rs 36 lakh, plastic surgeon Dr Nilesh G Satbhai, who performed the transplant on August 28, has started a crowdfunding effort. “She has received some donations and the hospital will help out too,” said hospital CEO Vivek Talaulikar. More will also need financial assistance as her immune-suppressants and physiotherapy alone would cost Rs 20,000 a month. More registered for a transplant two years back but couldn’t get any donors. “Hands are an external organ and families are reluctant to donate them,” said Dr Satbhai. More’s luck changed when a software professional’s family agreed to donate his hands after he was declared brain dead in Global Hospital, Chennai. Her transplant lasted 16 hours and she was kept in a separate room for the next four weeks to reduce the risk of Covid. She could speak to her family only on video chat. “She was given physiotherapy twice a day along with breathing and shoulder exercises. She initially had a plaster slab above the elbow to support the bones, and will need splints for more than a month now,” said the doctor. More will be able to move her fingers after three months when the nerves heal. “I will have to stay home and avoid visitors as I am on immunosuppressants. I can only travel between home and hospital,” said More. More added, “Earlier, I would avoid attending functions or weddings as I couldn’t apply mehendi on my hands. But after my hands get functional, I will apply mehendi, paint, and do activities such as eating, bathing, combing hair, and cooking on my own. I always wanted to become independent and I am happy that I will be able to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-monika-more-goes-home-her-doctors-get-24-hand-transplant-inquiries/articleshow/78342382.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Medical oxygen price capped for 6 months||NEW DELHI: Amid rising demand for medical oxygen which is essential in treatment of moderate to severe Covid-19 patients, the pharmaceutical pricing regulator has capped the price of medical oxygen cylinders and liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for six months to ensure availability of medical oxygen at stable rates. While issuing the order, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) said the high price of LMO was impacting operational viability of fillers, creating a supply shortage. The demand for medical oxygen has increased up to almost four times from 750 MT per day to around 2,800 MT per day after the the Covid outbreak. Around 6% of around 9.6 lakh currently “active” Covid cases need oxygen support. Many states are dependent on the medical oxygen supply from other states. NPPA has fixed the ex-factory price of LMO at manufacturers end at Rs 15.2 per cubic metre exclusive of GST; and further capped the ex-factory cost of medical oxygen cylinder at filler end at Rs 25.7 per cubic metre (again exclusive of GST) in suppression of the existing ceiling price of Rs 17.49 per cubic metre, subject to transportation cost fixation at state level, for six months. “It is informed that due to increase in price of LMO being supplied to filler, the margins for them have been squeezed and are impacting their operational viability. Due to excess demand, delivery through cylinders has increased from 11% pre-Covid to 50% of current oxygen supply. It is therefore, imperative to cap price of LMO to ensure uninterrupted availability of Medical Oxygen though cylinders to the hospitals and consumers,” the order said. The government has said there is no shortage of supply but the variation in cases indicates that there might be localised demands. The decision is based on recommendations of an Empowered Group of Secretaries looking into issues related to availability and pricing of oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/medical-oxygen-price-capped-for-6-months/articleshow/78342384.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Private hospitals request to be relieved of Covid-19 duties||VISAKHAPATNAM: Private hospitals notified for Covid-19 treatment are now asking the state government to de-notify them starting October and appealing to be allowed to resume regular services. The plea comes in light of government hospitals taking most of the Covid-19 treatment pressure and few coming to private hospitals for treatment. Representatives of private hospitals claim that the number of Covid-19 cases has come down since August. Moreover, most new Covid-19 patients have mild symptoms not requiring hospitalisation. Awareness about the Rs 300 Covid-19 treatment put out by state Covid-19 special officer Dr C Prabhakar Reddy has also helped in lowering the number of patients approaching private hospitals for treatment, they say. Private hospitals claim that patients with other health conditions are not daring to approach the private hospitals that have been notified for Covid-19 treatment. This has significantly impacted their revenue. Further, private hospitals claims that they have lost a bulk of their regular patients who used to make monthly visits. A source at Gitam Hospital said, “We only have only 80 Covid-19 patients at our hospitals from more than 400 in August.” According to another representative of a private hospital, nearly four private hospitals which were notified for Covid-19 treatment in Maharanipeta have requested the government to be de-notified. The power to de-notify private hospitals lies with district collectors. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said that he understands that many private Covid-19 hospitals want to start regular treatment as it is becoming unviable for them to treat the few Covid-19 patients approaching them. “We have been given full powers to take a decision on de-notification of private hospitals. But it is too early to decide,” he said. Speaking to TOI, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, the special chief secretary of the department of health and family welfare said, “We have not issued any official notification for de-notification of private Covid-19 hospitals in the state so far. Yes, the Covid-19 situation has been brought under control in the state. The positivity rate too has come down to around 11% now from nearly 17% mid-August.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/private-hospitals-request-to-be-relieved-of-covid-19-duties/articleshow/78339788.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 27, 2020||India||Industries gasping for oxygen in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: With no oxygen for industrial use in Nashik, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, many industries are closing down sections that use it, while others such as fabrication will shut completely till the situation normalises. Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Industries Association, in a letter to the state government, demanded that a 100-tonne oxygen plant for industrial use be set up immediately in Pune. Association president Sandeep Belsare said there are 35,000 small, medium and large industries in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Chakan and Talegaon. An oxygen cylinder is available with much difficulty in the black market for Rs 900-1,000, he said. Around 400 tonnes of oxygen is required daily for industrial use, said Belsare. “We have come to a point where industries are shutting down sections or entire fabrication, plastic units for want of oxygen. The government must on a war-footing set up a 100-tonne oxygen plant in Pune exclusively for industrial use,” he said. In Sinnar, the steel industry hub in Nashik, production had been hit badly, said Varun Talwar, president Ambad Industries and Manufacturing Association, adding that the government should have foreseen the rise in demand for oxygen from hospitals and implemented measures such that both healthcare and industry did not suffer. “Cutting of steel requires oxygen, so manufacturing of doors, bonnets for local automobile industries like Mahindra & Mahindra has been hit. The situation is so grim that production of beds for hospitals is affected, as there is no oxygen to cut steel. In the last 10 days, 40% steel units have shut down, and the rest will follow soon,” he warned. Getting oxygen from Gujarat entails high risk, as it could be seized by government and offered to hospitals. Talwar said production in September had risen to 60-65% as against 50% in August, but was now falling. Deepak Karandikar, vice-president, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said setting up a new plant would take time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/industries-gasping-for-oxygen-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78342392.cms||Clara Lewis
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||PGECET: No entry even if late by a minute||Visakhapatnam: The APPGECET (Andhra Pradesh Post-Graduation Engineering Common Entrance Test) examinations, set to commence from September 28, will be held in six sessions till September 30, said APPGECET convener Prof P Srinivasa Rao. Speaking to the media here at Andhra University on Saturday, Prof Rao said candidates will not be allowed into the exam halls if they are late by even one minute. “The exams will be conducted at 42 exam centres in 15 cities/towns of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, including Hyderabad,” said Prof Rao. A total of 28,726 candidates have applied for the test, which screens applicants seeking admission into PG engineering and pharmacy courses in the state. Pharmacy alone has seen 6,349 applications. According to Prof Rao, candidates must maintain social distancing, starting from the point of entry till exit from the exam venue. Candidates should bring their own mask, gloves, personal hand sanitiser (50 ml), transparent water bottle, a pen and exam-related documents. No other items will be permitted inside the exam venue. Body temperature of candidates will be checked through a thermal gun. Candidates with high temperature or other Covid-19 symptoms will be seated in a separate exam room/hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pgecet-no-entry-even-if-late-by-a-minute/articleshow/78339800.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Lakshmi Vilas Bank shareholders reject reappointment of CEO||CHENNAI: Shareholders of the beleaguered Lakshmi Vilas Bank have voted against the reappointment of seven directors of the bank, including MD & CEO S Sundar, effective September 25, 2020, plunging the bank into a crisis amid a merger process with PE fund-backed Clix Capital . The shareholders also rejected the reappointment of the statutory auditors of the bank at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the bank held on Friday. The details of the proceedings were filed by the bank to the stock exchanges late on Saturday. The bank had proposed 10 reappointments including the MD & CEO S Sundar. Seven reappointments were rejected by the shareholders, in a show if mistrust over the management. Shareholders also vote against auditors appointed in meetOther appointments which were rejected were that of N Saiprasad, G Jaganmohan Rao, Raghuraj Gujjar, KR Pradeep, BK Manjunath and YN Lakshminarayana Murthy. Shareholders also voted against appointment of the bank’s auditors P Chandrasekar LLP, Chartered Accountants at the 93rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on September 25, after they did not pass the ordinary resolution pertaining to the appointment. LVB is in the midst of a deep financial crisis with governance issues tormenting the bank as soaring bad loans has pushed return of assets to the negative territory for more than two years. Its capital adequacy ratio stood at just 1.12% as of March as against the statutory requirement of 8% and bad loans ballooned to 25.39% of advances from 23.27% a year ago. The move comes after unhappy shareholders called out poor management of the private bank and after reporting of repeated loss. The bank was also placed under RBI’s prompt corrective action in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lakshmi-vilas-bank-shareholders-reject-reappointment-of-ceo/articleshow/78342396.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Cinema halls in Bengal to reopen from October 1, says Mamata||KOLKATA: Cinema halls and open air theatres will be allowed to operate in West Bengal from October 1 with limited number of participants, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday. She also said musical, dance and magic shows would be permitted in the state from next month. “To return to normalcy, Jatras, Plays, OATs, Cinemas & all musical, dance, recital & magic shows shall be allowed to function with 50 participants or less from 1 Oct, subject to adherence to physical distancing norms, wearing of masks & compliance to precautionary protocols,” the West Bengal chief minister said on Twitter. Theatres and cinema halls have remained shut since the nationwide coronavirus lockdown began in late March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cinema-halls-in-bengal-to-reopen-from-october-1-says-mamata/articleshow/78342398.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Amaravati||Seven districts in AP report less than 500 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,293 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,68,751. This is the seventh day in a row that the state has registered less than 8,000 cases. The Covid-19 related toll increased to 5,663 as 57 more people succumbed to the disease on Saturday. As many as 9,125 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 65,794 active cases with 5,97,294 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 89.3%. East Godavari reported 1,011 new cases on Saturday, followed by Chittoor 975, and West Godavari 922. These three districts contributed 40% of the total cases reported on Saturday. There were less than 500 new cases in seven districts with Kurnool reporting the lowest of 206 cases. The recovery rate improved to 96% in Anantapur and Kurnool districts, while it was over 90% in eight other districts. Prakasam witnessed the lowest recovery rate of 77%. Of the 57 deaths reported on Saturday, 10 are from Prakasam, eight each from Chittoor and Kadapa, six from Krishna, five from Visakhapatnam, four each from East Godavari and West Godavari, three each from Guntur and Nellore, two each from Anantapur and Srikakulam, and one each from Kurnool and Vizianagaram. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 55.23 lakh samples for Covid-19, including the 75,990 people tested for the virus on Saturday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 12.1% against the national average of 8.4%. However, it came down to 9.5% after Saturday’s testing. The fatality rate is well under control at 0.84% compared to the national average of 1.58%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/7-dists-in-ap-report-less-than-500-cases/articleshow/78346023.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Seven districts in AP report less than 500 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,293 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,68,751. This is the seventh day in a row that the state has registered less than 8,000 cases. The Covid-19 related toll increased to 5,663 as 57 more people succumbed to the disease on Saturday. As many as 9,125 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 65,794 active cases with 5,97,294 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 89.3%. East Godavari reported 1,011 new cases on Saturday, followed by Chittoor 975, and West Godavari 922. These three districts contributed 40% of the total cases reported on Saturday. There were less than 500 new cases in seven districts with Kurnool reporting the lowest of 206 cases. The recovery rate improved to 96% in Anantapur and Kurnool districts, while it was over 90% in eight other districts. Prakasam witnessed the lowest recovery rate of 77%. Of the 57 deaths reported on Saturday, 10 are from Prakasam, eight each from Chittoor and Kadapa, six from Krishna, five from Visakhapatnam, four each from East Godavari and West Godavari, three each from Guntur and Nellore, two each from Anantapur and Srikakulam, and one each from Kurnool and Vizianagaram. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 55.23 lakh samples for Covid-19, including the 75,990 people tested for the virus on Saturday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 12.1% against the national average of 8.4%. However, it came down to 9.5% after Saturday’s testing. The fatality rate is well under control at 0.84% compared to the national average of 1.58%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/7-dists-in-ap-report-less-than-500-cases/articleshow/78339807.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Shut for months, Vijayawada’s parks set for revamp||VIJAYAWADA: The second-largest city in Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada lacks in open spaces and parks. Shopping malls and cinema halls remain residents’ chief sources of recreation. A majority of the parks, including Rajiv Gandhi Park, Raghaviah Park and KL Rao Park, has been in a dilapidated condition for years. Thus, in a bid to provide fresh air to Vijayawada residents, the city’s civic body has started renovating 11 parks in the city. With parks closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the horticulture and engineering wings of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) have intensified renovation works. The VMC, in its 2020-21 budget, sanctioned funds for the development of parks in the city. The civic body has also started work on a new park at Ajith Singh Nagar dumping yard. Altogether, 25 existing parks in the city are currently being renovated. While renovation works are focussed on development of greenery, officials have also started building walking tracks, open gyms, skating rinks and other facilities at the parks. New play equipment will be installed in the parks located in residential colonies and greenery will be development in line with various themes. VMC officials say that the focus is on improving the quality of life in the city. A theme park is expected to come up at Ajith Singh Nagar dumpling yard and a go-karting track will come up at Bhavanipuram. The VMC is providing land to a private developer to build the go-karting track at a cost of Rs 10crore. The civic body will also take up greenery works at Kanaka Durga Flyover landing sites and the Benz Circle Flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shut-for-months-vijs-parks-set-for-revamp/articleshow/78339831.cms||Venu Lanka
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra is first in country to ban sale of loose cigarettes||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has become the first state in the country to ban the sale of “loose” cigarettes and beedis. A notification issued by the state public health department on Thursday states that, in sync with sub section (2) of section 7 of Cigarette and other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce Production, Supply & Distribution) Act, 2003, the state imposes a complete ban on sale of single stick loose cigarette and beedis. The notification is signed by principal secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas. This has been done because loose cigarettes were sold without packet, which carry graphic health war nings meant to educate the public about the harms of smoking. Smoking has been linked to cancers and heart disease. Tata Memorial Hospital’s cancer surgeon Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi said that the new order would help cut down the habit among the youth. “The tobacco epidemic in India is fuelled by youth who are 16 to 17 years of age. They buy loose cigarettes as they don’t have the financial resources to buy a full packet,” he said. Also, grown-ups who bought loose cigarettes never felt the pinch of higher taxes imposed on tobacco goods. “Studies have shown that a 10% rise in taxes results in 8% drop in the number of smokers. But if people are allowed to buy a single cigarette, they don’t feel the effect of the higher taxes,” added Dr Chaturvedi. As per the Global Tobacco Youth Survey 2016, Maharashtra has the lowest smoking rate in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-is-first-in-country-to-ban-sale-of-loose-cigarettes/articleshow/78342406.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||VMC takes measures to curb mosquito menace||VIJAYAWADA: With water stagnating in open spaces and posing the risk of turning into breeding grounds for mosquitoes, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has developed an action plan to curb the mosquito menace and the spread of vector-borne diseases. Despite repeated notices by the VMC, many owners of vacant plots have taken no action to fill the land. In some instances, locals have complained of poisonous snakes that appear on these lands in the monsoon. The malaria wing of the VMC has issued notices to site owners and the civic body has also started to fill vacant plots with debris. Authorities of the sanitation and malaria department are advising site owners to clean their land and fill it with gravel to prevent inundation. “We had earlier hesitated clearing our vacant land to avoid expenses. But the VMC came forward to provide an earthmover free of cost. We had to bear the fuel charges. This helped us clear our land within hours,” said K Rama Rao, owner of a flat in Madhuranagar. Authorities of the civic body said the number of malaria and dengue cases have come down this year. “We are happy that the number of malaria cases came down. Vacant land cleaning and filling programme helped us overcome the mosquito problem. Around 45 dengue cases were registered in 2019 and 12 people died of dengue as per records while this year the number came down drastically. Not even a single dengue death has been registered this year,” said Dr Iqbal, a biologist at the VMC. Fogging, anti-larval spraying and use of oil balls is being continued across the city, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-takes-measures-to-curb-mosquito-menace/articleshow/78339840.cms||Venu Lanka
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: International PDS rice smuggling racket busted||VIJAYAWADA: Police busted an international PDS rice smuggling racket in Prakasam district on Friday and arrested 32 people. PDS rice is rice grain meant for the public distribution system. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said that the cops raided 162 storage units and seized Rs1.08crore worth rice that was set to be smuggled to Malaysia, Singapore and other south Asian countries as well as some African nations. Of the 32 arrested, 15 are PDS brokers, 6 transporters, 8 exporters and 3 port officials. Talking about the operation, the Prakasam SP said, the police received a tip-off about smuggling activities in Inkollu. At around 5am, cops and civil supplies officials raided the area. First, a truck with 600 bags of rice was seized at Valaparla in Martur mandal. The seizure of the first truck led the cops to several storage points from where 1 lakh kilos of rice was seized. Explaining the modus operandi, the SP said that the brokers among the accused facilitated the exporters and mill owners. Then, the rice, meant for poor white ration card holders, would be illegally branded and packaged to be sold in the international market at high prices. Cops have registered 16 cases of cheating and violations under the Essential Commodities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/international-pds-rice-smuggling-racket-busted/articleshow/78339845.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 27, 2020||India||CBI charges 9 Tamil Nadu cops with murder for custodial deaths||CHENNAI: The CBI has charge-sheeted nine Tamil Nadu policemen for murder, conspiracy and destruction of evidence in the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Benicks of Sathankulam in Tuticorin district in June this year. The nine suspended policemen — Sathankulam inspector S Sridhar, sub-inspectors K Balakrishnan and P Raghuganesh, head constables S Murugan and A Samadurai, and constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, Thomas Francis and S Veilumuthu — were also charged under various sections of the IPC for misconduct by a police official, intentionally giving false evidence, making false charges and criminal act. The chargesheet filed before the chief judicial magistrate in Madurai on Friday revealed that the father and son, arrested on June 19 evening, were tortured at the Sathankulam police station in the evening as well as in the intervening night. The victims died in the intervening night of June 22 and 23 due to their injuries. CBI officials said that nine CBI team members, while camping in TN in connection with the case, tested positive for Covid-19. A CBI team had camped continuously in Madurai and worked on the case amid the pandemic. The CBI registered two cases on July 7 in the custodial deaths of the two traders. The agency is continuing its probe to investigate the role of other people in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-charges-9-tamil-nadu-cops-with-murder-for-custodial-deaths/articleshow/78342421.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Shirdi Sansthan team in Tirumala||Tirupati: A team from the Shirdi Sansthan in Maharashtra is in Tirumala to study the darshan management systems of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams. The team met TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy and other officials on Saturday. A proposal was discussed to display details of all prominent temples in the country on the official websites of all renowned temple bodies across the country. If put into action, it will help devotees avoid getting cheated by fake websites. A proposal to float a federation of all prominent Hindu temples in the country was also discussed during the meeting.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shirdi-sansthan-team-in-tirumala/articleshow/78339854.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai police registers FIR against mutual fund on plaint from investors||CHENNAI: The Chennai police on Friday registered a first information report (FIR) naming several executives of Franklin Templeton on a complaint by a group of investors that 28,000 crore of three lakh investors was stuck because the mutual fund abruptly closed down six debt schemes in April this year. The FIR by the economic offences wing (EOW) names Santosh Das Kamath, managing director and chief investment officer of Franklin Templeton Asset Management India Pvt Ltd (FTAMIL), Sanjay V Sapre, its whole -time member, and Jayaram Subramaniam Iyer, Vivek Kudva, RV Subramaniam and Pradip P Shah, directors of FTAMIL and Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Pvt Ltd (FTTSPL). The EOW registered the FIR after investigating a complaint filed by the Chennai Financial Markets & Accountability (CFMA), an investors' group, and a few others in May this year. A Franklin Templeton spokesperson said, "We have not seen a copy of the First Information Report (FIR) and are not in a position to comment on specific details". It said the CFMA has levelled baseless allegations. "The press release issued by CFMA citing the FIR, is replete with various misleading and baseless allegations, besides being inappropriate, as the matter is currently sub-judice", the spokesperson added. After the six debt schemes were closed, a larger number of investors all over the country had dragged Franklin Templeton to court demanding refund of their investments, especially after Franklin Templeton claimed that two of the funds, Franklin India Low Duration Fund and Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, turned cash-positive on August 31. Since then, the six schemes have received over Rs 6,486 crore, said the CFMA which is fighting for retirees who had parked their hard-earned savings in the various schemes of Franklin Templeton expecting a safe and better return on their investments as promised by the global fund house that manages over Rs 1.16 lakh crore in mutual funds in India and $700 billion globally. The CFMA is also contemplating filing of Class Action Suit against Franklin Templeton global. According to CFMA, Franklin Templeton has a more than Rs 1,00,000 crores of assets under management with 30-40 lakh unit-holders. On September 11, some investors filed an intervening application before the Karnataka High Court to direct FTAMIL to return money to those who invested in the schemes that hadurned cash-positive. An RTI query has already revealed that Franklin Templeton did not take any approval from the capital market regulator before winding up its six debt schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-police-registers-fir-against-mutual-fund-on-plaint-from-investors/articleshow/78342423.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Brahmotsavams to conclude today||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy, accompanied by his twin consorts, goddesses Sridevi and Bhudevi, blessed devotees from Sarvabhoopala vahanam on the penultimate day of the annual Tirumala Brahmotsavams on Saturday. In the evening, the presiding deity rode the Aswa vahanam inside the main temple complex. The nine-day festival will conclude with the conduct of Chakrasnanam ritual on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/brahmotsavams-to-conclude-today/articleshow/78339859.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Scribe writing against sand mafia thrashed||RAIPUR: The editor of a regional newspaper who had led a campaign for a journalist protection law was dragged down a street, beaten and slashed with a sharp weapon barely 100 metres from Kanker police station, in Bastar division of Chhattisgarh, on Saturday morning. Bleeding from the head, 53-year-old Kamal Shukla was rescued by other journalists and taken to hospital. Shukla had himself gone to cover an assault on a young journalist who has been filing RTIs on illegal sand mining and was beaten up and dragged to the police station by a group of people. Police issued a statement that it was a “brawl between two groups of journalists” and an FIR was lodged under the IPC for voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and obscene acts. “I have been writing against the sand mafia and raising my voice against the district administration and collector. Journalists of Kanker plan to go on a ‘jail bharo aandolan’ on October 2. This attack was meant to foil our campaign,” Shukla alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scribe-writing-against-sand-mafia-thrashed/articleshow/78342426.cms||Rashmi Drolia
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis-Sanjay Raut 'interview meet' raises eyebrows||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena leader and Saamna executive editor Sanjay Raut held prolonged talks with former CM Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday. The meeting, held at a suburban five-star hotel, triggered speculation in political circles. Raut later told mediapersons he met Fadnavis for "preliminary talks" in connection with an interview for Saamna. The two leaders were together for over two hours. The meeting has assumed significance as Sena heads the MVA regime with NCP-Congress while Fadnavis has been firing salvos against the alliance. BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye and leader of opposition in the council Pravin Darekar claimed the meeting was in connection with the Saamna interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/devendra-fadnavis-sanjay-raut-interview-meet-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/78347406.cms||Ambarish Mishra
September 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Father, daughter die in road accident||Vijayawada: A 53-year-old man and his 32-year-old daughter died on the spot after the bike they were travelling on was hit by a truck at Kanumolu village under Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Dasari Lenin (53) and his daughter Vanjarapu Devi (32). According to Hanuman Junction police, the incident happened in the morning when the duo was headed towards Bapulapadu. Cops said that Lenin who was riding the bike tried to overtake the truck from the right. During this, the truck rammed the bike on the right, causing Lenin to lose control and crash. The truck then ran over the duo, killing them on the spot. Upon receiving information, cops reached the spot and took the bodies to the local government hospital for post-portem. Meanwhile, the truck driver was detained and a case registered under Section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) at Hanuman Junction Police Station. Further investigation is still on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/father-daughter-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/78339865.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Delhi||Doctor attacked for asking patient to wear mask in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An incident of assault on a doctor has come to the fore in the national capital. A doctor in Delhi government's Maharishi Valmiki Hospital was allegedly beaten by a patient and her attendant after being asked to wear masks. According to a letter written by the Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) of the hospital to its medical superintendent, one of the doctors was physically assaulted. "The patient wanted their procedure to be performed on priority basis. They were requested by the doctor on duty to come by turn and as they did not wear masks, they were requested to wear the same," the RDA said. They added that after that, the patient and their attendant both started beating up the duty doctor and even hurled a stool aimed at his head, which he luckily escaped. The RDA has now requested the medical superintendent to initiate action against the duo under the Disaster Management Act without any delay so that these sort of incidents do not occur in the future. Watch Delhi: Doctor attacked after asking patient to wear mask||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-attacked-for-asking-patient-to-wear-mask-in-delhi/articleshow/78342427.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||I-T searches Jharkhand politician’s premises||NEW DELHI: A leading Jharkhand politician has come under the scanner after income tax officials carried out searches at over 20 premises across Jharkhand and West Bengal on Friday and seized diaries and pen drives revealing evidence of cash transactions of more than Rs 40 crore. The officials have also found details of advances made for real estate projects worth over Rs 80 crore. “As per preliminary estimates, evidence of cash transactions of around Rs 40 crore have been found,” the central board of direct taxes said in a release late on Saturday. The apex I-T authority said that hard disks, pen drives and handwritten diaries have been seized during the searches. “Certain handwritten diaries found indicate giving and taking of loans in cash and out of books receipt of cash on account of booking of commercial space in the real estate project,” the CBDT said, indicating huge circular transactions of black money. The I-T authorities are tracking cash payments made to contractors and other fictitious payments booked. On Friday, the I-T officials searched around 20 residential and business premises of a “prominent group having operations in Jharkhand and West Bengal”. The CBDT said that the group has been engaged in the business of vanasapati ghee, real estate and tea estates. The group is accused of running shell firms, most of which had family members as directors, no real business activity and very few returns of income filed. Most of the returns with ROC have also not been filed, the CBDT said. Diaries and pen drives seized from over 20 premises in Jharkhand & Bengal revealed evidence of cash transactions of more than Rs 40cr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-t-searches-jharkhand-politicians-premises/articleshow/78342400.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||ED lens on CPM neta son’s property deals||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate probing the money trail in the gold smuggling case has directed the state registration department to provide details of transactions of properties belonging to Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. The ED, which interrogated Bineesh for over 11 hours on September 9 in connection with the case, has sent a notice to the department, requesting it to send the certified copies of the sale deeds and encumbrance certificates of Bineesh’s properties available in its records. Reacting to the ED notice to the revenue department, Balakrishnan said that he had earlier made it clear that he will not intervene in any probe and that his son has to face action if he had done something wrong. In its notice dated September 11, the ED has said that all properties related to Bineesh were under its investigation and directed the registration department that any transaction on his immovable assets must not be done without prior information to the ED assistant director in Kochi. The ED is probing whether the properties were part of the proceeds of the crime committed under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other related offences. While the NIA is probing the terror link of the gold smuggling in Kerala, other central agencies, including the Customs department and the ED, are carrying out separate investigations into the case. Bineesh was summoned for questioning by the ED on September 9 after charges were levelled against him for his alleged links with some members of a drug racket busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bengaluru recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-lens-on-cpm-neta-sons-property-deals/articleshow/78342434.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||In Bengaluru 20% of cancer patients arriving at hospitals in late stages||BENGALURU: Nearly 20 per cent of newly diagnosed cancer patients are reporting for follow-ups very late after entering advanced stages of the disease, say oncologists in Bengaluru. This is mainly because coronavirus fears or restrictions prevented them from travelling to the hospital. The transport problem was particularly severe during lockdowns. Delays in starting treatment or breaks can allow cancer cells to grow. This is a serious concern in the case of patients who live in another city and seek treatment in Bengaluru. More than 40 per cent of cancer patients at Bengaluru hospitals are from Bihar and other northern states and West Bengal. “Patients from other states and far-off districts in Karnataka could not seek treatment during the Covid-induced lockdown, when there was no public transport. In about 20 per cent of the patients we are seeing now, the cancer is already in advanced stages,” said Dr BS Ajai Kumar, founder and chairman of HCG Hospitals in Bengaluru. Doctors in Tumakuru told a 54-year-old man in June that he might be suffering from colon cancer. He was brought to HCG only a week ago after the cancer had spread to other organs, including liver. His condition is severe. According to Dr Vikram Kekatpure, a senior consultant for head and neck surgical oncology at Cytecare Cancer Hospitals, many patients from West Bengal and northeast states prefer to get treated in Bengaluru, where the quality of care is better. But they are still not travelling because of Covid-19 concerns. “During the early days of lockdown, surgeries, chemotherapy and radiation treatment for existing and new patients were cancelled or postponed as treatment protocols in the context of Covid were not known and there was a fear factor. Patients and staff were unable to reach hospitals. Now, with Covid cases occurring in their own families, cancer patients are facing difficulties in getting treatment and family support,” Dr Kekatpure said. Dr Kekatpure also said that more than 20 per cent of patients reporting for follow-ups after the initial diagnosis had entered advanced stages. “The true number is likely to be much higher than 20 per cent as the pandemic is still evolving. The effect will last much after it ends,” he added. Apart from transport woes, people are also likely to delay treatment because of financial problems such as a job loss or pay cut. The delays lead to disease progression and poor outcomes. Cost goes up, quality of life worsens When cancer progresses, patients need multiple treatment modalities, according to Dr Bhaskar Vishwanathan, professor of radiation oncology at the Vydehi Institute of Medical Science and Research Centre. “Time is crucial in cancer treatment. “Patients who would have earlier needed a single modality of treatment — surgery, chemotherapy or radiation therapy — may now have to undergo all three and this can only add to the treatment cost. People who were in middle stages would have migrated to advanced stages. It will have a bearing on the quality of life of the patients,” he explained. But the footfall at hospitals is slowly picking up now, he added. The government-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology did not stop treatment for even a single day during the lockdown and is now getting patients from various parts of the country. “Patients from other states generally report to the hospital after the cancer has already spread. After the pandemic, nearly 15 per cent of the patients delayed the decision of travelling to Bengaluru. But they are now coming in as some train services have been restarted,” said Dr Prabha Seshachar, a resident medical officer at Kidwai. She added that several patients who were admitted in March stayed in Kidwai till the lockdown was lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/20-of-cancer-patients-arriving-at-hospitals-in-late-stages/articleshow/78342425.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s fatalities cross 35,000, recoveries go past 10 lakh||MUMBAI: After a two-day breather, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 20,000 cases. On Saturday it added 20,419 cases and 430 fatalities, the fourth day in a row that it saw over 400 deaths. With this, the total cases in the state came to 13,21,176, and the total fatalities stand at 35,191, having crossed the 35,000 mark. Covid cases in Mumbai shot up by over 20% in a 24-hour period as 2,282 patients reported positive on Saturday as compared to 1,876 the previous day. The city’s total tally since March climbed to 1.96 lakh. On a positive note, the total recoveries in the state crossed 10 lakh on Saturday. On Saturday again, the daily discharges were more than the daily additions in cases, with 23,644 recoveries recorded, taking the total to 10.1 lakh and the rate of recovery to 77%. While the Covid tally seems to be increasing across the state, an analysis showed a drop in growth rates over a week-to-week basis. The state registered 1,51,638 cases in the September 13-19 week, while there were only 1,33,132 cases in the September 20-26 week – showing a roughly 12% decrease in weekly load. Deaths also recorded a 4% decrease around the same period. A total of 3,101 deaths were recorded in the week between September 13-19, and 2,975 deaths were recorded in the next week. The BMC update said 44 deaths were recorded in the city on Saturday, four lower than the previous day, taking the toll to 8,750. The number of tests done in a 24-hour period was 12,983, according to the BMC update on Saturday. AMC Suresh Kakani said as per the new ‘my family, my responsibility’ campaign, BMC’s health workers were conducting house-to-house surveys for patients with symptoms. At present, the surveys were being done in the northern suburbs of the Malad-Borivli belt which is witnessing the highest spurt in cases. “Most of the cases are from well-to-do houses. There are 522 buildings with just one case each,” Kakani said. Pune region added the highest cases (5,876) and deaths (129) on Saturday. MMR added 4,819 cases and 110 fatalities. Mumbai’s satellite cities registered a drop in cases in comparison to last week. Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 408 cases and 9 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-maharashtras-fatalities-cross-35000-recoveries-go-past-10-lakh/articleshow/78342436.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 27, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s fatalities cross 35,000, recoveries go past 10 lakh||MUMBAI: After a two-day breather, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 20,000 cases. On Saturday it added 20,419 cases and 430 fatalities, the fourth day in a row that it saw over 400 deaths. With this, the total cases in the state came to 13,21,176, and the total fatalities stand at 35,191, having crossed the 35,000 mark. Covid cases in Mumbai shot up by over 20% in a 24-hour period as 2,282 patients reported positive on Saturday as compared to 1,876 the previous day. The city’s total tally since March climbed to 1.96 lakh. On a positive note, the total recoveries in the state crossed 10 lakh on Saturday. On Saturday again, the daily discharges were more than the daily additions in cases, with 23,644 recoveries recorded, taking the total to 10.1 lakh and the rate of recovery to 77%. While the Covid tally seems to be increasing across the state, an analysis showed a drop in growth rates over a week-to-week basis. The state registered 1,51,638 cases in the September 13-19 week, while there were only 1,33,132 cases in the September 20-26 week – showing a roughly 12% decrease in weekly load. Deaths also recorded a 4% decrease around the same period. A total of 3,101 deaths were recorded in the week between September 13-19, and 2,975 deaths were recorded in the next week. The BMC update said 44 deaths were recorded in the city on Saturday, four lower than the previous day, taking the toll to 8,750. The number of tests done in a 24-hour period was 12,983, according to the BMC update on Saturday. AMC Suresh Kakani said as per the new ‘my family, my responsibility’ campaign, BMC’s health workers were conducting house-to-house surveys for patients with symptoms. At present, the surveys were being done in the northern suburbs of the Malad-Borivli belt which is witnessing the highest spurt in cases. “Most of the cases are from well-to-do houses. There are 522 buildings with just one case each,” Kakani said. Pune region added the highest cases (5,876) and deaths (129) on Saturday. MMR added 4,819 cases and 110 fatalities. Mumbai’s satellite cities registered a drop in cases in comparison to last week. Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 408 cases and 9 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-maharashtras-fatalities-cross-35000-recoveries-go-past-10-lakh/articleshow/78342437.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s fatalities cross 35,000, recoveries go past 10 lakh||MUMBAI: After a two-day breather, Maharashtra was back to reporting over 20,000 cases. On Saturday it added 20,419 cases and 430 fatalities, the fourth day in a row that it saw over 400 deaths. With this, the total cases in the state came to 13,21,176, and the total fatalities stand at 35,191, having crossed the 35,000 mark. Covid cases in Mumbai shot up by over 20% in a 24-hour period as 2,282 patients reported positive on Saturday as compared to 1,876 the previous day. The city’s total tally since March climbed to 1.96 lakh. On a positive note, the total recoveries in the state crossed 10 lakh on Saturday. On Saturday again, the daily discharges were more than the daily additions in cases, with 23,644 recoveries recorded, taking the total to 10.1 lakh and the rate of recovery to 77%. While the Covid tally seems to be increasing across the state, an analysis showed a drop in growth rates over a week-to-week basis. The state registered 1,51,638 cases in the September 13-19 week, while there were only 1,33,132 cases in the September 20-26 week – showing a roughly 12% decrease in weekly load. Deaths also recorded a 4% decrease around the same period. A total of 3,101 deaths were recorded in the week between September 13-19, and 2,975 deaths were recorded in the next week. The BMC update said 44 deaths were recorded in the city on Saturday, four lower than the previous day, taking the toll to 8,750. The number of tests done in a 24-hour period was 12,983, according to the BMC update on Saturday. AMC Suresh Kakani said as per the new ‘my family, my responsibility’ campaign, BMC’s health workers were conducting house-to-house surveys for patients with symptoms. At present, the surveys were being done in the northern suburbs of the Malad-Borivli belt which is witnessing the highest spurt in cases. “Most of the cases are from well-to-do houses. There are 522 buildings with just one case each,” Kakani said. Pune region added the highest cases (5,876) and deaths (129) on Saturday. MMR added 4,819 cases and 110 fatalities. Mumbai’s satellite cities registered a drop in cases in comparison to last week. Kalyan-Dombivli belt reported 408 cases and 9 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtras-fatalities-cross-35000-recoveries-go-past-10-lakh/articleshow/78342429.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Most Covid positive prisoners have recovered: Karnataka government||BENGALURU: Prisons in Karnataka saw 668 Covid-19 cases, out of which 585 have recovered, the government has informed the high court. According to the data as on September 18, there have been no deaths because of coronavirus in the state’s 47 prisons. These details were part of a statement that additional government advocate Vikram Huilgol submitted to the court. It was in response to a petition filed by Amol Kale, an accused in journalist Gauri Lankesh’s murder. Citing lack of Covid-19 safety measures in Mysuru jail, where he is lodged, and other jails, Kale has requested the high court to shift him to Bengaluru. The court is treating the plea as a PIL. According to the government’s statement, there are 14,677 prisoners in central jails in Karnataka. Parappana Agrahara in Bengaluru alone has 5,203 inmates. In Bengaluru, 303 out of 320 Covid-19 positive prisoners have recovered, while 17 are under treatment. At the Mysuru central prison, 55 out of 64 have recovered and in Kalaburagi, 40 out of 43. The statement adds that through various measures, the inmate population in prisons has been brought down to 97.7 per cent from 110 per cent in March. Further, 11,116 new prisoners, 508 parole returnees and 4,794 inmates have been subjected to Covid-19 tests and only those with negative results are taken in. Isolation wards have been created to keep symptomatic inmates. Jail staffers are screened daily and they have been given masks, face shields, gloves and PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/most-covid-positive-prisoners-have-recovered-ktaka-govt/articleshow/78342430.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Sorry mayor, not in mood for janata curfew||Nagpur: People on the roads, streets abuzz with vehicles and marketplaces crowded. It was like any other day in the life of Nagpurians. The ‘janata’ of Nagpur again chose to ignore mayor Sandip Joshi’s call for voluntary curfew for the second consecutive weekend, on Saturday. Joshi had appealed to the people on September 24 to observe a self-imposed janata curfew on Saturday and Sunday to contain Covid-19 spread. The number of positive cases and fatalities were increasing in city. TOI found that people went about their routines and it was business as usual in the commercial areas. Last weekend too no heed was paid to Joshi’s curfew call. As there was no official enforcement of the curfew, traffic congestion was seen on many roads and outside shopping areas. Many claimed that they were aware of the curfew appeal by the mayor but were forced to travel to earn their livelihood. At Central Avenue, normal traffic was seen while at Itwari and Mahal all shops were open, which drew in huge crowds. Most of the private offices remained open and so were roadside vendors. Even in BJP-dominated areas like Mahal, Narendra Nagar and Sakkardara, Joshi’s call evoked poor response. South-West Nagpur — leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis’s constituency — too had all shops functioning. The situation was no different in Kalamna and Cotton markets. Both the city’s wholesale vegetable markets were abuzz with activities since early Saturday morning. The traders, who had opened shops, claimed that they following Covid-19 guidelines and had incurred losses during three months of complete lockdown. Despite repeated attempts, Joshi was not available for comments. Supporting the mayor’s call for a janata curfew, Congress corporator Sandip Sahare said, “It is a good concept to break the Covid chain. Administration should enforce the lockdown strictly.” As per new regulations, any lockdown outside containment areas in any city can be enforced only after taking permission from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sorry-mayor-not-in-mood-for-janata-curfew/articleshow/78339990.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri bags award for tech to treat flowing waste water||Nagpur: City’s National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has bagged the National Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Technology award 2020 for its first-of-its-kind technology of treating flowing waste water.In April 2018, TOI was the first to report about the Restoration of Nullahs and Ecological Units (RENEU) technology, a pilot experiment which was done in the city at Neeri headquarters. Since last year, the technology is cleaning around six drains which are close to the ‘sangam’ point at the site of Kumbh mela and eventually meet Ganga river in Prayagraj.“The six drains lead to one bigger channel which flows straight down to the sangam point. Since we have implemented the technology there, the water quality has improved tremendously. Almost all the parameters meet the norms prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB),” said Atya Kapley, senior principal scientist and head of Director’s Research Cell at Neeri.Highlighting that the technology aims at tackling lack of sewage management in the country, the scientist added, “Majority of the cities across India do not have proper sewage network. Hardly 30% of the sewage water reached the treatment plant, rest all gets discharged directly into water bodies. RENEU technology works like a mobile sewage treatment plant (STP).”A team of scientists including Kapley, Ritesh Vijay, Hemant Bherwani, Rita Dhodapkar and Tuhin Banerjee developed the technology under the leadership of Neeri director Rakesh Kumar.According to Vijay, who is the senior principal scientist and head of Neeri’s Centre for Strategic Urban Management, the technology is being implemented in various cities including Mumbai, Daman, Ulhasnagar and Pune. The institute also plans to implement it at 10 drains in Gorakhpur. “RENEU is planned to get implemented in 100 more drains across the country in over five states including but not limited to UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Delhi,” stated a press release issued by Neeri.As per scientists, the technology involves five major steps for cleaning. “All natural components like phyto-traps, solar diffused aeration, light-weighted building material and wetland plants to clean the nullah are used. No chemicals are required in this treatment,” added Vijay.Highlighting more about the technology, the release added, “RENEU is different from the conventional STPs as it treats the flowing waste water in the drain itself. Besides, the technology is economical too and consumes far less time for construction and operation. It eliminates the need for the construction of piping and pumping networks for taking the sewage to STPs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-bags-award-for-tech-to-treat-flowing-waste-water/articleshow/78340004.cms||Manka Behl
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||State bans loose sale of bidis and cigarettes||Nagpur: You can’t buy loose cigarettes or bidis any more. The public health department of state government has banned their sale. They will have to bought in packets only. Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary (public health), issued a notification on September 24. “In pursuance of sub section (2) of section (7) of the Cigarette and other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003, the government of Maharashtra hereby imposes complete ban on the sale of single stick loose cigarette and bidi, being sold without packet as they do not have specific health warning on it in public interest, with immediate effect in the state of Maharashtra.” The power to enforce this rule is with officer of rank of not below police sub-inspector, state food and drugs administration or any equivalent officer authorized by central or state government. Those violating the rule will be punishable with imprisonment which may extend up to one year or with fine, which may extend up to Rs1,000. For second or subsequent conviction, the imprisonment may extend up to two years or the fine will be up to Rs3,000. Nilesh Bharne, joint commissioner of police, said that the city police was yet to receive the order. “We will need to peruse the order and contemplate on the legal aspect of it,” he told TOI. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B also said that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was yet to receive the order. “However, we will implement it as soon as we get it officially,” he added. Even though NMC has not permitted pan kiosks to open, many are doing business masquerading as general provisions stores. The owners hang packets of chips and keep bottles of aerated drinks on the counter. Tea stall owners surreptitiously too sell loose cigarettes and bidis. The pan kiosk owners are unhappy with this order. “Most of my customers buy loose cigarettes. Very few buy packets. Besides, there is more margin in selling loose cigarettes. My business will be badly hit,” said an owner in Chhatrapati Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-bans-loose-sale-of-bidis-and-cigarettes/articleshow/78340018.cms||Ashish Roy
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Kids add kilos as pandemic curtails outdoor activity||Bengaluru: Many children are quickly putting on weight because of oversnacking, especially between online classes, lack of outdoor physical activity and erratic routines, say paediatricians. A seven-year-old boy, who should normally weigh 26-28kg, weighed 40kg when Bengaluru-based paediatric pulmonologist Dr Bharat Reddy examined him recently. But many parents have not yet noticed the health changes triggered by prolonged closure of schools, where kids are most active, and curtailment of outdoor games. Paediatrician Dr SM Prasad said children imitated parents. “Physical activities have reduced for parents, so children also don’t feel motivated. The whole family must follow a timetable, the way everyone did before the pandemic erupted. Currently, children are sleeping late as they wait for their parents to finish their work. Naturally, they wake up late. The diurnal rhythm, which plays a role in sleep cycle and metabolism, is disrupted,” Dr Prasad said. Parents, he added, must avoid fast food and fried snacks, which are among the most delivered items. According to Dr Reddy, children will require 10 to 12 months to shed the extra kilos if they start 30 minutes of daily exercise, yoga and skipping now. Many asthmatic children have also developed weight problems. “There is higher consumption of food and there is no fixed schedule. I suggest parents fix a regular time for everything, like they did during school days,” he said. Dr Prasad said parents should take children to play areas in apartment complexes or parks with all necessary precautions. “Many families say that they won’t come out till there is a vaccine for SARS- CoV2 [formal name of the virus that causes Covid-19]. At this point, it is not clear when a vaccine would be ready. One should take precautions and pursue some form of a normal routine,” he said. Weight and ICU complications A six-year-old boy suffering from rickettsial fever, a tick-borne infection, was recently treated in the intensive care unit of Columbia Asia hospital near Yeshwantpur. The boy’s weight gain over the past six months complicated the treatment. He weighed 30kg, which is high for his age. “Obesity adversely affects the outcome of children in the ICU. Fluid management becomes very challenging, especially when children are critically ill. This affects the outcome. The six-year-old boy had to stay in longer. The parents mentioned that he put on weight after March,” said Dr Supraja Chandrashekar, paediatric intensivist, Columbia Asia. She added that lifestyle changes after the pandemic had affected many children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kids-add-kilos-as-pandemic-curtails-outdoor-activity/articleshow/78342435.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Manish Nagar ROB girder launched over railway line||Nagpur: MahaMetro launched the girder of Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) over the railway line in the early hours of Saturday. It is a bow string girder and the ROB is first in the state to use this type. NVP Vidyasagar, assistant general manager of MahaMetro, said that the girder was launched by asking a block of four hours from Central Railway (CR). “It is the longest block in the area except for that taken for the Khapri ROB,” he added. The Manish Nagar ROB required a girder of 64.38 metre. “Of this we had launched girder of total 19m length on both sides of the railway track beforehand. On Saturday we launched the bow string girder of 43.48m length and 12.6m width. The operation was accomplished in 2.30 hours,” said Vidyasagar. The girder was fabricated in Pune and brought to Nagpur in a huge trailer by road. The fabrication work had begun in March this year. The weight of the girder is 360 tons and is of E-350 grade. It has been prepared as per specifications of Research Design and Standards Organization (RDSO), a ministry of railways undertaking. Vidyasagar further said that around 500 ton steel was used to support the 350 ton girder. He admitted that the work on the project had been delayed and attributed it to Covid lockdown and labour shortage. “From mid-March to May beginning work had completely stopped. The work of fixing the girders is done by expert welders. Most of the welders had gone back to their native villages during the lockdown. We had to find local welders. Work of many welders was not found satisfactory while recruiting them and they were rejected. It was with great difficulty that we found the necessary workforce,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/manish-nagar-rob-girder-launched-over-railway-line/articleshow/78340047.cms||Ashish Roy
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Youths who left city jobs eye GP poll run||Mysuru: Thousands of youngsters left jobs in Bengaluru and returned to their hometowns as the pandemic unfolded. Many now plan to contest gram panchayat elections in their villages. There are 4,716 segments, including 2,430 reserved for women, in 266 gram panchayats in Mysuru district. The polls for all seats are likely to be held in December. “I will improve basic facilities, encourage students in the village to pursue higher education and help residents get government-sponsored works and benefits,” said Sambram, who returned from Bengaluru and intends to contest the poll in Benakanahalli gram panchayat. Sambram and some other youngsters say instead of being just a vote bank for politicians, they want to become a part of the system to bring about meaningful change in the lives of villagers. Their possible entry into local politics has become a major talking point in village sheds and other meeting joints. M Puttaswamy, who lives in Kirugunda village, Nanjangud taluk, said it was a good sign that youths and educated people were considering contesting GP polls. Zilla panchayat assistant secretary Krishna said the district administration had made preparations to conduct the GP elections with revised voter and roaster reservation lists as per the directions from the state election panel and district deputy commissioner. The election panel, he added, has already issued a standard operating procedure (SOP), which advises social distancing, virtual campaigning and door-to-door campaigns not involving more than five people at a time. If a person with Covid-19 wants to contest, they can send their nomination papers through a nominee to the returning officer, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youths-who-left-city-jobs-eye-gp-poll-run/articleshow/78342441.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||None from Tamil Nadu makes it to new BJP national team||CHENNAI: There is no representative from Tamil Nadu in BJP’s new team of national office-bearers, announced by the party national president J P Nadda on Saturday. H Raja, who was a national secretary of the party since 2014, has been removed as no party functionary can continue in a post for more than six years. National general secretary Muralidhar Rao, who was in charge of Tamil Nadu for about 12 years as previous party president Amit Shah did not go for a major reshuffle of office bearers during his tenure, has been moved out too. Tamil Nadu BJP leaders were expecting promotion of some leaders from the state to the national level. Nadda’s decision to ignore TN leaders is an indication of the party leadership’s displeasure over the local leaders’ inability to make a political dent in the state, which is dominated by the two Dravidian majors, the AIADMK and the DMK. The omission of TN BJP leaders may become yet another weapon for the opposition parties to lash out at the BJP and brand it as a north Indian party, especially when state elections are less than seven months away. Senior state leaders are a worried lot, said a functionary in state BJP. This was the first time in the last two decades that the state went without any representation in the BJP’s national leadership. Stalwarts like K Jana Krishnamurthi and K N Govindacharya had served as party national president and general secretary respectively in the past. The only hope for local leaders now is to find a place in the 120-strong party national executive when it is rejigged. Sources said it's expected soon. “Today’s reshuffle of national office bearers has dented the morale of the party functionaries and cadres here,” said a senior leader. Political analyst Kolahala Srenivaas said ignoring TN leaders has proven that the saffron party’s national leadership was least interested in Tamil Nadu. Modi had earlier ignored Tamil Nadu while forming the cabinet, he said. Nirmala Sitharaman, who hails from Trichy, is considered an outsider as she does not live in Tamil Nadu. “It is a clear indication that they are not happy with the state leaders of the BJP. They also understand that TN is not a fertile ground for the party to grow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/none-from-tamil-nadu-makes-it-to-new-bjp-national-team/articleshow/78342445.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
September 27, 2020||India||Girl leaving Jaipur college after exams stabbed, shot||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old student was shot in broad daylight on Saturday in front of her college in Jaipur’s Adarsh Nagar area when she came out after finishing her exam. Garima Jat, 21, had come from Jhunjhunu to appear for her final year BSc exam when the accused, a native of Dholpur and nephew of a former sarpanch, shot her. The accused was identified as Vishnu Choudhary (23) and they knew each other. Vishnu was arrested. DCP-Jaipur East, Rahul Jain told TOI, “At around 10:15 am on Saturday, the accused reached the victim’s college and first stabbed her in the neck following which he shot her near the navel. One bullet lodged in her stomach. Although she was rushed to a hospital, she died while undergoing treatment.” Vishnu tried to escape but was chased by a policeman who followed him by hitching rides in civilian vehicles and finally catching him. Cops recovered the country-made pistol and the knife used by Vishnu. “The motive behind the murder remains unknown. The two were known to each other. They met at a coaching centre in Jaipur where they were preparing for the Rajasthan Administrative Service examination,” the DCP said. Sources alleged that the two were probably in a relationship “which had worsened” in recent times. However, neither the families nor the officials confirmed this. The victim’s postmortem was done on Saturday night. The accused will be produced in court on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/girl-leaving-jaipur-college-after-exams-stabbed-shot/articleshow/78342453.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||No stay on govt charges for Covid patients in pvt hosps: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Saturday clarified that it hadn’t stayed rates prescribed for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals mentioned in ‘Clause 4’ of Maharashtra government’s May 21 notification.On Thursday, the HC stayed ‘Clause 4’ after the government failed to reply about its competency on fixing charges for non-Covid patients in private hospitals. However, the same clause also mentioned charges for Covid patients.The government moved an urgent civil application praying for clarification of court’s order. The petitioners and respondents in case too granted their no objection for allowing government’s demand.“Due to inadvertence, we stayed the entire Clause No (4) of the May 21 notification. However, what we intended is to stay rates prescribed as per Annexure A and B for non-Covid patients. The September 25 order shall accordingly be construed. By way of caution, we make it clear that we’ve not stayed rates prescribed for Covid-19 patients in the notification,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala clarified.Before disposing of the government’s application, the judges made it clear that relief which they had granted is restricted to hospitals within jurisdiction of Nagpur Bench comprising entire Vidarbha region.Dr Pradeep Arora, a paediatrician who runs a nursing home, and Vidarbha Hospital Association had moved the judiciary challenging May 21 notification that fixed rates for treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients in private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics across the state. All these establishments are warned against charging over the fixed rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-stay-on-govt-charges-for-covid-patients-in-pvt-hosps-hc/articleshow/78340070.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Oxford’s vaccine trial kicks off at KEM, Nair Hospital may start it tomorrow||MUMBAI: The Mumbai leg of Oxford University’s global Covid-19 vaccine trial began with three men in the 25-45 age group getting vaccinated on Saturday afternoon at the BMC-run KEM Hospital, Parel. The men were kept under observation for a few hours before they left the hospital. The trial for the Covishield vaccine, developed by Oxford University along with pharmaceutical major AstraZeneca, will involve 200 volunteers in Mumbai. While KEM will carry out the trial for 100 volunteers, the civic-run Nair Hospital near Mumbai Central station is expected to start its 100-volunteer trial on Monday. It is reliably learnt that three women are among 10 volunteeers so far selected for the trial at Nair Hospital. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told TOI the identity of the volunteers couldn’t be revealed in accordance with the ethics committee’s rules for the trial. “Volunteers are screened as per the rules of the trial. Volunteers who have not had any exposure to the Covid-19-causing virus will be selected,” he added. Every volunteer will have to undergo an RT-PCR test as well as an antibody test to be doubly sure that he or she hasn’t been exposed to SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, said his hospital was earlier supposed to include 160 volunteers for the trial. “But the number of trial centres were increased and the number of volunteers per centre was reduced to 100,” he said. In all, 1,600 volunteers will participate in the Phase-III trials of the Oxford vaccine. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital, said screening of volunteers is underway. “We will start vaccinating on Monday,” he added. The trial is a randomized one, with 20%-25% volunteers likely to get a placebo instead of the vaccine. The Mumbai leg is likely to be completed within a month. The Indian part of the trial is being carried out by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which will manufacture the vaccine if it is successful. Hospitals in Pune, Nagpur, Chandigarh and Visakhapatnam, among others, are part of the trial. The Covishield will be administered as two doses scheduled on Day 1 and 29 as 0.5ml dose intramuscularly. Earlier this month, AstraZeneca halted the clinical trials of Covishield after one of the volunteers developed an adverse reaction. They were restarted within a few days after it was established the volunteer had a neurological condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-oxfords-vaccine-trial-kicks-off-at-kem-nair-hospital-may-start-it-tomorrow/articleshow/78342451.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro stations to get e-autos soon||CHENNAI: Solar or electric-powered autorickshaws could soon operate from metro stations to provide commuters with a greener alternative for last-mile connectivity. The service will be in addition to Chennai Metro Rail Limited's existing eco-friendly transport fleet that includes recently launched e-bikes at four stations.  A CMRL official said an app-based e-auto service was planned on the lines of those recently launched. The e-auto has many safety features for passengers and is mostly driven by women. "Our proposal to introduce the service is still under progress and discussion is underway," an official said. Last week, the chief minister flagged off 13 types of solar and electric autos to be operated by women. The autos are equipped with GPS, CCTV cameras, panic button and tabs and can be used for various purposes. Apart from regular shareautos and cabs which operate up to a specific distance from stations, CMRL operates app-based e-bikes in collaboration with two different startups across eight stations. The service involves pick-up and drop-off hubs in and outside stations enabling commuters to book bikes through an app. E-auto services, introduced at Alandur station in January 2019, were to be extended to other stations based on commuter response, but were soon discontinued. While metro train services were introduced to reduce the number of cars and bikes on the road and cut emissions, every metro train has the capacity to generate its own energy that on an average can save about 30% of energy drawn from the grid. The trains run on a regenerative braking system where a three-phase traction motor installed on trains acts as a generator to produce electricity whenever the brake is applied. The power generated goes into the overhead electricity lines (OHE) lines. A four-car metro train, which runs approximately for about 400km a day, generates around 1900kWh through the traction system. This electricity is mostly consumed by the rolling stocks (trains) on the same electrical section and the remaining is fed back to CMRL's 33kv network. Generating its own power reduces dependency on Tangedco, which in turn can save its power generation and eventually carbon emissions. In addition, CMRL has solar panels of more than 5.5MW capacity installed at the stations to power lights. It also has plans to commission a 8MW solar power plant to generate more than 1.16 crore units of electricity for train and station operations and save up to 2.54 crore every year towards the purchase of electricity and also help cut down carbon emissions of up to 11,587 tonnes a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-metro-stations-to-get-e-autos-soon/articleshow/78342456.cms||U Tejonmayam
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Mysuru hospital ready for trials of second vaccine candidate||MYSURU: The clinical trials of another Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Novavax, are expected to begin at JSS Hospital. The Mysuru facility is already conducting the trial of Oxford University’s vaccine hope, Covishield. The hospital has sent a consent letter to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), saying it can launch stage II and III clinical trials of Novavax. Once the council finalises the modalities, the process will begin. “After Covishield, we have been approached for the stage II and III trials of Novavax. We have approved the proposal. Other formalities are under process to commence the trials,” B Suresh, pro-chancellor of the JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, to TOI. “The proposal was received through the Serum Institute of India, Pune.” Meanwhile, after successful stage II trials of Covishield, the institute has moved to stage III. “It is in progress; 120 volunteers are participating in it,” Suresh said. The second-stage examination of Covishield was started on August 29. This apart, the hospital is studying the effects of BCG vaccine on volunteers aged between 60 and 80. JSS has launched the study after the ICMR’s initiative. The vaccine is part of the universal vaccination programme for newborns to protect them from TB. Suresh said the volunteers would be observed for about a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mysuru-hospital-ready-for-trials-of-second-vaccine-candidate/articleshow/78342443.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Nagpur||Tension in Chanda village as ‘problem tiger’ claims 7th victim||Chandrapur: The tiger hounding the Rajura and Virur ranges since the last 21 months allegedly claimed its seventh victim near Navegaon village on Saturday. The victim, Govinda Madavi (65), was at the outskirts of his farm when the tiger killed him in forest compartment no. 169 in Virur range.There was brief tension in the area as villagers were irked following repeated attacks by the tiger. RFO Gajanan Ingle pacified the villagers and took the body for postmortem. They have given ex-gratia aid to kin of the deceased.Though officials said they are yet to ascertain the identity of the tiger, they are confident that was the same killer tiger. The forest department had issued capturing orders against the trouble tiger in January, but the teams have failed to capture the beast so far. DCF (Central Chandrapur division) Arvind Mundhe said, “We are continuously tracking and baiting it. There have been many close calls, but every time the animal managed to give a slip to the capturing team.”He said the tiger avoids eating its prey immediately and comes back to the kill later in the night.This is the 23rd human kill in the district so far this year. A total of 20 people have been killed in tiger attacks, while three others by leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tension-in-chanda-village-as-problem-tiger-claims-7th-victim/articleshow/78340105.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||Use of mobile phones permitted only for navigation while driving vehicles||NEW DELHI: Drivers can use hand held devices (mobile phones) only for navigation while driving vehicles, the road transport ministry notified on Friday. Paving the way for smoother verification of documents and recording of violations electronically, the ministry also allowed use of digital documents such as driving licence, permits, registration, insurance and fitness certificates. These rules will come into effect from October 1. Specifying the use of hand held device or mobile phone while driving, the ministry notification said this will be allowed provided “such use is solely for route navigation by fixing the device on the dashboard of the vehicle in such a manner that shall not disturb the concentration of the driver while driving.” TOI on February 1 had first reported the government move to allow the use of mobile phone only for navigation. Global studies suggest that drivers using mobile phones while driving are approximately four times more likely to be involved in a crash with texting during driving considered especially perilous. The use of mobile phones while driving has been brought under dangerous driving category in the amended Motor Vehicle Act and attracts a fine of up to Rs 5,000 or up to one year jail or both. On the changes made related to IT services and electronic monitoring for enforcement, the ministry said it would “ensure better enforcement of traffic rules and will remove harassment of drivers and citizens.” The provisions specify that the details of driving licences disqualified or revoked by the licensing authority have to be recorded and updated chronologically in the web portal for better monitoring of driver behaviour. It also said documents found validated through electronic means shall not be demanded in physical forms for inspection. The amended rules, which will come to effect from next Thursday, also specify that the driver or conductor can produce DL, RC, insurance, fitness and permit and PUC certificates and any other relevant documents in physical or electronic form. It says after validation of the documents in electronic form, if the information in documents are found to be valid and in force, then “physical forms of such documents shall not be demanded for inspection, including in cases where there is an offence made out necessitating seizure of any such documents.” The inspecting officer will also have to put stamp of inspection and his identity, which will be recorded in the portal. “This would help in unnecessary re-checking or inspection of vehicles and further would remove harassment to the drivers,” the ministry said. An official said there is a need to have digital records of all actions, which will check corruption as well. The ministry has also said that the states would be allowed to multiply the penalties for offences up to 10 times on certain conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/while-driving-you-can-use-phone-only-for-navigation/articleshow/78342454.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 27, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP seeks more support from RWAs||BENGALURU: With infections rising, BBMP on Saturday urged residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to encourage their members to undergo Covid-19 tests and follow health protocols. The role of RWAs in slowing the spread of coronavirus has become important as the term of the BBMP council has ended. Though nodal officers have been appointed for each civic ward to carry out the duties of corporators, the surge in Covid-19 cases has promoted BBMP to seek more support from RWAs. “Communicating with people about public health is important not just in apartments and residential colonies, but in slums as well,” said BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad. Residents’ groups should organise testing camps in their neighbourhoods. “People will have the onus of the testing facility and this will help in reducing Covid cases,” he added. Nodal officers, in coordination with RWAs, must monitor citizens with mild to moderate illness and those in home isolation. “These people need supplies like food, dairy and medicines, among other things. Residents must help them,” Prasad said. BBMP has decided to provide pulse oximeters to people, especially senior citizens with comorbidity. Nodal officers have been asked to organise health screening camps and invite doctors and health workers. “These are very important times and people need to be motivated to attend health camps. We should provide freebies, gifts and other incentives to those who mobilise people to attend such camps,” he said. Prasad also said social media influencers should be roped in to spread awareness on testing and early detection of symptoms as such efforts would help reduce the mortality rate Online quizzes and community bonding exercises, where people can share their experience, can also help in creating awareness. “Involving young people and children to spread awareness through online platforms will ensure information about the Covid-19 is engraved and registered in the minds,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-seeks-more-support-from-rwas/articleshow/78342444.cms||---
September 27, 2020||---||4 days after VRS, Bihar ex-DGP meets Nitish at JD(U) office, triggers poll buzz||PATNA: Four days after taking voluntary retirement from service (VRS), former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey called on chief minister Nitish Kumar at the JD(U) office here on Saturday, triggering speculations about his joining politics to contest the upcoming state assembly election. Pandey, however, said he was yet to take a decision on either joining politics or contesting election. “I had no political talks (with the CM). I came to meet him and thank him for giving me absolute freedom in performing my duties as the DGP,” Pandey said. Though the former DGP is keeping his cards close to his chest, political circles in Bihar are agog with speculations that Pandey, a Brahmin, would contest either assembly polls, and that too from a Brahmin-dominated constituency, or the parliamentary byelection from Valmikinagar seat, which fell vacant after the death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath P Mahato. Sources said Pandey, a native of Buxar, would most probably be the NDA candidate either from Buxar or Brahmapur or Shahpur in the neighbouring Bhojpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/4-days-after-vrs-bihar-ex-dgp-meets-nitish-at-jdu-office-triggers-poll-buzz/articleshow/78342464.cms||Madan Kumar
September 27, 2020||India||4 days after VRS, Bihar ex-DGP meets Nitish at JD(U) office, triggers poll buzz||PATNA: Four days after taking voluntary retirement from service (VRS), former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey called on chief minister Nitish Kumar at the JD(U) office here on Saturday, triggering speculations about his joining politics to contest the upcoming state assembly election. Pandey, however, said he was yet to take a decision on either joining politics or contesting election. “I had no political talks (with the CM). I came to meet him and thank him for giving me absolute freedom in performing my duties as the DGP,” Pandey said. Though the former DGP is keeping his cards close to his chest, political circles in Bihar are agog with speculations that Pandey, a Brahmin, would contest either assembly polls, and that too from a Brahmin-dominated constituency, or the parliamentary byelection from Valmikinagar seat, which fell vacant after the death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath P Mahato. Sources said Pandey, a native of Buxar, would most probably be the NDA candidate either from Buxar or Brahmapur or Shahpur in the neighbouring Bhojpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-days-after-vrs-bihar-ex-dgp-meets-nitish-at-jdu-office-triggers-poll-buzz/articleshow/78342465.cms||Madan Kumar
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pati, patni aur sperm donor||AHMEDABAD: For Sangeeta (not her real name) it was heartbreak twice over, which pushed her into depression. The 45-year-old underwent the IVF treatment on her husband’s insistence. She gave birth to twins with the procedure. Later, she was accused of having an affair with the sperm donor, left her husband with her sons, and fell in love with the donor, 10 years her junior. But the donor abandoned her allegedly after taking custody of her two sons. The woman is currently sheltered at Sakhi One Stop Centre run by the state government. According to Abhayam 181 helpline officials, Sangeeta had called earlier this week seeking shelter. “She mentioned that she had fallen in love with a resident of Vastral and had married him,” a counsellsor said. “After four years of marriage, the duo decided to seek the IVF procedure after they realized that natural pregnancy was not possible.” During this time, the couple met the man who agreed to donate sperm for the procedure. The insemination was successful and the couple got twin sons. The family lived happily for the next five years. Afterwards, her husband fell into hard times and took to drinking. In the frequent squabbles, the issue of the sons not being his used to crop up. Sangeeta tried to tell him that IVF had been his idea and stressed that she had no contact with the donor. But as the relationship deteriorated, Sangeeta started living separately with her sons. She could not go to her parents as they were not on talking terms with her since her marriage against their wish. Sought help from AbhayamShe started working as domestic help and earned more than Rs 15,000 a month, which was enough to sustain them,” said the counsellor. “During this time, she ran into the donor, who was running a coaching class for secondary and higher secondary students. The donor was aware of the problems between the couple and felt bad about his unwitting role.” The counsellor said that Sangeeta and the donor became friends and eventually a relationship developed. He even partially shouldered the responsibility of the kids. Through him, Sangeeta again became pregnant about five months ago. But when she broached the topic of marriage, the donor refused to tie the knot. When it got difficult for Sangeeta to get work after the lockdown, the donor took the kids, calling them ‘his own’. He refused to allow Sangeeta to stay with him. “She had already run out of resources and due to the lack of work, she stayed afloat for a few months on her savings,” the counsellor said. “But from July, it was difficult for her to get back to normal. After repeated notices from her landlord, she had to leave her home. As she was pregnant, she called Abhayam 181 to seek help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-pati-patni-aur-sperm-donor/articleshow/78342457.cms||Parth Shastri
September 27, 2020||India||India, Japan navies kick off 3-day exercise||NEW DELHI: Navies of India and Japan on Saturday carried out a range of complex drills in the North Arabian Sea on the first day of their three-day military exercise aimed at further bolstering operational convergence, officials said. It is the first military exercise between the two strategic partners after they signed a landmark agreement on September 9 that allows their militaries to access each other’s bases for logistics support. The fourth edition of the India-Japan maritime exercise, JIMEX, is taking place in the backdrop of growing concerns over China’s military assertiveness in the Indian Ocean Region and Indo-Pacific. The JIMEX series of exercises commenced in January 2012 with a special focus on maritime security cooperation. The last edition was conducted in October 2018 off the Visakhapatnam coast. Indigenously-built stealth destroyer Chennai, Teg Class stealth frigate Tarkash and fleet tanker Deepak represented the Indian Navy in the exercise, an Indian Navy spokesperson said. This week, the Indian and Australian navies too carried out a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean Region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-japan-navies-kick-off-3-day-exercise/articleshow/78342467.cms||---
September 27, 2020||World||India, Japan navies kick off 3-day exercise||NEW DELHI: Navies of India and Japan on Saturday carried out a range of complex drills in the North Arabian Sea on the first day of their three-day military exercise aimed at further bolstering operational convergence, officials said. It is the first military exercise between the two strategic partners after they signed a landmark agreement on September 9 that allows their militaries to access each other’s bases for logistics support. The fourth edition of the India-Japan maritime exercise, JIMEX, is taking place in the backdrop of growing concerns over China’s military assertiveness in the Indian Ocean Region and Indo-Pacific. The JIMEX series of exercises commenced in January 2012 with a special focus on maritime security cooperation. The last edition was conducted in October 2018 off the Visakhapatnam coast. Indigenously-built stealth destroyer Chennai, Teg Class stealth frigate Tarkash and fleet tanker Deepak represented the Indian Navy in the exercise, an Indian Navy spokesperson said. This week, the Indian and Australian navies too carried out a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean Region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/india-japan-navies-kick-off-3-day-exercise/articleshow/78342468.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||5 labourers dead as SUV collides with truck in MP||INDORE: Five labourers died and seven were injured when an SUV carrying them collided head-on with a truck on the outskirts of Ujjain on Saturday. Two of the injured are in critical condition. The labourers were residents of Katni and were bound for Neemuch — about 700km away — for contractual labour work, said tehsildar Yogesh Meshram. About 540km from their hometown, and apparently driving all night, their vehicle crashed into an oncoming truck in Datana Matana area at 4am, ASI Parmanand Singh said. Four labourers died on the spot, and the fifth succumbed in a hospital, he added. Locals helped cops cut away the mangled wreckage and rescue the victims. The eight injured will need multiple surgeries, said Dr Vikram Raghuvanshi of Ujjain district hospital. Police named the dead as Somchand, Vimal Kumar, Rajesh Vishwakarma, Gagan Vishwakarma and Sinku Singh. Police are looking for the driver and cleaner of the Rajasthan-registered truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-labourers-dead-as-suv-collides-with-truck-in-mp/articleshow/78342469.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Vitamin D helps prevent respiratory infections’||AHMEDABAD: It can be got from the most abundant source possible in a country like India – sunlight – but studies have shown very high levels of vitamin D deficiency in the Indian population. The role of vitamin D has come to the fore due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as experts point to the vitamin’s protective and curative roles. Dr Ritu Rana, assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), said the vitamin is important for regulation of calcium and phosphate in the body and also the regulation of the immune system. “Studies before Covid-19 have shown the positive impact of vitamin D in respiratory tract infections, its intake reduces the severity and can also help in treatment,” she said, adding that a limited study in Spain on Covid-19 patients has shown a positive impact of the vitamin even as the body of evidence globally is still emerging. Experts said the intake of fortified food, ranging from milk to oil, can help supplement the daily requirement. Dr Minesh Mehta, a citybased critical care specialist, said the observation of Covid-19 patients in the city has shown greater severity if there is a deficiency of vitamins and minerals including vitamin D. “Supplements are an integral part of treatment. Vitamin D also can play a preventive role,” he said. The diet at Covid-19 hospitals also emphasizes balanced nutrition that is rich in vitamins D and C and zinc. Binal Jethva, a dietician at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 facility at Civil Hospital, said vitamin D and C deficiency is very common among Covid-19 patients under treatment. “Those getting discharged are also advised to take supplements and improve their intake of vitamins and minerals,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vitamin-d-helps-prevent-respiratory-infections/articleshow/78342472.cms||Parth Shastri
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Burnpur club members reunite 6-yr-old girl with mom in Nepal||Burnpur: Members of a club in Burnpur, West Burdwan helped reunite a 6-year-old girl — left helpless after her father’s sudden death on September 6 — with her mother in Nepal. The mother came to Nepal’s Panitanki on the border with India. Club members, who had informed authorities ahead of time, helped the girl meet her mother across the border on September 22.  Sanjukta Chhetri had accompanied her father, Sanjay, to India just before the lockdown in March. Sanjay wanted to meet his brothers in Asansol and also took up a temporary job with a private security agency at Rajarhat. The sudden lockdown forced the duo to stay back in India. The lockdown also cost Sanjay his job. He took Sanjukta to Asansol to stay with his brothers there. However, family problems forced him to leave his brothers’ home. Father and daughter put up at a local club in Burnpur. Sanjay was looking for a job in Burnpur and also making plans to take his daughter back home to her mother in Nepal. But he fell ill and died suddenly on September 6. Aside from the shock of her father’s death, the 6-year-old found herself all alone. This is when members of the club stepped in. Sanjukta was provided accommodation at Satish Saha’s house from September 6. Other members managed to contact her mother. On September 21, club members hired an SUV and took Sanjukta to Panitanki-Kakarbitta on the Indo-Nepal border. Her mother was allowed by security personnel to receive her daughter from India on September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burnpur-club-members-reunite-6-yr-old-girl-with-mom-in-nepal/articleshow/78341666.cms||Mohammad Asif
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Mukul is BJP nat’l vice-prez, Rahul loses out to Anupam||Kolkata: BJP leader Mukul Roy has got a plum all-India organizational post after waiting for nearly three years. Party national president JP Nadda, in an organizational reshuffle on Saturday, elevated Roy to the post of all-India vice president from an ordinary national executive member. The move, ahead of the 2021 Bengal assembly polls, came amid speculation till July that the master strategist was in talks with Trinamool and complained that he was not being utilized in BJP that he joined in November 2017. Social educator from Visva-Bharati and former MP Anupam Hazra, who fought on a BJP ticket from Jadavpur in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, was Saturday’s surprise inclusion in BJP hierarchy. Hazra has been inducted as one of the national secretaries from Bengal, replacing former BJP state president Rahul Sinha. Darjeeling MP Raju Bisht has got the post of national spokesperson. Sinha, who didn’t find a place in Nadda’s new team or in Dilip Ghosh’s team, was quick to react. “I have been serving the party for the last 40 years. In reward, I had to make way for a leader coming from Trinamool. I will wait for 12 to 15 days and announce my future course,” he said. Thanking Union home minister Amit Shah and Nadda, an upbeat Roy said: “I have been given a huge responsibility and will try to live up to expectations. We have elections in Bihar, West Bengal and Assam and I am sure BJP will come up with flying colours.” Roy’s elevation to the post, the second after Vishnu Kant Shastri, will put to rest rumour mills guessing his “return” to TMC after the leader didn’t attend BJP’s July meeting in Delhi on Bengal polls. Shah, during his first Bengal virtual rally, kept Roy on the dais during his address. According to BJP insiders, Roy’s recognition will help ease out inhibitions of leaders in other parties who’re in two minds over taking the plunge. Hazra’s inclusion has come as a surprise to many in BJP circles after he replaced Sinha. Sinha was in Delhi along with Dilip Ghosh, Roy and others during the primary consultations with Nadda over the roadmap for Bengal BJP ahead of polls. “Bengal is Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s place. We will dislodge the government that has been terrorizing people. Corruption has become chronic in the state. Trinamool workers didn’t even spare the Amphan victims. Our workers are being killed, and framed in false cases. The biggest challenge is to give legal protection to our workers,” Hazra said. BJP pointsman in the Hills Bisht held that he would work with equal dedication for the party and the people of Darjeeling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mukul-is-bjp-natl-vice-prez-rahul-loses-out-to-anupam/articleshow/78341346.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Abhishek’s online meet with MLAs today on farm bill stir||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress second-in-command and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee has convened a virtual meeting of party MLAs on Sunday to set the tone for and tenor of “anti-farmer” bill protests ahead of the 2021 assembly polls. All eyes are on Abhishek’s first such meeting, especially when some have reservations in accepting him as the leader after Mamata Banerjee. In addition, a senior minister from Kolkata has also sounded a discordant note against Kolkata Municipal Corporation administrator Firhad Hakim. The MP had held a similar meeting, albeit with Trinamool Youth Congress members, in June and on a day Union home minister Amit Shah held his first virtual Bengal rally. According to TMC insiders, a follow-up meeting is likely after Kali Puja. The online deliberation comes at a time the TMC has announced new committees in many districts, and replaced district and block presidents in some. There is apprehension that some MLAs are “at unease” over working with the new dispensation. Some of them even fear they may be denied tickets in the coming elections. In contrast, many MLAs are also hoping to gauge the mood of party bosses at Sunday’s meeting. More so as the MLAs are under watch of Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team and reports on internal feuds are reaching the Trinamool chief through her own network. The assembly seats in Jangalmahal — West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia — are very much in focus as Mamata wants to win back people who went with the BJP in 2019. The party has tried the same with PCPA-turned-Trinamool leader Chhatradhar Mahato, who has come under the NIA scanner. Abhishek is likely to take stock of ongoing projects in the area and give MLAs more tasks for the road ahead. However, things are looking up in West Midnapore, where many BJP workers joined Trinamool, the latest defections taking place in Kharagpur on Saturday. The joining of Tushar Bhattacharya in Bankura is yet another positive development for TMC. The MP may also want inputs from party bastions of Arambagh, Khanakul and Goghat in Hooghly, where the BJP has made inroads. The Haldia Town Trinamool Youth Congress on Saturday lodged a police complaint against “unknown persons” for taking off Mamata and Abhishek banners at Kadamtala, and those in front of the municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abhisheks-online-meet-with-mlas-today-on-farm-bill-stir/articleshow/78341326.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Cinema, jatra, music shows to start in state from Oct 1: Govt||Kolkata: Cinemas, plays, jatras, musical and dance recitals as well as magic shows will resume from October 1 after a six-month break, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said in a tweet on Saturday evening. “To return to normalcy, “jatras, plays, OATs, cinemas and all musical, dance, recital & magic shows shall be allowed to function with 50 participants or less from 1 Oct subject to adherence to physical distancing norms, wearing of masks and compliance to precautionary protocols,” she posted. The announcement was greeted with joy by the film and entertainment industry. Actor Prosenjit Chatterjee said he was happy with the news of the reopening. “Work has already begun for television and OTT. So many technicians are involved with the entertainment industry. I am very happy for them,” he said. At present, Bengal has 200 single screens and 60 multiplexes. According to Ratan Saha, chairman of the exhibitor section of Eastern India Mot-ion Pictures Association (EIMPA), “This decision is good for our industry. Even if 50 people are allowed, it is a beginning.” While Saha sought clarity on whether a central government notification was required, Chatterjee felt the chief minister must have already discussed it with relevant authorities before she tweeted on the subject. With cinemas shut for six months, most releases have been on OTT. Exhibitors feel that there could be difficulty initially in sourcing content. “Those who decide to reopen will have to check if the theatres are in working condition. There is also the issue of getting good content immediately,” Saha added. Incidentally, singer Lopamudra Mitra had just a day before requested the chief minister to allow programs since livelihood of musicians and technicians, managers and support groups were at stake. “Allowing programs to begin with 50 people is a good start. We will follow all the norms that are set for us,” she said. Jatra groups are also relieved at the prospect of shows resuming soon. At present there are some 60 professional jatra groups operating in Chitpur. Piya Sengupta, who is also the president of EIMPA and a jatra actress, said, “Jatras and machas involve livelihood of more than lakhs of people. There is finally some light at the end of the tunnel for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cinema-jatra-music-shows-to-start-in-state-from-oct-1-govt/articleshow/78341978.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||HC-appointed panel holds meet at VB||Santiniketan: A four-member committee, appointed by the Calcutta High Court to resolve the Visva-Bharati impasse, on Saturday held a meeting with those who had opposed construction of the boundary wall. Around 15 people, including businessmen, students and Santiniketan and Bolpur residents, attended the 2-hour meet at the university central office. After the meeting, Bolpur resident and APDR official Sailen Mishra said: “We oppose the wall’s construction and any kind of boundary around the fairground. We were told that the fairground would be demarcated by low walls and a fence. We find no justification to fence the ground. It should stay open.” “We found that the university authorities and committee members had already resolved to set up the fence around the fairground. We opposed it and left the meeting,” a trader said. Despite classes being suspended due to the pandemic, some students arrived at the VB office. Two of them were invited in to present their views, and sought that the gate that had been demolished be reconstructed. Local resident Subir Banerjee said discussions were held in a very cordial manner. “As an individual, I want some temporary fencing. They listened patiently and said the work would be done aesthetically. A field visit will be undertaken,” he said. Vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty, Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara and police superintendent Shyam Singh were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-appointed-panel-holds-meet-at-vb/articleshow/78341784.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Ranchi||Villagers parade couple semi-clad in Dumka||Dumka: A young couple, who were allegedly found in a compromising position, were stripped and paraded semi-clad in Shivapahad village under Ranga police station of Sahebganj district on Thursday night. Police rescued the couple on Friday evening and a search is on to identify the villagers involved in the crime. Sources said the couple in their twenties belonging to different religious communities were reportedly caught red-handed by a group of villagers at an abandoned place. The villagers then hold them captive for about 16 hours before garlanding them shoes and slippers. The villagers later paraded them in the village. The local khap-like panchayat had imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on the boy but as he could not pay, the villagers decided to take the matter into their own hands by thrashing and humiliating them, the sources added. It was only after the video footage of the parading went viral on social media that a police team led by Barharwa sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Pramod Kumar Mishra rushed to the village on Friday evening to rescue the couple. Mishra said, “The villagers initially refused to hand over the couple to us, but we rescued them after additional forces were called in from the district headquarters and the adjoining police stations.” An FIR for humiliation, thrashing and taking hostage of the couple was filed with the Ranga police station on Saturday, he said. “We are identifying those involved in the crime and will take stringent legal action against them,” the SDPO said, adding that no arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/villagers-parade-couple-semi-clad-in-dumka/articleshow/78339782.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 27, 2020||Ranchi||Biomedical waste raises hackles at Rims hostel||Ranchi: Over 200 junior doctors and interns residing at the new PG Girls Hostel of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) are living under the constant threat of contracting infection from the biomedical waste dumped right next to their hostel campus. The biomedical waste is being dumped near the boundary wall of the hostel because of the location’s proximity to the incinerator. A few junior doctors had raised the issue with their seniors and shared videos of the site to highlight the conditions. On Friday, too, the road leading to the incinerator was full of garbage and a foul smell was emanating from the area. “At a time when we are fighting the pandemic, we need to protect ourselves from any kind of infection. The heaps of untreated biomedical waste near the hostel campus significantly increase the chances of getting infected. But that is not all. The canteen and the hostel kitchen are located close to the boundary wall near the incinerator,” a junior doctor said on the condition of anonymity. The Preventive and Social Medicine (PSM) department of Rims, which evaluates the performance of the agency tasked with handling the biomedical waste and running the incinerator, said it has received complaints. “We only submit reports to the hospital administration based on the performance of the agency,” Dr Vidyasagar, the in-charge of PSM department, said. Vidyasagar, however, added that the capacity of the current incinerator isn’t enough to handle the amount of biomedical waste generated by the hospital. When asked about the biomedical waste, medical superintendent in-charge Dr D K Sinha said: “We have summoned the persons responsible for running the incinerator and those in-charge of handling the biomedical waste. We will make sure that no one gets infected due to the waste.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/biomedical-waste-raises-hackles-at-rims-hostel/articleshow/78339764.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 27, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad schoolgirl tops ISRO competition on model-making||Ranchi: A Dhanbad schoolgirl has brought laurels to the state by topping the country-wide competition on cyberspace organised by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). The top Indian space organisation had conducted the online competitions in drawing, model-making and essay writing for students of different classes in June. Subronita Kumari, a Class VIII student of DAV Public School, Koyalanagar, came first in the model-making and science craft category, according to the results published on the ISRO website. Another student, Kumar Rishu Raj, a Class VI student of DAV Public School in Kapil Deo, Ranchi, secured the fifth position at the national level while Nitanshu Kumar, a Class VIII student of DAV Hehal, Ranchi, bagged the seventh rank. Harish Anand of St Xavier’s College, Ranchi, was placed fifth in the essay writing competition while Kumari Sangeeta Mahto of Jamshedpur Women’s College was placed sixth in the same group. Altogether, 66 students of Ranchi were rank holders in the top 500 in different categories. Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli, said 25 of its students have also secured ranks in top 500. Among them are Sonal Singh, Ayush Singh and Aditya Prakash in the quiz competition. Congratulating the students, school principal Samarjit Jana said, “Science has played a crucial role in improving economic and social conditions around the globe. Our life has also improved because of successful science experiments.” In another development, the Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, observed its Hindi fortnight by holding poem recital and essay writing competitions. The institute said its students, officers and employees enthusiastically took part in the events. The best performers were given prizes and certificates, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-schoolgirl-tops-isro-competition-on-model-making/articleshow/78339792.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 27, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata to Dhankhar: Guv can’t function as pol party rep||Kolkata: In a letter to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has said it is “distressing” that the governor is acting in the “worst traditions of constitutional democracy as an agent of the ruling central government political party” and pointed out that such an “agency in the state government” was never imagined by the framers of the Constitution. As head of state, the governor cannot be a “representative of a political party in any manner,” she said. The nine-page letter sent on Saturday is the latest in the escalating war of words between Nabanna and Raj Bhavan and comes on the heels of a letter that the governor sent to state DGP Virendra on September 20 seeking information on the ongoing investigations against BJP MP Arjun Singh. The CM said she was “upset, anguished and disillusioned” on reading the governor’s letter and Twitter posts. “Your aspersions sadly consist of uncorroborated judgments and insinuations against the state police and the state government,” Banerjee wrote and dubbed Dhankhar’s action as “excessive and blatant attempts at usurpation of constitutional mandates” and “unwarranted excesses” on his part. The CM pointed out that the governor’s inquiry into criminal investigations against Arjun Singh and seeking reports on the investigation processes from the DGP was not the same as seeking information regarding an executive or legislative proposal and “such enquiry not only amounts to interference in the day-to-day administration of the state government but also gives rise to serious suspicions of interference and influencing of on-going investigations”. Stating that this would set a dangerous precedent, the CM wrote, “… the accused, by successfully obtaining Hon’ble governor’s extra-legal intervention and interference, has actually put the Hon’ble governor in a dangerously precarious position which might have serious consequences under law”. She added, “This may also give rise to a wrong impression in the minds of persons accused in various cases that Hon’ble governor instead of the Hon’ble judiciary, is now the appropriate authority in the state to approach and seek redressal of grievances, if any, in an ongoing investigation process.” The CM further wrote: “It is disastrous that you defamed the DGP upon his non-compliance with your unlawful and unwarranted demands and are now attempting to intimidate and arm-twist him into capitulating to your unconstitutional requests.... It is beyond my imagination as to why the said accused did not follow the due process of law, which is available to any other citizen of this country, in case he had any grievance. It is inexplicable that he felt it more convenient to approach the Hon’ble Governor regarding a lawful investigation by police.” Banerjee said that in her capacity as the chief minister she would “request, aid and advise” the governor to act within the mandate of the Constitution and not bypass her and her cabinet by communicating with state officers. After the receipt of the letter, the governor tweeted that the DGP had not appeared before him as requested for the third time in a row and this cannot be overlooked. “As Communication @MamataOfficial has found its way in public domain I seek media to focus on my eye opener note @WBPolice. Significantly, unlike her earlier physical stance in support of cop @KolkataPolice, this time defence is by way of letter,” the governor said in his post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-to-dhankhar-guv-cant-function-as-pol-party-rep/articleshow/78342008.cms||---
September 27, 2020||India||IJ Ahluwalia, economist who broke glass ceilings, dies||Isher Judge Ahluwalia, one of India’s most influential economists and public policy thinkers, passed away on Saturday at the age of 74. She was known for her work on industrial development, macro-economic reforms and urban policy in a field largely dominated by men. While married to Montek Singh Ahluwalia, former deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission, she stayed out of his shadow and maintained her own distinct identity. In 1984, she was sounded out for a chance to work with the government as deputy economic advisor in the industry ministry but turned it down. In her memoir, Breaking Through, which released while she was in the final stages of her battle with brain cancer, she writes, “I also made it plain that I felt they were engaging in gender discrimination because Montek had been offered the position of an economic advisor five years earlier when he was only 36. I was 39 and my qualifications were no less — in fact, they were greater as I had a PhD from MIT whereas Montek was not a PhD.” This point was often made to those who called their home asking for Dr Ahluwalia, to be met with the response: “This is she”. She was the ninth of eleven siblings in a conservative Punjabi family that ran a small pickle business. Despite a tight financial situation, she was always an academic star. From scholarship to scholarship, she worked her way to Presidency College, Delhi School of Economics and finally, the economics department at MIT for her PhD, where her advisor was the Nobel-winning Paul Samuelson. Always independent-minded, she wrote a paper arguing against his positions on foreign direct investment, and still got a good grade. In 1970, while she was writing her dissertation and interning at the IMF in Washington, she met Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who was then at the World Bank. She married him and moved back to India. She worked at the Centre for Policy Research and later as chairperson of the thinktank, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), which she built into a redoubtable institution. She was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2009. Her book on industrial growth in India, advocating the loosening of socialist controls, was published in 1985. While it met with a chilly reception in left-leaning circles (she was even accused of being funded by the CIA), its empirical rigour was difficult to question. Another book on the productivity and growth in Indian manufacturing was published in 1991. Later in her career, Isher pivoted to urban policy. Through her life and career, she came into contact with many people who were later to decisively shape India’s economic future: from Amartya Sen and Bimal Jalan, to Manmohan Singh, who was instrumental in bringing the Ahluwalias back to India. She called herself a cheerleader for Manmohan Singh even as she expressed frustration at his government in the later UPA years. She even campaigned for the one election he fought and lost. The couple’s personal networks though cut across ideological lines. In her memoir, she recollects borrowing money from Utsa Patnaik, who topped D School, while Isher came second. She also describes her friendships with women from the corporate world, like Kiran Mazumdar Shaw and Sudha Murty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ij-ahluwalia-economist-who-broke-glass-ceilings-dies/articleshow/78342479.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Business||Court grants bail to Malvinder Mohan Singh in bank fraud case||A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to former Fortis Healthcare promoter Malvinder Singh, primarily on the grounds of parity since his brother and co-accused Shivinder has already been granted bail in the case of alleged bank fraud.  Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav granted the relief after taking note of arguments by advocate Manu Sharma who submitted that his client’s brother Shivinder has already been granted bail in the same case earlier. He also argued that none of the persons named in the FIR except Malvinder and Shivinder have been arrested despite the fact that the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police claimed that a “major offence” has been committed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fortis-healthcare-promoter-granted-bail-in-bank-fraud-case/articleshow/78342476.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath deputes additional chief secretaries of two depts to plan Covid combat in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As Lucknow continues to report highest number of Covid-19 cases each day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the additional chief secretaries of panchayati raj, health and medical education departments to prepare a special model to check the spread of virus in the state capital. Currently, Lucknow has around 8,400 active cases. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “Though the cases of coronavirus in the state have started showing a downward trend over the past week, Lucknow requires special attention.” “The CM has asked three senior officials to study the situation in the state capital and prepare a model which can be replicated in other districts,” he said. “The CM has put in a place a four-fold strategy for 16 districts which reported over 100 cases in the past week. A team headed by an ACS or principal secretary with a special secretary level official and two specialists from the health and medical education department each have been dispatched to these districts. They will submit their report to the CM on Sunday,” Awasthi said. He added that the minister for medical education had been asked to advice the teams. The CM has set a target of completing 1 crore tests in UP by September 30. The CM, along with defence minister Rajnath Singh, is also expected to inaugurate a cancer hospital in Lucknow on that day. As part of the strategy to curb the spread of the virus, Awasthi said the definition of containment zone would be modified and micro containment zones would be created with stricter perimeter control for better monitoring. All people in these zones will be tested compulsorily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-deputes-additional-chief-secretaries-of-two-depts-to-plan-covid-combat-in-lucknow/articleshow/78342487.cms||---
September 27, 2020||Mumbai||Pankaja Munde and Vinod Tawde find new roles in BJP national executive||MUMBAI: BJP’s Pankaja Munde and Vinod Tawde, who for long have been out in the cold, have been brought back into the party’s mainstream. Both have been appointed national secretaries by the party on Saturday, along with 11 others. The appointments were made by BJP national president J P Nadda in Delhi. “They could be entrusted a task in another state or be put in charge of Yuva Morcha, Mahila Morcha or one of the many cells of the party,” a source said. While Munde has been at loggerheads with former CM Devendra Fadnavis, Tawde was denied a ticket to contest the 2019 assembly elections. Munde lost the election to her cousin Dhananjay Munde, who is with NCP. Along with Munde and Tawde, Vijaya Rahatkar, who was heading the Mahila Morcha, has been appointed as national secretary after she completed her tenure. V Satish continues as national joint general secretary, while Jamal Siddiqui has been appointed as national president of the Minority Morcha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pankaja-munde-and-vinod-tawde-find-new-roles-in-bjp-national-exec/articleshow/78342506.cms||---
