September 28, 2020||India||PM Modi defends agri reforms, says farmers have flourished when freed from mandi restrictions||NEW DELHI: Explaining the utility of the farm reforms criticised by the opposition and a section of farm organisations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday cited instances of a large number of farmers who had benefited from being allowed to sell farm produce outside the precincts of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees or mandis. Dwelling on the farm sector during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio address, Modi said farmers had flourished when freed from the restriction of selling at mandis only, adding that they would now have complete freedom to sell. The PM lauded farmers for strengthening the country's agriculture sector and said the farm sector played a major role in building a self-reliant India. “The stronger it is, the stronger will be the foundation of a self-reliant India,” he said. He pointed to rise in incomes of farmers who benefited from innovative practices and options to sell their produce. The PM said he had received many letters from farmers and interacted with some groups to know that changes in agriculture, new dimensions and innovations were giving it strength. He cited examples of farmers from Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh who narrated how they had benefited and made bigger profits by selling their farm produce directly to buyers of their choice, in some cases, even five-star hotels. Modi said similar benefits would now percolate to farmers across the country, where they would be outside of the clutches of middlemen even as they got remunerative prices. “Now, they have got freedom to sell not only fruits and vegetables but whatever they produce — paddy, wheat, mustard, sugarcane — anywhere they get a better price,” he said. Though the PM made no direct reference to the contentious farm bills during his speech, the emphasis on removing mandi restrictions was aimed at quelling the opposition-led criticism around the laws as “anti-farmer”. The government has quickly announced MSP to counter allegations that the system will be done away with. These bills, the government has said, will allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere they want at a better price. Citing the example of a Gujarat farmer who adopted innovative methods to grow potatoes which were being bought by big companies, Modi said the agriculture sector would benefit immensely with greater use of technology. In his Sunday address, the PM also remembered Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Bhagat Singh, Jai Prakash Narayan, Nanaji Deshmukh and Vijayaraje Scindia ahead of their birth anniversaries. The PM also requested people, once again, to wear masks and ensure physical distancing to fight coronavirus. Watch PM Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat': Full speech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-defends-agri-reforms-says-farmers-have-flourished-when-freed-from-mandi-restrictions/articleshow/78353718.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Noida||204 new Covid cases reported from Noida||NOIDA: 204 new cases of coronavirus were recorded in Gautam Buddh NagarNagar on Sunday while 265 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of confirmed cases in the district on Sunday were 12,571. According to the state report, there are 1,570 patients or 12% (12.48%) active cases in the district while 51 patients or 0.40% people have succumbed to the pandemic. In total, 10,950 or 87% (87.10%) patients have recovered from the disease in the district so far. While the number of cases are increasing, the GB Nagar administration released a new list of 348 containment zones on Sundays, where 335 containment zones are in category 1 and 13 containment zones are in category 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/204-new-covid-cases-reported-from-noida/articleshow/78353928.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
September 28, 2020||Indore||MP: Pandemic curbs demand for commercial spaces in Indore||INDORE: A slump in sales post outbreak of Covid-19 and high rentals have led many retail stores and food joints to vacate commercial spaces to save on mounting liabilities that run in lakh per month. While many franchise owned businesses mostly into the financial sector have terminated the rental contract in between amid a decline in business, the demand for rent cut has increased from occupiers of the commercial spaces, claimed real estate agents and owners of commercial spaces. A real estate consultant Vinod Verma said, “Demand for commercial spaces has taken a sharp hit. Retailers are increasingly vacating spaces because they do not have much business left to afford such high rents. Finding new customers for premium rental property have also become a challenge.” Rental for commercial spaces in Indore varies from Rs 150-Rs 250 per sq ft depending upon the area, said six real estate consultants mostly handling commercial properties. They said many food joints including ice cream parlours, restaurants, café’s and financial consultants, retailers of garments have vacated shops. Manoj Chandani, a property consultant said, “Shops owners are not able to afford rents. Big brands or chains are not affected much but small players are the worst hit post COVID19. Enquiries from owners of commercial spaces have increased these days as even they could not afford to keep the place vacant for months.” Many retails and offices have chosen to shift to areas with lower rentals as employees continue to operate from home. Aniruddha Agrawal, a real estate consultant said, “People are trying to save on the running expenses and looking for better deals. Many are opting for lower rental properties. Rental negotiations are everywhere these days.” Amid a rise in demand for reduction in rentals, many owners of commercial spaces has either deferred rents for 2-3 months while a few have cut down rents by 20 -30 per cent, claimed respondents. Rajkumar Sharma, owner of a commercial complex at Jail road said, “The owners of commercial properties of our areas have deferred the rent for 3 months while those who could not afford the waiver have cut down rent. This arrangement is done taking in confidence the tenants so as to run business smoothly in these difficult times.” --||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mp-pandemic-curbs-demand-for-commercial-spaces-in-indore/articleshow/78354004.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
September 28, 2020||India||India’s Covid cases now at 6 million, last 1m rise takes day more than previous||NEW DELHI: India became the second country after the US to register 6 million Covid-19 cases on Sunday, amid signs that the pandemic could finally be slowing down in the country, at least for now. It took 12 days for India’s caseload to go from 5 million to 6 million, a day more than the previous 1-million rise. In another positive sign, recoveries from the virus crossed 5 million, accounting for more than 82% of all cases. After 84,185 fresh infections were recorded on Sunday, India’s Covid-19 case count rose to 60,72,757 while deaths crossed 95,000 with 1,030 fatalities added to the toll. Highest number of daily cases from IndiaDespite a slowdown in the spread of the infections over the past 10 days or so, India continues to add the highest number of daily cases in the world. The average daily case count this week (September 21-27) was more than 84,000 as over 5,90,605 fresh infections were logged during this period. However, the weekly count had decreased by nearly 50,000 from the previous week, when 6,40,019 cases had been recorded. This was the second straight week of decline in cases, and the sharpest yet. Last week (September 14-20), Covid-19 cases had seen a drop of 5,000 from the previous seven days. More hearteningly, for the first time in recent months, the week saw fewer deaths as compared with the previous one. While 7,654 deaths were recorded this week, the previous week’s tally was an all-time high of 8,175. Two states witnessed their highest single-day spike in cases on Sunday — Kerala, which recorded 7,445 cases, and Rajasthan (2,084). Kerala recorded fresh highs in new cases for five days running. Karnataka reported 9,543 new cases, its highest count in 11 days while Tamil Nadu recorded its highest single-day tally in 22 days of 5,791, although the rise was modest over previous days. Coronavirus in India: Complete coverageMaharashtra logged 18,056 fresh cases and 380 deaths, the first time in five days that the daily toll had come down below 400. Mumbai reported 2,261 fresh cases and 44 fatalities. Karnataka’s Covid-19 infections crossed the 9,000 mark for the first time in nearly two weeks, taking its active case load past 1 lakh. Bengaluru alone reported 4,217 positive cases and 15 deaths, while Mysuru reported 952 new cases and one death. Read Also‘R value’ dip in 5 high-burden states raises hope of slowing Covid spreadThe dip in the national R value – indicating the likely number of people a Covid positive person can infect – to below 1 in the last week in five high burden states helped moderate India’s curve of active infections, but durability of the gains depends on continued progress in these states andFor the fourth consecutive day, Chennai city recorded more than 1,000 fresh cases of Covid-19, accounting for 1,280 of the 5,791 cases in Tamil Nadu. The city also accounts for a quarter (10,656) of the 46,341 active cases in the state. The state recorded 80 deaths on Sunday, pushing the toll to 9,313 deaths. The case tally is 5,80,808. After 11 days, Covid-19 cases in Odisha dropped to less than 4,000 on Sunday with 3,922 testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The fresh cases have taken the total infection count to 2,09,374 in the state so far. Fourteen died of Covid, taking the death toll to 797. Gujarat recorded 1,411 positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total case figure to 1.33 lakh. It was the fourth consecutive day where the state recorded 1,400-plus daily cases even as deaths dipped to 10 after a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-hits-6-million-amid-slowdown-in-cases/articleshow/78354421.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||No pandal, no bhog and small idols: Durga Puja to be a low key affair in Lucknow this year||The Durga Puja is just weeks away but it seems the magnificent pandals that the city used to witness during the four-day celebrations, will be missing from the city this year. With the puja samitis still awaiting directions from the state government to hold pujas, most have decided to hold just a symbolic one this festive season keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. BREAKING A CENTURY OLD TRADITIONThe most awaited pandal in the city is that of the Bengali Club at Hewett Road. But this year, the club is mulling to do away with the pandal and host a small ceremony each day during the four-day celebrations. "We will be breaking our 105 year-old tradition of not having a proper idol of the Durga devi at the club this year," says Arun Kumar Bannerjee, president of Bengali Club and Young Men’s Association. "Ours is the only place where the idol is made on the premises on the kathamo or the wooden base and then it is sthapit in the pandal. But this year, because the government has not yet issued any guidelines, we will only have a small idol made and have a very small gathering everyday for the puja. Not more than 10 people will be allowed for the traditional puja at a time and there will be no public distribution of the bhog. The final plans will be made when the govenrment issues guidelines," he adds ONLY A KALASH PUJATuhin Banerjee, one of the key organizers of the Durga Puja celebrations at Chandganj says, "As of now we haven't got any SOPs from the UP government so basically all the plans are at hold. This year, keeping in mind the pandemic situation in the country, we are ourselves not doing anything. There will be no pandal, murti, etc. We will only do kalash puja. And in all probabilities, the celebrations might be reduced to just one day. However, the final call will be taken after the announcement by the government." CONFUSED ABOUT THE CELEBRATIONSAnother key organizers at the Aliganj Durga Puja celebrations on the basis of anonymity says, "As of now we are actually confused as to what to do with the celebrations. Just like others, we too are waiting for the guidelines by the government only then will we take any call. But one thing is for sure that there will not be any grand celebrations." SYMBOLIC PUJASaurav Bandyopadhyay, President, Sadhbhavana Sanskritik Samiti, Sahara States, Jankipuram will be conducting the Durga Puja inside a rented house this time due to the pandemic as he feels organizing in a pandal with so many Government guidelines is not possible. “The current guidelines allow only a gathering of 100 people and the puja should be organized in a closed space with gates. But in Sahara States, we have 1700 families and we will not be able to manage if we conduct the puja outdoorS. So, as the Durga PUja cannot be postponed, we will rent a house and have already ordered a four-feet Durga idol to carry on the tradition. Though, the final guidelines from the government will be decided on October 15, considering the sharp increase in the cases, I am not very optimistic,” says Saurav. NO GRAND CELEBRATIONS“The plan till now, as we have our own premises, is that we will be conducting the Durga Puja in our temple with only limited people. Proper guidelines of social distancing, mask, sanitization, thermal check, etc will be followed. We are waiting for the final guidelines from the government for conducting the Durga Puja but we are not very hopeful of a full-fledged outdoor Durga Puja celebrations this year,” informs Nihar Dey, Media Secretary, Cantonment Pooja and Sewa Samiti. Inputs from Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com, Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com and Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-pandal-no-bhog-and-small-idols-durga-puja-to-be-a-low-key-affair-in-lucknow-this-year/articleshow/78347441.cms||---
September 28, 2020||India||State, area and gender key to life expectancy, shows data||NEW DELHI: How long can an Indian expect to live on average? The answer varies very widely depending on where you live — which state and rural or urban area — and what your gender is. The average rural male in Chhattisgarh will live less than 63 years while the average urban female in Himachal Pradesh can hope to make it to nearly 81, a difference of 18 years. India’s overall life expectancy at birth has gone up from 49.7 in 1970-75 to 69.4 by 2014-18, according to the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) life tables put out by the Census and Registrar General’s office. While the annual increase in life expectancy was 2-3 years between 1970 and 1990, the improvement has been a mere 0.4 years annually in the last decade. An Indian’s life expectancy jumps by almost 3 years if s/he survives the first year of life, indicating just how much infant mortality is affecting the country’s life expectancy. Most Indians can expect to live more than 70 years if they survive the first year of life, except those in Chhattisgarh, Assam and Uttar Pradesh, where the average person who survives the first year lives till below 70. The states where life expectancy goes up by more than three years if you survive the first year are also those with the highest infant mortality. In Uttar Pradesh, with the second highest infant mortality rate of 43, life expectancy jumps the highest, by 4.4 years, on completion of the first year. In Madhya Pradesh with the highest IMR of 48, a person surviving the first year after birth sees life expectancy increasing by 3.7 years. At the other end of the age spectrum, in almost all states those who survive up to 70 years are likely to live beyond 80 years. But in Bihar and Chhattisgarh, life expectancy at 70 remains below another 10 years for both men and women. Urban women have the highest life expectancy in India and in every state barring Kerala and Uttarakhand, where rural women live longer than their urban sisters though not by much. The 70-year-olds who are likely to live the longest are urban women in Jammu and Kashmir (86.2) followed by Punjab (85.4) and Himachal Pradesh (85.2). Interestingly, within the same state, there could be a huge gap in life expectancy. In Himachal, for instance, urban women on average live 80.6 years, which is 11.4 years more than rural men, who on average live till 69.2. Large intra-state gaps of about nine to 10 years are also seen between rural men and urban women in Assam and in Jammu and Kashmir. In general, both globally and in India, women have higher life expectancy than men. But that’s not true in Bihar and Jharkhand, whether in rural or urban areas. The gap between the life expectancy of men and women is narrowest in Uttar Pradesh (less than one year) followed by Assam and West Bengal, where the gap is less than two years. The gap is highest in Himachal Pradesh, where women can expect to live over seven years more than men, followed by Uttarakhand and Kerala where they can live 6.4 and 5.4 years more than men. Japan, with the highest life expectancy at birth (among large countries) of 84.5 reached India’s current level of life expectancy in 1960, or 60 years ago, and China reached this level in 1990 and is now at 76.7 years. What is even more sobering is the fact that Bangladesh and Nepal, which had lower life expectancy than India in 1980, have now pulled ahead with 72.1 and 70.5 respectively, according to the UN’s Human Development Report, 2019. Pakistan alone has a lower life expectancy of 67.1 in the region. Watch How long can an Indian expect to live on average?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/state-area-and-gender-key-to-life-expectancy-shows-data/articleshow/78354844.cms||Rema Nagarajan
September 28, 2020||Business||Reliance Jio may shake up entry-level phone market||NEW DELHI: With an eye on entering mobile manufacturing, Reliance Industries may acquire United Telelinks or forge a contract-manufacturing deal, sources said. Questions sent to Reliance Industries remained unanswered. Jio Platforms, the telecom and technology arm of Reliance Industries, has received funding from top global private equity and internet giants, including Facebook and Google. Sources said with Jio attaining leadership in the telecom space, Jio Platforms — the holding company for Reliance Jio — now wants to even control/offer a bundled eco-system to existing and new subscribers to help them migrate to affordable 4G smartphones. This is in line with Mukesh Ambani’s call to make 2G “history” in the country, a statement that would involve upgrading millions of subscribers (mainly from Airtel and Vodafone Idea) to the smartphone eco-system. Speaking at the 43rd AGM of RIL a few months back, Ambani had announced new frontiers of expansion in the digital and telecom space where he spoke of ambitious plans in the lucrative handset market. He said Jio was targeting 500 million mobile customers by 2023, promising to bring out highly-affordable 4G and even 5G devices that would run on Android operating system provided by the new partner, Google. “… there are many feature phone users who are waiting… to upgrade to a conventional smartphone… if only it were somehow more affordable. So, we have decided to address this challenge head-on. We believe we can design entry-level 4G… or even 5G smartphones… for a fraction of its current cost,” he had said, adding that it would be developed in partnership with Google. Reliance sold bundled devices even earlier, but the production of those was outsourced to various contract manufacturers, including Flex. The government’s PLI benefit scheme to boost smartphone manufacturing in India is almost finalised. A total of seven homegrown companies and five international players are in line to receive benefits under the programme. The local companies include two each from the Lava group (Lava and Sojo), Dixon Technologies (Dixon and Padget Electronics), apart from single applications by Bhagwati (Micromax), Optiemus Infra and United Telelinks. International players include top contract manufacturers of American electronics giant Apple (Foxconn, Hon Hai, Rising Star, Wistron and Pegatron), apart from Korean Samsung. The entry of Reliance in the business with bundled mobile and data plans would put pressure on Chinese and local handset companies, especially those in the entry-level space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-jio-may-shake-up-entry-level-phone-market/articleshow/78353250.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 28, 2020||India||Jaswant Singh, top minister of Atal-era BJP, dies at 82||JAIPUR: Former Union minister and BJP veteran Jaswant Singh, who held key portfolios in the Vajpayee government, passed away after a long illness which rendered him comatose, leaving behind a varied, eventful and rich political legacy that saw him being an integral part of the saffron party's rise that he helped shape and nurture. Singh was 82, and was ailing since a fall in 2014. He was one of a very select club of politicians who held three of the four Cabinet Committee on Security berths. He was at different times defence, finance and external affairs minister in the Vajpayee government. Popularly known as “data” in the desert region, he breathed his last at the Army Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi due to multiple organ failure on Sunday. Starting his political career at the age of 27 after leaving the Army in 1966, Singh served five Rajya Sabha and four Lok Sabha terms till 2014. The latter years of his association with BJP were rocky. He was expelled from the party in 2009 over a book he wrote that was seen to be “pro-Jinnah”. He did not anticipate such an action, lamenting that he was not personally informed about the party decision. There was high drama in Shimla where the BJP executive met but he was asked to stay away after reaching. This was followed by a reconciliation but he was again expelled for defying the party and filing a Lok Sabha nomination in 2014, an election he lost. While he faded from public memory due to his illness, Singh’s association with BJP defined his political identity. Sometimes seen at odds with BJP’s Hindutva leanings, one of his finest hours was when he rose to defend an isolated BJP in Lok Sabha after the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition with most of the party brass in detention. He gave an impassioned speech, declaring that BJP was willing to face isolation but would not compromise on its ideological moorings. He was a realist in foreign policy, who understood the utility of both hard and soft power. He was fully supportive of India testing its nuclear devices and clear-eyed when speaking of the threat China posed to India’s security, a theme he elaborated in speeches in Parliament. His tenure as finance minister was also marked by clarity of thought, as he saw the need to press reforms and support a wider role for the market and reduce government’s control over the economy. Visitors often found soft music playing in the background and a desk remarkably clear of clutter. Singh had old world ways and charm. Scrupulously civil and courteous, it was easy to mistake his manners for an elite put on. But he believed in being proper, the sort of person who would always hold the door or draw a chair for women. His soft spoken ways, however, could hide a shrewd mind that was in close sync with Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who wanted him as his finance minister in 1998 but was vetoed by RSS. Sections of the Sangh saw him as a “free market man” and therefore anti-swadeshi. Vajpayee was forced to cede but soon appointed him deputy chair of Planning Commission and later brought him into the cabinet. The blot on Singh’s career was his flight to Kandahar with three terrorists released as a swap for hostages on an Indian Airlines flight in December 1999. He had been tasked to go to Afghanistan and he took the fall. His negotiations with US interlocutor Strobe Talbott — who paid a generous tribute to Singh — were a masterpiece of diplomacy, as the Indian leader worked skilfully to cushion India against pressure to sign CTBT and laid the foundation of a new partnership which finally culminated in the India-US nuclear deal under Manmohan Singh. Singh will take several secrets and anecdotes with him, being witness to the inner workings of BJP and, in particular, the sometimes vexed relationship between Vajpayee and L K Advani. Singh’s book on Jinnah and Partition was the one event that put him at odds with almost everyone in BJP-RSS, with then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi banning the book in the state. He was the NDA vice-president candidate against UPA-2’s Hamid Ansari but he fell short of the numbers. Of his four Lok Sabha victories, three came from Rajasthan and one from West Bengal. He insisted on contesting the Lok Sabha polls from his native Barmer in 2009 but the party sent him to Darjeeling. He had some close shaves in elections, with the late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat once declaring him as a likely “deputy PM” to boost his prospects. In the run-up to Lok Sabha polls in 2014, Singh, now in his in late 70s, expressed a desire to contest from Barmer. During the entire election campaign, Singh didn’t comment anything against BJP other than then CM Vasundhara Raje. He lost to Col Sonaram, an influential Jat leader who left Congress for BJP and was a key factor in the saffron calculations in Rajasthan. Before he could plan his next move, the veteran politician fell in his Delhi residence in August 2014. Since then, he was bedridden. Back in his home turf, he was extremely popular, especially among Sindhi Muslims of Jaisalmer and Barmer. Sindhi Muslims’ spiritual guru Pir Pagaro in Pakistan issued appeals to the community to vote in his favour in the 2014 elections. Singh’s portrait could be found in a house of a Manganiyar family. When asked why only Singh’s portrait hanging on the wall, the family head replied, “Fifteen years ago, ‘data’ personally helped by calling the Indian embassy in Pakistan to clear my ailing aunt’s pending visa application for medical treatment. She is alive due to ‘data sahab’s’ benevolence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaswant-singh-top-minister-of-atal-era-bjp-dies-at-82/articleshow/78355221.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 28, 2020||India||Jaswant Singh had a sense of India’s grandeur and destiny||NEW DELHI: With the passing of Jaswant Singh, one more light has been switched off at the Camelot that revolutionised India’s engagement with the world at the turn of the millennium. The reference is to the team then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee put together between 1998 and 2004. Jaswant has gone, eight years after Brajesh Mishra died — almost to the day— and two years after the PM they served. With them, they have taken many secrets and confidences, and left a splendid legacy. Jaswant was born to an aristocratic family that was a feudatory of the maharaja of Jodhpur. On leaving Mayo College, Ajmer, he followed in his father’s footsteps and joined the Army. He was part of the mobilisation in Assam during the Chinese war of 1962. The humiliation of the moment had a deep impact on him. It pushed him to leave the Army early and carve out a political career. Years later, mandated to mend fences with an adversary he had once confronted, he spoke and wrote movingly of the irony. Jaswant was a most singular politician. On arriving in Chittorgarh in the midst of an election in the late 1990s, a senior BJP functionary found candidate Singh engrossed in a book. Asked why he wasn’t in the thick of campaigning, the Major looked up and explained something on the lines of “the troops have been deployed” and went back to reading. It was a trademark Jaswant response, the sort that left interlocutors befuddled. This quality was to serve him well when, as Vajpayee’s envoy and then foreign minister, he negotiated with US deputy secretary of state Strobe Talbott. Read AlsoJaswant Singh, top minister of Atal-era BJP, dies at 82Former Union minister and BJP veteran Jaswant Singh, who held key portfolios in the Vajpayee government, passed away after a long illness which rendered him comatose, leaving behind a varied, eventful and rich political legacy that saw him being an integral part of the saffron party's rise that heIndia had just conducted the Pokhran II nuclear tests and it was Jaswant’s job to stave off pressure to sign the CTBT. In his 2006 memoir ‘A Call to Honour’ — the title borrowed from a book by Charles de Gaulle, among his role models — Jaswant recounted a story. Talking to Talbott, he was accused of “cherry-picking and a selectivity of approach”. His answer was almost Vedantic, “What does it matter Strobe, all cherries have to ripen and be picked, or rot on the branch or, perhaps, on the ground, some now, others later.” No doubt “my friend Strobe” was speechless. A conversation with Jaswant was never just a conversation. “We are still coming to terms,” he once said, “with the consequences of the dissolution of empires after the World War.” Did he mean the British empire and World War II, I helpfully asked. The scorn was withering: “My reference, young man, is to the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires after World War I.” Such wordplay was vintage Jaswant. It was not all there was to him though. He had that unusual, intangible quality, that sense of India, of its grandeur and its manifest destiny. He could never live down that cold winter evening in Kandahar in 1999. Yet, he was the rare politician willing to do an ignominious duty only because he considered it his responsibility and would not pass it on to a civil servant. The buck stopped with him. While invidious comparisons will be made by those who want to make them, there are actually remarkable strands of continuity between the Vajpayee and Modi approaches to foreign policy. Take random examples: the end of nuclear ambiguity and the beginning of technology diplomacy, the ambitious engagement with America, the opening to Myanmar (with Jaswant’s visit in 2001), the reset with Sri Lanka, the early outreach to the UAE and the Arab world, while also deepening relations with Israel. The Vajpayee era laid the building blocks, the Modi epoch erected the superstructure. Jaswant Singh was integral to that pioneering effort – a son and servant India will cherish and remember. (The writer is advisor in the ministry of external affairs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaswant-singh-had-a-sense-of-indias-grandeur-and-destiny/articleshow/78355355.cms||Ashok Malik
September 28, 2020||Business||RBI buys record amount of G-Sec from secondary market||MUMBAI: After months of speculation if RBI will directly buy government bonds from the secondary market, the central bank looks to have settled it. During the week ended September 20, RBI had purchased government securities (G-Secs) worth nearly Rs 6,900 crore from the secondary market. This is its biggest weekly direct market purchase ever, excluding the open market operations (OMOs) which are done on a pre-planned basis. Data from RBI also shows that in the first three weeks of the current month, the central bank’s G-Sec purchases from the secondary market aggregated nearly Rs 11,000 crore, also its highest monthly purchases ever. According to bond market players, this, on one hand, could help keep the interest rate in the market from rising. In addition, this can also give comfort to the government about its borrowing programme in the second half, the schedule for which is due on September 30. Besides purchasing through the Operation Twist__under which the RBI simultaneously buys and sells G-secs through a planned praogramme__the central bank was not used to purchasing from the secondary market. “Of late RBI has been buying G-Secs from the secondary market to restore demand-supply balance in the (government) bond market,” said a bond dealer. To this end, the central bank has taken several steps. Latest RBI data show that so far this month, through three RBI OMO twists, the central bank has purchased G-Secs worth Rs 27,132 crore while at the same time has sold bonds worth Rs 29,900 crore. It has also allowed G-secs worth nearly Rs 36,000 crore remain unsold in two of the four auctions and rejected all bids for its planned OMO purchase worth Rs 10,000 crore. According to bond market players, all these decisions by the central bank indicate its strong intention to not let the yield in the bond market, especially that of the 10-year benchmark, rise from the current levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-buys-record-amount-of-g-sec-from-secondary-mkt/articleshow/78355383.cms||Partha Sinha
September 28, 2020||Business||RBI may push headless Lakshmi Vilas Bank to merge||CHENNAI: The unprecedented move by shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) to oust an RBI-approved CEO and directors is likely to result in the banking regulator stepping in to hasten the deal with Clix Capital or to find other bidders for the bank. On Sunday, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) approved constitution of a committee of three independent directors – Meeta Makhan, Shakti Sinha and Satish Kumar Kalra to manage day-to- day affairs of the bank. A recent amendment to the Banking Regulation Act gives the RBI sweeping powers to push a merger. AION-backed Clix Capital, which is founded by Pramod Bhasin former head of GE Capital in India had initiated due diligence of the bank ahead of a merger. LVB had initiated merger talks with Clix after RBI rejected an earlier proposal to merge with Indiabulls Housing Finance. The bank urgently needs an investor as it is facing lending restrictions for over a year from RBI under its prompt corrective action after executives came under probe for fraud in respect of fixed deposits of Religare Finvest. On Friday, irate shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank ousted seven directors, including its MD & CEO and auditors at the AGM. On Sunday, the truncated board sought to assuage investors stating that the bank’s liquidity situation was comfortable and assured the depositors that their monies were safe. Parallelly the Bank said it will go ahead with the proposed amalgamation with Clix Capital. Clix Capital declined to comment on the future of the deal. Ousted MD of the Bank, Sundar too did not pick up calls. A statement issued by the bank said that Makhan will head the three-member committee. It added that the bank’s liquidity position as on date is comfortable, with Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) of over 250% against the minimum 100 % required by RBI. Further, besides existing business, the Bank will continue its focus on capital-light loans. LVB’s troubles started after it shifted its focus to lend to large businesses from SMEs. Its loans, nearly Rs 720 crore to the investment arms of Malvinder Singh and Shivinder Singh, former promoters of pharma major Ranbaxy and Fortis Healthcare, against fixed deposits (FDs) of Rs 794 crore made with the bank in late 2016 and early 2017 turned the bank turtle. Religare later sued the Delhi branch of LVB after the bank invoked the FDs to recover the loans. Bad loans or gross non-performing assets or bad loans (NPA) leaped from 2.67% in 2017 to 15.30% in 2019 to 25.39% in March 2020, while the deposits shrunk from Rs 31,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore in the same period. The bank was put under Prompt Corrective Action of RBI in September 2019. Several directors resigned during the past couple of years as also an MD who piloted an aborted merger proposal with IndiaBulls Housing last October. Started by a group of seven progressive businessmen of Karur under the leadership of V S N Ramalinga Chettiar in 1926, the bank has expanded with 566 branches, and 918 ATMs in 19 states and 1 union territory so far. “The bank grew while it was operating out of Karur. It all started in 2014, when the headquarters were shifted to Chennai from Karur and ever since the shift, the bank’s downhill journey started,” reminisced a retired general manager of the bank. “Since it had its roots in a small town, the bank was built by forging a strong relationship with customers,” said a former employee of LVB. Though he had left the bank almost a decade ago, he still nurtures the relationships he built during his stint there. “This has happened because of the NPAs. But it is an excellent bank and I am sure it would bounce back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-may-push-headless-lvb-to-merge/articleshow/78355387.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 28, 2020||India||‘R value’ dip in 5 high-burden states raises hope of slowing Covid spread||NEW DELHI: The dip in the national R value – indicating the likely number of people a Covid positive person can infect – to below 1 in the last week in five high burden states helped moderate India’s curve of active infections, but durability of the gains depends on continued progress in these states and profile of the disease in five metros. The cities of Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru may hold the key to how the pandemic progesses even as estimates by the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai show India’s R value dropped marginally to 0.9 in the week starting September 19 from over 1.1 in the previous week. While all the five high burden states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh registered R value of below 1 during September 19 to 22, the number has begun creeping up again in Maharashtra and Karnataka, says Sitabhra Sinha, a researcher at the Institute.   Read AlsoIndia’s Covid cases now at 6 million, last 1m rise takes day more than previousIndia became the second country after the US to register 6 million Covid-19 cases on Sunday, amid signs that the pandemic could finally be slowing down in the country, at least for now. It took 12 days for India’s caseload to go from 5 million to 6 million, a day more than the previous 1-million“At present, India is dependent on how Maharashtra is doing because the state accounts for a large number of active cases and therefore, it is going to contribute to the national average. Of course, it will also depend on the magnitude of R. But so far, Maharashtra continues to dominate the R value of India,” says Sinha. The R value is subject to interpretations but is a useful measure of how fast the disease is spreading. Coronavirus in India: Complete coverageSinha says if India is able to sustain the R value below 1 for a longer period of time, then the epidemic may begin declining.   But he points out that the national average may not be solely related to states reporting high number of cases. “The government needs to focus on containment measures in states that currently do not have large number of active cases but where the R value is more than 1. Because a higher R value means these states can possibly replace the current high burden states and then impact the national average,” Sinha said. This would means states with a low case load begin to register many more.   Covid-19 in India: Live updatesAmong the top five high burden states, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have R value below 1. Between September 18-21, Mumbai’s R value dropped below 1 but it has again risen. Similarly, the value has again gone above 1 in Chennai, Bengaluru and Kolkata. However, the latest trend of recoveries outstripping new cases has also raised hope that if India is able to bring down the growth rate in active cases, the R value will fall too. Watch Dip in ‘R value’ dip of 5 high-burden states raises hope of slowing Covid spread||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/r-value-dip-in-5-high-burden-states-raises-hope-of-slowing-covid-spread/articleshow/78355395.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 28, 2020||World||NY Times: Trump paid $750 in US income taxes in 2016, 2017||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump paid no federal income taxes in 10 of the past 15 years, according to a report Sunday in The New York Times. Trump, who has fiercely guarded his tax filings and is the only president in modern times not to make them public, paid $750 in taxes to the federal government the year he was elected, 2016, and $750 again his first year in office. Speaking at a news conference at the White House, Trump dismissed the report as ``fake news'' and said he has paid taxes, though he gave no specifics. The disclosure, which the Times said comes from tax return data it obtained extending over two decades, comes at a pivotal moment ahead of the first presidential debate Tuesday, and weeks before a divisive election. A lawyer for the Trump Organization, Alan Garten, and a spokesperson for the Trump Organization did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Associated Press on the report. Garten told the Times that ``most, if not all, of the facts appear to be inaccurate.'' He said in a statement to the news organization that the president ``has paid tens of millions of dollars in personal taxes to the federal government, including paying millions in personal taxes since announcing his candidacy in 2015.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/ny-times-trump-paid-750-in-us-income-taxes-in-2016-2017/articleshow/78355448.cms||---
September 28, 2020||World||Trump demands Biden take drug test before or after Tuesday debate||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump demanded Sunday that his Democratic rival Joe Biden take a drug test either before or after the pair's first debate on Tuesday, in his latest salvo against his opponent's mental acuity. "I will be strongly demanding a Drug Test of Sleepy Joe Biden prior to, or after, the Debate on Tuesday night," Trump tweeted. "Naturally, I will agree to take one also. His Debate performances have been record setting UNEVEN, to put it mildly. Only drugs could have caused this discrepancy???" he continued, without offering any evidence for the claim. According to US media reports, on Saturday their teams finalized the conditions for the debate, to be moderated by Fox News reporter Chris Wallace, including forgoing the traditional handshake and with only a small audience due to Covid-19 restrictions. The condition of a drugs test was not mentioned. Both septuagenarians are prone to blunders and gaffes when speaking. But the 74-year-old Trump has spent months denigrating 77-year-old Biden's mental state, and suggested several times in recent weeks without any evidence that the former vice president may be using unspecified drugs to boost his performance. For the most part Biden has shrugged the accusations off, calling for voters to observe the two men together. "Watch me. Look at us both," he said in an August interview with ABC. On Saturday Biden said he expects "personal attacks and lies" from the president during the debate, likening Trump to Nazi propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels. Tuesday's clash in Cleveland, Ohio, the first of three 90-minute debates, represents the first time voters will have the chance to see the candidates facing off against one another directly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-demands-biden-take-drug-test-before-or-after-tuesday-debate/articleshow/78355433.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata marathoners unlock new fitness routines for post-pandemic events||The last few years have seen Kolkata warm up to marathons like never before. Come winter and not just seasoned runners, even newbies would sign up for running events held in the city. However, the pandemic has forced organisers across the world to cancel or reschedule running events. Some have also adapted to the new normal by opting for virtual marathons. But even as uncertainty looms over the fate of the upcoming marathon season – with many doubting if it will take place even next year – marathoners are making sure they don’t let this pause affect their fitness game. Though the lockdown made them modify their workout regimen, these passionate souls continue to train hard every single day without an excuse. CT spoke to a few marathoners to find out how they are preparing for the post-COVID events. Yoga, body combat training helped me stay fit: Vernon Morais In 2014, when professional commitments landed Vernon in Kolkata, he was surprised that there was not a single running group in Kolkata at that time. “In the last six years, I’ve single-handedly brought a running revolution in the city and also founded the city’s first running group,” says the 46-year-old who is one of the 32 marathon runners in the country to have completed five out of the six major international marathons. In April, Vernon was all set to participate in the Boston Marathon, which in September turned into a virtual event due to COVID-19. Pre-lockdown regimen: Being a coach and a fitness guru, he followed a strict exercise regimen. Keeping with international standards, he’d run six days a week and weight train five days a week. Besides running for 30 minutes to three hours a day, depending on his schedule and fitness programme, his weight training was executed with TRX, barbells, tube band, medicine ball and physiology ball. He also practised yoga. Post-lockdown regimen: After the lockdown, Vernon stopped stepping out of the house. “I switched to indoor weight training, yoga, cycling and even body combat training like virtual boxing. Since I wasn’t going out for runs till September, these really helped me stay in great form for the virtual Boston Marathon I took part in recently,” he says. Diet: Vernon prefers balanced, home-cooked meals. Indoor training kept me going: Anjali Saraogi Anjali Saraogi, 47, started running marathons at the age of 40. It all started when her daughter insisted on her taking part in a half marathon in 2015. To her surprise, she finished third and there has been no looking back for Anjali ever since. She went on to take part in several international marathons as well as ultramarathons. This year Anjali was preparing for the IAU 100 km World Championships, which was cancelled due to the pandemic. Pre-lockdown regimen: Anjali’s workout routine depends on the race she is preparing for. Before the lockdown, she’d usually run for one to four hours every day. Apart from that, she would do yoga, strength training, flexibility and mobility exercises twice a week. Post-lockdown regimen: From March till May, Anjali didn’t go out to run at all. However, she continued her training indoors. In June, she resumed running, but had to stop again in July due to the spike in COVID infections. “It is not advisable to run with a mask on and it is not safe to run without one. I have again started running daily just for 30 to 45 minutes early in the morning, which seems safer. Besides, I also do indoor cycling for cardio,” she added. Diet: Being a vegetarian, Anjali avoids outside food, but she has a sweet tooth. She enjoys a balanced, home-cooked meal. Took to cycling, online training in the lockdown: Sudhir AhujaSudhir’s love affair with marathons began in 2015 when he ran his first 10-km with his gym buddies. After that, a common friend introduced him to a running squad and then there was no looking back for him. “Apart from two full marathons in Bengaluru and Mumbai, I’ve been actively participating in several half marathons every year,” says the 38-year-old. Pre-lockdown regimen: Before March, Sudhir would enjoy running around Maidan and Victoria four to five days a week. “Sundays were always reserved for long-distance runs. Being in the F&B industry and having a Saturday night closing at 2 am, I’d wrap up work and get home at 3 am on a Sunday morning, go for a quick shower, have a protein shake, rush to Victoria and meet the squad at 4 am. That was my idea of a perfect weekend,” he recalls. Post-lockdown regimen: Sudhir shifted to cycling and virtual home workout programmes in the lockdown. “Cycling is a great option in the times of social distancing. I also joined online strength training classes by a popular fitness trainer. Since I’m not running much these days, I go for a lot of endurance and crossfit workouts too. That apart, staircase training has helped me up my stamina and endurance level,” he says. Diet: Simple, wholesome home-cooked food. Strength training, home workouts have come to my rescue: Alok Choudhury At one point, Alok became so overweight that he developed multiple physical complications. He sought medical advice and also took up running. He started with a few kilometres per day, and running a marathon was out of question for him. However, after a lot of practice, Alok ran a half marathon in 2015, which took him just 2.5 hours. “Since then, I have been participating in various Indian marathons. This year, I was supposed to go for the Berlin Marathon, which has been cancelled, and the Singapore Marathon, which is going virtual,” says the 43-year-old. Pre-lockdown regimen: Before the lockdown, Alok would run 60-70 km per week. Along with that, he did strength training four days a week and cycled once a week. Post-lockdown regimen: Alok, who shifted to home workouts in March, has finally resumed outdoor exercises, albeit with caution. “I am strictly confining myself to my residential complex. But running on the same route everyday is extremely monotonous. To make up for that, I am doing regular strength training and cycling,” he says. Diet: Alok prefers a high-protein and high-carb diet. His last meal of the day is at 7 pm, beyond which he doesn’t eat anything.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-marathoners-unlock-new-fitness-routines-for-post-pandemic-events/articleshow/78349299.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
September 28, 2020||India||Ladakh outfit revokes call to boycott local poll after Shah meet||NEW DELHI: A key outfit from Ladakh on Sunday revoked its call for boycott of the elections to Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) in Leh and extended support for their smooth conduct, in view of the Centre’s assurance that all issues related to protection of language, demography, ethnicity, land and jobs of the people of Ladakh shall be positively considered. The assurance was given by home minister Amit Shah to a delegation of the ‘People’s Movement for Constitutional Safeguard Under Sixth Schedule for Ladakh’ —comprising Ladakhi veterans like former Rajya Sabha MP Thiksay Rinpoche, former Lok Sabha MP Thupstan Chhewang and former J&K minister Chhering Dorje — at a meeting held at his residence on Saturday. The meeting was attended by youth affairs minister Kiren Rijiju and junior minister for home G Kishan Reddy. As per the agreement reached, a dialogue between a larger Ladakhi delegation comprising representatives from both Leh and Kargil districts and the Union home ministry would begin 15 days of culmination of the LAHDC, Leh poll due in mid-October. Reddy will also be travelling to Ladakh along with the delegation on Monday to allay the apprehensions of the people there. Shah had on Saturday assured the delegation that the government of India is committed to empowering the LAHDC of Leh and Kargil and safeguarding the interests of people of the Union Territory. “The government is open to discussing protection available under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India while looking into issues related to Ladakhi people,” said a home ministry release issued on Sunday. Rijiju said the Union home minister had said that the provisions in Sixth Schedule would be looked into and “beyond that whatever is possible for protection of people of Ladakh under provisions of the Constitution, will be considered”. The people of Ladakh have been demanding protection under the Sixth Schedule — a Constitutional provision that secures rights of indigenous people in some tribal-dominated regions of the north-eastern states by imposing restrictions on acquiring and transfer of land rights. Chhewang, who was part of the delegation that met the home minister, said the people of Ladakh, after the nullification of Article 370, have some apprehensions about their future, land, culture and jobs since there is no longer any legislative body there. Stating that Ladakhis were opposed to a domicile law on the lines of J&K, Chhewang said the region, with 97% tribal population, needed protection for land, ethnicity, language, etc. “Whether we get this protection under Sixth Schedule or any other provision of the Constitution, we will get more protection than was offered to us under Article 370 and 35A,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ladakh-outfit-revokes-call-to-boycott-local-poll-after-shah-meet/articleshow/78355459.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Business||RBI may push headless LVB to merge||Chennai: The unprecedented move by shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) to oust an RBI-approved CEO and directors is likely to result in the banking regulator stepping in to hasten the deal with Clix Capital, or to find other bidders for the bank. On Sunday, the RBI approved constitution of a committee of three independent directors — Meeta Makhan, Shakti Sinha and Satish Kumar Kalra — to manage the day-to-day affairs of the bank. A recent amendment to the Banking Regulation Act gives the RBI sweeping powers to push a merger. AION-backed Clix Capital, which is founded by Pramod Bhasin, former head of GE Capital in India, had initiated due diligence of the bank ahead of a merger. LVB had initiated merger talks with Clix after the RBI rejected an earlier proposal to merge with Indiabulls Housing Finance. The bank urgently needs an investor as it is facing lending restrictions for over a year from the RBI under its prompt corrective action (PCA) after executives came under probe for fraud in respect of fixed deposits of Religare Finvest. On Friday, irate LVB shareholders ousted seven directors, including its MD & CEO, and the auditors at the AGM. On Sunday, the truncated board sought to assuage investors, stating that the bank’s liquidity situation was comfortable and assured the depositors that their monies were safe. Parallelly, the bank said it will go ahead with the proposed amalgamation with Clix Capital. Clix Capital declined to comment on the future of the deal. Ousted MD of the Bank, S Sundar, too did not answer calls. A statement issued by the bank said that Makhan will head the three-member committee. It added that the bank’s liquidity position as on date is comfortable, with liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of over 250% against the minimum 100% required by the RBI. Further, besides existing business, the bank will continue its focus on capital-light loans. LVB’s troubles started after it shifted its focus to lend to large businesses from small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Its loans, nearly Rs 720 crore, to the investment arms of Malvinder Singh and Shivinder Singh, former promoters of pharma major Ranbaxy and Fortis Healthcare, against fixed deposits (FDs) of Rs 794 crore made with the bank in late 2016 and early 2017 turned it turtle. Religare later sued the Delhi branch of LVB after the bank invoked the FDs to recover the loans. Bad loans, or gross non-performing assets (NPAs), leaped from 2.7% in 2017 to 15.3% in 2019 to 25.4% in March 2020, while deposits shrunk from Rs 31,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore in the same period. The bank was put under PCA of the RBI in September 2019. Several directors resigned during the past couple of years as also an MD who piloted the aborted merger proposal with Indiabulls Housing last October. Started by a group of seven progressive businessmen of Karur under the leadership of V S N Ramalinga Chettiar in 1926, the bank has expanded with 566 branches, and 918 ATMs in 19 states and 1 Union territory so far. “The bank grew while it was operating out of Karur. It all started in 2014, when the headquarters were shifted to Chennai from Karur and ever since the shift, the bank’s downhill journey started,” reminisced a retired general manager of the bank. “Since it had its roots in a small town, the bank was built by forging a strong relationship with customers,” said a former employee of LVB. Though he had left the bank almost a decade ago, he still nurtures the relationships he built during his stint there. “This has happened because of the NPAs. But it is an excellent bank and I am sure it would bounce back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-may-push-headless-lvb-to-merge/articleshow/78354172.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 28, 2020||Meerut||10 days on, 5 held for pharmacist’s murder in M’nagar||Muzaffarnagar: Ten days after the shocking murder of local pharmacist Anuj Karnwal who was gunned down at his doorsteps by unidentified assailants, police have arrested five suspects. The fallout of a family dispute is claimed to have been the reason behind the murder.Karnwal was sprayed with bullets just outside his house in Morna village under Bhopa police station on September 17.Senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav said, “Several police teams were pressed to arrest killers. On Sunday, Bhopa police arrested main accused Ashish and four others who helped the killers and provided them shelter. Three accused are still at large.”“Accused Ashish and the deceased had a personal dispute which led to the murder,” the SSP added.The murder had led to unrest among Muzaffarnagar's chemists and druggists who met the police officials seeking immediate arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/10-days-on-5-held-for-pharmacists-murder-in-mnagar/articleshow/78354804.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Criminals gun down mukhiya in Siwan, flee||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead Balau panchayat mukhiya Sunil Singh (45) on Karsaut bridge under Daraundha police station area in Siwan district on Sunday. Sunil belonged to Lerua village in Balau panchayat under Maharajganj police station area. Police sources said Sunil was killed due to old political rivalry related to election of mukhiya. Police suspect the involvement of professional contract killers hired for eliminating him. Daraundha police station SHO Ajeet Kumar Singh said Sunil was killed at around 1pm when he was on way back home on his bike from Siwan town. “The two eyewitnesses, who were standing near the bridge, said two bike-borne criminals pushed Sunil after which he lost balance of his bike and fell down. The criminals then fired on his face, chest and abdomen. There were at least five gunshot injuries on his body,” the SHO said. He said the criminals were following Sunil. “After killing, they returned towards Siwan town area,” he said. Three empty cartridges of 9mm were recovered from the spot. “His family members are yet to record any statement. The body was sent for autopsy,” he said. Police sources said Sunil had political rivalry with the one whom he had defeated in the panchayat election. “His name is cropping up in the case,” a police officer said. He said Sunil was also accused in two cases, including one in which he had a scuffle with police. “He was on bail,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminals-gun-down-mukhiya-in-siwan-flee/articleshow/78352409.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 28, 2020||Hubballi||Bandh likely to disrupt normal life in Dharwad||DHARWAD: The bandh call given by farmers organisations on Monday is likely to disrupt normal life in Dharwad. As many 50 organisations have already extended their support to the bandh against the new farm bills, amendments to APMC Act, privatisation of electricity supply and against labour policies. Congress and JD(S) too have decided to take out protest rally. Major restaurants in Dharwad will remain closed as the Hotel Owners’ Association has supported the bandh call. Porters and auto rickshaw drivers too have extended their support to the protest. A rally comprising members of 30 organisations has been planned by Janatantra Samaj. The office-bearers said protesters will gather at Kadapa Maidan at 6am and form a human chain at Jubilee Circle as part of rasta roko. Later, a team will go to the bypass near Narendra and block the road. Members will also protest in front of the central bus terminus. Farmer leaders said protestors will not disrupt supply of essential commodities. Meanwhile, Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry, APMC Merchants’ Association and Dalit Sangharsha Samiti (Ambedkar) have extended their support to the bundh and there will be no trading at the Dharwad APMC. Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and Akhila Karnataka Raitha Sangha have decided to hit the streets and block NH-4 near Narendra toll gate at 9:30am. Fearing the bundh would disrupt public transport, Karnatak University has postponed under-graduate examinations scheduled for Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bandh-likely-to-disrupt-normal-life-in-dharwad/articleshow/78354753.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Patna||Met predicts more rainfall in east Bihar||PATNA: As low atmospheric pressure area is building up over east Bihar and other neighbouring regions, it might lead to isolated rainfall in the region over the next 24 hours. However, the weather would remain dry in other parts of the state till September 30, according to Patna Metrological (MeT) Centre. Sudhanshu Kumar, a weatherman at Patna Meteorological Centre, said rainfall activities have subdued as the complete withdrawal of the southwest monsoon draws closer. “Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of southwest monsoon from west Rajasthan and adjoining areas,” he added. “Cyclonic circulation over east Bihar and adjoining sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim extending up to 3.1km above mean sea level persists. As a result, isolated rainfall activity may occur in eastern parts of Bihar in the next 24 hours. Mild to moderate rainfall may occur at one or two places,” Kumar added. As per the weather bulletin issued by the IMD, heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places over eastern part of Bihar on Sunday. Light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places over eastern part, many places over south-central part, few places over north-central part and one or two places over western part of Bihar in the last 24 hours. Chief amount of rainfall was recorded at Taibpur (14cm), Galgalia, Katihar and Forbesganj (11cm each) and Chargharia, Kishanganj and Thakurganj (9cm each). The highest maximum temperature, 31.8 degrees Celsius, was recorded in Gaya and the lowest minimum temperature, 23.2 degrees Celsius, in Forbesganj. Meanwhile, the state has recorded 27% excess rain so far this monsoon. According to weathermen, the state has received 1,273mm rainfall between June 1 and September 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-predictsmore-rainfall-in-east-bihar/articleshow/78352486.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 28, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: NDA set to get new partner, LJP undecided||PATNA: Even as the notification for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections is set to be issued by the Election Commission on October 1, the equations in both the major political alliances in the state – National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and Grand Alliance (GA) – are changing fast. The form and shape of NDA in Bihar would change in a day or two. While RLSP led by former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha seems to have decided to join NDA in a day or two, LJP led by Chirag Paswan has little options but either to accept whatever seats it gets or contest the polls on its own and not to field candidates against BJP. Even the VIP led by Mukesh Sahni is exploring options and may leave the RJD-led GA soon. A reliable source in LJP said the decision can be taken anytime soon after the parliamentary board submits its report Sunday night. He said BJP cannot annoy Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, who has been continuously attacked by Chirag on governance issues in the state, be it Covid, flood management, migrant workers or health infrastructure issues. At its parliamentary party meeting held in Delhi on September 7, Chirag had indicated that LJP would contest 143 of the 243 seats in Bihar. LJP had fielded 42 candidates in the 2015 polls. The party may have the option of replaying the February 2005 state assembly election in 2020 in the hope of assuming the role of a kingmaker in case of a hung house. The LJP, then led by Chirag’s father Ram Vilas Paswan, had contested the February 2005 polls in state against RJD, though both the parties were partners in the then UPA government at the Centre. Since RLSP has virtually left the GA, its national secretary general Madhav Anand said talks were on to go back to the NDA fold. “RLSP is a natural partner of NDA. A decision will be taken in a day or two,” Anand told TOI over phone from Delhi where Kushwaha is in constant touch with BJP leaders. Asked about Kushwaha’s reservations against Nitish, Anand said, “We don’t have anything personal against any individual. Politics is a game of possibilities. We will work in the interest of Bihar.” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said RLSP was earlier in NDA and Kushwaha was given due respect as he was made a minister at the Centre by PM Narendra Modi. “He switched his loyalty on his own. If Kushwaha intends to come back to NDA, it will be his decision. The NDA leadership will take a collective decision on him,” Nikhil said. BJP will also not like to go to the crucial polls with a partner not on the same page with JD(U). RLSP suits BJP politically, a party insider said, preferring anonymity. He added LJP had a declining trend since February 2005 polls, be it seats or percentage of votes. Nitish has already brought former CM and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi to his side, a move considered to consolidate the Dalit votes and counter Chirag. Given its performance in the last four assembly elections, LJP wants to remain BJP’s partner at the Centre, but not in Bihar. Chirag has said many times that LJP is not a JD(U) partner in the state. Similarly, JD(U) leaders are also on record saying they have never contested the state assembly election with LJP. In 2005 and 2010, LJP was with Congress and in 2015, JD(U) was not in NDA. The February 2005 polls had a fractured verdict with 17 independent candidates winning the election. But LJP had managed to dethrone RJD, which could not form a government despite emerging the single largest party with 75 seats. LJP had won 29 seats out of the 178 it had contested with the support of Congress, which had bagged only 10 of 84 it contested. Despite BJP-JD(U) winning 92 seats, no party or alliance had the majority, forcing imposition of President’s Rule in Bihar. Elections were held again within eight months, in October 2005. This time the BJP-JD(U) formed the government with 143 MLAs in their kitty, while LJP’s number was reduced to 10 and RJD’s 54. The LJP number in the state assembly further reduced to 3 after the 2010 election. Its downward trend in terms of vote percentage as well as seats continued in 2015 when LJP could win only 2 assembly constituencies out of the 42 it had contested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/nda-set-to-get-new-partner-ljp-undecided/articleshow/78352512.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 28, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Ashok Choudhary appointed state JD(U) working president||PATNA: JD(U) on Sunday appointed building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary (52) as its state working president, ahead of the three-phase assembly polls. Choudhary’s appointment was made by JD(U) national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, as the party’s state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh is not keeping well due to his old age. Sources said Choudhary, who has been loyal to Nitish even when he was a Congress minister in the previous grand alliance government, has been given the responsibility to look after organizational works for better performance of JD(U) in the assembly elections. A PhD holder in political science, Choudhary is well-known for his organisational skills as he was Congress’s state president before joining JD(U) in February 2018. Congress had won 27 seats in the 2015 assembly elections under his leadership. Choudhary joined JD(U) after causing a split in the Congress legislature party in Bihar legislative council in February 2018. Altogether four out of the total six Congress MLCs, led by Choudhary, had quit the party on February 28, 2018 and announced their decision to join the Nitish-led JD(U). The other Congress MLCs to join JD(U) were Dilip Kumar Choudhary, Ram Chandra Bharti and Tanvir Akhtar. Choudhary said Bashishtha informed him over the phone from Delhi about the new responsibility given to him by Nitish. Choudhary said he has the experience of doing the organizational works. Such experience would help him in discharging the new responsibility in JD(U), he told TOI over phone. Choudhary thanked Nitish for giving him such responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ashok-choudhary-appointed-state-jdu-working-president/articleshow/78353741.cms||Madan Kumar
September 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: ‘Congress leaders will act on workers’ feedback’||PATNA: The Congress screening committee will apprise the central leadership of the feedback received from the party’s district presidents and other functionaries about the probable seats they wanted to contest in the state assembly polls. “The central leadership will take a final call on the matter,” Congress screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey said on the concluding day of his two-day visit on Sunday. Two members of the committee -- Kazi Nizamuddin and Devendra Yadav -- said they received feedback from hundreds of prospective candidates. “The central leadership will decide the future course of action on the basis of their feedback,” they added. Congress’s state president Madan Mohan Jha said the workers were very enthusiastic about the election and have apprised the screening committee of their feelings. “The party will go to the polls after analysing feedback of the party workers,” he said. Congress legislative party leader Sadanand Singh said the outcome of the state assembly polls would impact the country’s politics. “It will show the path the country wants to tread in the days to come,” Singh said, adding the screening committee looked into all possible opportunities before leaving for the national capital. The visit of the screening committee assumed significance in the wake of RJD’s offer to the grand old party to contest 60 seats instead of the latter’s demand of 70-75 seats. On Saturday, Pande gave a clear message to RJD that Congress would no longer continue to play second fiddle in the state. A senior AICC leader said Congress being the national party was expecting a reasonable number of seats and honourable deal with RJD. In the 2015 assembly election, Congress had won 27 out of 41 seats allotted under the Grand Alliance, when JD(U) was part of the alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-leaders-will-act-on-workers-feedback/articleshow/78361364.cms||Ramashankar
September 28, 2020||Patna||Railways plans MEMU terminal hub on Hardinge Park land||PATNA: Railways has proposed to build an advanced MEMU (mainline electric multiple unit) terminal hub at the Hardinge Park land in Patna on the pattern of Mumbai Victoria Terminal to ensure faster movement of local passenger trains either originating from Patna or terminating here. A blueprint to this effect will be finalized soon after getting possession of the land from the state government on completing formalities related to transfer of land, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said. According to Kumar, railways has transferred the land on the R-Block-Digha rail route to state government to build an expressway. In lieu of that, railways will get vacant land at the Hardinge Park to develop its infrastructure and build the proposed MEMU terminal there, he said. Besides, railways has approached BSNL to hand over a small piece of land adjacent to the Hardinge Park to build MEMU terminal. The BSNL has agreed in principle to hand over the land to railways for the development purpose, the DRM said . In addition to it, railways is eyeing about 2.5 acre land near the proposed plan for which the matter is to be settled in the court soon with due intervention of the state government. Railways will thus acquire a sizeable land for building MEMU terminal hub on the Hardinge Park land, the DRM said. According to DRM, railways has planned to develop railway network vertically on this piece of land . Railways is eager to develop this area from commercial point of view as well. Under the proposed plan envisaged, railways has decided to build office complex along with railway utilities like ticket booking office and other operational needs at the terminal hub, he said, adding a multistorey building is proposed at the proposed terminal to fulfil the needs of people in general. The initial round of consultation with technical experts has focused more on developing ‘crowd management programme’ at the Hardinge Park land due to the fact that the proposed terminal is to be located close to main streets which lead towards Patna Junction and other prime locations in the city. Railways intends to build any structure after proper planning so that the city does not face traffic hassles in the years to come, the DRM said. According to sources, Danapur has become the only division of the ECR which has all its sections fully electrified now. Railways is running MEMU trains only on these sections and routes. Besides, the new terminal will prove a boon for the local passenger trains coming from north Bihar region. Patna Junction will thus be free from the operational needs of local passenger trains and rush of thousands of local commuters visiting here daily from different places of the state, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-plans-memu-terminal-hub-on-hardinge-park-land/articleshow/78352420.cms||Kumod Verma
September 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Over 9,000 engg aspirants write papers at 72 centres||PATNA: Around 99.7% candidates appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced Paper I and Paper II at 72 centres in 12 cities across the state on Sunday. Altogether 9,882 students had registered from the state for the exams, which were held on computer-based test (CBT) mode in two sittings. Officials at IIT Guwahati said the exams passed off peacefully at all the centres. “Altogether 9,865 students appeared for Paper I and 9,840 for Paper II in Bihar against the total registration of 9,882. In Patna, 6,414 candidates appeared for first paper and 6,397 for second at 40 exam centres. Altogether 6,484 candidates had registered for the JEE-Advanced in Patna,” an IIT-Guwahati official said. He added, “In Muzaffarpur, there were seven exam centres, followed by four each in Bhagalpur and Darbhanga, three in Purnia, two each in Ara, Biharsharif, Sheikhpura, Chhapra and one each in Samastipur and Aurangabad.” According to the candidates, physics and mathematics papers were quiet lengthy and complicated while chemistry paper was relatively easier. Shashank Ranjan, who appeared for the exam at a centre at Patliputra here, said, “In mathematics, the calculation was lengthy as most questions were from algebra and calculus. It took almost 4-5 hours to solve each question. In physics, most questions were from Class XI textbook,” he said. Puja Kumari, another engineering aspirant, said they were provided masks and sanitiser before entering the examination hall. “Thermal screening was done at the entrance gate. Both the papers were tough, but I did my best,” the girl said. “The first paper, including physics, chemistry and maths, was moderate to difficult. The physics paper was tough and mathematics questions were lengthy in second sitting,” said Rohit, another examinee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-9k-engg-aspirants-write-papers-at-72-centres/articleshow/78352364.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 28, 2020||Mysuru||Ground set for Karnataka bandh; politically motivated, says BJP||MYSURU: The Karnataka bandh called to protest against the farm reform bills, including abolition of APMCs and proposal to privatise various electricity supply companies is expected to be near total in the southern districts of the state, with several like-minded organisations and political parties extending support to it. In Mysuru, on Sunday, like-minded organisations met and held discussions on organising the bandh peacefully. A tense situation prevailed near the new DC’s office in Siddhartha Nagar, when a group of activists tried to gherao district in-charge minister S T Somashekhar. Police detained the activists and released them after the minister left the venue. The agitators demanded an apology from the minister for his statement that the bandh is politically motivated. Speaking on the occasion, Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene state general secretary Hosakote Basavaraju and Swaraj India district unit president Ugranarasimha Gowda alleged that the state and central governments are following anti-farmer and anti-people policies. In all the districts of the region, including Mysuru and Shivamogga, farmer leaders met the public, seeking their support for the bandh. Several autorickshaw unions, and KSRTC employees unions extended support to the bandh. Meanwhile, the police warned that if any one violates the provisions of the disaster management act, an FIR will be registered against them. If any public properties are damaged, organisers will be held responsible and they will be made to pay for the losses. The KSRTC authorities informed that bus services will be available on Monday, despite the bandh. Somashekhar alleged that the bandh is a politically motivated exercise as both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister B S Yediyurappa assured that the interests of farmers will be protected. “The genuine farmers are not supporting this bandh call,” he said. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha stated that APMCs are abolished to save the farmers from middlemen. “Why are lakhs of rupees spent on APMC elections? Why is kicking out the middleman system bad?” he questioned. Meanwhile, in Chamarajanagar, district in-charge minister S Suresh Kumar, who is also the primary and secondary education minister, urged the organisations to carry out their protests in a peaceful manner. “Farm reforms are initiated to double the farm income. All the bills have been widely debated. There is no harm in these bills. They are good for the farm sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ground-set-for-bandh-politically-motivated-says-bjp/articleshow/78354811.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Patna||Covid recovery rate in Bihar nears 92%||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state jumped to 1,78,882 on Sunday with 1,527 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With two fresh official deaths, Covid toll in the state has jumped to 888. However, with 1,64,537 people recovering from the disease so far, active cases in the state stand at 13,457. According to the health department, 1,405 people recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to nearly 92%. With 91.98% patients beating the virus so far, the state’s recovery rate is nearly 10% higher than the national average of 82.4%. As per the daily bulletin of the health department, two fresh deaths were recorded on Sunday, one each in Bhagalpur and Vaishali, taking the toll in these two districts to 62 and 31, respectively. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,405 people recovered in the state in the last 24 hours. “The state’s recovery rate has now touched 91.98%. Altogether 68,69,768 samples have so far been tested in Bihar, including 1.3 lakh in the last 24 hours,” he said. Of the 1,527 cases recorded on Sunday, 259 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 27,526. However, with 24,943 recoveries and 203 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 2,110. Patna’s recovery rate has touched 90.6%. Among other districts, Purnia recorded 116 cases on Sunday, Muzaffarpur 96, Bhagalpur 63, Banka and Madhepura 57 each, Gopalganj 53 and East Champaran, Nalanda and Saran 51 each. The rest of the districts registered less than 50 cases on Sunday. AIIMS-Patna has reported three fresh deaths and the victims were all from the state capital – a 40-year-old woman from Postal Park, a 55-year-old woman from Mithapur and a 67-year-old woman from Anisabad. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 13 patients were discharged and 11 new patients admitted on Sunday. A 82-year-old man from Vaishali also died at NMCH-Patna on Sunday. He was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid at the hospital, said five positive patients were admitted on Sunday. “Altogether 25 patients are being treated for Covid in the ICU ward of the hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-recovery-rate-in-state-nears-92/articleshow/78352341.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Ashok Choudhary appointed state JD(U) working president||PATNA: JD(U) on Sunday appointed building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary (52) as its state working president, ahead of the three-phase assembly polls. Choudhary’s appointment was made by JD(U) national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, as the party’s state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh is not keeping well due to his old age. Sources said Choudhary, who has been loyal to Nitish even when he was a Congress minister in the previous grand alliance government, has been given the responsibility to look after organizational works for better performance of JD(U) in the assembly elections. A PhD holder in political science, Choudhary is well-known for his organisational skills as he was Congress’s state president before joining JD(U) in February 2018. Congress had won 27 seats in the 2015 assembly elections under his leadership. Choudhary joined JD(U) after causing a split in the Congress legislature party in Bihar legislative council in February 2018. Altogether four out of the total six Congress MLCs, led by Choudhary, had quit the party on February 28, 2018 and announced their decision to join the Nitish-led JD(U). The other Congress MLCs to join JD(U) were Dilip Kumar Choudhary, Ram Chandra Bharti and Tanvir Akhtar. Choudhary said Bashishtha informed him over the phone from Delhi about the new responsibility given to him by Nitish. Choudhary said he has the experience of doing the organizational works. Such experience would help him in discharging the new responsibility in JD(U), he told TOI over phone. Choudhary thanked Nitish for giving him such responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ashok-choudhary-appointed-state-jdu-working-president/articleshow/78358915.cms||Madan Kumar
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Pre-Puja rush: Metro may resume Sunday services in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Metro, which currently operates for six days a week, may run trains on Sundays too. A jump in the passenger count on Saturday — it being a weekend in the run-up to Durga Puja — has made the authorities rethink their earlier decision. On Saturday, around 37,000 took the Metro, and presumably a good number of them were shoppers. Since Metro Railway had resumed commercial run on September 14, the Sundays were used for sanitizing rakes and station premises and extensive cleaning. “Around 27,000 took the Metro on the previous weekend (September 19). The sharp rise in passenger count this weekend indicates there is now an increased pressure on non-working days. We are barely four weeks away from Durga Puja and the city’s lifeline should rise to the occasion and address the needs of non-office-goers as well,” said Sanjay Chatterjee whom the state had assigned to develop the technology for booking e-passes. Chatterjee echoed what Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi had told TOI in an interview on September 14. Asked about Metro’s contribution during the pandemic, Joshi had said, “Metro is safe and can help reduce the city’s traffic congestion to a great extent. People will opt for this safer mode of transport once they understand that downloading an e-pass is very simple.” It might take a couple of days to finalize the decision to restart Sunday services. Officials said operations would start late and a “non-working day” schedule may be followed. In the new normal, Metro starts at 8am. And from Monday, services will be extended to 7.30pm. Next Sunday, the first train may start late in the morning or in the afternoon and lean-hour frequencies may be in place. Currently, trains have 10-minute intervals in peak hours and 15-minute gaps during lean hours. Metro is also eyeing further tweaks in the system, like reducing validity of the one-hour e-passes to 45 minutes and increasing number of booking slots to address peak-hour traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pre-puja-rush-metro-may-resume-sunday-services/articleshow/78354728.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Reopening cinemas, auditoriums: Shadow of low turnout, unclear SOP temper initial excitement||KOLKATA: After the initial euphoria over Bengal being the first state to grant permission to reopen cinemas and start other forms of public entertainment from October 1 while following health protocols, some apprehensions have cropped up regarding audience turnout and lack of clarity about the SOP. For Tollywood, unless there is good content available, viewers used to OTT platforms will not turn up and unless viewers return, no producer will risk release of a good film in cinemas immediately. According to Pranab Roy, owner of Menoka Cinema, the final call on reopening dates will be taken by the Bengal exhibitors keeping in mind the national announcements made for Unlock 5.0 and a central notification. In the absence of national Hindi releases, many feel that the logistics of reopening theatres with Bengali content might not be financially viable. Welcoming the chief minister's decision, Mahendra Soni, founder-director SVF Entertainment, said, "To restart the actual business, the re-opening has to happen at a national level, Otherwise there would difficulty running the theatre operations without new film releases. I am hoping to get some kind of announcement from central government too. As far as SVF Cinemas is concerned, we are waiting for detailed guidelines and safety protocols before we decide on the opening date. We will open as soon as possible once we have the official notification along-with do’s and don’ts." INOX and PVR officials didn’t comment on reopening plans for Bengal. Arun Mehra, director of Bengal Properties Private Ltd that runs Paradise, and Satadeep Saha of Ajanta Cinemas want to “wait and watch”. Owner of Priya, Arijit Dutta, said he is “not set” yet. However, Roy is keen to reopen. “Look at the hotels in Digha and Mandarmani. Initially, they had no takers and now are packed. Kolkata malls had reopened to low footfall, but on Saturday evening, I couldn’t get a parking space at South City mall. We have to take the risk and reopen cinemas at some point,” Roy said. Saha is rooting for grants from the chief minister to help revive the cinema industry. “The Assam government recently announced grants of Rs 50 lakh for existing cinemas that will reopen. Cinemas that had shut down earlier and now want to open afresh will get a grant of Rs 75 lakh. Considering that our CM has announced financial help to puja pandals, we would be grateful if she considers giving similar monetary help to Bengal’s exhibitors too,” Saha said. Meanwhile, many are considering the option of theatrical release of Bengali films that have a censor certificate and were previously released on OTT platforms. The other option is to re-release movies that were pulled out because of the lockdown. One such film is Anirban Bhattacharya and Ambarish Kundu’s ‘Detective’. “I have the censorship done for ‘Detective’ and will release it the day theatres open. Re-releasing ‘Brahma Janen Gopon Kommoti’ that was pulled off because of the lockdown can be explored too,” said Soni. Yet another option is to negotiate fresh deals with Hindi film producers that have already released movies on OTT platforms and might have takers in theatres too. Sushant Singh Rajput’s ‘Dil Bechara’ was released on OTT platforms. Considering the huge interest in Rajput, Bengal distributors are toying with the idea of buying theatrical rights for its release once cinemas reopen here. Apart from content, a big hurdle is the nod for only “50 participants” at auditoriums. “Does 50 mean performers, crew and audience together? For a usual Fossils show, we need more than 50 crew members,” said band manager Rupsha Dasgupta. Singer Rupankar Bagchi has an auditorium show in Haldia on October 11. “I need 20 members of my team to host a live show,” Bagchi said. Pt Subhen Chatterjee hopes to play his first physical concert on Panchami or Shashthi. “Depending on the stage, I may need six people in a team to do a show,” he said. Theatre personality Debesh Chattopadhyay wants to begin performing with ‘Sher Afghan’, a play that has Rajatava Dutta and Sudiptaa Chakraborty in the lead. “But I need 45 members in my unit in order to stage it,” Chattopadhyay said. A similar challenge had arisen when shooting of serials and films was started with 35 people. Yet, shootings have progressed. Said Firdausul Hasan, president of Film Federation of India, “With 50 people, we start and upon following all protocols, I am confident that the government will revisit the cap and even more people will get the opportunity to earn their living by direct or indirect contact with the film exhibition industry. It is indeed a start and we all have to come together to make this upcoming festive season truly festive for all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reopening-cinemas-auditoriums-shadow-of-low-turnout-unclear-sop-temper-initial-excitement/articleshow/78354788.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 28, 2020||Business||Companies set work from home hours to protect personal time||MUMBAI: The line where work life ends and personal life begins in a work-from-home (WFH) set-up may have blurred for many. Some organisations are now clearly demarcating such boundaries through new policies around working hours, leaves and work etiquette. General Mills has introduced a ‘No meeting Fridays’ from 2pm onwards. PepsiCo, which has guidelines in place to ensure stretch breaks in between meetings, is further reviewing policies to maintain higher productivity levels through positive engagement of its employees. Godrej Industries Limited and Associate Companies (GILAC) is using feedback that emerges from conversations with employees to co-create new ways of working, designed for longer term WFH set-ups. At Mondelez, leaders role model ‘Do Nothing Days’ and ‘Line of Closing’ to make colleagues feel at ease about defining an end to their work day or to take a day off when they feel the need. Tata Group company Voltas, too, has come up with etiquette suggestions for employees to proficiently work from a home office. KPMG has encouraged employees to not fix any meetings or calls on October 1 so that they can take a clear break, given that October 2 is a public holiday just before the weekend. With rising incidences of stress levels among employees, the scope of such measures by organisations has only expanded. General Mills VP & MD (AMEA) Balki Radhakrishnan said the company’s ‘No meetings Fridays’ concept is designed for employees to take a few hours near the weekend to work differently and focus on recharging and reflecting on the week that has gone by. This is meant to re-energise people for the week ahead, said Radhakrishnan. The new ways of working at GILAC include respecting weekends and non-working days and avoiding calls, meetings or requests over e-mails during these days. Working hour boundaries — for example, no meeting or calls before 9:30am and after 7pm — are agreed upon. Each team member is encouraged to take a day off at least once a month for personal pursuits. With mental well-being being a focus area, GILAC head of group HR & corporate services, Sumit Mitra, speaks one-on-one to people who are dealing with any personal challenges. At Voltas, etiquette suggestions to proficiently work from a home office include disconnecting from the workspace after office hours and taking the usual short breaks that one would otherwise have in the office, such as lunch and tea time. The company recently released a ‘work from anywhere’ policy that requires employees to report to any of its 36 offices across India for eight days in a month, while continuing to work from home for the rest of the days. In light of WFH being dialled up significantly due to Covid-19, PepsiCo India’s CHRO Pavitra Singh said the organisation continues to explore blended options to provide the necessary flexibility backed by the right infrastructure and other enablers. “We already have guidelines in place to help set work boundaries, ensure stretch breaks in between meetings and defined ‘no-meeting’ time zones to enable ‘me time’. We have also introduced 14 days of Covid leave, be it for the employee or to take care of an unwell family member,” said Singh. To maintain good mental health and a healthy work-life balance, the Investment and Development Agency of Ireland (IDA Ireland) strictly encourages a ‘no work on weekend’ policy in addition to ensuring that employees avail their leave facility and take regular breaks. IDA Ireland India director Tanaz Buhariwalla said, “On the team-bonding front, virtual coffee breaks and quiz nights on most Fridays have been introduced to make up for the missed socialising. Various platforms have been provided for IDA colleagues globally to share experiences with all — to appreciate that all have their battles and need to find strength from each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-set-wfh-hours-to-protect-personal-time/articleshow/78355092.cms||Namrata Singh
September 28, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: ‘Congress leaders will act on workers’ feedback’||PATNA: The Congress screening committee will apprise the central leadership of the feedback received from the party’s district presidents and other functionaries about the probable seats they wanted to contest in the state assembly polls. “The central leadership will take a final call on the matter,” Congress screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey said on the concluding day of his two-day visit on Sunday. Two members of the committee -- Kazi Nizamuddin and Devendra Yadav -- said they received feedback from hundreds of prospective candidates. “The central leadership will decide the future course of action on the basis of their feedback,” they added. Congress’s state president Madan Mohan Jha said the workers were very enthusiastic about the election and have apprised the screening committee of their feelings. “The party will go to the polls after analysing feedback of the party workers,” he said. Congress legislative party leader Sadanand Singh said the outcome of the state assembly polls would impact the country’s politics. “It will show the path the country wants to tread in the days to come,” Singh said, adding the screening committee looked into all possible opportunities before leaving for the national capital. The visit of the screening committee assumed significance in the wake of RJD’s offer to the grand old party to contest 60 seats instead of the latter’s demand of 70-75 seats. On Saturday, Pande gave a clear message to RJD that Congress would no longer continue to play second fiddle in the state. A senior AICC leader said Congress being the national party was expecting a reasonable number of seats and honourable deal with RJD. In the 2015 assembly election, Congress had won 27 out of 41 seats allotted under the Grand Alliance, when JD(U) was part of the alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/congress-leaders-will-act-on-workers-feedback/articleshow/78352566.cms||Ramashankar
September 28, 2020||---||RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav promises 10 lakh jobs if voted to power||PATNA: RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday promised 10 lakh jobs in the first cabinet meeting, if the Mahagathbandhan is voted to power in the Bihar assembly elections beginning on October 28. The leader of opposition said he was not making a promise to job seekers only to win elections. “It’s my firm decision. The proposal of giving 10 lakh jobs will be approved at the first cabinet meeting, if his government is formed in the state,” he said, adding the process of filling up the vacant posts in government departments would start within two months of forming the government. In an oblique reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had earlier promised 2 crore jobs every year, Tejashwi said the double-engine government led by Nitish Kumar in Bihar failed to do anything on this front. “I am not lying like those who ruled the state for 15 years but did nothing to sort out the unemployment problem,” he alleged. Slamming CM Nitish, the RJD leader said Nitish could not do it because of the lack of will power. “Problems of unemployment, huge migration and poverty are plaguing the state,” he said. Tejashwi said around 4.5 lakh posts were lying vacant in different government departments. Moreover, around 75,000 posts of junior (assistant) engineers were vacant followed by 2 lakh vacancies for supportive staff in health, education and other departments. “Bihar has a population of around 12.5 crore. Therefore, the state needs 1.25 lakh doctors besides supportive staff,” he added. In addition, 50,000 posts of police personnel were vacant. The total strength of the state police force is around 1.25 lakh. As per the police public ration, there are only 77 police personnel on a population of one lakh in the state, he said, adding that the gap in the police-public ratio has its direct reflection on the law and order situation. Referring to the SCRB data, Tejashwi said an incident of rape is taking place every four hours and murder every five hours in the state. Yet the government claimed the law and order situation in the state is under control, he said. Tejashwi said the issue of unemployment and migration of workers from the state would dominate the electioneering. The magnitude of unemployment could be gauged from the fact that around 5.5 lakh applications were received against 250 vacant posts under grade IV in the secretariat, he said. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad said his party would also try to create more job opportunities for the unemployed in the unorganized sector. “We will also focus on seeking more investments for setting up agro-based industries and create jobs in IT and tourism sectors. He said RJD would come out with the blueprint and vision documents on creation of 10 lakh jobs soon. The RJD web portal to seek applications from unemployed youths in the state touched a whopping 22.58 lakh. “While 9.47 lakh youths got registered with their biodata, around 13.12 lakh people gave missed calls for their entry,” Tejashwi claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/tejas-promises-10-lakh-jobs-if-voted-to-power/articleshow/78352531.cms||Ramashankar
September 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: 30,000 CAPF personnel set to join area domination exercise||PATNA: Altogether 300 companies of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) will be deployed in Bihar for area domination exercise in order to ensure peaceful conduct of the three-phase assembly elections in the state. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday ordered deployment of these companies with immediate effect in pursuance of recommendations of the Election Commission of India (ECI), as per a letter addressed to chief secretary, home secretary and director general of police of Bihar, a copy of which is with TOI. These 300 CAPF companies, comprising at least 30,000 personnel, are expected to reach the state within a fortnight. Sources said the 300 companies reaching Bihar would consist of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF). As per state police headquarters sources, these paramilitary personnel would be deployed in all the districts as per requirement. Altogether 71 assembly constituencies will go to polls in the first phase on October 28 in the left wing extremism (LWE)-hit districts. There are 16 LWE-hit districts in the state – Arwal, Aurangabad, Banka, East Champaran, Gaya, Jamui, Jehanabd, Kaimur, Lakhisarai, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Nawada, Rohtas, Vaishali and West Champaran, as per MHA. Sources said a high level MHA delegation would visit Bihar this week to review security arrangements in poll-bound LWE-hit districts. Police officers handling security arrangements said a large number of CAPF personnel would later be used to conduct peaceful elections in the remaining assembly seats. They said the paramilitary personnel would conduct flag marches, hold camps in sensitive areas, secure strong rooms having EVMs and familiarise with surroundings. A senior police officer said massive deployment of central and other reserved forces would be required this time as the number of polling booths has increased in view of Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30000-capf-personnel-set-to-join-area-domination-exercise/articleshow/78361724.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 28, 2020||Business||Deposit-credit gap widens by Rs 8.2 lakh crore so far in FY21||MUMBAI: Bank credit growth continues to lag with loans outstanding yet to reach end-March 2020 levels even as deposits continue to surge, growing 5% during the current fiscal up to September 11. This is likely to keep deposit rates under check despite the RBI holding back on rate cuts due to rising inflation. According to data released by the RBI, aggregate bank deposits have hit nearly Rs 143 lakh crore, an increase of Rs 6.8 lakh crore since end-March, while advances are struggling at just over Rs 102 lakh crore, down Rs 1.4 lakh crore from end-March. This has widened the gap between credit and deposit growth to Rs 8.2 lakh crore during the current fiscal. This rising gap between deposit growth and advances is being filled by investments in government bonds, which now account for nearly 29% of bank deposits after growing 21% year-on-year. Besides the slowdown in investment, there has been a drop in advances since corporates have been de-leveraging as they prepare for slower revenues. Also, a portion of financing has shifted to the bond market, where the cost of funds has come down significantly. “Credit growth continues to remain at approximately half the level during the last two fortnights at 5.3% and 5.5% (year-on-year), compared to last year’s level of 10.4% and 10.2%, reflecting weak demand and risk-aversion in the banking system due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” CARE Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis said. Scheduled commercial banks are being very selective with their credit portfolios due to asset quality concerns and the overall bank credit is expected to remain slower in the near term. According to CARE Ratings, while banking system liquidity is expected to remain in a surplus position, it will continue to be weighed down by upcoming government borrowings. In the fortnight ended September 25, the central government has borrowed Rs 60,000 crore, while states have raised Rs 23,728 crore from banks. The RBI data for sectoral deployment of bank credit, which is available until July 2020, shows that non-food credit is down Rs 1.4 lakh crore (-1.5%) from end-March levels. This is despite there being no year-end surge in lending during the last week of March 2020 on account of the strict lockdown. The biggest fall in credit is in the large industry segment (down by Rs 53,134 crore). This is followed by a Rs 48,816-crore drop in credit to micro and small enterprises, while loans in the personal segment are down by Rs 22,418 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/deposit-credit-gap-widens-by-rs-8-2l-cr-so-far-in-fy21/articleshow/78355012.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Noted educationalist Shirish Modi passes away||Palanpur: An educationalist, noted advocate and president of Banaskantha District Kelvni Mandal, Shirish Modi died on Friday evening at his residence in Palanpur. He was 82. He also had been president of Palanpur municipality for two terms. Modi had been associated with a number of educational institutions in Banaskantha district. Born in 1938, Modi was instrumental in spread of education in the district. He had a special attachment with education for the poor and destitute youths. Modi even persuaded rich diamond merchants having roots in Palanpur to contribute for development of education. Huge crowd and gathered at Modi’s house in Palanpur to pay last respect to the noted educationalist. Police had to interfere to control the people gathered outside his residence on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/noted-educationalist-shirish-modi-passes-away/articleshow/78340951.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Three arrested in theft case||Rajkot: Three thieves were caught from Amrut Sarovar Residency behind Arwind Township in Railnagar locality of Rajkot on Friday night. Police said the accused, Pabitra Nag (30), Ajay Nag (40) and Gordhan Patra (25), were arrested on the basis of a tip-off. “We had received a tip-off that the accused trio, who are from Odisha, would work as labourers at different construction sites during days and would go about committing house break-ins at nights,” said an official from Pradyuman Nagar Police Station. During their interrogation, the accused trio confessed to having stolen gold jewellery worth Rs 17,000 and Rs 50,000 cash from two houses, two days ago in Pradyuman Nagar area. “The accused said they would carry out a recce of the locked houses during the day and commit house break-ins at the night,” said the official. “At present, we have detained the accused. They will formally be arrested once they undergo the Covid-19 test,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-in-theft-case/articleshow/78341112.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Patna||Noisy scenes at BJP office against labour minister||PATNA: A group of around 150 people from Lakhisarai assembly constituency created noisy scenes at the state BJP headquarters here on Sunday and virtually gheraoed the car of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, demanding that labour resources department minister Vijay Kumar Sinha, who represents the Lakhisarai seat in the assembly, should not be given ticket this time. The protesters were rooting for one Babita Devi, a lawyer at the Lakhisarai civil court and resident of Nanawan village in Halsi block. One of the protesters, Shailendra, said Babita has been a member of the party for the last 25 years and deserved the ticket during the 2015 assembly elections itself. In fact, the local demands to give the party tickets to “deserving candidates” to contest the assembly elections have begun to be raised in the state BJP. In Bhagalpur, BJP rebel Vijay Kumar Sah has put up banners, asking the party not to give ticket to Arjit Shaswat, son of Union minister and Buxar MP Ashwini Kumar Choubey, to contest from Bhagalpur urban seat. While Choubey was elected from Bhagalpur urban seat five times, his son lost in 2015 to Congress nominee Ajit Sharma due to the split of the BJP votes caused by Sah, a rebel candidate in the fray. On Sunday, state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said through their protests, the supporters of ticket aspirants would only mar the prospects of their candidate. “The party has its own system to choose deserving candidates,” state BJP president Dr Jaiswal said. Sunday was an important day for the party as its seniors and election management committee members – Ravi Shankar Prasad, Sushil Kumar Modi, Mangal Pandey, Dr Jaiswal and general secretary (organization) Nagendra ji – were in the auditorium of Atal Sabhagar to listen to the half-an-hour ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast of PM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/noisy-scenes-at-bjp-office-against-labour-minister/articleshow/78352605.cms||Abhay Singh
September 28, 2020||Surat||Three suspended cops, scribe arrested||Surat: Three suspended policemen and a local scribe were arrested in connection with the suicide of businessman Durlabh Patel on Sunday.Former inspector of Rander police station LP Bodana, his writer and and assistant sub inspector Kiransinh Parmar and constable Ajay Bhopala were caught from Vadodara-Savli Road when they were on way to Ahmedabad.Mukesh Kulkarni, a local journalist, surrendered in the office of inspector general of police (IGP), Surat range in Athwalines. All four were arrested after they tested negative for Covid-19.Bodana, Parmar and Bhopala had escaped from the city soon after an offence was registered against them in Mandvi police station of Surat district on September 7. Investigation revealed that the cops were hiding at different locations in Rajasthan. They took shelter in Sanchore and Jaisalmer while on the run. Meanwhile, police are yet to investigate where Kulkarni was hiding and how he evaded arrest till now. “The three policemen were going to Ahmedabad and planning to approach the court, but we nabbed them after getting specific information abougt them through human intelligence,” claimed Usha Rada Desai, superintendent of police, Surat. With the arrest of these four, the number of those caught in the case has gone up to seven while three are still on the run. Earlier police had arrested two property dealers- Raju Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani and suspended police constable Vijay Shinde. Police are yet to arrest Kishore Koshiya, Kanaiyalal Narola, both involved in diamond and land business and Hetal Desai, a resident of Vesu. Police found that Narola is currently abroad while location of Desai and Koshiya is not known yet. Patel, 74, had allegedly killed himself by jumping into a water-filled stone quarry owned by him at Khanjroli village near the city, on September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-suspended-cops-scribe-arrested/articleshow/78352729.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Blissful ignorance about Covid-19 positive status saves 68-year-old||RAJKOT: He suffered nearly 90% failure of lungs, kidney and heart and, to top it all, he also tested positive of Covid-19. However, in the case of Ramesh Makadia (68), ignorance about his infection proved to bliss as well as a blessing. “Till I got discharged from the hospital, I was not told that I was infected with Coronavirus. This hidden information filled me with a notion that I was merely suffering from some lung ailment and that I would be all right,” recounts Makadia, who stayed in the hospital for 22 days. “Of 22 days, 11 days I spent in the ICU, where I witnessed the deaths of as many as 21 patients. But I was determined to stay alive. I kept holding onto my thought that I will be all right soon and that come what may I have to go back home, which probably kept me alive,” he said. Makadia, who tested Covid-19 positive on August 29, was admitted to the Covid Hospital on the campus of Rajkot Civil Hospital. “He had co-morbidities in the form of coronary heart disease, prostate ailment and hypertension. That apart, he had been a smoker,” said Makadia’s son Dhaval. Apart from allopathic medicines, Makadia was administered with Ayurvedic medicines prescribed by Jamnagar Ayurvedic University’s former principal Dr Hitesh Jani and Ahmedabad-based Ayurvedic doctor Dr Gopal Sutaria. “I knew the fact that my father did not know that he had tested positive. I also requested the doctors and medical staff at the hospital not to divulge that he had tested positive of the deadly virus,” Dhaval recalled. “I don't think I could have maintained a positive attitude, had I been told that I was Covid-19 positive,” Makadia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ignorance-is-bliss-proves-68-yr-old-corona-patient/articleshow/78352812.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Surat||Surat’s posh Athwa zone now Covid hotspot||SURAT: City’s posh area Athwa has now the highest Covid-19 cases in the city surpassing Katargam zone which has 3,654 Covid-19 cases. Athwa zone has recorded 3,709 cases. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, the highest cases have been reported from Athwa zone for the past few days. As on September 1, Athwa zone had 2,393 cases which has increased to 3,709 on September 26. SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI: “We have formed three teams to implement the Covid-19 control measures in Athwa zone, as cases are on the rise in this zone. The cases are on the rise because of the textile industry in Athwa zone.” Pani added: “Most of the people engaged in the textile industry live in this zone. We have three dedicated teams deployed in Athwa zone. Massive health surveillance is under way to detect maximum Covid-19 cases from this zone and stop the spread of the virus.” “Moreover, within Athwa zone, three areas — City Light, Althan and Vesu — are Covid-19 hotspots as majority of the cases are being reported from these three areas,” Pani said. “We have also increased health surveillance and testing in textile markets as well. Moreover, enforcement teams are deployed in Athwa zones to ensure that people wear masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing. This guideline will protect people from getting infected with the virus,” Pani added. Meanwhile, Surat Rural reported 109 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total number of positive people to 7,291 in Surat district. A total of 244 people have succumbed to the virus till date in Surat district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-posh-athwa-zone-now-covid-hotspot/articleshow/78352766.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Surat||‘Arjun’ to help Surat textile merchants with fraud- free business||SURAT: Upon receiving bulk order supply of textile products, Surat’s businessman will soon be able to consult ‘Arjun’ to find the credentials of the buyer and his credibility before accepting the order. Surat Mercantile Association (SMA) has developed the mobile application named ‘Arjun’ in which each textile firm and its owner will get star ratings based on prior experience of other businessmen while dealing with the firms or its owners. One of the major concerns for textile firms is multi-crore frauds. While more than 70,000 textile firms operate from 175 markets in the city, there is no common online platform for the Surat’s textile industry — country’s largest man-made fabric hub — with turnover pegged at around Rs 80,000 crore before lockdown. Going by estimates, more than Rs 500 crore frauds take place in the city of which frauds worth around Rs 100 crore only get reported in the police. In majority of these frauds, the buyers either default on payments or disappear after making the bulk purchases. “As per the data of past few years, frauds to the tune of Rs 180 to Rs 200 crore take place every year. Hence there was a need for a platform that can bring transparency about each individual involved in the business,” said Gaurav Bhasin, a founder member of SMA. Businessman getting registered on the app will have to provide details of his GST number and other details that will help the app gather his and his firm’s past business track record which will be visible to all the users. “Due to lack of such classified information earlier local firms used to get cheated. But if everyone starts using the application it will help in minimizing frauds. We are working to register even the smallest service providers too in the application so their performance will also be assessed,” said Jitu Surana, a founder member of SMA. The association has formed a 10-member committee in each market which will register all businessmen and service providers from the market in the application after verification. The app will assess performance of transporter, labour shifting the bales and broker and give them star rating. “This will stop theft of bales and minor cases of cheating as well,” added Bhasin. “At SMA we are trying to address those issues of the business community that are not being addressed by other associations,” said Narendra Saboo, president of SMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/arjun-to-help-surat-textile-merchants-with-fraud-free-business/articleshow/78352898.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 28, 2020||Business||RBI’s secondary market G-Sec buys at Rs 7,000 crore||MUMBAI: After months of speculation if the RBI will directly buy government bonds from the secondary market, the central bank looks to have settled it. In the week ended September 20, the RBI purchased government securities (G-Secs) worth nearly Rs 6,900 crore from the secondary market. This is its biggest weekly direct market purchase ever, excluding the open market operations (OMOs), which are done on a pre-planned basis. Data from the RBI also shows that in the first three weeks of this month, the central bank’s G-Sec purchases from the secondary market aggregated nearly Rs 11,000 crore, also its highest monthly purchases ever. According to bond market players, this could help keep the interest rate in the market from rising. In addition, it can also give comfort to the government about its borrowing programme in the second half, the schedule for which is due on September 30. Besides purchasing through the Operation Twist — under which the RBI simultaneously buys and sells G-Secs through a planned programme — the central bank was not used to purchasing from the secondary market. “Of late, the RBI has been buying G-Secs from the secondary market to restore demand-supply balance in the (government) bond market,” said a bond dealer. To this end, the RBI has taken several steps. Latest RBI data show that so far this month, Through three RBI OMO twists, the central bank has purchased G-Secs worth Rs 27,132 crore, while at the same time has sold bonds worth Rs 29,900 crore. It has also allowed G-Secs worth nearly Rs 36,000 crore to remain unsold in two of the four auctions and rejected all bids for its planned OMO purchase worth Rs 10,000 crore. According to bond market players, RBI’s decisions indicate its strong intention to not let the yield in the bond market, especially that of the 10-year benchmark, rise from the current levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-secondary-mkt-g-sec-buys-at-rs-7k-cr/articleshow/78355055.cms||Partha Sinha
September 28, 2020||Business||Wadia Group director Anil Hirjee passes away||MUMBAI: Wadia Group director Anil Kumar Hirjee passed away at the age of 82 on Sunday after a month-long battle with cancer. A statement from the Wadia Group read, “Anil Kumar Hirjee, son of late Hirjee Jewraj, left for his heavenly abode on September 27”. He is survived by wife Shirin Anil Hirjee, and brothers Arun and Niru Hirjee. Anil, a London Business School law graduate, was associated with the Wadia Group for more than four decades and was a confidant of chairman Nusli Wadia. He was a director of group companies Britannia Industries and Bombay Dyeing till his death. Anil was also a trustee of Breach Candy Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wadia-group-director-anil-hirjee-passes-away/articleshow/78355132.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 28, 2020||Patna||City schools set to reopen partially today||PATNA: After remaining closed for nearly six months due to Covid-19 pandemic, private as well as government schools in city will reopen partially for students of classes IX to XII on Monday by following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for safety of students and staff. The education department has allowed reopening of secondary and senior secondary classes so that students to seek guidance from teachers only with the written consent of their parents. Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said all arrangements have been made for safety of students and teachers. “Classrooms have been disinfected and hand sanitiser machine has been installed at the school. Students, teachers and staff will be allowed entry only after their thermal screening. Only 40-50 students of classes IX to XII can come on the first day with the consent of their parents,” he said. Shailesh Kumar, director of group of Bishop Scott schools in Patna, said only a handful of parents have agreed to send their wards to school for doubt clearance. “I think very few students will turn up on the first day,” he said. Rajiv Ranjan, principal of Patna High School, said all the students have been asked to wear mask. “Markings have been made inside the school campus to maintain social distancing. Besides, registration of students in Class XI will also take place. Since government officials are slated to undergo training for poll work at the school, proper classes will begin only after the conclusion of elections,” he said. Several schools will remain closed even for students of classes of IX to XII as compartment exams and evaluation work are in progress. V S Ojha, principal of DAV Public School, BSEB, said the compartment exams would conclude on September 29 and evaluation work by October 5. “The school is likely to reopen after October 6,” he added. Seema Singh, principal of St Karen’s High School, said, “The school will reopen for Class XII students from September 29 only for practical. Students of only two sections will come on the first day for practical,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-schools-set-to-reopen-partially-today/articleshow/78352292.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 28, 2020||Vadodara||Private bus carrying UP workers overturns, 45 hurt||Vadodara: In less than a week’s time, another private luxury bus met with an accident in central Gujarat when it overturned near Godhra injuring around 45 labourers from Uttar Pradesh (UP) returning to their workplace in Surat. The bus registered in Rajasthan and owned by Shreenath Travels was crossing the Godhra by-pass road at Parvadi village at around 2.30 am when it overturned after the driver lost control over the vehicle. Police said that all injured persons were admitted at Civil Hospital in Godhra and a few of them were brought to SSG Hospital in Vadodara. “The passengers were from UP, but they changed the bus in Udaipur and entered Gujarat via Banswada. We have registered an offence against the bus driver for rash driving as well as under Disaster Management Act,” said sub-inspector M M Tejot of Godhra Taluka police station. When cops reached the accident site, around 65 people were present at the spot and he said that the number of passengers could be more. Earlier, on September 20 night, a bus carrying passengers from Dahod overturned in Mahisagar district. The bus carrying nearly 100 passengers from Sanjeli in Dahod district to Kalavad in Jamnagar had overturned, around 25 passengers, most of whom were tribal labourers, were injured. The accident had taken place near Padhariya village in Santrampur taluka of Mahisagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/private-bus-carrying-up-workers-overturns-45-hurt/articleshow/78352376.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Surat||Covid loses sting to septuagenarian’s valour||Surat: The pandemic has devastated millions across the globe, wreaking havoc on psyche and homes destroyed with its deadly tentacles. But while its onslaught seems virtually unstoppable, it loses to a few who prove to be mightier than its sting.One such virus slayer is 70-year-old Bharat Shah, a septuagenarian who didn’t let Covid steal his zeal to serve humanity even while the virus stole away his three elder siblings — all within a span of 20 days only — in July. But, Shah didn’t pause to grieve or bend to the deadly blow and relentlessly continued his welfare activities without even a single day’s break. Shah’s elder brothers Mahesh, 74, Kishore, 73, and Haresh, 78, fell prey to Covid, one after the other and passed away between July 5 and 24. Maheshbhai helped Shah with his services at a charitable medical store in New Civil Hospital (NCH) during the pandemic and also assisted in running food services at the hospital. Talking to TOI, Shah, formerly a practising chartered accountant (CA) and one among the top realtors of the city said how the other two siblings too passed away on July 10 (Kishore) and on July 24 (Haresh) leaving the family shaken to its roots. “I never imagined that I would lose my brothers like this,” he said.Post-retirement, Shah channelized his energy to grow Chhanyado — the welfare tree — under the shade of which he provided various health and food services to thousands in need. Amid bereavement, Shah continued the welfare activities through his Chhanyado Trust, providing health and food facilities in Udhna and at NCH campus. An eye hospital in Mandvi of Surat district is also run with the support of Chhanyado. “I pay homage to my siblings with my work during peak Covid-19 period. By helping save others who may be fighting for their life, I feel I am serving my own brothers. I do not fear getting infected and even if I die I will be happy that I could sacrifice myself while serving people in need,” Shah added.Chhanydo has been providing snacks to patients in the NCH. They are running its free food services at NCH, besides food for doctors as well and MRI and CT Scan facilities at lower rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-loses-sting-to-septuagenarians-valour/articleshow/78353164.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Hassan to be new UDF convener||T’puram/Kochi: M M Hassan will be appointed as the new convener of the UDF after Congress leader Benny Behanan resigned from the post on Sunday. The decision has come in the wake of difference of opinion within the ‘A’ group of the Congress. Behanan has been continuing as the UDF convener even after getting elected to the Lok Sabha. However, the ‘A’ group wanted him to resign from the post and pave way for Hassan. Hassan was holding the KPCC president post when Mullappally Ramachandran was appointed to head the party in the state. From then, the ‘A’ group had decided to accommodate Hassan with a suitable position. But Behanan was not ready to resign as he was appointed directly by the AICC. Two other leaders Kodikkunnil Suresh and K Sudhakaran are also holding the party posts even after getting elected to the Lok Sabha. Hence, Behanan also wanted to continue in the convener post. It is learnt that senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy was upset with the way Behanan was holding the post even after he was asked to resign. The KPCC had requested AICC last year itself to appoint Hassan as the UDF convener. But the AICC was delaying with the decision. However, when AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar visited the state last week, the ‘A’ group leaders along with the KPCC leadership put pressure on AICC to appoint Hassan as the new convener. Though K V Thomas was also considered for the convener post, the ‘A’ group was adamant that the convener post should be given to them. Even the top leadership of the party was also against giving the convener post to Thomas. However, now he has been tipped for the KPCC working president post. AICC had appointed three working presidents along with Ramachandran of which one post is lying vacant following the demise of M I Shanavas. Saddened by allegation: Behanan Speaking to the media in Kochi on Sunday, Behanan said that the allegation that he had a difference of opinion with Chandy saddened him. “It was the central leadership that entrusted me with the duty. I have conveyed the central leadership my decision to resign,” Behanan said. The allegations levelled against CPM leaders and their family members have become a shame for the entire state. Pinarayi Vijayan is the only chief minister in the country to face two probes by the CBI at a time, Behanan said. He termed the allegations by the CPM that there were attempts by corporates to sabotage the Left government a mockery. Meanwhile, MP K Muraleedharan has resigned from the post of KPCC campaign committee chairman. In a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi, he said he is quitting to uphold the one-man-one-post policy. His resignation has come as a surprise as he has not given the resignation to the KPCC. He termed the allegations by the CPM that there were attempts by corporates to sabotage the Left government a mockery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hassan-to-be-new-udf-convener/articleshow/78353665.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Surat||Covid loses sting to septuagenarian’s valour||Surat: The pandemic has devastated millions across the globe, wreaking havoc on psyche and homes destroyed with its deadly tentacles. But while its onslaught seems virtually unstoppable, it loses to a few who prove to be mightier than its sting.One such virus slayer is 70-year-old Bharat Shah, a septuagenarian who didn’t let Covid steal his zeal to serve humanity even while the virus stole away his three elder siblings — all within a span of 20 days only — in July. But, Shah didn’t pause to grieve or bend to the deadly blow and relentlessly continued his welfare activities without even a single day’s break. Shah’s elder brothers Mahesh, 74, Kishore, 73, and Haresh, 78, fell prey to Covid, one after the other and passed away between July 5 and 24. Maheshbhai helped Shah with his services at a charitable medical store in New Civil Hospital (NCH) during the pandemic and also assisted in running food services at the hospital. Talking to TOI, Shah, formerly a practising chartered accountant (CA) and one among the top realtors of the city said how the other two siblings too passed away on July 10 (Kishore) and on July 24 (Haresh) leaving the family shaken to its roots. “I never imagined that I would lose my brothers like this,” he said.Post-retirement, Shah channelized his energy to grow Chhanyado — the welfare tree — under the shade of which he provided various health and food services to thousands in need. Amid bereavement, Shah continued the welfare activities through his Chhanyado Trust, providing health and food facilities in Udhna and at NCH campus. An eye hospital in Mandvi of Surat district is also run with the support of Chhanyado. “I pay homage to my siblings with my work during peak Covid-19 period. By helping save others who may be fighting for their life, I feel I am serving my own brothers. I do not fear getting infected and even if I die I will be happy that I could sacrifice myself while serving people in need,” Shah added.Chhanydo has been providing snacks to patients in the NCH. They are running its free food services at NCH, besides food for doctors as well and MRI and CT Scan facilities at lower rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-loses-sting-to-septuagenarians-valour/articleshow/78352641.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 28, 2020||Patna||Plurals chief booked for violation of model code of conduct in Bhagalpur||PATNA: Plurals party president Pushpam Priya Choudhary was booked for alleged violation of the model code of conduct in Bhagalpur on Sunday. Nathnagar circle officer (CO) Rajesh Kumar lodged an FIR against her with the same police station after two posters of Plurals were found fixed on an electric police at KB Lal road under the Nathnagar police station area. “The posters had pictures of Pushpam with her cellphone phone number. She was also depicted as ‘future CM’ of Bihar in both of the posters,” the CO said. The official addaed that both the posters were seized and handed over to police. “We had spotted the posters during a drive which was being conducted to ensure that model code of conduct is being followed,” the CO said. He said that except Plurals, no other political posters were found during the Sunday’s drive in Nathnagar. Meanwhile, Nathnagar police station SHO Sajjad Hussain also said, “Pushpam has been booked for model code violation as her photographs were shown on the posters.” The model code of conduct came into force on Friday after poll dates were announced in state by the Election Commission of India. It may be recalled that Pushpam had announced formation of her party through full-page advertisements published in newspapers on International Women’s Day on March 8 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plurals-chief-booked-for-violation-of-model-code-of-conduct-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/78352591.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: NDA set to get new partner, LJP undecided||PATNA: Even as the notification for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections is set to be issued by the Election Commission on October 1, the equations in both the major political alliances in the state – National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and Grand Alliance (GA) – are changing fast. The form and shape of NDA in Bihar would change in a day or two. While RLSP led by former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha seems to have decided to join NDA in a day or two, LJP led by Chirag Paswan has little options but either to accept whatever seats it gets or contest the polls on its own and not to field candidates against BJP. Even the VIP led by Mukesh Sahni is exploring options and may leave the RJD-led GA soon. A reliable source in LJP said the decision can be taken anytime soon after the parliamentary board submits its report Sunday night. He said BJP cannot annoy Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, who has been continuously attacked by Chirag on governance issues in the state, be it Covid, flood management, migrant workers or health infrastructure issues. At its parliamentary party meeting held in Delhi on September 7, Chirag had indicated that LJP would contest 143 of the 243 seats in Bihar. LJP had fielded 42 candidates in the 2015 polls. The party may have the option of replaying the February 2005 state assembly election in 2020 in the hope of assuming the role of a kingmaker in case of a hung house. The LJP, then led by Chirag’s father Ram Vilas Paswan, had contested the February 2005 polls in state against RJD, though both the parties were partners in the then UPA government at the Centre. Since RLSP has virtually left the GA, its national secretary general Madhav Anand said talks were on to go back to the NDA fold. “RLSP is a natural partner of NDA. A decision will be taken in a day or two,” Anand told TOI over phone from Delhi where Kushwaha is in constant touch with BJP leaders. Asked about Kushwaha’s reservations against Nitish, Anand said, “We don’t have anything personal against any individual. Politics is a game of possibilities. We will work in the interest of Bihar.” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said RLSP was earlier in NDA and Kushwaha was given due respect as he was made a minister at the Centre by PM Narendra Modi. “He switched his loyalty on his own. If Kushwaha intends to come back to NDA, it will be his decision. The NDA leadership will take a collective decision on him,” Nikhil said. BJP will also not like to go to the crucial polls with a partner not on the same page with JD(U). RLSP suits BJP politically, a party insider said, preferring anonymity. He added LJP had a declining trend since February 2005 polls, be it seats or percentage of votes. Nitish has already brought former CM and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi to his side, a move considered to consolidate the Dalit votes and counter Chirag. Given its performance in the last four assembly elections, LJP wants to remain BJP’s partner at the Centre, but not in Bihar. Chirag has said many times that LJP is not a JD(U) partner in the state. Similarly, JD(U) leaders are also on record saying they have never contested the state assembly election with LJP. In 2005 and 2010, LJP was with Congress and in 2015, JD(U) was not in NDA. The February 2005 polls had a fractured verdict with 17 independent candidates winning the election. But LJP had managed to dethrone RJD, which could not form a government despite emerging the single largest party with 75 seats. LJP had won 29 seats out of the 178 it had contested with the support of Congress, which had bagged only 10 of 84 it contested. Despite BJP-JD(U) winning 92 seats, no party or alliance had the majority, forcing imposition of President’s Rule in Bihar. Elections were held again within eight months, in October 2005. This time the BJP-JD(U) formed the government with 143 MLAs in their kitty, while LJP’s number was reduced to 10 and RJD’s 54. The LJP number in the state assembly further reduced to 3 after the 2010 election. Its downward trend in terms of vote percentage as well as seats continued in 2015 when LJP could win only 2 assembly constituencies out of the 42 it had contested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-set-to-get-new-partner-ljp-undecided/articleshow/78358703.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 28, 2020||---||Bihar elections: 30,000 CAPF personnel set to join area domination exercise||PATNA: Altogether 300 companies of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) will be deployed in Bihar for area domination exercise in order to ensure peaceful conduct of the three-phase assembly elections in the state. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday ordered deployment of these companies with immediate effect in pursuance of recommendations of the Election Commission of India (ECI), as per a letter addressed to chief secretary, home secretary and director general of police of Bihar, a copy of which is with TOI. These 300 CAPF companies, comprising at least 30,000 personnel, are expected to reach the state within a fortnight. Sources said the 300 companies reaching Bihar would consist of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF). As per state police headquarters sources, these paramilitary personnel would be deployed in all the districts as per requirement. Altogether 71 assembly constituencies will go to polls in the first phase on October 28 in the left wing extremism (LWE)-hit districts. There are 16 LWE-hit districts in the state – Arwal, Aurangabad, Banka, East Champaran, Gaya, Jamui, Jehanabd, Kaimur, Lakhisarai, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Nawada, Rohtas, Vaishali and West Champaran, as per MHA. Sources said a high level MHA delegation would visit Bihar this week to review security arrangements in poll-bound LWE-hit districts. Police officers handling security arrangements said a large number of CAPF personnel would later be used to conduct peaceful elections in the remaining assembly seats. They said the paramilitary personnel would conduct flag marches, hold camps in sensitive areas, secure strong rooms having EVMs and familiarise with surroundings. A senior police officer said massive deployment of central and other reserved forces would be required this time as the number of polling booths has increased in view of Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/30000-capf-personnel-set-to-join-area-domination-exercise/articleshow/78352538.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 28, 2020||Patna||BJYM chief Tejasvi Surya to reach Bihar on 3-day visit today||PATNA: Newly appointed national president of BJP’s Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) Tejasvi Surya will reach the state on a three-day visit on Monday. Surya, an MP from Bengaluru south, will first address the state BJYM members at the party’s state headquarters on Monday, state BJP media incharge Rakesh Kumar Singh said, adding Surya will later visit a couple of districts on Tuesday. He will leave the state on Wednesday. As a prelude to Surya’s visit, state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and state BJYM president Durgesh released a booklet, titled ‘Yuvaon ka vikas, Modi ji ke saath’, enumerating the steps taken by PM Narendra Modi for the benefit of the youths in the country. Others present on the occasion included party’s national co-media incharge Sanjay Mayukh (MLC), spokesmen Sanjay Singh Tiger (former MLA) and state general secretary Sanjeev Chaurasia (MLA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjym-chief-to-reach-state-on-3-day-visit-today/articleshow/78352556.cms||Abhay Singh
September 28, 2020||Patna||RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav promises 10 lakh jobs if voted to power||PATNA: RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday promised 10 lakh jobs in the first cabinet meeting, if the Mahagathbandhan is voted to power in the Bihar assembly elections beginning on October 28. The leader of opposition said he was not making a promise to job seekers only to win elections. “It’s my firm decision. The proposal of giving 10 lakh jobs will be approved at the first cabinet meeting, if his government is formed in the state,” he said, adding the process of filling up the vacant posts in government departments would start within two months of forming the government. In an oblique reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had earlier promised 2 crore jobs every year, Tejashwi said the double-engine government led by Nitish Kumar in Bihar failed to do anything on this front. “I am not lying like those who ruled the state for 15 years but did nothing to sort out the unemployment problem,” he alleged. Slamming CM Nitish, the RJD leader said Nitish could not do it because of the lack of will power. “Problems of unemployment, huge migration and poverty are plaguing the state,” he said. Tejashwi said around 4.5 lakh posts were lying vacant in different government departments. Moreover, around 75,000 posts of junior (assistant) engineers were vacant followed by 2 lakh vacancies for supportive staff in health, education and other departments. “Bihar has a population of around 12.5 crore. Therefore, the state needs 1.25 lakh doctors besides supportive staff,” he added. In addition, 50,000 posts of police personnel were vacant. The total strength of the state police force is around 1.25 lakh. As per the police public ration, there are only 77 police personnel on a population of one lakh in the state, he said, adding that the gap in the police-public ratio has its direct reflection on the law and order situation. Referring to the SCRB data, Tejashwi said an incident of rape is taking place every four hours and murder every five hours in the state. Yet the government claimed the law and order situation in the state is under control, he said. Tejashwi said the issue of unemployment and migration of workers from the state would dominate the electioneering. The magnitude of unemployment could be gauged from the fact that around 5.5 lakh applications were received against 250 vacant posts under grade IV in the secretariat, he said. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad said his party would also try to create more job opportunities for the unemployed in the unorganized sector. “We will also focus on seeking more investments for setting up agro-based industries and create jobs in IT and tourism sectors. He said RJD would come out with the blueprint and vision documents on creation of 10 lakh jobs soon. The RJD web portal to seek applications from unemployed youths in the state touched a whopping 22.58 lakh. “While 9.47 lakh youths got registered with their biodata, around 13.12 lakh people gave missed calls for their entry,” Tejashwi claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-promises-10-lakh-jobs-if-voted-to-power/articleshow/78361947.cms||Ramashankar
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Airlines open bookings for all October days, wait for government decision on curbs||KOLKATA: All airlines have opened bookings on all days in October — the festive month — in anticipation that the state may relax the three-days-a-week restriction for direct flights from six cities with prevalence of Covid. Airport officials, however, said in absence of fresh instructions from the government and civil aviation ministry till now, it will continue with the restriction on these flights. If the thrice-a-week norm persists in the next month, it is bound to jeopardize travel plans, force schedule changes and can even lead to trips being cancelled if demand exceeds supply. Anxious flyers have already taken to social media to reach out to the civil aviation ministry, the state and the airport operator. “Please share the October schedule for Pune to Kolkata. It’s urgent,” Subhadip Parui tagged the airport’s official Twitter handle. Similarly, frequent flyer Yash Gandhi has tweeted multiple times in recent days seeking clarity on flights. “Please confirm if Kolkata to Mumbai flights are departing every day or on specific days,” he tweeted. The state had announced an embargo on direct flights from the six cities to Kolkata in the beginning of July. After two months, the curbs were partially relaxed, with flights being allowed to operate thrice a week. With the state deciding to do away with the twice-a-week lockdowns from mid-September, airlines were confident the restrictions on flights would also be lifted and opened bookings on all days in October. And the response has been better than that of previous months with the demand particularly high October 17 onwards. “We haven’t received any further instruction for October and will continue with the schedule we followed last week. Flights from six cities will continue to operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays till further instruction,” said a senior airport official. Airlines officials argued that while the six cities were in states that reported high Covid figures when the curbs were enforced in July, the situation has changed since then. The carriers further pointed out that there were no pre-announced restrictions for October. “We were told that in the fifth week of September, flights would operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. But there has been no announcement about October,” said an airline official. Met with queries from multiple quarters, sources said the Kolkata airport director has written to the state and the civil aviation ministry seeking clarification on the issue. “October being a festive season, there is always an additional rush of passengers heading home or going on vacation. We have been receiving good bookings for all days in October. If the flight movement is still restricted to three days, we will have to cancel some flights, which will mean further harassment to flyers,” another airline official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airlines-open-bookings-for-all-oct-days-wait-for-govt-decision-on-curbs/articleshow/78354669.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Majerhat ROB commissioning on Chaturthi||KOLKATA: The state PWD and contractors SP Singla are working overtime to open Majerhat bridge on Chaturthi, October 20. On September 4, 2018, a span of the bridge, which is actually a rail overbridge (ROB), collapsed, severing the city’s link with New Alipore, Behala and beyond. The bridge’s deck slab, spanning 260m from the Mominpore Road-Burdwan Road crossing to the Mint on the southern end, was concreted on September 10. Currently, work is on to lay cables. So far, 30 of the 84 cables have been laid. “We want to complete laying the cables by October 10,” a state engineer said. After that, bituminous concrete will be laid on the 650m-long and 21.2m-wide bridge. The four-lane ROB is a cable-stayed bridge, and pylon to pylon, the main span is 100m. Like Vidyasagar Setu, Majerhat bridge will have four pylons — two in the north and two in the south.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-rob-commissioning-on-chaturthi/articleshow/78354715.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 28, 2020||Allahabad||Lodge, house built by Atiq Ahmed’s henchmen on government land razed||PRAYAGRAJ: A day after their attempts to raze the illegal structures were hindered by protests, a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district officials on Sunday demolished a lodge and a house allegedly constructed by close aides of former MP Atiq Ahmed in Beli Gaon area. PDA officials said that the lodge and the house were constructed illegally on government-owned land. The team arrived at the location with heavy police force. The team couldn’t finish the demolition on Saturday due to protests from local residents and a group of civil activists. PDA official Alok Pandey said, “The lodge is constructed on an area of around 415 square metre, while the house is spread across 210 square metre. They were constructed illegally by close associates of the former MP and were later sold off to other people. The occupants of the house and lodge did not have any ownership records or any sanctioned map to show PDA officials. We have identified other structures which were constructed on government land in the area and would take action against them too in the days to come.” Earlier during the day, police restricted the movement of local residents towards the site of demolition. Still, a large crowd had flocked to the site of the demolition. Given how the civil protests had obstructed the exercise on Saturday, the team arrived on the site on Sunday with a chalked out strategy to take on protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lodge-house-built-by-atiqs-henchmen-on-govt-land-razed/articleshow/78355249.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Koyambedu market opens, but Covid lessons forgotten||CHENNAI: The Koyambedu wholesale vegetable market reopened on Sunday, but was marred by poor implementation of social distancing norms and a few skirmishes. The market complex, which used to draw thousands of people every day, was shut in May after it emerged a major hotspot for spread of Covid-19. Hundreds of traders, workers and loadmen thronged the area around gate 14 where the formal inauguration ceremony was to be held and where several trucks laden with vegetables had entered the facility. A majority of people in the throng stood very close to the other, completely ignoring the rule of ensuring at least six feet between each two individuals and giving the impression that there was no pandemic and that it was a normal day. A large number of people were seen wearing masks improperly, below the nose, while a few were roaming without them. There was a minimum police presence and the authorities concerned neither regulated the crowd nor attempted to implement the Standard Operating Procedure. Almost all rules were flouted, with mounds of curry leaves being unloaded on the platforms. Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which maintains the facility through a market management committee (MMC), said the minimal police presence resulted in some issues. “We were unable to manage the crowd and in fact, there were a few skirmishes between MMC officials and loadmen who unloaded curry leaves on pavements. There were attempts to manhandle a MMC official when he attempted to clear the encroachment,” a CMDA official said. A formal complaint would be registered with police, he added. Earlier, trucks entering the market were fumigated and drivers subjected to checking body temperature using thermal scanners at the entrance. Vendors at the 200 wholesale shops functioning at the temporary market at Thirumazhisai were allowed to return to the KWMC as part of the phased reopening of the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/koyambedu-market-opens-but-covid-lessons-forgotten/articleshow/78353673.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bareilly||‘Gang of sisters’ that looted passengers busted, 3 arrested in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Moradabad police on Saturday arrested three sisters for looting female passengers during shared trips on public transport vehicles, especially three-wheelers. According to police, the gang was active in Moradabad and other UP districts since 2013 and the members have been booked under several cases of loot at various police stations. With a toddler in arms, the trio used to board the vehicle and loot passengers, police said. Moradabad superintendent of police Amit Kumar Anand said, “Two cases which came to light in the recent past were from Civil Lines area where bags and other belongings of female passengers were looted by women in auto-rickshaws. Teams were deputed and police were keeping an eye on such gangs operating in the city. On Saturday, the police nabbed the gang of women found roaming at Katghar road under Civil Lines police station.” SP city, Anand added, “During the interrogation, the three women — Kavita, Rinky of Bijnor and Pooja of Meerut – told police that they have been looting passengers in various UP districts including Moradabad, Bijnor and Meerut. Kavita and Pinky are married and their husbands take care of the house. In Moradabad, around nine cases have been registered against the accused at Katghar police station.” SHO Civil Lines police station, Moradabad, Nawal Marwah said, “Stolen jewellery items have been recovered from the possession of the three women and an FIR has been registered under section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property). All three have been arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-of-sisters-that-looted-passengers-busted-3-arrested/articleshow/78351685.cms||Maria Khan
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro stations get foot-operated elevators||CHENNAI: Metro rail has begun installing a mechanism to operate lifts in metro stations by foot to prevent commuters from touching elevator buttons and thereby reducing the risk of contracting Covid. Officials said the 32 stations along the 45km phase-1 will have foot-operated elevators by the end of this week. The nine stations coming up in Phase-1 extension, which will be ready at the end of this year, will also have similar elevators. A metro rail official said they have installed the devices in three elevators at 20 of the 32 stations. This includes Alandur, Central and Airport which attract more footfall. “Within a week, we will complete installation in other stations,” an official said. With the new mechanism, commuters using the elevators could simply tap a button on the floor of the lift with their feet and reach the concourse or platform levels. In May, metro rail had installed foot-operated elevators at its head office in Koyambedu. After receiving feedback from the users, it began installing them at the stations. All stations have two to four lifts that take passengers from the street level to concourse and then to platform levels. Officials said all the nine stations in the 9km phase-1 extension that would link a part of North Chennai will be opened with such foot-operated lifts. Metro rail launched a few other facilities for contactless travel. It includes QR-code tickets, which could be purchased through the metro rail app, and travel card readers where passengers could simply tap their smartcard to recharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-stations-get-foot-operated-elevators/articleshow/78353669.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bareilly||Government official’s wife appeals to UP CM for ‘threat to life’ from husband, in-laws||BAREILLY: A woman has accused her husband, a government official currently deputed as a DPRO in UP’s Moradabad, and her in-laws of domestic violence and death threats. She has also appealed to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel, through a video, for immediate action. The accused, Rajesh Kumar Singh, is a resident of Ghaziabad. His family members, including his sister Kiran and her husband Pradeep Kumar, are also involved, according to the woman. In the viral video, the woman could be seen appealing to the UP government to take action, stating that the accused had been earlier booked at Gautam Budh Nagar police station under various sections of IPC. But, she claimed that no action has been taken as yet. Earlier in September, the accused had told the woman that he had tested Covid-19 positive and was home quarantined in Moradabad, but was later caught red-handed by wife with another woman in Ghaziabad, following which, a case was registered. The woman has been demanding legal action against the accused, who has been "threatening to kill her". Police are yet to register any fresh case against the accused though, while Moradabad CDO Mridul Chaudhri was unavailable for any comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-officials-wife-appeals-to-cm-for-threat-to-life-from-husband-in-laws/articleshow/78351693.cms||Maria Khan
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Manja threads put birds in peril||CHENNAI: On Friday, Nivedha N from Gangai Amman Koil called up Blue Cross to report that a crow had got caught in a kite thread. This was the second call Nivedha had made in the past few months. In the past six months, Blue Cross has received 300 such rescue calls. Last weekend, four birds were rescued from Tambaram, Pallikaranai and Vadapalani. “Every day, at least three birds in the city get injured due to the manja threads. In the past six months, the numbers have gone up,” said Dawn Williams from Blue Cross. Manja threads that hang from the trees could be fatal for birds that build nests or roost on the trees. “Their wings get dislocated, they suffer fractures and also deep cuts. We have made several complaints to the police regarding this,” said Williams. According to T M Velu, a volunteer with Blue Cross, most common birds rescued are pigeons, crows, cuckoos. “Sometimes, we get calls for owls, kites and parakeets. However, we inform the forest department regarding wild birds,” he said. He said most rescue calls come from Vadapalani, Nungambakkam, Pallikaranai, Tambaram and Vannarapettai. Forest range officer Clement Edison said such cases were on the rise in the city. “However, wild birds getting injured by manja thread has reduced over the years,” he said. The birds that are rescued are provided treatment, however only 50% of them survive, said Velu. “Many lose their wings and some suffer serious cuts and die,” he said. V Kirubanandhini, a junior scientist from Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, said flying kites should be monitored strictly and more awareness should be created about its impact on wildlife. “March and April is the breeding time for the birds and we find that many chicks get injured because of the threads that hang from trees. In Gujarat, we have seen about 4,500 birds get injured every kite festival due to manja threads. Only 1,000 of these birds survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/manja-threads-put-birds-in-peril/articleshow/78353679.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Ground staff conducting door-to-door survey poorly equipped||AURANGABAD: The ground staff involved in the ongoing door-to-door health survey of citizens as a part of state-level campaign Maze Kutumb Mazi Jababdari (My Family, My Responsibility) are found to be not equipped with essentials such as pulse oximeter or thermal-gun, alleged the citizens. The staff is creating the desired database based on the oral entries made by citizens, leaving scope for lapses in the crucial exercise on account of any wrong submissions by the residents. Narrating her experience, Asha Beedkar, a resident of N-11 sector, said a lady discharging her duties as part of the state-level campaign, simply asked details of members in the family and whether any of them have any symptoms of Covid-19. “When I asked her about the pulse oximeter or thermal-gun, she said there is currently dearth of such equipment. She said that citizens are expected to give honest feedback during the survey as it is in their interest,” she said. Echoing similar views, Ritesh Hire, a resident of Seven Hill area, said many people may tend to hide their Covid symptoms fearing quarantine or isolation. “Phobia and social stigma are still attached with the Covid-19. Any health survey must be carried out in letter and spirit instead of as a formality,” he said. The aforesaid health survey is being carried out across nine municipal zones of the city through 247 squads comprising Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM). The health exercise has covered a total of 81,376 houses till Saturday with special focus on citizens with morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes , asthma and kidney-related ailments. When contacted, AMC health authorities concerned did not respond to messages and phone calls made to them seeking their say on the alleged lapses in the conduct of health survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ground-staff-conducting-door-to-door-survey-poorly-equipped/articleshow/78352462.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hubballi||Eateries make a comeback on Hubballi-Dharwad roads||HUBBALLI: The advent of Covid-19 forced out the ubiquitous eateries on the sides of the roads of Hubballi-Dharwad. However, with both the state and central governments lifting restrictions on businesses, these small establishments have returned, and what is more, proliferating too. The impact that the pandemic and the lockdown had on small businesses resulted in many people losing their jobs, a lot of whom have ventured into the business. Consequently, eateries have mushroomed on Station Road, Gokul Road, Karwar Road, Deshpande Nagar Road and many other avenues. Prior to the enforcement of the lockdown, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) had initiated a drive against eateries on the sides of the road and evicted them, decreeing them hurdles to free traffic movement. However, as residents of the twin cities shrug off months of boredom brought on by restrictions, fast-food joints are being flocked by patrons and the business is witnessing a surge in new entrants. Residents of twin cities who returned to their hometown from other districts and states in the wake of the lockdown are among those who have forayed into the business. Abdul Razak, 35, a resident of Ashok Nagar, who returned home from Mangaluru, where he was employed at a workshop, started a small stall, where the chief attraction is ‘egg rice’ after his family members dissuaded him from going back to the coastal city. “I will continue with this business till the situation normalises,” he said. Somashekhar, who has an ITI diploma, is using skills he learnt while staying alone in his room in Mysuru to earn his livelihood. “I cooked for myself while I was in Mysuru and I am now earning my bread by doing the same,” said Somashekhar, who has set up his small shop on Station Road in Hubballi. HDMC health officer Dr Shridhar Dandappanavar admitted that the number of eateries operating out of push carts was on the rise in the twin cities. “We have instructed health inspectors to assess the conditions in which these establishments are operating and issue notice for their eviction in the event of their being in violation. However, many owners are just shifting from one road to another. We will soon initiate a drive to evict illegal roadside eateries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/eateries-make-a-comeback-on-hubballi-dharwad-roads/articleshow/78352478.cms||J Abbas Mulla
September 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||FCRA: State had roped in CBI earlier||Thiruvananthapuram: The LDF government, which is questioning the legality and morality of the CBI probe into the violation of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) by Life Mission, is in a fix with information emerging that they had handed over a similar case involving two NGOs, to the CBI, citing that the CBI is the competent authority to investigate such cases. Incumbent chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, who was the home secretary then, had on September 5, last year, written to the Centre to take up the case against Good Samaritan Projects India and Catholic Reformation Literature Society. The government decided to hand over the case to the CBI after the state police chief reported to the government that the case against the two NGOs, which were being dealt by the crime branch, had offence punishable under Section 37 of the FCRA, 2010, and the CBI is the authority to probe the offences involving a prima facie violation of the offences under FCRA. Based on the state government’s request, the CBI had taken up the case and registered an FIR on April 30 this year, and a probe is on. The CBI, that draws its power from the Delhi Special Police (Establishment) Act, has no original jurisdiction in any state. But it takes up the cases on three grounds if a high court or the Supreme Court asks it to take up a case, if the state government asks the agency to take up a case, and if the state government has given general consent on certain acts to take up cases. According to top agency sources, in the case of Kerala, the consent was given to the agency to investigate cases relating to acts, including NDPS Act and Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA). In the Life Mission case, in addition to probing the violation of FCRA regulations, the agency has also slapped PCA as well, on the basis of the petition that the agency received. General consent is usually given to help the CBI seamlessly conduct its inquiry into cases of corruption and almost all states have given such consent. But there has been instances when the state governments have turned hostile with the Centre and had withdrawn the consent given to the agency. If a state government withdraws general consent, the agency will not be able to register any fresh case in the state, involving a central government official or a private person stationed in these two states without getting case-specific consent. In November 2018, the then Andhra government and Bengal government had withdrawn the consents given to the agency, citing that the BJP-led Centre was trying to destabilise the state governments. States like Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka (restored later) also had withdrawn the general consent given to CBI. But if a state government withdraws consent, the agency can still investigate old cases registered when general consent existed. The CBI can also conduct searches even if the consent is withdrawn, on the cases that are already registered. However, even if there is no general consent, there is no bar on the CBI probing cases relating to FCRA violations as it is a Central subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fcra-state-had-roped-in-cbi-earlier/articleshow/78353684.cms||KP Saikiran
September 28, 2020||Goa||Mangroves on banks of the Zuari under attack in Goa||PANAJI: Two cases of large-scale felling of the mangrove cover on the banks of the Zuari—in the khazan land at Neura and by the riverside area of Agasaim—have come to light recently. Some farmers and villagers from Neura have complained to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) and other authorities that a significant portion of the mangroves on the internal bundh and pathways of Neura O Grande have been hacked. “Large-scale cutting of mangroves on stretches of pathways/bundhs is being done during the last two to three days under the garb of clearing of bushes,” their complaint stated. A few months back, an extensive cover of the mangroves had already been cleared in Neura, on the Agasaim border. This, residents said, was done to lay a road for carrying mud to repair a broken bundh. Interestingly, most of the fields in this vast khazan, stretching from Agasaim and Neura to Corlim and Carambolim, are lying fallow. In Agasaim, mangroves in an area of around 3,000 sqm at Dandi, located on the Zuari’s northern bank, have been felled. The illegal clearing had been carried out much earlier, but after Ramrao Wagh, a local social worker, came to know about it, he filed a complaint with GCZMA, Agasaim panchayat and other authorities. But no action has not been taken so far. “Though I have informed the authorities, officially no communication has come to me about any action in the matter,” he said. While Wagh intends to proceed with the next course of action, sources said that GCZMA is contemplating an inspection at the Agasaim site shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangroves-on-banks-of-the-zuari-under-attack/articleshow/78354833.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||FDCM hires ‘ineligible’ retired staff, claims panel||Nagpur: The Forest Employees Coordination Committee (FECC), association of retired employees, has alleged that ineligible retired employees have been appointed on contractual basis for years in Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). FECC president PW Muneshwar said information received under RTI shows that four retired staffers — AB Patwardhan, SS Uware, SR Nichat and SS Jaiswal — are working on contract for years together. As per RTI information, selection committee headed by FDCM MD had declared Patwardhan, Uware and Nichat as ineligible on April 22, 2016 & Jaiswal on September 11, 2018. Still, all are at work. With their contract coming to an end on September 30 this year, FECC has demanded no extension should be given to them. Muneshwar said appointment of these retired personnel is in violation of GR issued on December 17, 2016. These retired employees were granted three-month extension in June 2020 and are likely to get extension for 11 months. “We have already submitted a detailed representation to FDCM MD N Rambabu, CMO and forest minister on September 14,” he said. The GR says there should be a panel of candidates from which retired officials should be engaged for defined period as per requirement for specific work. As per the GR such contractual appointments should be only 10% of the sanctioned posts. Though the GR says a person can be appointed for maximum period of three years only, several retired officials are working for more than 5-8 years. Muneshwar says the task assigned to these retired officials is of routine nature for which staff is already there. The appointing authority has never evaluated the work done by these employees and no daily worksheets are maintained for their work but salaries are released regularly, he claimed. On the contrary, Rambabu says these retired staffers are appointed considering their rich experience. Regular employees are incompetent to prepare balance sheets and profit & loss account statements, said Rambabu. Muneshwar, however, said there is no such provision in the said GR to engage experienced person on contract basis. Also, FDCM should take action on incompetent employees by initiating action against them, he said. Rambabu says, “As far as the December GR is concerned, FDCM is a company and it pays employees from its own funds. Hence, there is flexibility. After 2013, the amended Companies Act has provision for stringent penal action if accounts are not submitted. Therefore, we need experienced staff for accounts section.” Muneshwar countered saying, “There is trained staff in FDCM but the office of controller of accounts & financial adviser (CAFA) is favouring select retired staff and depriving regular employees of promotion. As per the RTI reply, 16 posts are lying with the accounts department. FDCM cannot be above the GR and it has to take government permission for every decision that involves financial implications.” “In the name of annual accounts, extensions are given year after year. CAFA is responsible for finalizing accounts and even after that account statements cannot be completed on time, responsibility should be fixed,” said Muneshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fdcm-hires-ineligible-retired-staff-claims-panel/articleshow/78355259.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Positivity rate below 8% after eight weeks in Bengal||KOLKATA: The Covid positivity rate in Bengal has slipped below the 8%-mark for the first time in just over eight weeks. With the number of daily fresh cases remaining stable in the past few weeks, the positivity rate got pushed down to 7.9%, first on Saturday, then again on Sunday. The last time it stood below 8% was on August 1. “The positivity rate in West Bengal is currently below the national average. The drop has been gradual and constant for weeks now,” said a state health department official. Since August 1, there had been a persistent rise in the positivity rate that touched close to 9% on September 21. The rate started climbing down from the next day reaching below 8% on Saturday. At present the average national positivity rate is a little above 8%. Even as Bengal has been seeing a constant gradual dip, what concerns health experts is the drop in testing in the past two weeks. “No doubt the positivity rate is declining but at the same time we are seeing a dip in the number of tests. If positivity rate was dropping despite the tests going up, it should have given a more clear reflection of the Covid-19 infection scenario,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. The number of daily tests had shot up to 47,131 on September 12, the highest so far. Since then there is a gradual decline in number. On Saturday, it was 43,618. Health officials admitted that drop in number of daily tests but said it was because the number of people coming for tests is going down slowly. “The number of tests going down is true for pan India. It is not specific to West Bengal. Nowadays, many people are not coming forward for tests and are preferring to stay in home isolation. The fear factor weaning away is one of the reasons for the tests going down slightly,” said Pradip Mitra, former DME, who is now currently acting as the coordinator for management and containment of Covid-19 in the state. Health experts pointed out the possibility of private labs using less sensitive kits and gene probes after the price capping leading to a drop in positivity rate. “Factors like deploying of more rapid antigen (RAT) tests because negative by this method may not be true negative, variable RT-PCR kit performance based on different gene probes and also patients preferring not to go for tests immediately could also contribute to the drop in positivity rate,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI. Of the cumulative of 30,98,657 tests done so far, 10,57,947 have been done using RAT. Health officials, though, maintained that at each RAT, negative results of symptomatic patients are being re-confirmed by RT-PCR. “RAT is being deployed majorly in most of the states. We are being very careful to get all negative samples of symptomatic patients checked by RT-PCR. Still, there’s possibility of missing out on a few cases, but that will be just about one in a hundred,” said Mitra, who also specialises in pathology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/positivity-rate-below-8-after-eight-weeks/articleshow/78353685.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 28, 2020||Allahabad||Soon, free spoken English course for government school teachers in UP||PRAYAGRAJ: Teachers of around 1.60 lakh government-run primary and upper primary schools of UP will get a chance to improve their pronunciation and teaching skills through tailor-made free video course in spoken English. Experts at English Language Teaching Institute (ELTI), Prayagraj have designed this special course. Following orders from state government, teachers of government-run primary and upper primary schools will be given online training through this course. The initiative is aimed at improving educational standards. It will be mandatory for language teachers of schools to attend the course online. ELTI will also make its spoken English videos available on its YouTube channel. “The course comprises 120 modules and each of them has a duration of about 10 to 12 minutes. The full course is about 24 hours and will soon be available through the ‘Diksha’ portal of the Union ministry of education for teachers,” said ELTI principal Skand Shukla. The course has been designed by ELTI after studying such courses already available in the private sector, he added. He said that experts at ELTI saw that none of the currently available courses could provide the required knowledge of English language along with practice in speaking for teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/soon-free-spoken-english-course-for-govt-school-teachers/articleshow/78355255.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru faces oxygen supply challenge for Covid patients||MYSURU: Due to the large number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the district administration has decided to increase the capacity of beds in ICUs and general wards in hospitals in the district. However, the big challenge in increasing the capacity of beds is in streamlining the supply of oxygen. “We are planning for 50 ICU beds in the trauma care centre. We also want nearly 700 more beds for patients referred by the government to private hospitals. Adding to this, I am also requesting private hospitals to increase the number of HFNO units and ICU beds,” said deputy commissioner Sharat B. It can be recalled that till Saturday evening, Mysuru had 5,546 active Covid-19 cases. Till now the district has registered 32,348 Covid-19 cases. One of the common complaints heard from the relatives of Covid-19 patients is that no beds are available in hospitals, forcing them to knock on the doors of several hospitals and use the influence of politicians and officials. However, the biggest challenge in front of the district administration is ensuring sufficient supply of oxygen. Keeping this in mind, the district administration has made an appeal to tanker owners. Sharat appealed to tanker owners, “Liquid oxygen is manufactured in Ballari, and the agencies transporting oxygen to Mysuru do not have spare tankers to fulfil the additional demand, due to which tanker owners here are requested to join hands with the district administration in this regard. It has been informed that tankers carrying nitrogen or argon can also be used for this purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-faces-oxygen-supply-challenge-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78352470.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 28, 2020||Bareilly||13-year-old boy killed by leopard near Dudhwa, second death in 2 weeks||BAREILLY: A 13-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in Banshibeli village near the Dudhwa forest range in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday morning. The student of class 8 was carrying lunch for his father to a nearby field when the leopard dragged him away. People working in adjacent fields rushed to his rescue but it was too late. The forest department was informed and the minor’s body was found barely 50 metres from the spot where he was lifted. This is the second incident of a child being dragged away and killed by a leopard in the area in two weeks. After inspecting pug marks of an adult leopard in the area, forest ranger Anil Shah and his team concluded it might be the same animal that killed a 12-year-old boy in Chamaranpurva village on September 13. “Two cages had been placed at the site of the first attack but the leopard wasn’t caught. It may have changed its location,” said divisional forest officer Anil Patel. Chamaranpurva and Banshibeli villages are 8 km apart and both located along the Ghaghra river. The forest department suspects the leopard may have moved along the course of the river. “We suspect it to be a leopard attack, but are waiting for the autopsy report to confirm it. The boy’s family is eligible for compensation under the state’s Calamity Act in any case, as the incident occurred outside the forest area. We will monitor the movement of the leopard to avoid more such cases of man-animal conflict,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/13-year-old-boy-killed-by-leopard-near-dudhwa-second-death-in-2-weeks/articleshow/78351701.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||TNSTC gets more passengers, revenue||Coimbatore: Weeks after the state government relaxed the lockdown norms and allowed both the public and private buses to resume operations by adhering to certain guidelines, bus operators said they have been seeing a gradual increase in the number of passengers and revenue, which were, however, nowhere near the pre-lockdown period. While town buses resumed operations from September 1, inter-district buses hit the roads again in the state on September 7. Bus operators were directed to strictly ensure that passengers wear face masks, operate buses only with 60% seating capacity to maintain social distancing among the passengers and clean the vehicles with disinfectants often, among other standard operating procedures. The Coimbatore division of Tamil Nadu State Transportation Corporation (TNSTC) is now operating only 1,250 of the 2,600 buses, which is a little more than 50% of its fleet. They include 450 town buses and 800 mofussil buses, and they are operated in four districts - Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode and Tirupur. At least 265 town buses and 160 mofussil buses are operated in Coimbatore alone. A TNSTC official said, “We have been operating buses based on requirement. As the passenger traffic is high during the peak hours of 8am to 10am and 5pm to 7pm, we have increased the number of buses and trips during the period. When the passenger movement is less, buses would be sent to depots. We have officials at all the bus stands to analyse the passenger count every hour.” According to the official, the division is seeing 4.5 lakh passengers a day on an average, generating Rs 1 crore revenue. He said they were earning just Rs 35 lakh a day in the initial days of resumption of services. “Now, Coimbatore district alone accounts for 2.65 lakh passengers and Rs 40 lakh to Rs 45 lakh revenue.” He said while the number of passengers and revenue had been increasing gradually ever since the bus operations resumed, they were nowhere near the pre-lockdown period. “We are now generating only one-third of the revenue that we used to make before the lockdown. With this revenue, it is extremely difficult to manage the expenses. We are, hence, expecting assistance from the state government.” Private bus owners, meanwhile, said they were operating only 30% of the total buses in the district. There are close to 350 private buses in the district. They are planning to operate all of them from October 1. V Duraikannan, president, Coimbatore district bus owners’ association, said they were earning just 30% of what they used to before the lockdown. “We are shelling out money from our pockets to meet the daily expenses on running the buses.” Pointing out that they resumed services with just 10% of their total buses, he said they had been gradually increasing the number of buses based on requirement. “School and college students were our major customers. Now that the educational institutions are closed, it has a huge impact on our business. People are also hesitating to step out of their houses unnecessarily for fear of contracting Covid-19. We think it might take at least six to seven months for the normalcy to return,” Duraikannan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnstc-gets-more-passengers-revenue/articleshow/78354838.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 28, 2020||Bareilly||Covid positive prisoner escapes from L2 facility in Pilibhit, probe ordered||PILIBHIT: A novel coronavirus positive prisoner of the district jail absconded from the L2 facility here late on Saturday. The hospital staff came to know of 28-year-old Shashank Bajaj’s disappearance only when the doctor on duty cane on round on Sunday. Prior to this, three Covid-19 patients, including an under trial, escaped from the L1 facility at the same medical institution. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav has ordered an inquiry while the police have lodged an FIR. District jail superintendent Anoop Manav Shastri said the prisoner had been shifted to Pilibhit district jail from Badaun jail on September 2. He was facing trial in Badaun in four cases registered against him for murder, attempt to murder and under the Gangster Act. He used to appear before the court on assigned dates through video-conferencing, he said. Bajaj had tested positive on September 18, following which he had been admitted to L1 facility on September 19. He was asymptomatic, but after he developed fever the next day, he was shifted to L2 facility, Shastri said. Chief medical officer Dr Seema Agarwal said that the prisoner was present in the ward up to 11.30 pm on Saturday. He sneaked out in the dead of night taking away a fellow patient’s mobile phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-ve-prisoner-escapes-from-l2-facility-probe-ordered/articleshow/78351707.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vadodara||Councillor killed in accident||Vadodara: Former vice-president and sitting councillor of Jhalod municipality died after he was run over by a car on Sunday morning. The deceased, Hiren Patel, was out on a morning walk near his house at Muvalnaka when an unidentified car driver ran him over. Patel was thrown in the bushes on the side of the road due to the impact. Some minutes later, an acquaintance noticed an injured Patel lying in the bushes. Patel was taken to a private hospital from where he was referred to Vadodara. However, he succumbed to his injuries on the way. “We are investigating the footages of the nearby CCTV cameras. So far, we have learnt that a car had run him over. We are trying to find out more details about the car,” said a police official. Patel had been elected thrice as a councillor and had served as vice-president during one of those terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/councillor-killed-in-accident/articleshow/78352398.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||CM orders high-level probe over electrocution of compounder, announces immediate compensation of Rs 4L||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday ordered a high-level probe into the death of a compounder who was electrocuted after a high-tension wire fell on him in Haldwani on Friday evening. Incidentally, 29-year-old Kamal Rawat was going to his clinic when the high-tension wire snapped and fell on him near a mall in Haldwani on Friday morning. Taking serious note of the death, CM Rawat ordered power secretary Radhika Jha to hold an inquiry into the accident and directed that strict action must be taken against officials found guilty. Power secretary Radhika Jha has set up a three-member committee headed by executive engineer Amit Anand to visit the spot and submit a report on the issue. Prima facie, the cause behind the accident seems to be the negligence of a lineman but the exact reason would be ascertained only after an inquiry. To stop the recurrence of such incidents in future, CM Rawat has pressed for the need of training of technical staff of the department. Meanwhile, CM also announced an immediate compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the family of the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-high-level-probe-over-electrocution-of-compounder-announces-immediate-compensation-of-rs-4l/articleshow/78352499.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 28, 2020||Hubballi||Residents of Vidyavana Colony draw rangoli around potholes demanding road repair||HUBBALLI: Residents of Vidyavana Colony staged a protest on Sunday to draw the attention of the authorities to highlight the problems in their area. The residents of the Vidyavana Colony behind Rambhapuri Kalyana Mantap in Vidyanagar gathered in the area, drew rangoli around potholes that were filled with water and fixed photographs of minister Jagadish Shettar and corporator Mahesh Burli in the trenches. Vidyavana Colony, where about 100 families live, is one of the posh localities in the city. “We moved from a clumsy and thickly populated Veerapur Oni to this residential extension area seeking better amenities but we regret our decision considering the sorry state of affairs in the locality,” rued Santosh Pawar, president of the residents’ association. “Since three years we have been demanding good roads and UGD connection in the area. The entire area is filled with weeds and shrubs and has turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes and shelter for pigs. The roads are in extremely bad condition,” he said. “ We met local MLA and minister Jagdish Shettar and corporator Mahesh Burli many times but what we got was just an assurance. We are fed up by this negligent attitude of the elected representatives. We have submitted memorandum to the HDMC also but they have not initiated any action so solve the problems plauging our athority,” he added. Vinay Jadhav, Vinod Katwe, Raghav Shetty and other residents of the area took part in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/residents-draw-rangoli-around-potholes-demanding-road-repair/articleshow/78352491.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit admin allots 1.5 acres on Phulhar lake banks for turtle rescue, research centre||PILIBHIT: The district administration has approved allotment of 1.5 acres of land on the banks of Phulhar lake, where river Gomti originates, in Pilibhit's Madhotanda tehsil for setting up a turtle rescue and research centre under the Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), a US-based organization working for the conservation of the amphibian. Pilibhit is home to 10 identified species of turtles, including seven categorized in schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, out of the total 26 species found in India. Phulhar lake has a sizable population of the Indian soft shell turtle, one of the schedule I species. District magistrate Pulkit Khare said, "Directions have been issued to revenue officials to execute the work on a warfooting.” The decision has paved the way for identifying the turtle species in various wetlands in the district and to formulate strategies for their conservation. The plan was pending for the last two years since the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) had identified Pilibhit-Kheri region as one of the five most sensitive destinations in UP prone to poaching and illegal trading of turtles. Shailendra Singh, India programme director of TSA, said, “As the last turtle survey was conducted 10 years ago, there is an urgent need for reviewing the present status of turtle species in Pilibhit to find out any increase or decrease in their numbers and the actual loss to their habitats due to encroachments on the water bodies. The proposed project is aimed at carrying out a five-year research and conservation work in its first phase." The project also envisages the setting up of an interpretation centre for a better understanding about this nature's scavenger, threats to its survival and role in aquatic eco-systems, said Singh. The project proposal to the tune of Rs 99 lakh had already been sent to the principal secretary, forests, but it was pending for the allotment of requisite land by the district administration, the TSA director said. “As TSA has now been made an integral part of Namami Gange project and the turtle’s survival is closely linked with a wetlands, we have included the wetland conservation in our project,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-admin-allots-1-5-acres-on-phulhar-lake-banks-for-turtle-rescue-research-centre/articleshow/78351719.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||JEE (Advanced) held with social distancing protocols in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The JEE (Advanced) saw 96% candidates writing the exam on Sunday, which was organised by IIT-Delhi this year. In the Kharagpur zone that represents Bengal, there were seven exam centres — one each at Asansol, Behrampore, Durgapur, Kalyani, Kharagpur and two in Kolkata. TCS iON organised the exam on behalf of the IITs. Total 1,51,311 candidates wrote the Paper-I while 1,50,900 appeared for the Paper-II across the country. The JEE Advanced, , the entrance exam to the different IITs, is conducted on the basis of cut-off ranks taken from JEE Mains that was conducted by the National Testing Agency in the beginning of September. TCS iON provided around 3.4 lakh nodes or terminals for the exam because of the social distancing norms followed and candidates could only sit at alternate terminals in the exam labs. Students were given a staggered reporting time so that there was no crowding at any point from the gate to exam lab. The exam was conducted in two halves like previous years in 222 cities and 1,001 exam centres. The city had two exam centres, Kolkata (North) and Kolkata (South). The first half of the exam was conducted from 9am to noon while the second half was from 2.30pm to 5.30pm. The exams in physics, chemistry and mathematics were conducted in both the slots in different formats and there was no change in pattern from the last year. However, students in the city said that the physics paper was tougher than usual. Paper-II was tougher than Paper-I and the candidates rued that it was lengthy and based on a medley of various concepts, which required a longer than usual writing time. Maths, too, was tricky, felt the candidates, though chemistry was easier, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jee-advanced-held-with-social-distancing-protocols/articleshow/78353716.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Centre allows virtual hearings on coastal plan||PANAJI: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Saturday said that the Union environment ministry has granted permission to hold virtual public hearings to complete the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) 2011. Cabral had written to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to allow public hearing in virtual mode. “We will call 100 people to attend a virtual hearing. We are yet to decide on how to conduct it,” Cabral told TOI. Once the CZMP is received from the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, a public notice of 30 days will be given and the plan will be made available online. Cabral said that a few people will be given physical hearing on a first-come-first-serve basis. Goa government’s earlier request for permission to hold virtual public hearings on the CZMP was rejected by the Centre. Recently, Goa has requested for yet another extension to prepare its CZMP. In a submission before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) it has sought time up to March 10, 2021, stating that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected work on the plan. Earlier, the tribunal had given the state an extension of up to January 31, 2020, to submit its comments to the NCSCM, Chennai. The state government has completed the exercise of mapping bunds and sluice gates across the state. On December 10, Goa had asked all its local bodies to prepare their own CZMPs and submit them on or before December 20 so that they could be forwarded to the NCSCM. The CZMPs, as prepared by the local bodies, were forwarded to the Chennai-based body on January 7, 2020, in compliance with the NGT’s directions that the process should be completed before January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-allows-virtual-hearings-on-coastal-plan/articleshow/78354846.cms||Murari Shetye
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Three Covid deaths in Wardha, 106 new +ves||WARDHA: A-50-year-old man from Samudrapur, 65-year-old woman from Hinganghat and 69-year-old man from Ashti died due to coronavirus on Sunday. Moreover, 106 persons turned out to be Covid positive out of 520 reports and the caseload of the district reached 4,258. Also, 94 patients were discharged after they were cured of coronavirus on Sunday. With this, the total of cured patients has reached 2,200, while the Covid toll reached 115 after three more deaths were reported in the day. The number of patients undergoing treatment is 1,943. The new patients, 69 men and 37 women reported today, include 60 from Wardha, Hinganghat 16, Selu 12, Deoli 7, Arvi 5, Ashti 3, Samudrapur 2 and Karanja 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-covid-deaths-in-wardha-106-new-ves/articleshow/78355318.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 75% in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: For the first time in two months, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate crossed the 75% mark on Sunday. The state was able to achieve the feat after 813 infected people recovered from the virus on the day. With this, the number of people who have defeated the virus in the state shot up to 35,462. According to the statistics of the health department, the maximum number of patients have recovered from the infection in a week in the last one week. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand reported 764 fresh cases of novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 47,045. Among those found infected on the day was an official from the district administration. Subsequently, it was decided that the collectorate will remain shut on Monday and Tuesday. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 241 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 139 from Haridwar, 90 from Pauri, 89 from Udham Singh Nagar, 50 from Nainital, 36 from Uttarkashi, 25 cases each from Chamoli, Champawat, and Tehri, 16 from Rudraprayag, 11 from Pithoragarh, nine from Almora, and eight from Bageshwar. Besides fresh cases, deaths of eight Covid-19 patients were also reported in the state, taking the toll of coronavirus to 574.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-75-in-ukhand/articleshow/78352507.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 28, 2020||Goa||Goa Real estate sector says bribed make up to 8% of project cost||PANAJI: Days after the Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) expressed anguish over bureaucratic hassles and corruption, the real estate sector has joined the chorus. CREDAI and the Indian Institute of Architects-Goa said that the delay in approvals and high amount of corruption are damaging the real estate sector. Developers said that bribes account for 5-8% of the cost of residential or commercial projects in the state, with developers forced to pay due to possible penalties being imposed at a later stage by the real estate regulatory authority (RERA) for completion delays. One of the biggest grouses of the sector is the practice of all files being sent to the minister or chairman of a planning and development authority (PDA). “Today, not a single file will get cleared, even if it is within the law, unless you meet the minister or chairman and come to an understanding,” said a builder on condition of anonymity. Real estate developers preferred not to come on record for fear of reprisals or their projects being rejected. Aside from the infrastructure tax that builders pay the government, developers are forced to pay for power and water connection aside from other clearances. “All this adds at least 5-8% to a project cost. Corruption is almost institutionalised,” said a South Goa-based architect. Multiple delays in clearing projects on time forced a real estate developer to approach the high court of Bombay. The developer said that the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) failed to approve a revision in the project plan since February 7. The court, in its order dated September 9, asked SGPDA to process the application in accordance with the law and in a time-bound manner. “The real estate sector is mired in a quagmire of old laws and arbitrary decision making,” said CREDAI president Nilesh Salkar. Salkar said that the existing laws and complex processes allow for easy manipulation, a point that chairman of Indian Institutes of Architects (IIA), Goa Chapter, Mangesh Prabhugaonkar, agreed to. “The sector finds it tough to get approvals within 60 days because of multiple dealing hands, varied interpretations and multiple departments,” said Prabhugaonkar. In order to really improve ease of doing business, the government should bring in a single-window mechanism, implement the online building plan approval management system (BPAMS), grant technical clearance for three years instead of the current one, and create a single portal for all circulars pertaining to the construction sector. “In the guise of ease of doing business, many departments have issued circulars directing files to the government, which is causing a lot of stress in the sector,” said Salkar. “Representations to the chief minister do receive a sympathetic hearing, but unfortunately for us, nothing has changed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/real-estate-sector-says-bribed-make-up-to-8-of-project-cost/articleshow/78354845.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: ‘Angel on a bicycle’ saves 4 lives, vanishes sans trace||RAJKOT: It was a providential escape for the Shamja family from Virpur who finds their second chance at life to be truly an act of God. If it wouldn’t have been that ‘angel’ who arrived in the scene on his bicycle, the story would have ended in the bereavement of four more lives along with that of their three-year-old girl, who couldn’t be rescued after the car they were all travelling in plunged into a natural drain near Gondal on Saturday night. Risking his own life, the man plunged into the waters till he could rescue one person after the other, except for the little girl. Like his appearance, this faceless saviour’s disappearance too was mired in mystery as he soon vanished into the night without a trace, bicycle and all. Vipul Shamja, who owns a water park in Babra, his wife and three kids met with the gruesome accident in their car while travelling to Virpur, their native place. As the car was at high speed, Shamja could not control his vehicle while negotiating a sharp turn, and the vehicle veered off to fall in the 17-foot deep natural drain. Supposedly a farm labourer, this tribal man saw the car falling in the drain and did not waste time and jumped into the waters. He first rescued Shamja’s 18-month-old son and then a five-year-old daughter. By that time a local arrived in the scene. The ‘rescuer’ handed over the two kids to the local, who owns a petrol pump nearby, and again jumped into the drain risking his life, this time saving the couple one by one. After being rescued, Shamja realized that his three-year-old daughter Mitashi was still missing. Upon hearing this, the saviour dived again, but could not find Mitashi. While the traumatized family was trying to gather themselves, the saviour quietly left from there — disappearing into the night. Later, the car was fished out using a crane and Mitashi’s body was also found by local divers around 1 am on Sunday. Police are now hunting for the unidentified man to reward him for his bravery. “The petrol pump owner gave his description but said that in the rush of things failed to ask his name. We are looking for him in nearby farms and orchards based on the description,” said assistant sub-inspector J V Vala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/angel-on-a-bicycle-saves-4-lives-vanishes-sans-trace/articleshow/78352522.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Fake news analysis, cancer research & arsenic study: Bhatnagar winners show the way||KOLKATA: Critical breakthroughs on a range of issues, from tackling arsenic in drinking water and investigating how fake news spread to why cells turn cancerous, earned the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize to three scientists from Bengal on Saturday. They are among the six from the state who figure on the list of winners. Of the three, two have also been educated for a large part in the city. In the course of his research, IIT-Kharagpur geology faculty Abhijit Mukherjee has found the shocking fact that ground water in many places from Barrackpore to Baranagar, in New Town and large parts of south Kolkata are arsenic contaminated and can pose severe health hazards to users. Aquifers in these places carry Himalayan sediments that is the primary cause of the high level of arsenic here. The research that fetched him the highest award in science in the country also shows that the level of arsenic in water in Murshidabad and Nadia are as high as 93%. He has been able to pinpoint that arsenic can be traced to the tectonic movement of the Eurasian and the Indian plates. “In fact, I have been able to apply this theory to the Rockies and Andes, too, and so we have an answer to arsenic contamination globally now,” said Mukherjee. This former student of South Point School, Ashutosh College and Ballygunge Science College did his doctoral and post-doc research in the US. At the entrance examination of the Indian Statistical Institute, faculty Rajat Subhra Hazra had asked a question which went viral after the exam and it fascinated him to see even the twitterati react to it. He was already working on complex networks and was developing mathematical models to explain certain kinds of behaviour. “Whether it is a social network like Facebook or Twitter or a biological network, there are nodes and connections and it is these connections that uncertainties of a system are produced...” Hazra said. His mathematical model can be applied to find out why a certain news or picture goes viral or how people react to fake news as it spreads or even how the deadly coronavirus spreads, says this former student of St Xavier’s College and Calcutta University, who went on to do his post doc research in Switzerland. In her laboratory at Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science at Jadavpur, where Jyotirmayee Dash works as a faculty, she has been trying to find answers to why certain cells develop cancer and the behaviour of these cells. She applied principles of chemical biology to modulate the structure and function of nucleic acid targets and hopes to develop therapeutic tools for anti-cancer. She was largely educated in Odisha, before moving to IIT-Kanpur for doctoral studies. In the past, her questions on RNA won her the Humboldt Fellowship at Berlin and Marie Curie Fellowship at the University of Cambridge, before she chose to return to Bengal as a faculty of IISER first and now IACS. “I am doing my bit to find a solution to cancer…” she says humbly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fake-news-analysis-cancer-research-arsenic-study-bhatnagar-winners-show-the-way/articleshow/78353736.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 28, 2020||Goa||3 deaths at EDM: No viscera report even after eight months in Goa||PANAJI: Even as the state grapples with the drug menace, the cause of death of three youth outside the Sunburn electronic dance music (EDM) continues to remain a mystery eight months later. A senior Goa police officer said that they have been unable to make any headway in the case as they are yet to receive the viscera report. In January 2020, Goa police wrote to the Central Science Forensic Laboratory (CSFL), Hyderabad, to expedite the chemical analysis of the viscera. The three had died outside the venue of the Sunburn Klassique EDM event which was held from December 27 to 29 at Vagator. An official said the deaths have one thing in common — cerebral and pulmonary oedema and, at the time, police had said that only the chemical analysis reports will tell with accuracy what caused the oedema. Doctors at Goa Medical College (GMC) have reserved the cause of death and are awaiting CSFL’s report. The three were Sai Prasad, 32, from Hyderabad, an IT engineer, Venkat, 31, a Visakhapatnam-based businessman, and Phanideep Khota, an automobile engineer from Hyderabad who worked as a sales executive in Bengaluru. Prasad and Venkat were in Goa to attend the EDM festival. They were among 150 people standing in queue on the first day of the festival waiting to enter the venue. The gates hadn’t opened at the time the incident took place. Police had said that one of the two first began to shiver, and the other immediately held him to prevent him from falling. Two others also came forward to help, and they took them to the police outpost. At the police outpost, while the first man was being administered first aid, the other also began shivering. An ambulance was immediately summoned, and both were shifted to the Mapusa district hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead. On December 29, Khota lost consciousness outside the festival locale at 9.30pm and was rushed to the first-aid centre at the venue. He was later shifted to a private hospital at Vagator where he was declared dead. Khota had arrived in Goa along with five other friends on December 28 to celebrate New Year. The group was staying at Calangute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-deaths-at-edm-no-viscera-report-even-after-eight-months/articleshow/78354850.cms||Murari Shetye
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||285 recoveries, 205 new Covid cases in Amravati||AMRAVATI: For third day on the trot, the district on Sunday posted more recoveries than new Covid cases to give a semblance of relief to the people who are fast coming to terms with the coronavirus. While 285 patients walked home recovered, 205 new cases occupied the beds for treatment on Sunday. The recovered patients took the tally of recovered patients past 10,000-mark to 10,033. The district’s recovery percentage was 79.10. The new cases took the caseload to 12,683, which included 274 deaths. Civil surgeon’s office reported six deaths again on Sunday. These included four males (aged 63, 52, 78 and 70) from city and two males (aged 50 and 68) from the rural belt of Adgaon Bujruk and Morshi. This left 2,376 under treatment, including 1,355 in Covid hospitals in the district, 12 under treatment in Nagpur and 1,009 placed in home isolation. The district has 11 Covid hospitals and six Covid health care centres. Their collective bed capacity including general, oxygen and ICU wards is 1,457. While 917 are abed at these centres, 543 beds are still vacant, a health department release said. Barring Daryapur and Morshi health care centres, patients are on bed at rest of the centres, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/285-recoveries-205-new-covid-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/78355321.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Ganga Sabha sit-in, protesting Ganga’s “escape channel” status, enters 7th day||Haridwar: The sit-in staged by Ganga Sabha, the apex body of priests in Haridwar, to protest a government order (GO) passed in December, 2016, by the then Congress government, declaring Ganga an “escape channel”, entered its seventh day on Sunday. Over the course of the week, several other organisations, including Matri Sadan, another priests’ body, Vyapar Mandal, Haridwar traders’ body, have lent their support to the demonstration. The protestors want the current BJP government to revoke the orders and despite CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s repeated reassurances, the priests are upset over the “inordinate delay”. Speaking to TOI, Ganga Sabha officials said, “Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik had told us that the government will go to the Supreme Court if necessary and could even bring in an ordinance to name the Ganga at Har-ki-Pauri as ‘Dev Dhara’. The CM had also given a similar assurance soon after joining office in 2017. Yet, the Ganga still officially bears the epithet of an ‘escape channel’.” Meanwhile, Haridwar-based advocate and social activist Arun Bhadauriya has sent a legal notice to former chief minister Harish Rawat, asking him to come to Haridwar along with his Cabinet ministers to “apologise to Ganga and the priests”. To recall, Harish Rawat had visited Haridwar on July 14 this year and met Bada Udasin Akhada seers, explaining the circumstances under which the December 2016 GO was issued. Written copies of his apology were distributed to Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad and Ganga Sabha. Speaking to TOI, he said, “I haven’t received a legal notice yet. The GO was issued under pressing circumstances and it doesn’t have any meaning three and a half years on. I might as well send a copy of the apology to Arun Bhadauriya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ganga-sabha-sit-in-protesting-gangas-escape-channel-status-enters-7th-day/articleshow/78352525.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||2.6 crore people in Maharashtra above poverty line got rations in 2 months||MUMBAI: During the lockdown, it was not only those below the poverty line who availed themselves of subsidised grains from the state ration system, but also 2.6 crore beneficiaries who are classified as “above the poverty line”. The 2.6 crore figure is for May and June and indicates the severe income stress in the state at the time. The purchases were through a state scheme during the lockdown which allowed APL ration card holders to buy subsidised grains, although at a higher rate than in the state public distribution system. From 2014, when the National Food Security Act came into force in the state, the government discontinued the supply of ration grains to APL card holders. Only people from the lowest income categories were allowed in the ration system, where grains are sold at Rs 2 and 3 per kg under the NFSA. From May, the state allowed all APL card holders to avail themselves of grains at the subsidised price of Rs 8 and Rs 12 per kg to cushion the blow of the lockdown.The state funded the scheme, which is still ongoing. Of the 71 lakh APL cards in the state, as many as 38.3 lakh cards were used to buy the subsidised grains in May. This accounted for 54% of the total APL cards and comprised 1.65 crore beneficiaries. In June, when the economy began unlocking, the number of ration cards were used to make purchases under the scheme fell to 22 lakh. This accounted for 31% of the total cards and comprised 95.5 lakh beneficiaries. “The fact is that those classified as APL are also poor. Their demand for subsidised grains shows that they need to be included in the ration system on a permanent basis,” Taruna Kumbhar of the Ration Kruti Samiti said. To be eligible for an APL ration card in rural areas, the beneficiary’s annual income has to fall between Rs 44,000 and Rs 1 lakh per year. In urban areas, the range is Rs 59,000 to Rs 1 lakh per year. This means that in urban areas, an APL card holder’s monthly income averages between just Rs 4,916 and Rs 8,333. “It is difficult to survive in a city like Mumbai on this income,” Kumbhar said. There was a drop of 42% in demand from APL card holders between May and June. Foodgrain distribution during this period declined from 82,638 tonnes to 47,766 tonnes. Officials said this could be because the government started lifting the lockdown in June and work opportunities resumed. “When people could afford better grains from the market, they may have stopped buying ration grains,” an official from the food and civil supplies department said. Giving another reason, Kumbhar said many migrants from cities started returning to their villages in June and found it difficult to claim their entitlements there. “In many cases, ration card portability did not take place. This may explain the decline in the lifting of ration grains in June. Also, we received many complaints from APL card holders about receiving only a small share of their ration quota. This may have put them off from returning to the ration shop,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-6cr-people-in-state-above-poverty-line-got-rations-in-2-mths/articleshow/78355324.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
September 28, 2020||Bareilly||Budauan: Man who cut wife’s belly never allowed 5 daughters to study or step out of house||BAREILLY: The man who had slit the belly of his pregnant wife open to find out the gender of his unborn child in Budaun in Uttar Pradesh nine days ago ill-treated his five daughters and never allowed them to go to school or even step out of the house. The couple’s daughters -- Kajal (19) Nirjala (15), Bhavna (7), Khushboo (5) and Rishika (3) -- said their father never loved them nor shower any affection as he always wanted a boy. The eldest daughter, Kajal -- who was married at the age of 17 -- said, “I have come to look after my sisters as our relatives from my father's side are unhappy as he is lodged in jail. When I came to see my sisters after the incident, there was nothing to eat in the house. All my sisters are illiterate and have not seen the outside world.” Nirjala told TOI, “We all are very scared and are having sleepless nights. These days we always pray so that our mother gets well and return home from hospital soon. I want to go to school, and given a chance, I would study hard and find myself a job to prove that am as capable as any boy.” While their mother, Anita Devi, is currently undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, their father, Pannalal, is lodged in jail. Anita’s condition is showing improvement and was shifted to the general ward. Her treatment is expected to continue for some more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-who-cut-wifes-belly-to-find-out-foetuss-gender-never-allowed-5-daughters-to-study-or-step-out-of-house/articleshow/78351734.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy salon with special safety measures attracts customers||Trichy: A salon in Trichy has won over the trust of customers amid Covid-19 pandemic, by adopting safety measures. By using personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to ensure safety and pulse oximeter for screening, the salon has managed to sustain the business, with the customers availing services without trepidation.Blue Mountain hair salon situated in Thillai Nagar, apart from following the mandatory screening mechanism, employs their own screening parameters to induce confidence among the public. After temperature check, the customers are screened with pulse oximeter to check the oxygen saturation level. Persons with body temperature above 37.2 degree Celsius and oxygen saturation below 95 per cent are denied services.The customers are provided with hand sanitiser and their Aadhaar number and contact information is collected. While most hairdressers in city salons wear face masks and hand gloves while going about their work, the four barbers in Blue Mountain salon are given reusable PPE kits, taking safety precautions a notch higher. “Instead of using the usual washable sheets for covering the customers, we use disposable PPE sheets. Disposable knives have replaced the conventional knives,” S Siva, owner, Blue Mountain salon said.Through word of mouth, the safety parameters were shared among the locals, thus making even the far placed residents visit the salon for safe hairdressing. “We survive since we have adapted to the changes post Covid-19 outbreak. Reception from the public was also desirable as they feel safe to visit us,” Siva added. Although the cost of haircut has escalated from Rs 160 to Rs 200 and shaving from Rs 70 to Rs 100, there has been a steady flow of customers in the past four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-salon-with-special-safety-measures-attracts-customers/articleshow/78355326.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 28, 2020||India||Women thrash Kerala vlogger for anti-feminist video, 3 booked||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Hours after three women manhandled YouTube vlogger Vijay P Nair for a video clip insulting women’s rights activists and feminists, police have registered a case against the women — veteran dubbing artist Bhagyalakshmi and activists Sreelekshmi Arackal and Diya Sana — under IPC Sections 452 (house trespass), 323 (causing hurt), 392 (robbery), 294 (b) (using abusive language) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on a complaint from the vlogger. Of these, house trespass and robbery are non-bailable offences. Nair had initially said he deserved the beating and refused to lodge a complaint. The women, who made him apologise for his offensive remarks, had seized his laptop and mobile phone and handed them over to police. Thampanoor station house officer inspector A Baiju said the FIR was filed around 11pm on Saturday after Nair changed his stance. Earlier on Saturday, police had registered two cases against Nair, one with Thampanoor police and the other with Museum police. The case with Museum police was based on a complaint from Sreelekshmi before the city police cyber cell for the offensive video he posted on his YouTube channel, while the other one was for outraging the modesty of women when they reached his residence to talk about his offensive videos. Meanwhile, police on Sunday registered yet another case against film director Santhivila Dinesh on a complaint from Bhagyalakshmi. Watch Kerala: Dubbing artist Bhagyalakshmi and a group of activists assault Youtuber for video insulting women||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/women-thrash-kerala-vlogger-for-anti-feminist-video-3-booked/articleshow/78355495.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Covid check stepped up at Samayapuram temple in Trichy||Trichy: Covid-19 surveillance has been intensified at Samayapuram Arulmigu Mariamman temple as the footfall of devotees visiting the shrine is gradually increasing. S Kannanur town panchayat, where the temple is situated, has been organising RT-PCR mass screening for the traders who have shops near the temple.At present, the footfall is only 20-30% of the pre-Covid times, but complaints have surfaced on the lapses at the shops selling pooja goods, toys and other fancy products near the temple. Based on the instructions of the public health department, the local body has conducted a meeting with the traders in the presence of revenue officials recently. The traders during the meeting were encouraged to follow the standard operating procedures to keep Covid-19 infections at bay and consider reducing the operating hours. The town panchayat on Saturday had also conducted an RT-PCR testing camp for shopkeepers on Kadaiveethi, Sannidhi Street and Temple car streets. There are around 300 shops in the streets.“Traders are very lethargic and they are not even appearing for the Covid-19 screening. By creating awareness, we managed to collect samples of 70 traders,” V Prasanna Nayagi, executive officer of the town panchayat, said.While devotees are wearing facemasks, sources said that such safety practices are lacking among the shopkeepers. Claiming that the Covid-19 cases in Samayapuram was not alarming, the town panchayat said that preventive efforts were on to avoid an outbreak. Mass screening by Samayapuram PHC health workers for traders and employees of the shops will continue for the next few days, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-check-stepped-up-at-samayapuram-temple-in-trichy/articleshow/78355337.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Residents resent corpn decision to shelve Srirangam bus stand plan||Trichy: Trichy City Corporation has initiated efforts to construct a science and technology park at the site at Srirangam, where a bus stand was planned earlier. The civic body’s plan to shelve the bus stand, a long-pending demand of the island residents, has not gone down well with the local people.Recently, the corporation floated a tender to set up a science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) park at the vacant site adjacent to Yatri Nivas on the Kollidam Flood Bank Road spending Rs 14.90 crore. The civic body has six acres of land there. But now residents raise questions on the future of the bus stand proposal. Stating that Srirangam has already enough public parks including the butterfly conservatory, residents said that the corporation should have established a bus stand. Since city buses connecting Srirangam with other parts of the city are parked on the roads near Srirangam Rajagopuram, traffic congestion has pushed people demand for a bus stand.“The proposal was rejected as the site chosen for the bus stand on the Flood Bank Road is prone to flood,” a senior official with Trichy corporation said. A bus stand for Srirangam will help decongest Chathiram bus stand as it would accommodate some of the mofussil buses. Meanwhile, local people have demanded the civic body to convert the underutilised public park between sub-registrar office and Srirangam zone corporation office on the Gandhi Road as a bus terminus. “Anti-social elements use the public park. It can be used to halt city buses,” B Hemanathan, president of Arangamanagar Welfare Association, told TOI. Corporation sources said that the idea has to be discussed further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-resent-corpn-decision-to-shelve-srirangam-bus-stand-plan/articleshow/78355334.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: We don’t even smoke, 4 actresses told NCB||MUMBAI: Actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and Shraddha Kapoor, who were questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau, have all denied substance abuse. They said they were referring to hand-rolled cigarettes in their WhatsApp chats, which mention the word “doob”. “They said they don’t even smoke cigarettes,” said an NCB official. They have also refuted any knowledge of Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged drug habit. The NCB officer said technical analysis of their mobile phones that were voluntarily surrendered will clear all doubts. Meanwhile, Kshitij Prasad, a former executive producer of Dharmatic Entertainment, owned by Karan Johar, told a magistrate’s court that he was “harassed” to make a statement that would implicate Johar. His lawyer Satish Maneshinde alleged NCB recorded his statement under duress and offered him a deal if he implicated Johar. NCB refuted the allegations. Ex-film producer claims NCB coercing him to implicate KJoKshitij Prasad, former employee of Karan Johar’s Dharmatic Entertainment who was arrested in the drug case related to Sushant Singh’s death probe on Saturday, has been remanded in NCB’s custody till October 3. He’s among 20 including Rhea Chakraborty who are in custody. An NCB official seeking Prasad’s remand said he was a key accused linked to the “drug syndicate” and was being uncooperative. The remand application says Prasad, a former executive producer for Karan Johar’s firm, took delivery of ganja from Karamjeet Singh and his associates Ankush Arneja and Kaizan Ibrahim who are connected with Sushant’s manager Samuel Miranda and hence NCB needed to interrogate him to probe deeper. “Kshitij used to buy drugs from Karamjeet as well as Kaizan and Anuj Keshwani and Arneja . We want to interrogate him to know for whom he brought these drugs,” said an officer. His lawyer Satish Maneshinde, however, alleged that the NCB was using intimidatory tactics to draw out a confession from Prasad. He said they found nothing during a search of his house “apart from the end bit of a stale and dry cigarette butt in the balcony but they suggested it was ganja and even drew up a panchnama to that effect despite his protests”. He said Prasad was informed by zonal director Sameer Wankhede in the presence of other officers that since he was associated with Dharma Productions, they would let him off if he implicated Karan Johar, Somel Mishra, Rakhi, or Rahil. Countering the allegations, deputy DG Ashok Jain said, “The investigation is being carried out in a professional manner and there is no intended target other than what is revealed during the investigation.” A lawyer said the progress of the investigation hinged on retrieving mobile phone data, which would be a bit difficult as most celebrities change their handsets every six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deepika-sara-say-they-dont-smoke-dharma-ex-staffer-says-ncb-trying-to-frame-kjo/articleshow/78355335.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 28, 2020||Goa||Restoration of Narvem Shiva temple digs into history||KERI: Restoration work of the historic Saptakoteshwar temple in Narvem, Bicholim, has brought to light many unknown facets of its rich architectural heritage. The Goa-Kadamba rulers Jayakeshi-I and Jayakeshi-II had issued coins depicting the legend of Saptakoteshwar temple and its Shikhara (spire above the sanctuary). Some inscriptions too find mention of Saptakoteshwar as their family deity. The temple was originally built at Narvem in Diwadi island of Tiswadi. It faced destruction during the Bahamani rule, and Madhavmatri, the administrator of the Vijayanagara kingdom rebuilt it. When Tiswadi was conquered by the Portuguese, it was damaged again along with the Shivalingam. However, the devotees shifted the lingam to Latambarce and then to Hindale village of Bicholim. Sanskrit Nagari inscription at the top of the main entrance mentions that Shivaji, the Maratha ruler, provided funds for the reconstruction of temple and the work started on November 13, 1668. Shivram Mahadev Suryarao, Narayan Dondaba Diwadkar and other devotees contributed generously for its reconstruction in 1909. Devotees took utmost care to build the temple at the foothills amidst the lush green forests and the horticulture fields away from the glare of attackers. It remained protected during the Mughal invasion too. After Goa’s Liberation, Saptakoteshwar temple withstood various vagaries of nature. Fundacao Oriente undertook its renovation to protect its heritage. The archaeology department began the work of restoration since January, 2019. When contacted, archaeologist Varad Sabnis told TOI that the temple has immense historical importance as well as rich in archaeological heritage. “We are meticulously making our best efforts not to disturb its architectural framework, while carrying out the restoration,” he said. The sanctum sanctuary or Garbhagriha of this temple has been carved out like a rock-cut cave, out of one single laterite boulder with the Garbhagriha carved on the top by a dome with Shikhara. Under this dome, ample space is made available to accommodate more than 5 to 7 persons along with a small staircase in a concealed manner. On the right side of the Garbhagriha, there is a single cell whereas outside the temple, an open well, which brought to light various artifacts. As the temple is situated at the foothill, an underground tunnel has been provided to drain out water. Rahul Chemburkar, consultant of the ongoing restoration work said, “When we started the work, various unique features of the temple architecture came to light. While building temple from locally available laterite stones, artisans took care of proper ventilation and sunlight. We will take precautions to maintain its original beauty in natural setting and old aspects of architecture that came to forefront.” Speaking to TOI, Prithviraj Sardesai, president of the temple committee said, “We are glad to see that satisfactory restoration work is in progress. Efforts are done to restore the carving of Kaavi art with the old skill.” Rajaram Shet Divkar, secretary of the temple committee, said that instead of concrete, plastering work is done with a mixture of sand, lime, jaggery and dried fruit of terminilia chebula (an almond variety). “Once the restoration work is complete, it will attract not only local tourists but foreigners too,” he said. However, presently, the restoration work has been affected due to Covid-19, and more specifically owing to funds crunch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restoration-of-narvem-shiva-temple-digs-into-history/articleshow/78354893.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Three Covid deaths, 95 new patients in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: The district witnessed three more Covid deaths on Sunday while 95 new cases were detected. The deceased include 58 year old man from the city, 55 year old man from Ghatanji and 55 year old woman from Arni. Of the 95 new patients detected on Sunday, 26 are women. At present there are 559 patients under treatment in the district, while 543 are in home isolation and 275 in the isolation wards of Yavatmal GMCH. As on date, 8,190 patients were detected in the district of which 6,838 have been discharged. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the Covid situation in the district through videoconferencing. He also assessed the government-sponsored ‘My family; my responsibility’ campaign under which nearly 43% households in the district have been covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-covid-deaths-95-new-patients-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78355336.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Section 188 masked by mystery interpretations of cops||AHMEDABAD: Since the lockdown was imposed in March to prevent the spread of Covid, Gujarat Police have been quick on the draw with Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which relates to disobeying a public servant’s order. The police’s invocation of the law seems to be spurred more by enthusiasm than by a rigorous consideration of guidelines. Besides, according to a state home department notification, cops take Rs 1,000 from people who disregard the order to wear masks or maintain social distance. But the section stipulates a penalty of Rs 200 and up to six months in jail. This section has provisions to increase the fine to Rs 1,000 only when the act of an offender is likely to endanger human life, health and safety, or cause riots or affray. But all these accusations can be proved only after the prosecution of the case. An analysis of the cases booked under Section 188 shows that police of various cities and districts have used the law based on varying interpretations. Sometimes, police add Section 269, relating to an act likely to cause the spread of an infection. On September 24, Aslali police of Ahmedabad district booked a tea stall owner under Sections 188 and 269 for not maintaining social distance and not wearing a mask. On the other hand, Gujarat University police of Ahmedabad city booked a tea stall owner under Section 188 alone. Gandhinagar police used Section 188 for all cases involving the disobedience of a public servant’s order. No police force of any other city or district has been so stringent in applying the section. DGP Ashish Bhatia stressed that there is a universal guideline. But when the instances were recounted, he said he will inquire into the matter. Sources in police said that some cops add Section 269 so that there is no trouble while dealing with courts, which discard cases under Section 188 for not following due procedures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sec-188-masked-by-mystery-interpretations-of-cops/articleshow/78353754.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Mountaineers to pedal 750km for Covid awareness||KOLKATA: Satyarup Siddhanta and Rudrapasrad Haldar had scaled the Everest together in 2016. During this pandemic, the duo from Kolkata took a cycle journey to Purulia’s Ayodhya Hills, with a mission to make rural people aware of Covid prevention protocols. The two mountaineers started their cycle rally from Sonarpur in the wee hours of Saturday, along with colleagues Soumyadeep Mandal and Avik Mandal, two rock climbers. As part of the Covid Care Network’s (CCN) initiative to educate citizens in the districts on the kind of responsibility they need to take up to contain the spread of the virus, the four will be covering a distance of 750 kilometres to and fro. “Look at districts like Purulia that were in green zone earlier with only a handful of positive cases. But they have been witnessing a rise in cases now. So, we aim to sensitise people there on the preventive roles that they can play individually and contribute to containing the spread of this virus,” said Siddhanta. The team’s first stop on Saturday was Lodhashol, a village in Jhargram. They stopped at a local market place, brimming with people, where none was seen wearing masks. “Why none of you are wearing masks? May be you have strong immunity because of the kind of physical labour you endure every day. But what if you are an asymptomatic carrier and you have elderly members in the family? Please make it a habit to wear a mask in public places,” Siddhanta pleaded with the public to don masks. In the beginning of August, Jhargram had only 30 Covid-19 positive cases with zero death in the district. The number of active cases had shot up to 696 by September 16 with five deaths. On first day, the team covered 202 kilometres. On Sunday, they will be heading towards Ayodhya Hills via Belpaharai, Jhilimili, Bandwan and Bagmundi covering 140 kilometres. They will be camping in Purulia on Monday to carry out rock climbing, bouldering activities and visit Purulia town in the afternoon for awareness campaign, along with CCN Purulia Chapter. “Rural people still have the notion that Covid will not come to villages. The cycle rally is also aimed at demystifying their doubts,” said public health activist Partha Sarathi Mukherjee of CCN. Sonrapur Arohi, an NGO, is also part of this campaign. The team will return via Burdwan to reach Sonarpur by Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mountaineers-to-pedal-750km-for-cov-awareness/articleshow/78353744.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 28, 2020||Vadodara||Lowest Covid tests, cases stagnant||VADODARA: The testing of samples in Vadodara city and district continued to witness a downward trend even as number of patients testing positive of Covid-19 remained almost stagnant. During the 24 hours ending on Sunday evening, a total of 4,226 samples were tested, out of which 124 were found positive. Going by the figures shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 4,226 has been the lowest number of samples tested since Monday last. Since Tuesday last, the number of samples tested had remained in the range of 4,308 to 4,443, but the testing has continued to drop since Friday. With the addition of 124 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases has touched 11,442 since the beginning of the pandemic. The fresh cases have been reported from Sama, Kapurai, Karelibaug, Tandalja, Manjalpur, Chhanni, Bapod, Akota, Sawad, Gotri, Makarpura, etc within VMC limits. With one more death, the official death toll has now reached 191.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lowest-ncov-tests-cases-stagnant/articleshow/78352413.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cycle parking space must in New Town buildings||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has taken a policy decision to change their building rules for a mandatory provision to reserve space for parking bicycles with docking system in all high-rise residential and commercial establishments, including multiplexes, shopping malls and office complexes across New Town. An advisory will be issued soon in this regard. Officials said they came up with the idea of reserving parking space for bicycles in high-rises after some residents using bicycles daily said that they often face parking problems in such establishments, with security guards asking them to park their bicycles at the basement. The NKDA authorities were also told that the security guards posted at the gates of various shopping malls often do not allow bicycles to enter the premises. The NKDA officials discussed this issue recently and decided to advise the buildings, which cover 6 cottah of plot, to turn the adjacent car parking areas near the entrance into bicycle parking spaces along with docks for locking these two-wheelers. A light plastic trampoline roof should also be constructed, said the officials. “A formal advisory in this regard will be issued soon and multiplexes, shopping mall, corporate houses and large gated communities will be contacted over video-conferencing this week. Necessary steps for changing the building rules will also be taken to come up with a mandatory provision to make reserved spaces for parking bicycles in all high-rise residential and commercial complexes,” said an official. Several initiatives are being taken in the township to encourage people to ride bicycles, according to the officials. Already 17-km of dedicated bicycle tracks have been set up while the App-based public sharing bicycle scheme is set to be relaunched on Tuesday. Cycling events are being organized with training camps on Sunday and a mobile cycle repair clinic will also come up soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cycle-parking-space-must-in-new-town-buildings/articleshow/78353768.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaswant Singh, top minister under Vajpayee, passes away||Jaipur: Former Union minister and BJP veteran Jaswant Singh, who held key portfolios in the Vajpayee government, passed away after a long illness which rendered him comatose, leaving behind a varied, eventful and rich political legacy that saw him being an integral part of the saffron party's rise that he helped shape and nurture. Singh was 82, and was ailing since a fall in 2014. He was one of a very select club of politicians who held three of the four Cabinet Committee on Security berths. He was at different times defence, finance and external affairs minister in the Vajpayee government. Popularly known as “data” in the desert region, he breathed his last at the Army Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi due to multiple organ failure on Sunday. Starting his political career at the age of 27 after leaving the Army in 1966, Singh served five Rajya Sabha and four Lok Sabha terms till 2014. The latter years of his association with BJP were rocky. He was expelled from the party in 2009 over a book he wrote that was seen to be “pro-Jinnah”. He did not anticipate such an action, lamenting that he was not personally informed about the party decision. There was high drama in Shimla where the BJP executive met but he was asked to stay away after reaching. This was followed by a reconciliation but he was again expelled for defying the party and filing a Lok Sabha nomination in 2014, an election he lost. While he faded from public memory due to his illness, Singh’s association with BJP defined his political identity. Sometimes seen at odds with BJP’s Hindutva leanings, one of his finest hours was when he rose to defend an isolated BJP in Lok Sabha after the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition with most of the party brass in detention. He gave an impassioned speech, declaring that BJP was willing to face isolation but would not compromise on its ideological moorings. He was a realist in foreign policy, who understood the utility of both hard and soft power. He was fully supportive of India testing its nuclear devices and clear-eyed when speaking of the threat China posed to India’s security, a theme he elaborated in speeches in Parliament. His tenure as finance minister was also marked by clarity of thought, as he saw the need to press reforms and support a wider role for the market and reduce government’s control over the economy. Visitors often found soft music playing in the background and a desk remarkably clear of clutter. Singh had old world ways and charm. Scrupulously civil and courteous, it was easy to mistake his manners for an elite put on. But he believed in being proper, the sort of person who would always hold the door or draw a chair for women. His soft spoken ways, however, could hide a shrewd mind that was in close sync with Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who wanted him as his finance minister in 1998 but was vetoed by RSS. Sections of the Sangh saw him as a “free market man” and therefore anti-swadeshi. Vajpayee was forced to cede but soon appointed him deputy chair of Planning Commission and later brought him into the cabinet. The blot on Singh’s career was his flight to Kandahar with three terrorists released as a swap for hostages on an Indian Airlines flight in December 1999. He had been tasked to go to Afghanistan and he took the fall. His negotiations with US interlocutor Strobe Talbott — who paid a generous tribute to Singh — were a masterpiece of diplomacy, as the Indian leader worked skilfully to cushion India against pressure to sign CTBT and laid the foundation of a new partnership which finally culminated in the India-US nuclear deal under Manmohan Singh. Singh will take several secrets and anecdotes with him, being witness to the inner workings of BJP and, in particular, the sometimes vexed relationship between Vajpayee and L K Advani. Singh’s book on Jinnah and Partition was the one event that put him at odds with almost everyone in BJP-RSS, with then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi banning the book in the state. He was the NDA vice-president candidate against UPA-2’s Hamid Ansari but he fell short of the numbers. Of his four Lok Sabha victories, three came from Rajasthan and one from West Bengal. He insisted on contesting the Lok Sabha polls from his native Barmer in 2009 but the party sent him to Darjeeling. He had some close shaves in elections, with the late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat once declaring him as a likely “deputy PM” to boost his prospects. In the run-up to Lok Sabha polls in 2014, Singh, now in his in late 70s, expressed a desire to contest from Barmer. During the entire election campaign, Singh didn’t comment anything against BJP other than then CM Vasundhara Raje. He lost to Col Sonaram, an influential Jat leader who left Congress for BJP and was a key factor in the saffron calculations in Rajasthan. Before he could plan his next move, the veteran politician fell in his Delhi residence in August 2014. Since then, he was bedridden. Back in his home turf, he was extremely popular, especially among Sindhi Muslims of Jaisalmer and Barmer. Sindhi Muslims’ spiritual guru Pir Pagaro in Pakistan issued appeals to the community to vote in his favour in the 2014 elections. Singh’s portrait could be found in a house of a Manganiyar family. When asked why only Singh’s portrait hanging on the wall, the family head replied, “Fifteen years ago, ‘data’ personally helped by calling the Indian embassy in Pakistan to clear my ailing aunt’s pending visa application for medical treatment. She is alive due to ‘data sahab’s’ benevolence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaswant-singh-top-minister-under-vajpayee-passes-away/articleshow/78355352.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 28, 2020||Trichy||TN remains on top in attracting tourists: Min||Trichy: Inter-departmental coordination and maintenance of law and order have helped Tamil Nadu to stay on top for the last five years in attracting tourists, tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan has said. He was speaking at an event organised as part of World Tourism Day celebrations in Trichy on Sunday. Five international airports and good road connectivity have made any corner of the state accessible within four hours from central part of the state, he added. “Unlike any other state, temple tourism is one of the main strength of Tamil Nadu which has kept it significant in the tourism map of the country,” he said. He advised tourism staff to work with dedication as it is a service industry and they will be judged based on quality. “Tamils are known for hospitality which is also our tradition. The staff should show the same hospitality while serving the tourists,” he added. Chief guest of the event, Pon Elango, Jennys Academy director, briefed on how tourism adds to the foreign exchange of a country and how many countries could capitalise on tourism potential to achieve significant growth. Earlier in the day, the minster distributed sweets to the staff at tourism department and Tamil Nadu tourism development corporation (TTDC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-remains-on-top-in-attracting-tourists-min/articleshow/78355340.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||CB-CID constitutes special team to trace Lankan don’s aide||Coimbatore: The Crime Branch-CID here has formed a special team to trace the whereabouts of Chanuka Thananayaka, a close aide of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka.A special team formed in Madurai, earlier, is also trying to trace Chanuka in southern districts.Angoda Lokka had died of a sudden cardiac arrest at Balaji Nagar near Cheran Maa Nagar in the city on July 3. He was an accused in several murder and drug smuggling cases in Sri Lanka, but had escaped to Tamil Nadu in 2017. He was arrested in Chennai in 2017 but came out on conditional bail and was absconding since then. Following Lokka’s death, police came to know that his pistol was handed over to his close aide Chanuka Thananayaka from Colombo, who had several cases against him in the island nation.“Chanuka was arrested by Chennai city police in 2017, but later came out on bail. We have collected the photographs of Chanuka from Chennai police and are trying to locate his whereabouts with the help of the photographs,” said a police officer.“Chanuka cannot escape to Sri Lanka as he is most wanted there. He might have escaped to the northern part of the country... our special teams are working to trace his whereabouts,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cb-cid-constitutes-special-team-to-trace-lankan-dons-aide/articleshow/78354858.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Work from home wrecked Amdavadis’ back||AHMEDABAD: Dimple Patel, 35, a resident of Anandnagar, began feeling the spasms on her upper back in June. She ignored them for a few days and her neck became stiffer as she could not maintain her normal posture. A doctor told Patel that her work from home schedule, coupled with domestic chores, had taken a toll on her back. “While working from home, we often don’t have a dedicated workstation,” said Dr Nehal Shah, the principal of SBB College of Physiotherapy. “The dining table or a table in the drawing room becomes the laptop stand. The couch or the bed becomes the sitting spot for hours together.” Dr Shah went on to say: “Wrong postures have greatly strained the neck, back, and wrists of many.” At the physiotherapy centre headed by Dr Shah on the VS Hospital premises, more than half of the OPD cases involve homemakers with musculoskeletal problems. Dr Shah said psychosomatic disorders may play a part in causing stiffness in the neck and pain in the upper back. “They could also be a manifestation of stress,” she said. Dr K M Annamalai, the head of the department of physiotherapy at a private Ahmedabad hospital, said that online education has affected children who often have bad postures while attending classes. “We suggest the 90-90-90 rule for sitting on a chair: back and thighs should form the 90° angle, knees should remain at 90°, and ankles and feet should be at the 90° angle,” he said. “We also suggest that people designate a spot at home as ‘office’ to mentally and physically be in that zone and maintain discipline. It’s not advisable to frequently change the place of work.” He also suggested ‘digital detox’ as a way to ensure back and neck health. “It has been observed universally that our screen time increased during the lockdown months and beyond,” said Dr Annamalai. “Viewing laptops, tablets, and smartphones from unusual angles can lead to a range of issues. We advise light exercises at regular intervals to avoid the complications of the sedentary lifestyle.” Dr Manish Trivedi, a physiotherapist at Apang Manav Mandal Physiotherapy Centre, said that the facility has recorded a rise in the number of women seeking physiotherapy interventions over the past few months. “The women had to work for office and home. So we had several cases of mental and physical fatigue leading to back pain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wfh-wrecked-amdavadis-back/articleshow/78353759.cms||Parth Shastri
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||232 new Covid cases take Chanda closer to 10,000-mark||CHANDRAPUR: With the detection of 232 new cases on Sunday, Covid-19 patient count in the district climbed to 9,582. The day also recorded discharge of 149 patients, leading the total recoveries to 5,511. This has left 3,928 patients under treatment. The day witnessed a solitary death of 52-year-old person from Rampur in Rajura teshil and the toll has now reached 143. Newfound patients include 126 from Chandrapur and suburbs, Ballarpur 12, Chimur 3, Mul 8, Gondpipri 1, Korpana 9, Bramhapuri 12, Nagbhid 14, Warora 5, Bhadrawati 1, Saoli 12,. Rajura 19, along with five from Gadchiroli, three from Yavatmal, and one each from Wardha and neighbouring state Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/232-new-covid-cases-take-chanda-closer-to-10k-mark/articleshow/78355345.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: In a week, number of active cases comes down from 4,321 to 1,763||KOLHAPUR: The number of active cases in Kolhapur city has come down from 4,321 around a week ago to 1,763 now. The trend comes as a relief to the civic health authorities who were earlier struggling to add more oxygen beds in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-run Covid care centres. Earlier, the supply of oxygen could not match the demand. However, over the past few days, around 100 oxygen beds are vacant on average every day and oxygen supply has also been normalised. Nikhil More, the nodal officer of the KMC for Covid management, said: “The daily number of cases have come down to 120-140 from the earlier average 250 daily cases. As per the epidemic cycle, we have crossed the peak and now the trend is towards slowing down of the cases. However, we are not yet sure that the graph is dropping. The festive season is around the corner and we should ensure that the basic processes such as social distancing and mask are followed.” Currently, the city continues to be at the top in the district in terms of the number of active cases. However, the proportion of cases has come down a bit. The city has around 18% of all active cases in the district. Earlier, it had 40% active cases. Currently, the district has 9,732 active cases. The active cases in the rural areas have been increasing mainly due to fewer discharges every day. “We have managed to keep the death count low. Now, only a few deaths are taking place. We are working to ensure that there are no deaths over the next few days,” said More. On Saturday, city reported just one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/in-a-week-number-of-active-cases-comes-down-from-4321-to-1763/articleshow/78353743.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra blocks nearly 5,000 online posts in 6 months||MUMBAI: If the lockdown fuelled hate speech on social media, the state cyber police was not far behind in shutting it down. Cyber police have blocked at least 4,617 posts on platforms including WhatsApp and Facebook since fake news began flooding the internet following restrictions announced in March-end. In all, 644 cases have been filed across 44 stations. Of the posts on which action has been initiated, the maximum are linked to fake news, hate and derogatory messaging. TimesViewThe manner in which social media polarises society through the spread of hate speech and communal falsehoods is a clear and present threat to the stability of a diverse country such as India. The state’s police must be given more resources to tackle this menace, which may be far more sinister and subversive than many other forms of crime.State (cyber) superintendent of police Balsing Rajput said, “When lockdown started, there was a flood of fake news and rumours on Covid-19. A month later, we began encountering extreme hate speech on social media. They were being transmitted to instigate people.” For cyber police, the social dilemma manifests itself through a steady stream of fake and malicious posts that its team intercepts – an average of 22 a day. They range from rumours and defamatory references to hate speech. In the six months since the lockdown, 44 cyber police stations across the state have arrested 303 suspects and named another 451 in cases where social media platforms were used to spread falsehoods. An additional 152 individuals were served notices under the Criminal Procedure Code. The maximum cases involve Facebook (277), and the worst offender is Beed district, among the most economically backward in the state. State (cyber) superintendent of police Balsing Rajput said, “We have issued takedown notices to all concerned platforms of social media. So far 138 posts have been removed.” The head of the cyber force described the flow of fake news as a “wave”. “We are constantly monitoring messages available in public domain on various social media platforms to maintain law and order,” said Rajput. Recently, the Central government filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in a case involving a TV channel which was hauled up for airing hate news. The government argued that the digital space entails greater vigilance. Citing reasons for the trend, cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said work from home has spurred consumption of social media. TV news channels are also influencing viewers to take up issues on social media without fact-checking, he said. Since the lockdown in March-end, 644 cases have been filed in Maharashtra for fake news, rumours and hate speech on social media. Of that, 580 are FIRs and 64 are non-cognizable (NC) offences. More than half of them -- 391 cases -- are about hate speech. The other big category is rumours/fake news about the corona virus (133 cases); rest are cases of misinformation. Cyber lawyer Prashant Mali said free time, frustration and depression coupled with lack of strict laws to tackle fake news and hate messages, especially the reading down of Section 66 (A) of IT Act, 2000, has crippled police. Cyber lawyer Vicky Shah agreed saying deterrent measures were needed against online hate mongers including blocking social media handles and getting court orders to ban their internet usage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-blocks-nearly-5k-online-posts-in-6-mths/articleshow/78355347.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
September 28, 2020||Mysuru||KSET held without a hitch across Karnataka||MYSURU: The University of Mysore, which is the nodal agency identified by UGC to hold the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET), conducted the test successfully in 11 nodal centres across Karnataka including Bengaluru on Sunday amid Covid crisis. KSET coordinator Prof Rajashekhar said, “About 98% of the 1.6 lakh candidates who had enrolled appeared as per preliminary reports. A few Covid positive candidates including two in Mysuru were allowed to appear for the exam separately in many centres.” “The test, on the lines of National Eligibility Test (NET), is crucial for those aspiring to become lecturers and professors at universities, aided, private and government PU and first grade colleges in the state,” he added. KSET was held without any untoward incidents at centres in Bengaluru, Belagavi, Ballari, Vijayapura, Davanagere, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mangaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga and Tumakuru. The exam, which was scheduled on April 12, had been postponed thrice due to Covid-19. After UoM’s nodal centre came under sharp criticism from candidates for not allowing students who had failed to download their admit cards, Registrar Prof R Shivappa defended the varsity’s decision. He told TOI, “It was the duty of candidates to download the admit card and come to the exam. They should not be blaming the varsity for their fault. As per reports, only 1 to 2% of candidates did not download the admit card and missed the test. The test was conducted as per standard operating procedure issued by the centre and state governments and UGC guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kset-held-without-a-hitch-across-state/articleshow/78352559.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital municipal chief ends hunger strike after admin’s assurance||Nainital: The chairman of Nainital municipal council, Sachin Negi, ended his hunger strike late Saturday after assurance from district magistrate Savin Bansal. The assurance from the DM came after Negi’s six-day hunger strike. He has now been admitted into BD Pandey hospital as he lost 12 kg and his sugar level also plummeted. A delegation of the district administration met Negi Saturday evening and assured him that they will provide him every help to pay off wages and salary. “Nainital’s SDM Vinod Kumar came to meet me and assured that the administration will provide any help needed. The municipal council of Nainital has been suffering due to unavailability of funds and the administration’s assurance gives us hope that we will be able to provide salaries and pensions to our employees,” Negi said. Kumar broke Negi’s fast by helping him drink juice after which he was taken to the hospital. As reported by TOI earlier Negi had been sitting on hunger strike since Monday demanding financial assistance for the municipal council so that it can pay the wages and pensions of its workers. Negi has said that lockdown has dried up the council’s revenue and even months into the unlock phase the tourism sector is yet to pick up therefore the council’s revenues are suffering. His strike had received support from several ward members as well as sanitation workers. It was also joined by the chairman of Sitarganj municipal council and Congress district president Satish Nainwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-municipal-chief-ends-hunger-strike-after-admins-assurance/articleshow/78352560.cms||Prashant Jha
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Statements of minister’s PA and accused contradictory: Police||Coimbatore: Gaping holes continue to linger in the kidnapping case of animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan’s personal assistant M Karnan.Police have managed to arrest seven people on charges of plotting and kidnapping Karnan. All of them were known to Karnan and one of them was his close acquaintance for a long time.Police said the statements of both Karnan and the arrested were contradictory.Police said Karnan had sold a plot of land a few days ago. D Pradeep, an acquaintance of Karnan and one of the arrested in the case, presumed that the latter would have received the money from the land transaction and plotted with other accused to rob the same.On September 23, when Karnan was at the MLA’s office, Pradeep and another accused Ragu, along with three others, kidnapped him. “They took him to a godown in a farm at Modakkupatti and threatened him to give them Rs 10 lakh,” a police officer said.When Karnan said he did not have the cash and would get the same, they dropped him near Dhali after snatching away his gold chain and ring, the officer said. “They took his ATM card and withdrew Rs50,000. The pistol that was used to threaten Karnan was a toy gun.”However, soon after getting freed from the kidnappers, Karnan had said the motive behind is kidnapping was political. “It was for political reasons. They demanded certain information from me,” he told reporters.Local AIADMK men are also puzzled at the turn of events, since many of them knew Pradeep too. “Why would anyone choose a broad daylight to kidnap a minister’s PA if money was the only motive? Also, being from the same locality, why would the gang risk revealing their identity to Karnan?” asked an AIADMK functionary from Udumalpet.The arrested in the case include D Pradeep, 39, S Arunkumar, 23, M Surendran, 27, and D Devarajulu, 55, all from Udumalpet in Tirupur district, and R Vinoth, 20, G Selvaganapathi, 23 and S Dhaga, 21, from Pattukottai. Another accused, Ragu, is on the run.The arrested have been booked under Sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 447 (punishment for criminal trespass) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/statements-of-ministers-pa-and-accused-contradictory-police/articleshow/78354872.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Two protesters killed in police firing in Dungarpur as violence continues||UDAIPUR: Two people died in the police firing on Saturday and another protester is said to have been killed after he fell from a bridge on Friday in the ongoing violent protests by tribal youths in Udaipur and Dungarpur districts. Violence continued for the fourth day on Sunday even after the state government agreed to most of the demands put forward by protesters after a three-hour marathon peace talk held here. Stones were pelted on policemen by more than a hundred protesters who had climbed atop hills near Bilakh village in Rishabhdeo block of Udaipur district in the evening. A police officer and four constables reportedly got injured in the incident. Cops fired shells of tear gas which were caught by the agitators and thrown back. For the past 20 days, hundreds of tribal youths have been camping on a hill top demanding the government fill 1,167 vacant general category seats under the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) in their area with ST candidates. Their protests turned violent on Thursday evening after these candidates for the teachers' recruitment examination laid siege to the highway, pelted stones and torched vehicles over their demand. Things took a turn for the worse late on Saturday as violence erupted in Kherwada after a mob attacked the toll plaza and broke window panes of the cabins. They torched some bikes and set ablaze a saw mill with a huge stock of wood. The police had to open fire to disperse the unruly mob, leading to the death of two people. Tarun Ahari, 19, of Kachrafala Ghata was identified as one of the victims while the other body has not been identified yet. A 15-year-old boy Alpesh from Pografala was hurt in the incident. One more protester had earlier died on Friday when he fell off a bridge during the chaos. On Sunday, senior leaders urged the agitators to end the stir and informed them about the agreement reached at the peace meeting. However, the mob did not pay heed to the appeals. Similar incidents of mob fury were reported from Jhadol block where agitators ransacked liquor shops, pelted stones and even attacked the tehsildar's vehicle. The tehsildar managed to escape on a bike but his driver sustained head injuries. Meanwhile, traffic movement was restored by late evening on the Udaipur-Ahmedabad National Highway-8 after four days of blockade. Before the traffic was restored, stones and other obstacles were cleared with the help of earth moving equipment and machines. Veteran leaders, public representatives, sarpanchs of all the villages located on the NH-8 inspected the entire 10km-long stretch between Kankri Doongri in Bichhiwada (Dungarpur) to Kherwada before the road was opened for public. DGP (crime) ML Lathar, senior IPS officers Dinesh MN and Anand Srivastava who were sent as the CM's representatives reached Udaipur on Saturday night took charge of the situation in disturbed areas. The marathon peace meeting was held on Sunday noon which continued for more than three hours. The 'sarv party' meeting was attended by many tribal representatives and included BJP, BTP and Congress MLAs and MPs of south Rajasthan. The meeting held by tribal area development (TAD) minister Arjun Bamaniya was attended by CWC member and ex-MP Raghuvir Singh Meena, Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena, Ganesh Goghra, Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Chunnilal Garasiya, Sushil Katara, Kanak Mal Katara, Dayaram Parmar, Tarachand Bagora and many other veteran leaders and influential people from the tribal community. BTP legislators Ram Prasad and Rajkumar Roat represented the agitators. “A consensus has been reached on the main issue for filling 1,167 posts under the REET exam 2018. The state government will constitute a committee to discuss the legalities on putting up a SLP before the Supreme Court. It is a judicial issue which would be tackled accordingly," Bamaniya told the media. Former MP Raghuvir Meena said it was also agreed to give ex gratia, as per government norms, to the family of two youths who died in the police firing on Saturday night. Speaking about other conditions that were demanded by the agitators, Meena said that police would investigate and find out the youths involved in the rampage. Those who are found to be innocent will not be charged. He also said that a committee would further probe the involvement of miscreants from other states. He said the BTP legislators have agreed to end the stir and assured the delegation that the youths would not resort to similar violence in future. It was also decided that a committee would conduct a survey to assess the loss during the three days. Meanwhile, IG Dinesh MN held a meeting with some villagers in Dungarpur area. The officer met the volunteers chosen under the Gram Rakshak and Police Mitra schemes and urged them to help the department in curbing violence and restoring normalcy in the disturbed region. He asked them to assist the cops in patrolling along the highway and to ensure smooth movement of vehicles. In Udaipur, the internet service remained suspended throughout the day. However, after the agreement at the peace meeting, collector Chetan Ram Deora said the internet would resume within municipal limits by night but would remain suspended in other blocks of the district. Late on Sunday evening, REET candidates started retreating from the Mahapadav site at Kankri Doongri, though a few continued with the dharna. The demonstrators had withdrawn from the highway and vehicles were allowed to pass through the stretch though traffic had not been completely restored. Battalions are still deployed in sensitive areas and highway patrols are on high alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/two-protesters-killed-in-police-firing-in-dungarpur-as-violence-continues/articleshow/78355356.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
September 28, 2020||Goa||For months now, cabinet hasn’t approved draft tourism policy in Goa||PANAJI: The draft tourism policy, which contains an important component — provision for the constitution of a tourism board — has been hanging fire for the last few months. The tourism policy was sent for approval a few months ago, but the cabinet is yet to give it its nod. According to sources, the bone of contention is apparently the constitution of the Goa tourism board. A senior tourism official, however, refused to divulge the reasons for the delay in approving the policy. “We have processed the file for cabinet approval. I have no idea why it is still pending,” the officer said. Tourism stakeholders feel the government must start implementation of the tourism policy with an eye on reviving the hospitality industry, which is facing its biggest ever crisis due to the pandemic. The travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG) has written to the government to implement the policy at the earliest. “We have asked the government to implement the tourism policy as early as possible. This is the right time to take it forward,” TTAG president Nilesh Shah said. While the tourism policy broadly covers various aspects, like coastal, cultural, heritage and nature-based tourism, leisure, entertainment, and meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibition (MICE), the provision for constituting the Goa tourism board is its most important feature. In the last four years the TTAG has strongly advocated the constitution of a tourism board even though its suggestion that the board be an independent body failed to find favour in government quarters. Many rounds of discussions were held over what should be the composition of the board. “It was agreed that the tourism minister will be its head with fair representation to be given to members of the trade. I can’t understand why it is still taking so much time to finalise it,” a tourism stakeholder, who was part of the policy drafting discussions, said. He said that it has taken them over four years to finalise the tourism master plan and that if there is further delay in coming out with the policy, Goa tourism will continue like a headless chicken. “We want drastic changes in promotion and marketing of the destination. Without a policy in place we do not stand a chance,” he said. With Goa losing its edge over other rival international destinations in the last few years, it is imperative and at this stage that the government make strategic moves to attract quality tourists, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-months-now-cabinet-hasnt-approved-draft-tourism-policy/articleshow/78354881.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Many MGNREGA workers in Thanjavur test Covid positive||Thanjavur: With the number of Covid-19 cases in Thanjavur district crossing10,000, cases are now emerging among MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) scheme workers in the district. Health department officials say many of the workers have hardly been adhering to safety norms as they avoid getting tested fearing loss of jobs and be quarantined.In recent days, a considerable numbers of these workers were infected by the virus. This was found during door-to-door medical camps conducted in Sethubavachathiram, Peravurani and Thiruvidaimaruthur blocks when around 100 cases were identified. They included 30 cases from Kazhanivasal, 11 from Sornakkadu and 22 cases from Krishnapuram villages, sources from the health department said. “Most of the patients from the three villages were asymptomatic and all of them are part of MGNREGA works. Even after they have clear symptoms, nobody comes forward for a test”, a health official said. Around 70,000 workers are registered with the scheme in Thanjavur district out of which about 50,000 turn up for work every day, an official from District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) said.“We are insisting on the workers to wear face masks and maintain social distancing. However, in some places, people hardly adhere to the rules due to lack of awareness”, he added. However, district collector M Govinda Rao told TOI that there was no specific reason for the spike which was mainly due to lot of public movement. “We are ensuring adherence to SOP at worksites by the respective departments and firms through monitoring teams. We are tightening enforcement by imposing penalties through flying squads in each taluk and firka level teams. So far, around 60,000 people and various firms were penalised for not wearing masks and SOP violations to the tune of Rs 63.5 lakh. We are closely monitoring the places where cases are reported each day and conducting camps”, he told TOI.Meanwhile, Thanjavur has the highest number of positive cases in the central region, registering 10,369 as on Saturday. Following Unlock 4.0, the district has been recording positive cases in the range of 130 to 170 on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/many-mgnrega-workers-in-thanjavur-test-covid-positive/articleshow/78355353.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Paraglider sustains critical injuries during trials in Pauri||Dehradun: A paraglider sustained serious injuries in an accident during a paragliding event organised at Pauri’s Satpuli area on Sunday. The injured person was airlifted to Jolly Grant Hospital where the doctors claimed his condition to be stable. Pauri district magistrate Dheeraj Garbiyal said that Shubhang Raturi sustained injuries in an accident during paragliding trials. “The trials for adventure sports activities are ongoing in Satpuli from the past three-four days. We have developed a landing space in Satpuli too. The paraglider was immediately rushed to a local hospital from where he was airlifted to Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Hospital,” he added. It's important to mention here that Pauri district of Uttarakhand is all set to host a national level paragliding festival in the Nayar Valley by the year end. It is expected that more than a hundred pilots from different states of the country will participate in this festival. The district administration has prepared its own air strip to increase adventure sports related activities. As part of trials, a paraglider flew from Dehradun to Pauri in 1 hour and 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/paraglider-sustains-critical-injuries-during-trials-in-pauri/articleshow/78352565.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Bhuse: Offer quick relief to rain-affected farmers||Aurangabad: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse on Sunday said the revenue department and rural development department should work jointly to expedite the assessment of crop damage incurred by farmers in Marathwada due to recent bouts of heavy showers. Bhuse, who is touring Marathwada for taking stock of the agrarian crisis due to the rainfall, has also asked the insurance companies to leave no stone unturned to ensure quick claim-settlement process after receiving intimation of crop damage from farmers. “Parts of Marathwada have been receiving light to heavy showers amid overcast conditions on a daily basis. Such weather conditions are causing yellowing of kharif crops among other damages. The government authorities must take quick note of the damage suffered by crops and offer help to farmers,” he said. Bhuse also said that a formal request would be made to the Centre for taking an official note of the crop-damage in Marathwada and other parts of the state by sending its teams for official review. While Aurangabad district alone is expected to have suffered crop-damage over 40,000 hectare, the total of such loss over the entire region, comprising eight districts, is estimated to be considerable. While chairing a review meeting for Hingoli and Parbhani districts, the agricultural minister also contacted officials belonging to the crop-insurance companies over phone and asked them to publish a taluka-wise list of agents who the farmers can contact for claiming losses. “The positive side of ongoing good run of monsoon is the overflowing dams in the region. The sufficient availability of water can ensure good rabi crop if proper planning is done. On the part of agricultural department, we will ensure adequate and smooth supply of seeds and fertilizers during the next crop season,” Bhuse said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bhuse-offer-quick-relief-to-rain-affected-farmers/articleshow/78352571.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||UTC all set to start inter-state buses from next week||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC), which had stalled its operations since the lockdown was enforced in the state, is planning to resume its inter-state operations from the coming week. Deepak Jain, UTC’s general manager (operations), told TOI, "We are waiting for the government to issue guidelines regarding the inter-state bus operations. We are hopeful to restart bus operations this week." “In the first phase, UTC will resume its bus operations between Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh and buses to other states will start later,” Jain added. Notably, UTC has been incurring huge financial losses since it was forced to stop its operations following lockdown due to Covid-19. However, the intra-state bus operations were resumed by UTC in the last week of June. “Out of the total fleet of buses, just 300 are running and about 900 buses are still off the road. UTC has been incurring losses to the tune of Rs 20-25 lakh on a daily basis," the GM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/utc-all-set-to-start-inter-state-buses-from-next-week/articleshow/78352574.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Tibetans observe 33rd anniversary of 1987 Lhasa uprising||Dehradun: The Tibetan community living in Dehradun paid their respects to those who lost their lives in the 1987 Lhasa (Tibet) uprising, which began on September 27, that year. On Sunday, they observed the 33rd anniversary of the protest in which several peaceful protestors were killed and oppressed by the Chinese authorities. The Tibetans hail them as martyrs who sacrificed themselves for the cause of a free Tibet. The event, which is held annually at the Tibetan Market in Dehradun, was conducted on a relatively smaller scale in the wake of Covid-19. People maintained social distancing during the event which concluded with candlelight demonstrations and a few speeches from the community members. Several members of the Indo-Tibetan Cooperation Forum attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tibetans-observe-33rd-anniversary-of-1987-lhasa-uprising/articleshow/78352569.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Periyar statue desecrated in Trichy||Trichy: Unidentified people poured saffron paint on the statue of Periyar E V Ramasamy at Samathuvapuram in Trichy in the early hours of Sunday. The bust of the leader was also found garlanded with slippers. Inamkulathur police arrived at the spot on being alerted by some locals and carried out investigations. H M Jayaram, inspector general of police (IGP), central region and SP T Jayachandran also visited the spot and inquired with the local people. Police said the incident may have occurred around 3 am. They cleaned the statue with the help of residents early in the morning. Further investigations are on to nab the culprits. The statue was inaugurated by late chief minister M Karunanidhi in 1991. On hearing about the incident, a large number of cadres of various political parties including DMK, CPI, CPM and Dravidar Kazhagam staged a road roko on Trichy-Dindigul national highway demanding immediate arrest of the miscreants. Police pacified the protesters and traffic movement was restored in about 30 minutes. A group of DYFI members conducted a demonstration in front of EVR statue at Central bus stand. DMK president M K Stalin, PMK leader S Ramadoss and leaders of communist parties were among those who condemned the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/periyar-statue-desecrated-in-trichy/articleshow/78355357.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||For 10th consecutive day, Rajasthan reports record single-day rise||JAIPUR: As many as 15 people died and 2,084 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the overall tally to 1,28,859 on Sunday. This is for the 10th consecutive day that the state has reported the biggest single-day spike in Covid cases. Everyday is becoming worse as the state has been witnessing record single-day jumps in new infections. With 15 more deaths, state’s toll now stands at 1,441. The health department is conducting aggressive testing in the state for early detection and early treatment of patients. In the last six days, over 1.8 lakh Covid tests have been conducted across the state. Out of those 1.8 lakh samples, 11,978 tested positive. While some parts of the state are witnessing worst outbreaks, organising the upcoming panchayat elections has become a challenging task. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to abide by the guidelines. Sharma said over 33 lakh voters will use their franchise in the first phase of elections to panchayati raj institutions on Monday. As infections are increasing in the state, even slight carelessness can cause major problems. Prior to going to polling stations, voters must wash their hands with soap or sanitiser, said Sharma, adding that at the time of voting they must stand in marked circles or wait for their turn by maintaining social distance. Senior citizens and differently abled people should be given priority during voting. Jaipur reported its 318th Covid death, Jodhpur 142nd, Bikaner 109th, Ajmer 102nd, Kota 98th, Bharatpur 79th, Pali 60th, Udaipur 47th, Alwar 39th, Sikar 33rd, Rajsamand 22nd, Baran 20th, Banswara and Jalore 17th each, and Jhunjhunu its 11th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (373), Jodhpur (290), Udaipur (106), Alwar (105), Sikar (105), Ajmer (93), Pali (87), Bhilwara (85), Jalore (85), Kota (83), Bikaner (79), Nagaur (66), Dungarpur (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Churu (40), Sriganganagar (39), Sirohi (37), Rajsamand (36), Tonk (34), Dausa (32), Chittorgarh (32), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (24), Jaisalmer (20), Pratapgarh (18), Hanumangarh (18), Baran (13), Barmer (13), Banswara (12), Bundi (12), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (9) and Sawai Madhopur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-10th-consecutive-day-state-reports-record-single-day-rise/articleshow/78355361.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Virus dance trips big private garbas||AHMEDABAD/ VADODARA/ SURAT/ RAJKOT: Taking cue from the state government, Gujarat’s leading organizers of garba have given it a pass for 2020 from hosting the nine nights of revelry during Navratri. The state government on Saturday announced that this time no Navratri will be held in the wake of the pandemic. Some of the biggest players in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot have called off their events for this year – for the first time in decades. “The spread of the coronavirus infections is already extensive. It is a big risk to allow people to get together at one place for Navratri and in the interest of public health, we will not organize any of our events this year,” said Manoj Chowdhary, director, Shanku’s Events. In Ahmedabad, major city clubs are also not organising Navratri this time around. Garba organized at clubs was one of the major attractions in Ahmedabad. However, the pandemic has deterred most of them. “It is for the first time in some 69 years since the club started that we will not be holding garba. Navratri has been a special event and apart from members, we bring in different groups so that different forms of garba and dandiya are showcased. However, in the wake of the ongoing pandemic, it is only wise to not organize garba this time,” said N K Patel, president, Gujarat Sports Club. Similar is the situation in Vadodara as well. The biggest garba globally, United Way Garba, will also not be held this year. organizers of the Vadodara Navratri Festival (VNF) and other garbas have also taken similar decisions. Chairperson of the resource development committee of the United Way of Baroda, Hemant Shah, said that the board of the organization had taken a decision against holding the event. “Physical distancing is not possible as a massive gathering takes place at our venue. Participants can not only infect themselves, but also carry the infection home and infect their families,” he said. Mayank Patel from VNF said that given the extraordinary situation, it was not prudent to hold the garba. “We can stitch together the event in days, but will avoid it this time in the interest of the city. We will install an idol of Mataji at the venue, pray there and give offerings,” he said. The diamond city of Surat, which is popular for its events will also be bereft of garba revelry during Navratri. For the first time, there will be no commercial garba in the city with all the major garba organizers backing off due to the coronavirus pandemic. Denny Nirban, an event manager, said, “This is first time in the last one and a half decades that we are not organising commercial garba event in the city. Every year, we organize the garba event at the fully air-conditioned indoor stadium. The decision was taken during the lockdown” Event managers are of the opinion that organising the event will take time and with no SOP in place and the ongoing pandemic situation, it is best that the events are not organized. “Organising commercial garba requires six months of planning and we don’t have time even if the government permits the event. On the other hand, we won’t find any sponsors due to recession following the coronavirus pandemic,” said Hiren Kakadia, owner of G-9 Events company. Uncertainty looms over Vadodara’s all-men Garba Vadodara: Vadodara’s all-male garba is a tradition dating back several centuries where only men come out to perform at the Harsiddhi Amba Mata temple near Mandvi. Whether the tradition of this Harsiddhi garba, as it is known after the goddess’s name’, will continue or not depends on the government’s guidelines. “We cannot ignore the prevailing situation and at the temple, people come for garba out of faith and sentiments. However, we will make a decision after the government decides whether garba can be organized or not,” said Durgesh Pandit, the priest of the temple. Generations of men of all age groups, regardless of their class and wealth, have performed garba at this ancient temple. In fact, the musicians too are male. Every year over 1,000 participants join the garba here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-dance-trips-big-private-garbas/articleshow/78353832.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||Survey in 20 Goan villages for local job opportunities||PANAJI: Eighty volunteers of the Centre for Promoting Indian Economy (CPIE), led by four economists and six college lecturers, have started a unique survey of 20 Goan hinterland villages. The survey aims to generate jobs locally - within the village setup - and ensure that unemployed youth have alternative part-time employment, thus ensuring earnings for basic family survival. CPIE hopes to offer about 500 alternative forms of decent employment to Goan youth in the first phase of this project, which has been named ‘The Goa Village Project 2020’. Shiroda will be the first village to be surveyed, followed by Santa Cruz and Ponda. “Our target is to generate about 20 tertiary jobs per village, which can provide a monthly income of Rs 10,000 at the bare minimum,” Norman Baretto, the key member of CPIE, Goa Chapter, said. If all goes well, and the youth take it up willingly, the Goa Village Project will generate 5,000 jobs by March 2021 across the state. Elaborating on the initiative, Baretto, who works in Mumbai as a consultant economist with Tata Institute of Social Sciences, said, “Goan villages can be made totally self-dependent and self- reliant. There is an intrinsic potential to develop and generate local jobs, which unfortunately has been overlooked. It is a sad reality that many Goan youth look for easy money and quick profits.”  He said that the Covid pandemic has changed everything. With the tourism industry in Goa in the doldrums, he said youth are now more open to accepting other ‘simple’ forms of self- employment to pay their bills and keep the kitchen fires burning. The Goa Village Project is funded internally by donations from well-wishers and patrons of the CPIE. With no government funding, the venture is non- political and social oriented. The local ground coordination is being done by volunteers of the Goa Progress Forum, a statement by CPIE read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/survey-in-20-goan-villages-for-local-job-opportunities/articleshow/78354889.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jaw surgery not dental treatment, insurer told to pay||AHMEDABAD: A consumer court has ordered an insurance company to reimburse the medical bills for a jaw surgery after the insurer rejected the claim by terming it dental treatment. The case involved Tarak Joshi of Ghatlodia, who in May 2018 underwent a surgery to remove a tumour of the odontogenic posterior region of the jaw, at a private hospital. He was hospitalized for a day. His hospitalization and surgery cost Rs 62,000. Since he has health insurance of Rs 1 lakh with United India Insurance Co Ltd, he sought reimbursement. The insurer rejected his claim stating that Joshi was suffering from a chronic disease and dental treatment was not covered in his policy. Joshi sued the insurer at the Ahmedabad District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission (Additional) complaining about the deficiency in service. The insurance company stuck to its stand that Joshi had undergone a jaw surgery because of a chronic disease, which is not covered in the policy. Moreover, any dental surgery was not liable to be reimbursed according to the policy. The insurer denied the charge of deficiency in service. However, the commission perused the certificate of the doctor and came to the conclusion that it was not dental treatment, but a surgery for a benign tumour of the jaw. Therefore, the insurer should not have rejected the claim by terming it dental treatment, the commission said. It held the rejection of the claim to be a deficiency in service and ordered the insurer to pay Rs 55,000 after certain deductions with 8% interest. The commission also ordered the insurer to pay Rs 5,000 extra to Joshi for legal expenditure and mental harassment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jaw-surgery-not-dental-treatment-insurer-told-to-pay/articleshow/78353835.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Setting up of mini clinics in final stage, says minister||Trichy: Work on the selection of health staff for the 2,000 one-doctor clinics that are set to come up across the state is in the final stage, said health minister C Vijaya Baskar in Pudukottai. The chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced establishing the hyper wellness clinics at places where primary health centres are inaccessible. The clinics will treat mild ailments like head ache and mild fever as many private and government hospitals are reluctant to treat such patients suspecting Covid-19 infection. The service in these clinics will be free of cost. Speaking after inaugurating a community centre in Annavasal of Pudukottai district, the minister said that government hospitals in Tamil Nadu have sufficient supply of medical oxygen and added that surplus oxygen was being sent to other states. He said even the primary health centres in villages with bed capacity of 30 beds, have medical oxygen facility. Asking people to remain cautious, he said Tamil Nadu is testing over 90,000 samples per day for Covid-19, unlike any other state and that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked other states to follow the Tamil Nadu model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/setting-up-of-mini-clinics-in-final-stage-says-minister/articleshow/78355360.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ajmer||For 10th consecutive day, Rajasthan reports record single-day rise||JAIPUR: As many as 15 people died and 2,084 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the overall tally to 1,28,859 on Sunday. This is for the 10th consecutive day that the state has reported the biggest single-day spike in Covid cases. Everyday is becoming worse as the state has been witnessing record single-day jumps in new infections. With 15 more deaths, state’s toll now stands at 1,441. The health department is conducting aggressive testing in the state for early detection and early treatment of patients. In the last six days, over 1.8 lakh Covid tests have been conducted across the state. Out of those 1.8 lakh samples, 11,978 tested positive. While some parts of the state are witnessing worst outbreaks, organising the upcoming panchayat elections has become a challenging task. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to abide by the guidelines. Sharma said over 33 lakh voters will use their franchise in the first phase of elections to panchayati raj institutions on Monday. As infections are increasing in the state, even slight carelessness can cause major problems. Prior to going to polling stations, voters must wash their hands with soap or sanitiser, said Sharma, adding that at the time of voting they must stand in marked circles or wait for their turn by maintaining social distance. Senior citizens and differently abled people should be given priority during voting. Jaipur reported its 318th Covid death, Jodhpur 142nd, Bikaner 109th, Ajmer 102nd, Kota 98th, Bharatpur 79th, Pali 60th, Udaipur 47th, Alwar 39th, Sikar 33rd, Rajsamand 22nd, Baran 20th, Banswara and Jalore 17th each, and Jhunjhunu its 11th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (373), Jodhpur (290), Udaipur (106), Alwar (105), Sikar (105), Ajmer (93), Pali (87), Bhilwara (85), Jalore (85), Kota (83), Bikaner (79), Nagaur (66), Dungarpur (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Churu (40), Sriganganagar (39), Sirohi (37), Rajsamand (36), Tonk (34), Dausa (32), Chittorgarh (32), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (24), Jaisalmer (20), Pratapgarh (18), Hanumangarh (18), Baran (13), Barmer (13), Banswara (12), Bundi (12), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (9) and Sawai Madhopur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/for-10th-consecutive-day-state-reports-record-single-day-rise/articleshow/78356142.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur girl wins best child actress award||Coimbatore: A 10-year-old girl from Angeripalayam in Tirupur had won the best child actress award of Vegas Movie Awards for her role in a Malayalam short film ‘Grandma Toy’. This is the second international film award for the girl. The short film was directed by Gajendra Vava and was released in YouTube in June 2020. The girl had won the award among the contestants from 100 countries and it was announced on September 13. “I have been watching movies in multiple languages – Tamil, Malayalam and Telugu - since I was four. Whenever I see a movie, I used to act certain scenes from the movie in front of my parents and I enjoy acting. I want to take up acting as my career,” Mahaswetha, who is in Class V, said. Her father PU Krishnan said, “She used to imitate movie scenes at home, but we did not take her seriously as she was just a child. But, about two years ago, she gave me her savings and informed that she wants to get into acting. That’s when we had started to take her seriously.” Beaming with pride, he said that we don’t know how but whenever she goes into the shooting spot, she becomes the character itself and never struggled to do any scene. She has acted in four Malayalam short films in the last two years. Her performance in her first short film ‘Aaroduparuyum’ (to whom should I tell?) won her best child actress award at Los Angeles Film Awards in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-girl-wins-best-child-actress-award/articleshow/78354888.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jodhpur||For 10th consecutive day, Rajasthan reports record single-day rise||JAIPUR: As many as 15 people died and 2,084 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state, bringing the overall tally to 1,28,859 on Sunday. This is for the 10th consecutive day that the state has reported the biggest single-day spike in Covid cases. Everyday is becoming worse as the state has been witnessing record single-day jumps in new infections. With 15 more deaths, state’s toll now stands at 1,441. The health department is conducting aggressive testing in the state for early detection and early treatment of patients. In the last six days, over 1.8 lakh Covid tests have been conducted across the state. Out of those 1.8 lakh samples, 11,978 tested positive. While some parts of the state are witnessing worst outbreaks, organising the upcoming panchayat elections has become a challenging task. Health minister Raghu Sharma has appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to abide by the guidelines. Sharma said over 33 lakh voters will use their franchise in the first phase of elections to panchayati raj institutions on Monday. As infections are increasing in the state, even slight carelessness can cause major problems. Prior to going to polling stations, voters must wash their hands with soap or sanitiser, said Sharma, adding that at the time of voting they must stand in marked circles or wait for their turn by maintaining social distance. Senior citizens and differently abled people should be given priority during voting. Jaipur reported its 318th Covid death, Jodhpur 142nd, Bikaner 109th, Ajmer 102nd, Kota 98th, Bharatpur 79th, Pali 60th, Udaipur 47th, Alwar 39th, Sikar 33rd, Rajsamand 22nd, Baran 20th, Banswara and Jalore 17th each, and Jhunjhunu its 11th fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (373), Jodhpur (290), Udaipur (106), Alwar (105), Sikar (105), Ajmer (93), Pali (87), Bhilwara (85), Jalore (85), Kota (83), Bikaner (79), Nagaur (66), Dungarpur (49), Jhunjhunu (45), Churu (40), Sriganganagar (39), Sirohi (37), Rajsamand (36), Tonk (34), Dausa (32), Chittorgarh (32), Dholpur (26), Bharatpur (24), Jaisalmer (20), Pratapgarh (18), Hanumangarh (18), Baran (13), Barmer (13), Banswara (12), Bundi (12), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (9) and Sawai Madhopur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/for-10th-consecutive-day-state-reports-record-single-day-rise/articleshow/78356141.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Aurangabad||ACB nabs 2 cops for demanding Rs 4.75L||Aurangabad: Bidkin police station chief along with his subordinate have been arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on charges of demanding Rs 4.75 lakh from a sand trader. The suspects — assistant police inspector Rajendra Bansode (42) and assistant sub-inspector Babasaheb Dilwale (57) — were arrested on Saturday night, after the demand for the bribe amount was confirmed on September 17. The duo was produced before the special court on Sunday, which remanded them to judicial custody. Deputy superintendent of police (ACB) Maruti Pandit, who is investigating the case, said, “The ACB did not press for police custody of the accused as nothing was to be recovered from them. Following their judicial custody, they have been sent to Aurangabad central prison in Harsul.” Sources said that the suspects had allegedly demanded bribe for allowing the sand trader to lift the sand that the Bidkin police had seized in one of the cases and for allowing the trader’s vehicles to ply with the sand for which he bagged a tender from Chitegaon. The officers had also warned the trader of initiating action against him if the amount was not paid. Unwilling to pay the bribe, the trader approached Jalna unit of ACB and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/acb-nabs-2-cops-for-demanding-rs-4-75l/articleshow/78352596.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Doon DM says roads dug up for Smart City work will be repaired before festive season||Dehradun: With less than a month left for the festive season to kick in, the smart city officials are on their toes to repair the roads dug up for Smart City projects. The officials at Smart City have claimed that the work at Paltan Bazaar will remain their focus as the market experiences heavy footfall during the festive season and the repair work will be completed in time to prevent any inconvenience to locals and shop owners. Ashish Kumar Srivastava, chief executive officer of Smart City Limited and Dehradun district magistrate, on Sunday reviewed the ongoing projects in various parts of the city and directed the contractors and officials to complete the work within the stipulated time. The work between Nanny's Bakery and Behl Chowk and from the New Survey Road to Kanak Chowk will also be completed on priority as poor condition of these stretches are causing inconvenience to the commuters and is slowing down the pace of city traffic. Emphasising on achieving better coordination between departments like PWD, MDDA, Jal Nigam, the district official directed to remove electric poles and water pipelines in advance to ensure minimum hassle due to repair works. However, the repair works at Subhas Road and Convent Road may bother commuters for some more time. The PWD officials have said that they are ready for maintaining the road once the Smart City projects are over. Since the monsoon season is almost over, the roads can be made in no time, said the officials. During the review meeting, the officials also discussed the ‘Cycle For Change’ initiative, where the residents are being motivated to fill up a Google form under the ‘Support Your City’ section on the Smart City website. The residents have been invited to give their suggestions on how to make the city suitable for cycling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-says-roads-dug-up-for-smart-city-work-will-be-repaired-before-festive-season/articleshow/78352599.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Class VIII girl turns ‘teacher’ for tribal kids||Coimbatore: A 13-year-old girl has turned a ‘teacher’ for the unprivileged students like her in the tribal settlement of Sholayur village, which is hardly 1km away from Tamil Nadu-Kerala border in Palakkad district. A Class VIII student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Thiruvananthapuram, Anamika Sudheer had come home in March when the lockdown was enforced to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. When the schools commenced online classes, she couldn’t attend them. In the first place, her house lacked electricity connection. So, there was no question of having a smart phone or television. However, that didn’t make her sit at home idle, bemoaning her dire straits. She began to engage classes for other students, who like her lacked amenities to attend online classes in her locality. Now that volunteers and non-governmental organizations have electrified her house and got her a television and DTH connection, she is sharing the facilities with other students. Her teachers have gifted her a smart phone too to help her attend online classes. Anamika said, “Schools were not opened and we could not attend online classes. It was then the idea of teaching other students in the settlement struck me.” An old thatched house was converted into a classroom about two months ago and students from classes I to VIII were called to attend the classes, which were conducted for half-day through the week. Anamika said initially she taught the basics, including letters in Tamil, Malayalam, Hindi and English and switched to lessons when text books were distributed to them. “I would tell them stores, sing songs, recite poems or play with them to ensure they don’t get bored.” Her father M Sudheer, 38, said only five students had turned up in the initial days. “Now, the number has increased to 14. As we need to ensure social distancing, we have limited the number of students attending the class. The sole purpose is to ensure that children do not lose interest in studies and continue to read and write. We don’t have a library or reading centre in the region. Whenever she attends online classes, one of our neighbours or I will engage the classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-viii-girl-turns-teacher-for-tribal-kids/articleshow/78354898.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist joins club of 30K Covid cases in state||Coimbatore became the fourth district in the state to cross 30,000 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, when 596 people were declared positive for the virus. The tally now stands at 30,314, of which 4989 are active cases. The district is just 11 short to touch another worrying milestone of 5,000 active cases. This is despite 472 patients undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals getting discharged on the day. Almost all the beds in government hospitals and Covid care centres also seem to be occupied. Complaints have started pouring in about Covid care centres turning away patients due to non-availability of beds. Officials have, however, denied the charges. A health department official said, “We got a few messages complaining about shortage of beds. But that is not true. We have accommodated all the patients who required bed.” The official said there were 9,000-odd beds for Covid patients in hospitals and care centres in the district, including those at Pollachi and Mettupalayam. The toll, meanwhile, shot up to 418 with five more patients succumbing to Covid-19 in the district. Among the deceased was an 85-year-old woman, who was under treatment for more than 10 days. Of the remaining four, three were in their 60s and one was aged 70. Salem and Tirupur districts recorded sharp spike on the day, sending out signals that the worst is not over for the western districts. Salem, which has been reporting less than 3,00 cases all these days, recorded 378 fresh cases on Sunday, while Tirupur saw 282 cases, up from less than 200 in recent days. Tirupur also recorded its highest death toll of eight. The local bodies in these districts have been instructed to step up Covid prevention measures. “At the same time, we have told the local bodies to crack whip on violators of Covid rules,” a district administration officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-joins-club-of-30k-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/78354892.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Trichy||Tangedco’s 1st hydel project in Trichy||Trichy: A 20-megawatt hydroelectric power project at a cost of Rs 338 crore has been commissioned near Puliyancholi, where a non-perennial water stream comes alive after rains in Kolli Hills. Located at about 77km from Trichy, this lesser known tourist spot may soon become an integral part of the tourist map of Trichy. Tangedco is raising its first ever hydroelectric power project in Trichy region by utilizing water from Puliyancholai stream originating from Kolli hills. According to senior officials from Tangedco, Trichy, total five weir – small barriers-- will be built across water stream to generate hydro power by channelising the water through Penstock lines, an enclosed pipe that delivers water to hydro turbines. A power house, switch yard, Penstock line and approach bridges will be housed in Puliyancholai. “Apart from penstock lines, winch system will also be part of the project for maintenance of the power plant and these structures will attract tourists,” said M Vishnu, assistant engineer Tangedco, Trichy. The project will impact economy of nearby villages by boosting tourism, said Trichy district tourism officer T Jegatheswari. She said Puliyancholai attracts tourists only for a few months in a year when the water stream gains momentum. With this project, we are exploring the possibility of converting this place into a perennial tourism attraction. We are planning a park in Puliyancholai besides ensuring, changing area, toilets and parking area, she said. It may take another two years for the project to be completed, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tangedcos-1st-hydel-project-in-trichy/articleshow/78355363.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 28, 2020||Patna||Former DGP Pandey joins JD(U), may contest election||PATNA: Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joined JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday just five days after taking voluntary retirement from the service (VRS). Pandey was in the national limelight for his vocal condemnation of Mumbai Police’s non-cooperation to the state police team in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Pandey joined JD(U) in the presence of Nitish at the CM’s residence. Nitish offered the party membership to Pandey. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary and some other senior party leaders were present there on the occasion. Soon after joining JD(U), Pandey reached the party’s state headquarters where he introduced himself as “a disciplined sepoy of the JD(U)”. Introducing Pandey to the media as JD(U) member, senior party leader and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh said, “We welcome Pandey in JD(U) family.” The 1987-batch Bihar cadre IPS officer took VRS on September 22. Ever since he took the VRS, speculation was rife that he could join any political party and contest the election. “I was influenced by the working style of CM Nitish Kumar from the very beginning. The CM never interfered in any of the administrative works of the police. He provided all possible assistance to police in its operation against criminals and outlaws. All these things influenced me and I decided to join the party led by him,” Pandey told media persons. On being asked whether he would contest the assembly election, Pandey said, “It is not for me to decide. Now, I am a disciplined sepoy of the JD(U). Whatever decision the party’s senior leaders would take, I will follow. It is now upon the party leaders how to utilize my services.” Some JD(U) leaders said Pandey might be offered the party ticket to contest the assembly election from a seat either in his native Buxar district or in the neighbouring Bhojpur district. “Pandey’s name is also being considered for Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat where bypoll has been necessitated after the death of sitting JD(U) MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahto,” said another JD(U) leader. Pandey hogged limelight after he lashed out at the municipal authorities in Mumbai for forcibly quarantining Patna SP Vinay Tiwari, who had gone there to head the investigating team of Patna police in Sushant’s death case after the actor’s father K K Singh lodged an abetment to suicide case in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty. While Pandey was the DGP, his controversial remark that Rhea did not have the “aukaat” (stature) to make any snide remarks against Bihar CM Nitish was also much talked about in the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/former-dgp-pandey-joins-jdu-may-contest-election/articleshow/78353874.cms||Madan Kumar
September 28, 2020||Kolhapur||More home-isolated patients getting cured than those in health facilities||Kolhapur: Officials in the civic administration said the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in home isolation in Kolhapur city currently stood at 86%.This is a much better figure than the 65% recovery rate of patients undergoing treatment at the health facilities in the city. The recovery rate is improving as more patients are getting discharged everyday and fewer deaths are being reported. So far, 5,400 confirmed Covid-19 patients have been prescribed home-isolation, of whom, 763 are currently active. Nine patients have succumbed to the viral infection. Officials from Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said those who died of Covid-19 were the ones who hid details of their comorbidites and were shifted to the designated Covid hospitals only after the infection spread in their lungs. Home isolation is prescribed to those who have no symptoms but have tested positive for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR tests. The KMC has taken stringent measures to ensure patients observe home-isolation strictly and are regularly checked by the health staff. KMC’s nodal officer Nikhil More said, “The recovery rate of home-isolated patients is good mainly because patients are strictly taking precautions. The death toll among home-isolated patients is lowest compared to those admitted in Covid hospitals during the later stage of the disease. Though we advise people to stay in Covid care centres (CCC) for early recovery, many however prefer to stay at home. Moreover, the trend of taking admission in CCCs is increasing mainly because of the improved facilities we are providing.”  The trend of taking Covid treatment at home is a hit in the rural areas of the district. While patients with mild symptoms too are eligible for home-isolation, the district health administration recently took the decision to allow home-isolation only for asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/more-home-isolated-patients-getting-cured-than-those-in-health-facilities/articleshow/78353860.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vadodara||Owner booked for violence, extra-marital affair||VADODARA: Owner of a city-based high-end spa and salon was booked on Saturday for domestic violence, criminal intimidation and breach of trust. Paresh Patel, who lives in Akota, has been accused of assault, harassment and extra-marital affairs by his wife Jigna who told the police that her husband started harassing her after their son was born. She said that she kept tolerating him, but the situation became serious after he opened spas in Vadodara and employed a Russian woman named Hannah. Jigna alleged that Paresh started having an extra-marital affair with Hannah in 2014 and whenever she raised the matter with him, he would beat her up mercilessly. However, after he would promise not to repeat the harassment, she said, adding that she would continue to live with him despite the assaults. Paresh allegedly continued his affair with Hannah and in 2015 even had a kid with her. In 2017, Jigna registered a police complaint against Paresh but later withdrew it after Paresh apologized. She told the police, Paresh’s behaviour did not change and in January last year, he again started assaulting her. Paresh has also been accused of taking away a car bought on loan by Jigna and giving it to Hannah. For last six months, Paresh and Hannah are living together in Akota while Jigna has been forced to live separately in Mujmahuda, she alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/owner-booked-for-violence-extra-marital-affair/articleshow/78352439.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mysuru||Garbage piles up in Hassan||HASSAN: Amid the pandemic, the Hassan City Municipal Council has failed to clear mounds of garbage under its limits owing to shortage of manpower. According to the residents, the lack of interest in appointing the president and vice president of the local body has contributed to the development. “In Hassan city limits, 70 to 75 tons of solid waste is generated on a daily basis. The city, with 35 wards, has about 1.70 to 1.75 lakh people. In February this year, we had systematically segregated dry and wet waste in 12 wards. If the process was executed as per the plan, we would have achieved this in every ward, but at the time, most of the manpower was vested in sanitisation process of every street, government offices, hospital, and other Covid-prone spots,” said CMC commissioner R Krishnamurty. An Udupi-based company had come forward to collect e-waste generated in district before pandemic, but now its cancelled and CMC is looking for an alternate option. “The only waste dump yard is located at Agile, around 8-km away from city. It was set up nearly 6 years ago. It is spread over 20 acres. Besides, the city’s waste being accumulated here daily, Sakleshpur local administration is also dumping around 10 tons of waste here once in every two weeks. A Bengaluru-based company has come forward to generate compost, but now our staff are generating compost by clearing the stock once every two weeks. The company officers have visited the yard site recently. In a week or fortnight, the tender process would be initiated,” said Krishnamurty. A team is working round-the-clock from September 14 to keep an eye on people dumping garbage on the sideways or open spaces in the city. “They are also penalising public Rs 500 on the spot,” he added. “As the governing body has not been formed since local body elections held two years back, the elected representatives have no power to charge on bureaucracy. Awareness drives should be conducted regularly by the local administration on segregating dry and wet waste at source,” said RP Venkateshmurty, an activist. When asked about plastic manufacturing industries working in the district, Radha, environmental officer, Pollution Control Board, said, “No plastic processing industry is operating in the district. But a small-scale company has recently sought permission to our board. The company has not yet submitted its complete project report. Our board is confined to registration and manufacturing related issues. More powers are granted to the local body to avoid plastic circulation in society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/garbage-piles-up-in-hassan/articleshow/78354796.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Efforts being made to promote tourism in marginal areas, says CM Rawat at World Tourism Day webinar||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) in association with The Times of India organised a webinar on the theme ‘Tourism and Rural Development’ on the occasion of World Tourism Day on Sunday. The event was attended by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar and lyricist Prasoon Joshi among several others. Speaking on the occasion, the CM said that this year, the World Tourism Day is being celebrated as the “Year of Tourism and Rural Development” and the Uttarakhand government is taking this concept very seriously. He said, “Efforts are being made to promote tourism in marginal areas and the concept of homestays is also being promoted in the state. So far, more than 2,200 homestays have been registered in our state.” “We are trying all possible ways to promote rural tourism in Uttarakhand. We have taken an initiative to give a strong foundation to tourism through the Pandit Deen Dayal Homestay scheme. We have given financial assistance of Rs 1,000 (one time) to the employees working in tourism industry such as hotels, homestays, transport, etc some of which has cost Rs 25 crore. The fee for renewal of permits for this financial year has been waived off by the transport department, which is about Rs 23 crore. At the same time, only three fixed charges of electricity have been taken from hotels, restaurants and dhabas for three months, and in this way assistance of Rs 6 crore has been provided. Bar licence fee has also been reduced for three months and thus the industry has been benefited by Rs 2.5 crore. A relief of Rs 2 crore has also been given on water bills.” Elaborating the other schemes started by the state for the revival of tourism, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the state has exempted the registration and renewal fees under Uttarakhand Tourism and Travel Trade Rules for 2020-2021. In this way, a discount of Rs 60 lakh has been provided by the state government. “One-time financial assistance of Rs 35 lakh has been provided to the registered river rafting guides through direct benefit transfer (DBT). Three months’ interest on loans taken under Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali Tourism Self-Employment Scheme and Pandit Deen Dayal Homestay Scheme, which amounts to Rs 25 lakh, has been waived off. Renewal fees of rafting and aerosport firms for 2020-21 were also ceded,” Maharaj said adding that "our effort is to convert this disaster into opportunities." Maharaj added that the tourism sector has contributed significantly to Uttarakhand's GDP. The state is moving towards an environment-conscious one and efforts are being made to improve the livelihood of locals through tourism and pilgrimage. “Along with rural development, several efforts are being made by the state government to promote tourism in the hilly regions. We are sure that in the coming days, our overall efforts will again change the picture of Uttarakhand and tourism activities will improve people's livelihood. We have already completed the Bhagwati circuit to create an environment conducive to promote religious tourism in the state. Work on Lord Shiva, Vaishnav, Navagraha, Nag Devta, Golu Devta, Ramayana and Mahabharata, Vivekananda, Shakya and Mahasu Devta circuits are going on in full swing. After the completion of the new circuits, new avenues of religious tourism will open. Additionally, the Indian Railways is all set to lay a railway line from Rishikesh to Karnaprayag which will benefit the tourism industry further,” he added. Tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar said that Uttarakhand has rich biodiversity. “Snow-covered mountain ranges, bugyal, exquisite flora and fauna and good human resources attract tourists towards Dev Bhoomi. Continuous efforts are being made by the government to encourage tourism-based activities throughout the year in Uttarakhand which is also emerging as a hub of adventure activities like kayaking, river rafting and paragliding. For the rural communities of Uttarakhand, tourism directly means an opportunity. It enhances women and youth’s economic empowerment. Tourism encourages rural communities to protect and promote their traditional culture and heritage. These qualities provide a unique experience for the tourists,” said Jawalkar. Lyricist Prasoon Joshi said that “there is something organic about Uttarakhand that attracts you.” “Only young people partying is not tourism. Tourism is when families spend quality time, people meditating is also tourism, and Uttarakhand is the only state which can uniquely position itself for such tourism,” Joshi said. Manisha Pandey, Shivam Mani, Mandeep Singh Soin and several experts associated with leisure and tourism activities also gave their suggestions through the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/efforts-being-made-to-promote-tourism-in-marginal-areas-says-cm-rawat-at-world-tourism-day-webinar/articleshow/78352617.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||City records 6mm rainfall||Ahmedabad: A cyclonic circulation over south Rajasthan gave mild rainfall to the parts of central and south Gujarat on Sunday. Ahmedabad city recorded 6 mm rainfall between 6 pm and 10 pm as several areas in the western parts experienced drizzle. India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its forecast on Sunday mentioned that it would be partly cloudy sky for the city in the next few days. Light to moderate rainfall is expected in a few southern districts as there are no major systems over the region or are likely to be formed soon. The state has so far recorded 134%, while Ahmedabad city has recorded 114% of the seasonal rainfall. The IMD had mentioned that after this week, chances of heavy or moderate rainfall were very slim for the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-6mm-rainfall/articleshow/78353896.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid: GMCH designs and starts training module||Aurangabad: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), taking cognizance of the fact that the Covid-19 infected patients being referred from rural areas are coming in really bad state, has not only designed a training module in handling Covid cases, but has also roped in its senior faculties for imparting training to rural health staff. An official from GMCH said it is first-of-its-kind of initiative by any medical college in the state to train medical officers and health staff in handling Covid-19 patients. The unique training model designed will comprise theory plus practical including first-hand handling of Covid-19 cases at GMCH-based super specialty set up. GMCH has been designated for treating infected patients with history of co-morbidity as well as critically ill patients. GMCH dean Kananbala Yelikar said that around two dozen faculties and subject experts are part of the training module that has been designed to address the needs and challenges of the health staff and medicos from rural areas. “The module is the result of all that we have learnt since the outbreak of the pandemic clubbed with our individual experiences spanning decades,” said Yelikar. She added that the thought for designing the module popped up from the fact that patients being referred from rural areas as well as other places to GMCH are coming in extremely bad conditions. “If the medicos are trained in handling of Covid-19 cases, we are confident that the number of casualties resulting from the infection will register a dip,” said Yelikar. As per the module, each training batch will be for seven days and maximum 20 medical officers and 40 nurses would be trained in infection control practices – wearing and removing PPE, personal protection for healthcare workers, Covid-19 diagnosis including testing antigen/RTPCR and swab collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-gmch-designs-and-starts-training-module/articleshow/78352614.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Green light to smart traffic signals that can auto correct, withstand rain & heat||NEW DELHI: The archaic traffic signals may soon be a thing of the past as Delhi Police is all set to replace them with hi-tech LED automated ones. The ambitious project, which has been given the go-ahead by police commissioner SN Shrivastava, would be completed in phases. Plans are afoot to buy microprocessor-based traffic signal controllers, many of which would be wireless. A source told TOI that the process to procure close to a hundred different kinds of signals in the first phase had already started. “A dozen signals are being procured to be installed on cantilever and standard poles for two and three-lane roads. Similarly, a dozen Pelican signals and 25 pedestrian signals will be obtained. The list also includes 50 blinkers and 25 auditory devices,” the source added. While Pelican signals can be used by pedestrians to halt traffic and cross the road, the auditory devices are used for the safety of the visually impaired. When the pedestrian light turns green, these devices make a sound to indicate that the road can be crossed. It is learnt that Delhi Police would be setting up a special control room at the traffic headquarters in Todapur with a dedicated “health monitoring system” to keep a tab on the smooth functioning of the new signals. “These signals will eventually become a part of the Intelligent Traffic Management system. As of now, the locations have not been decided. The new signals will be installed at specific places on need basis,” said a senior officer. The automated signals would have a diagnostic mechanism to fix minor software-related faults. The control room would be automatically informed if a signal doesn’t function despite running self-fix programmes. At present, there are 150 signalling systems in the city. Each caters to eight signals in its periphery. It costs Rs 40 lakh annually to maintain a system. The new signals, which would automatically update faults to the control room, would phenomenally improve vehicular movement and make commuting in the monsoon pleasant. Currently, if a signal stops working, police are either informed by the public or an official deployed at the junction. At present, it takes at least an hour to fix a faulty signal. At one point in August, 40% of the 780 signals in the city had stopped working due to rain. “Apart from being connected to a computer or laptop, the signals will have a built-in keyboard with LCD display. They will also be able to withstand temperatures up to 55 degrees Celsius. This will be an advantage as Delhi experiences high temperatures during summer. The signals will be built in the shape of a steel cabinet to survive rain and dust as well as vandalism,” said the senior officer. There would be two working modes for the new signals — isolated and coordinated. In isolation mode, each signal can work independently, while in coordinated mode several signals can work in tandem. A three-foot trench would be dug on footpaths to lay the cables. Sand and bricks would then be laid for their protection. Bids have been invited for installing the signals within three years, which could be extended by two years. The company selected for installation would also do the annual maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-light-to-smart-traffic-signals-that-can-auto-correct-withstand-rain-heat/articleshow/78353877.cms||Sakshi Chand
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Remdesivir racket busted in Rajkot, 5 held||RAJKOT: Amid the raging coronavirus pandemic in Rajkot, the city's detection of crime branch (DCB) on Sunday busted a racket of black marketing the crucial remdesivir injection that is widely used to treat Covid-19 patients Five persons including a 20-year-old nurse working with a private hospital and her fiance and three others were arrested for illegally procuring the vials and selling them at exorbitant prices to the needy. VK Gadhvi, inspector, Rajkot DCB, told reporters that they laid a trap after receiving a tip-off that Devyani, who works with Shanti Hospital, a private hospital designated for Covid on Gondal Road, was illegally selling the remdesivir vials. Along with Devyani, Police also caught her fiancé Vishal Gohel (21), Ankit Rathod (21), Jagdish Sheth (37) and Himmat Chavda (23), who used to work in a private hospital on Kalavad Road. “We had sent a woman as a decoy who called up Devyani and asked for two remdesivir vials. Devyani told her that the injections would cost Rs 20,000. She then sent Gohel to make the delivery of the injections. When we caught Gohel, he revealed Devyani's name, leading to her detention,” said Gadhvi. During her interrogation, Devyani said she had bought the injections from Rathod for Rs 15,000. When Rathod was nabbed, he said he had bought the injections from Sheth, who is employed in a medical store at Jalaram Hospital. Sheth said Himmat had sold the injections to him at Rs 12,000. “When we nabbed Himmat, he told us that he had got the injections from Rajkot Civil Hospital. We are suspecting the involvement of a staff from the civil hospital in this racket,” said Gadhvi. “The accused have been detained at present. They will be formally arrested, once they undergo Covid-19 test,” he added. Remdisivir is administered to Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms to control the spread of the virus in the body. The price of remdesivir package (five vials) is around Rs 4,500- Rs 4,800. Recently, the state government had procured 1,368 remdesivir injections looking at the spiralling virus cases. Police suspect that the accused may have sold many remdesivir packages and they are investigating since how long they were running the racket. This scam comes barely two months after Ahmedabad crime branch busted a racket of manufacturing and distributing spurious tocilizumab injections that are used in critically ill Covid-19 patients. The racket was flourishing in Surat, where these injections were made in a pharma unit, and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/remdesivir-black-marketing-racket-busted-in-rajkot/articleshow/78352656.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu plans mandatory mock test||Aurangabad: After growing demand from students, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has introduced an online mock-test for final-year examinations that are scheduled to begin from October 1. University public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said the mock-test has been made mandatory in order to make students familiar with the new interface of the examination. “Those who have chosen the option of appearing for the examination in the online mode must appear for mock-test. Besides, the university has created stream-wise groups of students on cloud-based messenger service for the purpose of smooth conduct of online examination. All students are requested to follow the official channels for instructions received from time to time,” he said, adding that over 92% students are expected to take the examinations in online mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-plans-mandatory-mock-test/articleshow/78352635.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Two held for stealing one tonne pepper||Coimbatore: Two men were arrested on Sunday for stealing one tonne of pepper from a jeep at Veerapandi near Periyanaickenpalayam. Police have recovered the stolen goods from them. The Periyanaickenpalayam police identified the accused as Abdul Nazar, 28 and Saddam Hussain, 27, of Podanur. According to an investigation officer, the duo had placed an online order for one tonne pepper with Vasanthakumar, of Thevaram in Theni district, a few days ago. “The duo told him that they were traders from Karamadai in Coimbatore and promised to make the payment once the product was delivered to them.” Vasanthakumar dispatched 20 bags, each containing 50kg, of pepper in a jeep to the address that the duo provided. “The jeep driver roamed the Coimbatore city without knowing the exact address. Later, he parked the jeep on roadside at Veerapandi and slept in front of a shop. Nazar and Hussain used the occasion to steal the pepper and escape in a goods autorickshaw,” the officer said. Jeep driver Sivakumar lodged a complaint with the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who registered a case and formed a special team to nab the accused. The team collected CCTV footage from the area, identified the goods autorickshaw’s registration number and traced the duo. The officer said Nazar and Hussain were involved in similar thefts in the past. They were produced before a judicial magistrate court, which remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-held-for-stealing-one-tonne-pepper/articleshow/78354905.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||9 die, 151 down with virus in dist||TNNLudhiana: Nine Ludhianvis died of Covid-19 and 151 tested positive on Sunday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 64-year-old man of Aman Nagar, who had hypothyroidism; a 63-year-old man of Miller Ganj; a 73-year-old man of Shahpur in Payal; a 40-year-old man of Gill Road; a 38-year-old woman of Bhoothgarh village; a 58-year-old woman of Lohara village, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 63-year-old woman of Jamalpur with diabetes and hypertension; a 70-year-old man of Rajguru Nagar with hypertension; and a 56-year-old diabetic man of Tajpur Road.The day also saw three outsiders succumbing to the disease and 23 testing positive here.To date, 2,61,062 suspects have been tested.Local health department bulletin stated that of the 151 positive patients, 64 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 20 were positive cases’ contacts, 37 from OPD, one cop, one domestic / international traveller, two pregnant women, 25 through tracing process and one severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) case.The Ludhiana case count now stands at 17,482, including 1,190 active cases, and that of outsiders at 2,113. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has climbed to 717 and that of outsiders to 229.As per the local bulletin, with 15,572 patients cured, the recovery rate in the district was 89.07%.At present, the number of persons home quarantined was 4,162. On Sunday, 292 persons were sent for home quarantine.As many as 4,198 samples were sent for testing on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/9-die-151-down-with-virus-in-dist/articleshow/78352636.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Grand Old Lady to beach at Alang today||AHMEDABAD: The grand old lady of Indian Navy, INS Viraat, the world’s longest serving warship, will finally conclude the last leg of her journey on Monday afternoon, as it beaches at the Alang shipbreaking yard. The ship, which was originally a British ship commissioned in the Royal Navy in 1959 was later procured by India in 1986. INS Viraat, which served the Indian Navy for 30 years and the British Royal Navy for 27 years, has already begun its final journey from Mumbai’s dockyard some 10 days ago. It was kept at the Mumbai dockyard since March 2017 when it was decommissioned. The ship, an aircraft vessel, which was the centrepiece of the Indian Navy, housed the fighters, Sea Harriers of INAS 300, popularly called “White Tigers”, anti-submarine aircraft Sea King Mk 42B - also known as “Harpoons”, Sea King Mk 42 C and the SAR helicopter Chetak as an integral flight. Alang-based Shree Ram Group has won the bid for dismantling and recycling the naval warship at a cost of Rs 38.54 crore. Chetan Patel, partner, Shree Ram Group in Alang, said, “The aircraft vessel being the pride of Indian Navy will be recycled in one of the yards of Shree Ram Group. It is indeed an honour and a golden opportunity for the company to recycle the historic warship.” The warship’s steel is of high grade quality, it has bulletproof material and non-ferrous steel material. It has a powerful engine and it’s the first ship that served both the UK and India before coming to Alang, said a company official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grand-old-lady-to-beach-at-alang-today/articleshow/78353875.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Couple walk across the state to create awareness on Covid-19||Coimbatore: A Madurai-based couple, who have walked around 800km across the state for the past 35 days spreading awareness messages on Covid-19, were felicitated by city-based ‘Ulaga Podhumarai Thirukkural Sevai Maiyyam’ at Perur Adheenam on Sunday. The forum’s president C K Murugan said they honoured the couple with a certificate and a cash award. After walking from Madurai to Trichy and Viluppuram, they reached Coimbatore on Sunday, travelling through Salem, Erode and Avinashi, completing their on-foot trip. The couple, M Karuppiah, 50, and K Chitra, 52, said they started on August 24 and visited several villages, town panchayats and city corporations on their route while distributing pamphlets with information on Covid-19 and its precautions. “We prepared a pamphlet with information on Covid-19. We included information on symptoms, treatment, and prevention methods,” said Karuppiah.Followers of Gandhian ideas, the couple said they have also included their interpretation of the philosophy of Thiruvalluvar and Vinobha Bhave in their pamphlets to help people cope with the emotional trauma of the pandemic. So farm they have distributed 6,000 copies of the pamphlet. .The couple took along a bicycle which served as a caravan. They used it to keep their clothes, utensils, and a placard carrying awareness messages on the bicycle. Chitra said awareness on wearing masks was low among people at almost all the places that they went. “Wearing a mask is an important method to protect oneself from Covid-19. People are reluctant to wear masks, as they feel it is suffocating. We spoke to them about the importance of wearing masks,” she said. “People were surprised to learn we had taken a state-wide tour for this cause,” she added.Karuppiah said in 1992, he took a pada yatra spanning Kanyakumari to Kashmir, over 120 days. After their marriage in 2002, the couple have been taking such yatras together. “We have travelled around 90,000km on foor so far .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-walk-across-the-state-to-create-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/78354908.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang offers liquor at doorstep, leaves many high and dry||NEW DELHI: A teacher has been arrested along with his associate for running a syndicate that has duped over 1,500 people in the past few months on the pretext of doorstep delivery of alcohol. Hafiz Tufail, originally from Nuh in Haryana, used to teach at a madrassa in south Delhi’s Lado Sarai while Huzaifa lived in Sangam Vihar. The cops are looking for the kingpin, Naseer, who lives in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur. DCP (southeast) R P Meena said they had started an investigation after receiving a complaint from Karan Palta, a resident of New Friends Colony in southeast Delhi, that on May 22, during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he had come across an advertisement on Facebook about home delivery of liquor. On contacting the mobile phone numbers given the advertisement, he was told to transfer Rs 4,000 for two bottles. He sent the money via Paytm but did not get the liquor. When he asked for a refund, a UPI link was sent and he was asked to scan a QR code for receiving the money. As soon as he scanned the code, Rs 20,000 got deducted from his Paytm account. A team under inspector Aishvir Singh started examining the details of the mobile numbers used by the conmen. It emerged that the money from online wallets of the suspects was being transferred to a private bank account in Saket and withdrawn in cash. Further investigation and local surveillance led cops to Huzaifa on the bank premises on Friday. Four cheque books, 11 debit cards and a mobile phone with two SIM cards were found on him. The bank had already frozen his account on a request from Hyderabad Police. An analysis of his account statement revealed he had received Rs 35 lakh in his account between February 20 and September 9. Huzaifa told the cops that he had opened multiple bank accounts in his name at various banks and worked on the instructions of Naseer, who used to inform him about money transfers by victims. Huzaifa would then withdraw cash and hand it over to Tufail, who had introduced him to Naseer. Tufail, who was arrested from the madrassa, said Naseer was his relative who used to transfer the money online to his bank accounts as commissions. Watch Delhi gang dupes hundreds with liquor home delivery scam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-offers-liquor-at-doorstep-leaves-many-high-and-dry/articleshow/78353901.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Pallavaram residents to soon get more water, from Chembarambakkam lake||CHENNAI: From the new year, 2.5 lakh residents of Pallavaram municipality will get a daily supply of 135 litres per person under the new Chembarabakkam water supply scheme. Commissioned in 2013, the project will finally be handed over on December 31 to the municipality by Metrowater. Every household has been provided with a water metre and will be charged for what it consumes. “We haven’t finalized the rates but we will have slabs based on consumption. Now, residents pay Rs 50 as water charges every month,” said a civic official. A municipal engineer told TOI just like at T Nagar, Metrowater has provided a meter at every household. The municipality spread across 18sqkm with about 1,400 streets has been getting just 9.5 million litres a day (MLD) of piped water for the past 25 years. This means, each resident got about 60 litres a day, half of the entitlement under central government norms. To augment water supply, a scheme was proposed in 2008. A survey was carried out and in 2013, plan was laid to draw water from Chembarabakkam lake. An existing 31km main pipeline from Chembarabakkam to Tambaram was to be tapped for this project. The 1.2metre diameter pipeline that was laid by TWAD was connected to three underground tanks and seven overhead tanks each of capacity ranging between 3 lakh litres to 23 lakh litres at various locations in the municipality. From these tanks, 258km of distribution pipelines have been laid across the municipality connecting 40,000 households. The entire project cost is Rs 130 crore and about 29MLD water will reach the municipality now. “The entire project is completed. Right now, Metrowater is flushing the pipelines to clear dirt and is running it on trial. It will be handed over to us by December this year,” said C Mathivanan, municipal commissioner of Pallavaram municipality. V Santhanam, a local resident, had filed a RTI asking when the project would be completed. “I am extremely happy that we will soon get more water daily. At present, we get water once in four days,” he said. Along with Pallavaram, Pammal and Anakaputhur municipalities too will get Chembarambakkam water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallavaram-residents-to-soon-get-more-water-from-chembarambakkam-lake/articleshow/78353910.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||19-year-old dies, kin allege assault, police say he met with accident near Shivaji Nagar crossing||LUDHIANA: A 19-year-old driver from Mayapuri, Tibba, died near Shivaji Nagar crossing, close to Samrala Chowk, late on Saturday night. While the kin of deceased Nakul Mehra alleged that workers of a dhaba near the crossing thrashed him to death following an argument, the police said the youngster died when his bike collided with a truck. Harish Kumar, maternal uncle of Nakul, said on Saturday night his nephew along with his two elder brothers, Karan and Arjun, left the house around 11pm for a dhaba to have dinner. Around 11.30pm, they called the family and said they had a fight at the dhaba, after which the workers called their accomplices and thrashed them. The accused beat up Nakul mercilessly and he died on the spot, the kin said, adding that his brothers rushed him to CMCH, where doctors declared him dead. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-I) Deepak Pareek said the trio had a fight at the dhaba, after which they left the spot. They returned with bricks and stones and attacked the dhaba workers and escaped on their bikes. The workers started chasing them. Nakul was riding one bike and Arjun and Karan the other. Nakul was speeding to avoid dhaba workers and collided with a truck. When dhaba workers saw Nakul had met with an accident, they retreated. The police have a CCTV footage that has captured the accident. “Nakul died due to collision with the truck, but a case has also been registered against the dhaba workers. Police are recording statements to lodge an FIR under appropriate sections,” the ADCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/19-yr-old-dies-kin-allege-assault-police-say-he-met-with-accident/articleshow/78352645.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist slides on state casualty chart||Ludhiana: After witnessing the highest number of deaths per week in the state for over two months, the district has registered a bit of an improvement by sliding to the number two position. Besides, the casualties have been on the decline in the recent weeks.As per the latest state media bulletin released by the health department on Saturday evening, Ludhiana witnessed the second highest number of deaths (50) in seven days and Jalandhar the maximum (57). Amritsar recorded just one death less as compared with Ludhiana. At three, Barnala had lowest number of casualties among the districts of the state.The data of fatalities since July 9 showed that the number of deaths in Ludhiana in seven days was seven, which was the highest for any district of the state. It increased to 11 deaths in the week from July 12 to July 18. With it, Ludhiana registered second highest deaths after Amritsar (13). In the following week, the industrial hub again witnessed highest deaths (12) and Jalandhar, Patiala and Hoshiarpur recorded five deaths each to share the second spot.The data stated that deaths in Ludhiana witnessed a jump and were recorded at 65 in the first week of August and then crossed 100-mark between August 30 and September 5, when 107 fatalities were reported. Casualties witnessed a fall in the next week and were reported at 86 before falling to the present value.The health department authorities said the situation was under control, but residents must be vigilant.“Mortalities have come down in the district and the number of deaths has not been in double digits for many days. Even the number of positive cases is less, which indicates that the situation is under control, peak is already over and is on the decline. However, we have to be very vigilant otherwise there can be a second wave,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.CFR almost staticEven as deaths in the district are on the decline, Ludhiana’s case fatality rate (CFR), which is the proportion of deaths from a disease compared with the total number of people diagnosed with it for a particular period, is almost static. While it was 4.3% on September 15, it dropped to 4.2% the next day and after reaching 4.1% on September 19 has remained around the same value. CFR for the state is 2.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-slides-on-state-casualty-chart/articleshow/78352663.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University student creates fake social media IDs, stalks women||NEW DELHI: A first year Delhi University student has been arrested for allegedly creating fake IDs, and stalking and harassing women on the social media, police said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as 23-year-old Mohammad Kafil, a resident of Mehrauli in south Delhi. Kafil works as a part-timer at his father’s shop. Police said that the accused used to borrow hotspots from random people on false pretexts or used others’ Wi-Fi to stalk and harass women. He also did not use his own internet to create the false IDs. The cops started the probe after a woman complained of obscene and abusive messages on Facebook from an account in the name of one Karan. “An FIR of impersonation, stalking, giving threats and outraging a woman’s modesty was registered. The Cyber Cell of Delhi Police was asked to track the man,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. The team analysed the internal protocol (IP) details records to zero in on the suspect. Other details like phone numbers used to create the accounts were also investigated. After acquiring some clues about his identity, police traced the accused’s location to Mehrauli and arrested him. “During interrogation, Kafil confessed to the crime and said that he was fond of sending women obscene messages and created IDs under fake names for that purpose,” DCP Thakur added. The accused’s mobile phone has been seized for analysis. The cops are trying to ascertain the number of women harassed by the man. Watch Youth creates fake social media IDs for stalking women in Delhi, arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-student-creates-fake-social-media-ids-stalks-women/articleshow/78353909.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||A bridge too far: Opens, closes, will open again||Ludhiana: Political drama surrounded Jagraon Bridge on Sunday. In the morning, mayor Balkar Sandhu announced to open the flyover immediately, but when mediapersons reached the site, railway officials claimed two more days’ work was left. In the afternoon, Congress councillors, Rakesh Prashar and Gagandeep Bhalla, went live on FB and allowed passing of vehicles. Social media went abuzz that flyover was open for the public. However, it was closed in the evening. Councillors then started saying it was a trial run. This incident reminded the residents how the Congress leaders had tried to inaugurate newly-constructed Gill Chowk flyover during SAD-BJP regime when Akali Dal and BJP leaders were waiting for formal inauguration. In the morning, mayor Sandhu declared that MC work was complete and they would not let people wait to travel through the flyover for the sake of an inauguration ceremony. He said people had been waiting for four years for the opening. Later, he said it would open most probably on Tuesday after railways was through with the work.  How much work is incomplete? The civic officials were supposed to construct the approach road at both sides of the flyover and the railways was to complete the work at the centre. The officials claimed that railways had sought three days’ time from the MC to complete pending work and on Monday these three days were over. But now, by Tuesday or Wednesday, their work would be complete, they added. Railways is laying mastic asphalt at the bridge and two days’ work is still left. Mastic asphalt prevents the surface from becoming slippery and ensures grip of vehicles to the road. The civic officials claimed that railways was doing the work at night so during the day vehicles could easily pass. The rowAn activist, Kumar Gaurav, congratulated the city residents and the MC for completing the flyover after four years, but also asked the civic body to finish the inquiry into the change of its design. For Jagraon Bridge, the MC had paid Rs 24.3 crore to the railways. One side of the flyover was closed on July 14, 2016. After a wait of almost four years, it will be ready for traffic movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/a-bridge-too-far-opens-closes-will-open-again/articleshow/78352676.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Rajasthan students’ stir brings traffic on Shamlaji-Udaipur to a halt||Palanpur: Traffic on the busy Ahmedabad-Udaipur highway continued to be hit for the fourth consecutive day due to the ongoing agitation by the tribal students in Rajasthan. On Sunday, the Shamlaji-Modasa highway witnessed traffic jam as hundreds of truck drivers parked their vehicles by the roadside. The police, however, said that diversion of the traffic has led to the long queues.“We have diverted the traffic towards Bhiloda-Ambaji-Abu Road for those travelling from Gujarat to Rajasthan,” B B Basiya, deputy superintendent of police, Modasa. He further said that over 100 cops have been deployed on the Shamlaji-Modasa as well as Shamlaji-Himmatnagar Road to ensure that no untoward incident occurs. The police said that some youngsters had gathered at Ashram crossroads on Sunday for staging protests but the cops convinced them to return. The tribal students from Rajasthan have been protesting since the last 18 days over the delay in teacher’s recruitment in the state through the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers. The tribal community is also upset over lack of enough representation.On Saturday night, the protestors burnt some vehicles and pelted stones on Ratanpur-Kherwada road in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan. The Aravalli police is monitoring the situation to prevent any incident of violence in this district that shares border with Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajasthan-students-stir-brings-traffic-on-shamlaji-udaipur-to-a-halt/articleshow/78352695.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||What goes around comes around: How this 24-year-old is hooping to make flow art popular||NEW DELHI: Draped in a saree and wearing sneakers on her feet, Eshna Kutty was seen hooping to the tune of the popular hit song “genda phool”. The hula hoop twirling around the 24-year-old’s waist, arms, neck and feet had everyone hooked and in no time, the dance was being shared on social media and #sareeflow started trending. However, the dance form that had everyone swooning was a result of 10 years of practice. These “2 minutes of fame” were a tribute to Kutty’s passion of pursuing an art form that her classmates neither knew about or could visualise practising it. It was just a strange toy picked up by a child. A self-proclaimed nerd and introvert, Kutty felt hooping in her bedroom while watching online videos was a perfect pastime. For the first five years, the plastic ring revolving around her body and defying gravity was one of her closest companions. While studying psychology at Lady Sri Ram College, she thought about teaching it to others. “I started to teach so that I could have someone else to hoop with as most of my training was inside my bedroom,” she recalled. The first time Kutty saw flow arts — juggling, fire-spinning, hula hooping — in real life was at a beach in Goa. To see whom all she shared her passion with, she lived for hours inside a closed room. This connected her with more hoopers from around the world. She started posting her work on social media and conducting workshops and classes. Most of her initial classes were a complete no show, though they were free of cost. Kutty counts her blessings that she never had to sustain herself through her passion. She never had to pay rent or bills through hooping and it was always a hobby and a break from her studies. Later, she joined TISS in Mumbai to study dance movement therapy, an art of healing, while continuing to conduct her workshops. She started gaining popularity and followers online and got students from across the globe. “My mother saw my work online only when she joined social media. I was too shy to even perform in front of my parents,” Kutty joked. As her work became popular, she started getting offers for performances. However, she didn’t continue it for long as she realised dancers weren’t respected or treated with dignity at shows. People weren’t bothered to treat hula hooping as an art form. She decided to stick to workshops. Though it didn’t pay, a simple hoop in return or video sent from a student showcasing progress was immensely satisfying. In January, Kutty developed a website to reach out and collaborate with more people. Then came the pandemic that brought the world online. She soon had a whole new audience watching and enjoying her videos, which reached its peak with her hooping video in a saree. While her friends rated the video a mere 4 out of 10, she said that rather than focusing on technique and making it seem over-choreographed, she used her education in psychology and dance therapy to prepare the video, which appeared soothing and fun at the same time. While the popularity of the video, which was shot in the bedroom she has been practising all these years, has made her immensely popular, Kutty hopes it brings to notice the flow arts and the community of hoopers grows in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/what-goes-around-comes-around-how-this-24-yr-old-is-hooping-to-make-flow-art-popular/articleshow/78353913.cms||Amin Ali
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Travel industry upbeat as queries queue up for Himachal, Uttarakhand||LUDHIANA: After almost nine months of sitting without business, now there is a glimmer of hope for the travel agents of Ludhiana, as queries for holidaying in Himachal Pradesh have picked pace ever since the hill state did away with the travel restrictions recently. According to the local travel agents, there are a good number of enquiries for travelling during this week due to a long weekend starting Friday, October 2, on account of Gandhi Jayanti. They said people have also shown interest in visiting Uttarakhand, which has also scrapped the condition of Corona test before entering the state, but Himachal is the preferred choice. Another new trend being seen currently is that a lot of people, who are working from home these days, are exploring economical long stays in the two hill states. Gurpreet Singh Chawla, president of Micro and Small Travel Agents Association, said, “Lockdown in India began in March-end, but the travel business had taken a hit since January itself when Coronavirus hit China as travellers started avoiding international trips for business and leisure. However, the subsequent total lockdown in India affected the travel industry worst. Despite almost two months of partial resumption of domestic and international flights and lifting of the lockdown, there was not much to cheer about as people did not want to travel unless it was unavoidable.” However, ever since Himachal Pradesh has opened its borders unconditionally, they have started getting a lot of queries. As of now, most of the queries are for the upcoming long weekend, he added. Sales head of a leading travel agency of the city Rakesh Sharma said, “After months of sitting idle, finally we have started getting enquiries for holiday packages for Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Majority of the queries from the city are for Himachal and people are enquiring for two-three nights’ packages. There are some clients who have also sent us queries for long stays of up to a month. They are basically those working from home and looking for both holidaying and working while sitting in the lap of nature. The most sought after places for holidaying for Ludhianvis include Dalhousie, Dharamsala, Palampur, Kasauli and Shimla. People are avoiding Manali due to long distance. We are hoping for more enquiries in the coming days.” Speaking to TOI, Varinder Pal, a resident of Chandigarh Road, who has recently booked a package for himself and his family, said, “It has been months since we have been living like caged birds. So, as we came to know that Himachal has lifted all restrictions, I booked a four-night package in a hotel in Dharamkot near Mcleodganj. Rather than booking for the next week, I have booked for October 8, as there will be less rush then. We chose this destination as its only four-and-half hours’ drive from Ludhiana. Moreover, we have heard a lot about this place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/travel-industry-upbeat-as-queries-queue-up-for-himachal-ukhand/articleshow/78352671.cms||Mohit Behl
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Police collect Rs 72K as fine from Covid norm violators||Coimbatore: The city police have begun penalising people who violate pandemic safety norms.Police officials are collecting a fine of Rs 200 from people who don’t wear masks or don’t wear them properly. On Sunday, Rs 72,300 was collected in 300 violation cases, police said. “If a person is not wearing a mask, we fine them and provide them a mask. We have masks stored in our vehicles for this,” said a police official.Earlier, corporation and health officials were fining people for not wearing mask, but now the police department has also been directed to do so. A recent rule under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, says not wearing masks attracts a fine of Rs 200, spitting in public places attracts Rs 500, violation of social distancing attracts Rs 500. Violations in salons, spas, gyms, and commercial establishments would be fined Rs 5,000. As per data from police, on Saturday, the first day they started collecting fines, they collected Rs 79,400 in 355 cases. Police officials said they have been checking and collecting fines from people in areas such as those near the GH and Railway Station, Race Course, and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-collect-rs-72k-as-fine-from-covid-norm-violators/articleshow/78354915.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||All that slithers in the rain: Over 200 reptiles rescued from July to August in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On opening his office drawer to take out some files, a man was shocked to find a snake there this August. The Wildlife SOS team was called and the four-foot-long rat snake was rescued and released in its natural habitat. With a usual rise in the man-reptile conflict during the monsoon, the rescue team has responded to over 200 calls from July to August this year. The count is a little higher than around 190 last year and nearly 170 in 2018. As most snake species are burrowing reptiles and spend time underground, they are forced to seek shelter on higher grounds when their homes get destroyed due to flooding, said experts. Besides, the monsoon is the mating season of frogs, a favourite prey of snakes. The increase in the frog population attracts varied species of snakes. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “We get maximum calls for reptile rescues in the monsoon and sometimes end up rescuing five to six snakes in a day.” He added, “Our team rescues snakes from various residential and commercial areas, including metro stations, ISBTs, hospitals, government offices and educational institutions in Delhi and the rest of NCR.” Among the areas where rescue operations were carried out more frequently were south Delhi, JNU campus, Tughlaqabad, Chhatarpur, Dwarka, Rohini, Civil Lines in north Delhi and Delhi Cantonment, and several places in Gurgaon and Noida. In April, a large venomous cobra had taken refuge inside a scooter parked at the Sarai Kale Khan ISBT. The panicked owner, a priest, contacted the authorities and Wildlife SOS was requested to help. Similarly, a family in Delhi found a five-foot-long cobra’s flared hood peeking out of a wheel of their SUV in July. The rescue team had to carefully extricate the snake as it had got tightly lodged between the hub spokes. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said, “Many monitor lizards were spotted during the monsoon. Though non-venomous, people get scared of monitor lizards due to their appearance. Rat snakes are also found here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-that-slithers-in-the-rain-over-200-reptiles-rescued-from-july-to-august/articleshow/78353933.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Cybercrooks play new card: SIM from far-off areas to trick cops||NEW DELHI: Investigations into the recent cases of cybercrime have revealed that not only do the crooks appear to be extremely organised, but they have also been adopting new ways to put police off their trail. The SIM cards, the most important tool used by cyber criminals, were found sourced from remote areas of the country with the help of truckers and transporters, police have found. Many SIM cards used in the crimes reported in Delhi-NCR were found to be from Barpeta in Assam or Telangana. Investigation becomes difficult when a criminal based in Rajasthan or Jharkhand uses a SIM card of a south Indian state to dupe people in Delhi-NCR. A majority of the truck drivers from the Mewat region as well as distant relatives of the cyber criminals settled in the remote areas were found transporting the SIM cards. The inability of fraudsters to communicate fluently in English has resulted in such crimes being mostly limited to the Hindi-speaking states of the country. An analysis of the complaints received on National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal revealed that most of the victims were from Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, police said. The latest modus operandi used in the frauds were malicious QR codes sent to the victims on the pretext of making payments. Scanning the code resulted in bank accounts of the victims getting emptied. During the lockdown, a majority of the frauds were committed on the pretext of advance payment for alcohol delivery. Many who opted for online dating also faced “sextortion”. “Many cyber criminals advertised on social media platforms regarding home delivery of alcohol. They claimed to be approved by the government. When contacted, they would ask the victims to first make the payment. Once the money was received, the crooks would stop responding,” said another officer. Many cases of extortion were reported in which private or intimate content captured on video calls was used in the crime. Recently, a businessman approached police about meeting a woman online and becoming friends with her. The two engaged in an intimate act over a video call. The woman later threatened to upload the images online if he didn’t pay her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cybercrooks-play-new-card-sim-from-far-off-areas-to-trick-cops/articleshow/78353925.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 28, 2020||Mangaluru||ABVP takes up issue of Kannada PG exam goof up at Mangaluru University||MANGALURU: K Abhay Kumar, chairman, SVP Kannada Study Centre, Mangaluru University, is facing the heat for the failure of the centre to conduct the rescheduled exams for final year PG students of Kannada at the university’s Mangalagangothri campus on Friday. Even as the university is awaiting a reply to the show cause notice served to him, student body Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has jumped into the fray. Sandesh Rai, district convener of the ABVP, said failure to conduct the exams at SVP Kannada Study Centre shows the irresponsible attitude of authorities concerned. Condemning this, Rai, while demanding action against those responsible for the development, wondered if this is the fate of examinations at the university’s postgraduate campus, one could well imagine the fate of examinations on other college campuses. Students were scheduled to appear for ‘Kannada Matthu Computer Balake’ (subject code KNH 553) on Friday, which was held in four out of five centres, except on the Mangalagangothri campus of the university. K Abhaya Kumar called off the exam on the grounds that he had not received intimation that it was rescheduled for Friday, and that it will be held later. The exam for KNH 553 was initially scheduled for September 21. P L Dharma, registrar (evaluation) told TOI that the university had not received any reply to the show cause notice sent to the official and personal email ids of Abhay Kumar. “We could not serve the notice in person on Saturday and will do so on Monday. If the university is not able to function due to a national bandh call on Monday, the notice will be served in person on Tuesday, and Kumar will get two days to reply,” Dharma said. The goof up has put the university in an embarrassing situation, where it has to request the 51 students who wrote the examination on Friday, with the 16 students on the PG campus who missed out. Dharma said the university cannot evaluate two sets of question papers for one subject code. Students wrote the exam at the university’s PG centre at Chikkaluvar and government first grade colleges at Belthangady, Uppinangady and Thenkanidiyoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/abvp-takes-up-issue-of-kannada-pg-exam-goof-up-at-mu/articleshow/78352720.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 28, 2020||Coimbatore||2,000 sign up on state-run job portal||Coimbatore: More than 2,000 job-seekers from the district have registered in the state-run portal for private jobs, the district administration said. Data from ‘Tamil Nadu private job portal’, which aggregates job seekers and private firms looking out to recruit people, shows that more than 170 private firms from the district have registered on the portal. These firms are looking to fill more than 1,800 job openings, said a release. Interested candidates can register at www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in. “Both job seekers and job-givers can use the platform. Private firms can announce their vacancies in the portal and job seekers can use it to find private sector jobs that suit them,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2000-sign-up-on-state-run-job-portal/articleshow/78354916.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: SIT formed to probe Rapar advocate’s murder||RAJKOT: A special investigation team (SIT) was formed on Sunday to probe the murder of Rapar-based advocate Devji Maheshwari who was stabbed to death in his office on a busy road on September 25 evening. The decision to form an SIT was taken as anger over the 50-year-old lawyer’s murder raged across Kutch on Sunday with Dalit community members blocking several roads and burning tyres. The SIT consists of Kutch (west) superintendent of police, Mayur Patil, Rapar deputy superintendent of police V R Patel, who is also the investigating officer in the case, Patan DySP J T Sonara, Rapar circle inspector D M Zala and two sub-inspectors — C B Rathod and M M Joshi. On Saturday, the Kutch police jointly with Mumbai crime branch had nabbed the alleged killer Bharat Rawal, 22, from Malad suburb of Mumbai. Five others - Jaysukh Luhar, Khimji Luhar, Dhaval Luhar, Devubha Sodha and Mayursinh Vaghela - named by Maheshwari’s wife in her complaint have also been detained. Rawal was brought to Rapar on Sunday. On Sunday afternoon, agitators burnt tyres on Bhachau highway and blocked the roads in Rapar town as well as port town Gandhidham. While Maheshwari’s wife has alleged that he was murdered over taking up the case of a disputed Luhar community’s proper sale, there were reports that Maheshwari had put up several ‘anti-Brahmin’ posts on his social media account. However, JR Mothaliya, IGP, border range, denied this and said, “Prima facie investigations revealed that the FB posts were not the motive behind his murder.” Police said the dispute regarding a property between two factions of the Luhar community led to the murder. While one faction was bitterly opposed to the sale of the property to another community, another group was aggressively batting for it. Around 10 days ago, members of the warring factions had lodged cross-complaints alleging physical assault and vandalism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sit-formed-to-probe-rapar-advocates-murder/articleshow/78352776.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation aims to halve road accident fatalities in 5 years||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation, through its smart city project, has embarked on an ambitious goal to reduce the number of road accident fatalities in the city by half in the next five years, and plans to make vital changes in the city’s infrastructure to get there. The Chennai smart city limited has floated a tender to identify a consulting firm that will review the existing road safety database and prepare a comprehensive road safety action plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area for the next five years, i.e. from 2021-26. The firm would also have to provide a strategic funding plan and suggest a variety of measures that would help save lives and reduce injuries to road users. According to data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 5,880 people died on Chennai’s roads in accidents from 2015-2019. An additional 35,784 were injured in the accidents. Chennai contributes 12% of total road crashes and 10.3% of road fatalities in the state, GCC data shows. Most of the road fatalities involved vulnerable road users such as pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders, GCC said. This means that CSCL’s target is to reduce the number of deaths to less than 3,000 in the next five years. According to GCC sources, the planner would have to provide a safe system approach, support the implementation of safety demonstration projects and also undertake monitoring and evaluation activities. The health and education departments will be roped to work towards the goal. GCC’s consultant will have to look at the deaths and accidents caused by mode of transport and look at data such as crashes and fatalities per vehicle, per vehicle-kilometre and per passenger-kilometre, the time of the day when the accident occurred, gender and age group of those involved, and geo reference locations where 80% of accidents occur. Sites where more than five fatalities per annum occur would have to be studied. Such an analysis would then help understand biggest risk categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-aims-to-halve-road-accident-fatalities-in-5yrs/articleshow/78353931.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Several areas remain flooded, IMD predicts more rain in 48 hrs||Hyderabad: Even as residents of the city continue to battle inundation and other related issues, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that moderate spells of rains are likely in the next 48 hours. “As there is a cyclonic circulation in south coastal AP, the city might witness light to moderate rains on Monday and Tuesday too,” said Naga Ratna, director (in-charge), IMD Hyderabad. On Sunday, residents of low-lying areas were forced to pump water out of their homes. Some of them also hit the streets in protest against the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) lackadaisical attitude to their woes. Around 60 residents of Dollfine Durga County, a housing society located in Miyapur, protested against the GHMC. ‘Give our road back’, ‘GHMC murdabad’ were the slogans raised by the residents, who alleged that the civic body was responsible for the waterlogged stretch in front of their housing society. “The only stretch to enter our housing society is flooded with water. A fruit vendor on Sunday escaped a mishap after he fell into a pool of water. The GHMC is responsible for this sorry state of affairs,” said Sangram K, a resident of the housing society. N Sudhamsh, GHMC deputy commissioner , Chandanagar, said that the road was dug up to lay a new road. “Before restoring the stretch we had also taken up temporary measures like pumping out water and filling the potholes. The onus to fix cellar issue lies with the builder,” he said. Residents also reported that basements of apartments were flooded and vehicles were submerged in the water. In several homes, electronic gadgets and furniture were also damaged. GHMC has urged residents to reach out to it on 04021111111/04029555500, dial 100, GHMC app or Twitter. “GHMC disaster response teams are on the ground addressing the woes on a war-footing basis,”said GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-areas-remain-flooded-imd-predicts-more-rain-in-48-hrs/articleshow/78353939.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 28, 2020||Gurgaon||App-based AC buses to hit roads soon, to link Delhi with Gurugram and Noida||NEW DELHI: App-based premium bus services are likely to receive the green signal from Delhi government very soon. These airconditioned, luxury buses are likely to operate between Delhi and NCR areas like Gurugram and Noida. While the plan to start the bus service is four years old, the proposal has been revived in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak to offer commuters safe and comfortable transport options. Passengers will be able to book a seat on these buses, which will pick them from near their home and drop them to their destination. Amenities like Wi-Fi will also be available on board. “We are planning to allow buses with NCR permit to run on trunk routes between Delhi and areas likeGurugramand Noida. For instance, we can have services starting from Model Town and up toGurugramor from Saket to Noida,” a transport department official said. “Delhi has an inter-state agreement for operating buses in NCR and if the bus operators have permits complying with norms, there shouldn’t be any problems,” he said. “Even private app-based bus aggregators ran mostly on NCR routes, as a large number of people travel between Delhi andGurugramor Noida for work,” he said. First planned in 2016, the premium bus service aimed at weaning away commuters from personal to public transport. Thanks to booking through a mobile application or online, commuters would be assured of a seat and wouldn’t have to face the hassle of driving in the rush hour traffic. “We are looking at big operators with proven track records and an adequate fleet of buses. We want to provide options to commuters but also don’t want a free for all and Blueline-kind of a situation, resulting in a traffic nightmare,” he said. “The app would be developed by the operators and while we would fix the services they need to provide, the pricing would depend on market forces,” he said. The officials said that the revived proposal is being finalised but some important issues remain to be worked out, which include finalising routes, permit fee, minimum number of buses an operator needs to run, sharing of revenue etc. A major reason why premium bus service couldn’t take off earlier was that unlike buses of DTC and Cluster Scheme that operate under ‘stage carriage’ permits, allowing them to pick or drop passengers from any designated point, private chartered buses operate under ‘contract carriage’ permits, which only allows them to transport a group of passengers from one point to another, without passengers boarding or de-boarding on the way. The official said that the amended MV Act, however, allows these bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/app-based-ac-buses-to-hit-roads-soon-to-link-delhi-with-gurgaon-and-noida/articleshow/78355689.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana rains: Rise in inflows likely to ease water crisis in some areas||HYDERABAD: The good inflows in the twin reservoirs of Himayathsagar and Osmansagar are likely to help the ruling TRS party fetch votes in the GHMC polls. The Old City and certain areas of Greater Hyderabad, which are facing water shortage, might get huge relief if the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) plans to supply water daily to its consumers. The twin reservoirs, Osmansagar and Himayathsagar, are considered ‘lifelines’ of Greater Hyderabad. This year, the water levels of the twin reservoirs have risen owing to the recent rains. The water is sufficient to meet the demands of nearly one million people. The water board said it is planning to draw a total of 40 million gallons of water per day (MGD) from the twin reservoirs of Osmansagar and Himayathsagar. The water board was supposed to provide 602 MGD of potable water to its 10 lakh consumers on a daily basis, as per present population projection, but currently, is supplying 480 MGD water only on alternate days. Based on this year’s summer action plan, the board is drawing water from the twin reservoirs. “The water board had also developed a water supply network to supply water on alternate days to compensate for Godavari and Krishna water to the areas to minimise dependability on Osmansagar and Himayathsagar water. Senior water board officials will take a final decision on increasing the water supply,” HMWS&SB in-charge of Osmansagar and Himayathsagar reservoirs, S Harishankar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rise-in-inflows-likely-to-ease-water-crisis-in-some-areas/articleshow/78353953.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Man stabs landlord’s wife to death, injures two others in Chennai||CHENNAI: In yet another incident of a house owner-tenant standoff turning violent, a man stabbed the wife of his landlord to death at Radhakrishna Nagar, Choolaimedu, on Saturday. Police who identified the deceased as S Sukanya, 28, said her husband Satish C and his father Chandramohan were also injured in the incident. The accused, Narayanan, was arrested before a court sent him to jail. Police said Sathish, 35, and his father Chandra Mohan, 69, had let out the second floor portion of their house to Narayanan for Rs 3,000 a month. For the past eight months, however, Narayanan had neither paid the rent nor returned the Rs 80,000 he had borrowed from the owners, an officer said, quoting from a statement by the family. At 9.15pm on Saturday, Chandra Mohan went to ask for the rent when an argument ensued and Narayanan stabbed him. His family members came running from the ground floor. Narayanan also stabbed Sathish and when Sukanya rushed to his help, she was attacked too. A few neighbours rescue tried to nab Narayanan, but he escaped. They rushed Sukanya to the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital where the mother of two died the same night. Police who managed to catch hold of Narayanan around 11pm, said his wife had earlier gone into hiding after borrowing lakhs of rupees money from people in the neighbourhood. A couple of days ago, a 19-year-old college student was pushed to death by tenants in Arumbakkam. In July, Kundrathur, a man hacked his landlord death after he demanded four months rent that was due.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-stabs-landlords-wife-to-death-injures-two-others/articleshow/78353984.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Vehicles line roads near RTOs, locals suffer||CHENNAI: Roads around most of the city regional transport offices (RTOs) are usually choc-a-bloc with vehicles all day, putting locals to a lot of hardship. The problem arises because these RTOs do not have space on their premises to park the scores of vehicles that are brought for registration every day. Chennai and suburbs have 18 RTOs, each handling an average of 150 vehicles for new registrations and renewal of fitness certificate (FC) daily. Except for a couple of RTOs, most are in congested areas near arterial roads. The busy Chennai North RTO is in a building on a street off arterial Jawaharlal Nehru Road at Sastri Nagar in Kolathur. On working days, new two-wheelers and cars are parked all along the inner lanes and vehicles brought for renewal of FC are parked in three rows on JN Road. The result: locals can’t get out of their homes and commuter traffic is slowed. Similar is the situation in densely populated Mandaveli in South Chennai, which houses the RTO Chennai (South-East). Half the carriageway on St. Marys Road before the cemetery is taken over by vehicles, including Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses, that have been brought for renewal of FC. Most vehicles visiting the KK Nagar RTO office to obtain fitness certificates are parked on 11th Avenue Road in Ashok Nagar and all along the lane of Bharathidasan Colony, where the RTO office is located, irking residents.“They park right outside my gate. I cannot even take my car out until the driver arrives,” said P Kalaimagan, a resident of Bharathidasan Colony, recalling that recently it took an hour to find the driver who had parked a outside his house. Admitting there was no other space to inspect vehicles, a senior official with the KK Nagar RTO said that though time slots are allotted, many arrive early, adding to the crowd of vehicles. “The issue would be largely resolved once the Centre gives approval for registering new vehicles at the dealer’s place instead of the vehicles coming to the RTO office,” a transport official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vehicles-line-roads-near-rtos-locals-suffer/articleshow/78353942.cms||Aditi R
September 28, 2020||Delhi||NTPC seeks 5MT farm stubble to help NCR breathe easy||NEW DELHI: NTPC will harvest five million tonne of biomass pellets made from farm stubble for fuelling its power stations, giving farmers the option to make extra money by selling crop residue instead of burning them and choking the NCR as well as parts of four other states every winter. The state-run generation utility has sought expression of interest for procuring the pellets just when reports of sporadic crop burning has started coming in from parts of Punjab, which has been identified along with Haryana and western UP, as major contributors to the winter smog in the NCR. Company sources said ash generated from burning of agro residue-based fuel in power plants get absorbed in electrostatic precipitators and does not cause air pollution. Also, the equivalent amount of CO2 emitted from their combustion is absorbed in the next crop cycle by photosynthesis, which does not increase the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. No wonder Punjab and Haryana will get preference in the procurement process, while the pellets will be used in 17 of NTPC’s large power stations. These will include the Dadri plant in Uttar Pradesh, which has a bearing on the air quality on the NCR. Last year, NTPC used 7,000 tonne of pellets at the plant. Rihand is the other major plant in UP where the pellets will be used. The Korba and Sipat plants in Chhattisgarh, Farakka in West Bengal and Kudgi in Karnataka are the other units to be fuelled by the pellets. An acre of cropping yields about two tonne of stubble or straw. A tonne of stubble fetches Rs 5,500, which yields an income of about Rs 11,000 per acre for farmers. The policy of using these pellets was announced on November 16, 2017 when a spell of smog arising from widespread stubble burning was choking north India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ntpc-seeks-5mt-farm-stubble-to-help-ncr-breathe-easy/articleshow/78353944.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 28, 2020||Delhi||App-based AC buses to hit roads soon, to link Delhi with Gurugram and Noida||NEW DELHI: App-based premium bus services are likely to receive the green signal from Delhi government very soon. These airconditioned, luxury buses are likely to operate between Delhi and NCR areas like Gurugram and Noida. While the plan to start the bus service is four years old, the proposal has been revived in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak to offer commuters safe and comfortable transport options. Passengers will be able to book a seat on these buses, which will pick them from near their home and drop them to their destination. Amenities like Wi-Fi will also be available on board. “We are planning to allow buses with NCR permit to run on trunk routes between Delhi and areas likeGurugramand Noida. For instance, we can have services starting from Model Town and up toGurugramor from Saket to Noida,” a transport department official said. “Delhi has an inter-state agreement for operating buses in NCR and if the bus operators have permits complying with norms, there shouldn’t be any problems,” he said. “Even private app-based bus aggregators ran mostly on NCR routes, as a large number of people travel between Delhi andGurugramor Noida for work,” he said. First planned in 2016, the premium bus service aimed at weaning away commuters from personal to public transport. Thanks to booking through a mobile application or online, commuters would be assured of a seat and wouldn’t have to face the hassle of driving in the rush hour traffic. “We are looking at big operators with proven track records and an adequate fleet of buses. We want to provide options to commuters but also don’t want a free for all and Blueline-kind of a situation, resulting in a traffic nightmare,” he said. “The app would be developed by the operators and while we would fix the services they need to provide, the pricing would depend on market forces,” he said. The officials said that the revived proposal is being finalised but some important issues remain to be worked out, which include finalising routes, permit fee, minimum number of buses an operator needs to run, sharing of revenue etc. A major reason why premium bus service couldn’t take off earlier was that unlike buses of DTC and Cluster Scheme that operate under ‘stage carriage’ permits, allowing them to pick or drop passengers from any designated point, private chartered buses operate under ‘contract carriage’ permits, which only allows them to transport a group of passengers from one point to another, without passengers boarding or de-boarding on the way. The official said that the amended MV Act, however, allows these bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/app-based-ac-buses-to-hit-roads-soon-to-link-delhi-with-gurgaon-and-noida/articleshow/78353977.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 28, 2020||Noida||App-based AC buses to hit roads soon, to link Delhi with Gurugram and Noida||NEW DELHI: App-based premium bus services are likely to receive the green signal from Delhi government very soon. These airconditioned, luxury buses are likely to operate between Delhi and NCR areas like Gurugram and Noida. While the plan to start the bus service is four years old, the proposal has been revived in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak to offer commuters safe and comfortable transport options. Passengers will be able to book a seat on these buses, which will pick them from near their home and drop them to their destination. Amenities like Wi-Fi will also be available on board. “We are planning to allow buses with NCR permit to run on trunk routes between Delhi and areas likeGurugramand Noida. For instance, we can have services starting from Model Town and up toGurugramor from Saket to Noida,” a transport department official said. “Delhi has an inter-state agreement for operating buses in NCR and if the bus operators have permits complying with norms, there shouldn’t be any problems,” he said. “Even private app-based bus aggregators ran mostly on NCR routes, as a large number of people travel between Delhi andGurugramor Noida for work,” he said. First planned in 2016, the premium bus service aimed at weaning away commuters from personal to public transport. Thanks to booking through a mobile application or online, commuters would be assured of a seat and wouldn’t have to face the hassle of driving in the rush hour traffic. “We are looking at big operators with proven track records and an adequate fleet of buses. We want to provide options to commuters but also don’t want a free for all and Blueline-kind of a situation, resulting in a traffic nightmare,” he said. “The app would be developed by the operators and while we would fix the services they need to provide, the pricing would depend on market forces,” he said. The officials said that the revived proposal is being finalised but some important issues remain to be worked out, which include finalising routes, permit fee, minimum number of buses an operator needs to run, sharing of revenue etc. A major reason why premium bus service couldn’t take off earlier was that unlike buses of DTC and Cluster Scheme that operate under ‘stage carriage’ permits, allowing them to pick or drop passengers from any designated point, private chartered buses operate under ‘contract carriage’ permits, which only allows them to transport a group of passengers from one point to another, without passengers boarding or de-boarding on the way. The official said that the amended MV Act, however, allows these bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/app-based-ac-buses-to-hit-roads-soon-to-link-delhi-with-gurgaon-and-noida/articleshow/78355690.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy inflows into Hyderabad reservoirs will ensure water supply till 2022: Officials||HYDERABAD: The heavy inflows due to the incessant rains in the catchment areas in the past few days have ensured that there will be no water problem in the city till 2022, said officials. Osmansagar and Himayathsagar are almost filled to the brim after nearly a decade. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) officials are buoyant as they expect to generate Rs 10 crore every month once water supply is increased from the Jreservoirs. The water level at the Himayathsagar, one of the city’s major drinking water sources, is just three feet away from water being released downstream. The FTL is 1,763 feet and the water level on Sunday at 9 pm was 1,759 feet. The heavy inflows into the lake is also a record of sorts as in the last 93 years of the lake’s history there was never such an increase in the water level in a short span of time. Three spells of rain since September 15 has meant that the water level, which was 1,740 on that day, rose to 1,760 by Sunday evening - a sharp rise of 20 feet. Last year too, the water level on September 15 was 1,740 but there was no steep rise in it later. Currently, the water board is drawing a total of four MGD from the Himayathsagar. “To draw the assured quantity of 15 MGD of water from this reservoir, the state government’s permission is required,” HMWS&SB said. “We were supposed to open the floodgates on Sunday but the flood water slowly receded as there is no rainfall in the catchment area. But we are closely monitoring the water levels and the flood gates can be opened any time if there are fresh inflows,” S Hari Shankar, HMWS&SB in-charge general manager and in-charge of the reservoirs, said. The official said that water level at Osmansagar is increasing steadily. The water level on Sunday was 1,771 feet - 19 feet less than FTL of 1,790 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-inflows-into-city-reservoirs-will-ensure-water-supply-till-2022-officials/articleshow/78353993.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Drive to plant 1 lakh palm trees to be sentinels against coastal erosion||CHENNAI: One lakh palm seeds have been planted by a team of volunteers on the stretch between Panaiyur (near Uthandi) and the Marina beach during a two-day drive that ended on Sunday in an effort to check coastal erosion and to regain the space palm trees once had in the state’s social life.  V Manikandan, founder of Kakkai Charitable Trust who led the team, said it was a great experience. “Students from schools, colleges and other institutions joined us.”  The team chose Panaiyur, whose name is synonymous with ‘panai’ (palm in Tamil). Despite being the state tree of Tamil Nadu, palm trees are widely abandoned today, thanks to the ban on toddy tapping. The drive, said Manikandan, should continue for at least 10 years. “If we continue planting palm seeds along the coast for at least 10 years, we will be able to develop a fence of palm trees that can help prevent coastal erosion,” he added.  It was a year ago that the idea to stop coastal erosion came to Manikandan and his team had planted palm seeds along the east coast between Thiruvanmiyur and Neelankarai. The current one-lakh drive, however, was challenging mainly because of the still-raging Covid-19 pandemic. The team had to collect the palm seeds from various parts of Tamil Nadu. “We started collecting palm seeds six months ago. It took a long time mainly because of the lockdown. But we could manage it,” he said. A couple of years ago, an initiative launched by the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi to plant palm seeds across Tamil Nadu evoked tremendous response. Such drives attract huge support from youngsters. “Our drive is apolitical, so anyone with an interest in preserving the environment (and culture) can join it,” said Manikandan. C N Paul Pradeep, a volunteer, said he was happy to be part of the drive. “Palm is a high revenue yielding tree for farmers. Each part of the plant, from its seed to leaf, fruit to trunk, is important. My grandfather and great grandfathers were palm tree climbers. I am happy that the two-day drive will give a new lease of life for the tree,” said Pradeep, who state deputy secretary of the Makkal Needhi Maiam led by actor-turned politician Kamal Haasan. Though palm trees don’t need much care, they need to be checked in the beginning stage once. “Our volunteers will maintain them. We are not going to stop it. The journey will continue,” said V M Parthasarathy, another volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drive-to-plant-1l-palm-trees-to-be-sentinels-against-coastal-erosion/articleshow/78353998.cms||M T Saju
September 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Inability to make field visits the only hitch: Dakshina Kannada DC||MANGALURU: After learning that he was a primary contact of a Covid-19 patient, Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra has been working from home. Although the results of the Covid-19 test confirmed that he did not have the infection, the e-office that the district administration is using has proven to be very effective in helping the DC discharge his duties from home. Furthermore, only the important files are brought to his house for verification. From video calls on WhatsApp to Zoom, the DC is using a wide array of interactive tools to hold meetings with the officials. “The only hindrance is the inability to meet people personally to address their grievance,” Rajendra told TOI. He said that, in most cases, people were only satisfied after explaining their grievances in person and submitting a memorandum. The DC said that an inability to do so left them with an inexplicable void. Rajendra pointed out that working from home also prevented him from making field visits, which were vital to the decision making process. “These visits tend to have a salutary effect on stakeholders concerned in that they feel pleased that a competent authority has come in person to look into their issue. Other problems that necessitate such visits to the spot, they are undertaken by electronic means. The routine administrative work does not suffer but for the absence of reassuring physical presence,” he added. Away from the bustle at the office, Rajendra has cleared 300-odd files. He reviewed the functioning of Covid19 laboratories at the district Wenlock Hospital and five medical colleges across Dakshina Kannada. “A virtual meeting with the chief secretary is the order of the day, as is replying to questions raised by the elected representatives. There are times when I think I am busier working from home than while working at the office,” he quipped. Bureaucracy often goes beyond the normal 10am to 5pm routine, Rajendra noted. “The time away from this routine has also helped focus my attention to various pressing issues confronting the district administration. I have been able to devote quality time to analyse some of these issues and clear pending issues,” said Rajendra, adding working from home was something he had to practice and master to lead by example.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/inability-to-make-field-visits-the-only-hitchdk-dc/articleshow/78352749.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Juvenile among three held for attacking couple||CHENNAI: A gang of three, including a juvenile, were arrested for robbing a couple at Madhavaram on Friday. Police said Raji, 62, with Yamuna, 58, on the pillion, were riding their motorbike past Manjambakkam when the gang began following them. Yamuna grew suspicious and tucked her six-sovereign gold chain under her blouse, but the gang, also on a bike, intercepted the couple and snatched the chain, police said. The couple fell off the bike and sustained injuries. Since the couple raised an alarm, the snatchers attacked the couple and fled. Passersby took the couple to a nearby hospital where they are undergoing treatment. Police, with the help of the CCTV camera footage, traced the trio to be historysheeters Sathishkumar, 22, and Harikumar, 21, and a juvenile, and the bike used to be a stolen one. The two robbers were remanded in judicial custody. The juvenile has been sent to correctional facility in Kellys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/juvenile-among-3-held-for-attacking-couple/articleshow/78354006.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||What led to violent tribal clashes in Rajasthan's Dungarpur||JAIPUR: The violent clashes between the tribal youths and police in Dungarpur and surrounding areas over recruitment of teachers is the result of the years of simmering tension between the tribal and non-tribal communities over establishing domination in the region. The selective and targeted attack on non-tribal houses and businesses in Kherwada and Bicchiwada by the protesters demanding teaching jobs has brought the spilt between the two groups to the fore. The apathy of the consecutive governments in addressing the concerns of both the groups has further aggravated the problem. A section of tribal youths climbed atop Kakri Doongri hill demanding the vacant 1,137 teaching jobs in open category to be filled by them on September 6. These jobs are reserved for non-SC and ST candidates since open category candidates didn’t qualify for the same. They continued to stay atop for 18 days till September 24, but neither the local administration nor the government initiated talks to bring them down. Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) extended them the support from day 1. Interestingly, the local administration didn’t sense any law and order problem or threat to NH-8 connecting Udaipur-Ahmedabad or Delhi-Mumbai highway for 18 days. For the last three days, the state is struggling to contain the situation. Officials requesting anonymity agreed that they took the protest only for teaching posts and missed to read the undercurrent that this demand is an expression for a bouquet of demands being made by tribal groups and now by the BTP. "Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava saved the entire Shreenath Colony in Kherwada from being ransacked by the protesting youths. Some protesters are trying to disrupt the social fabric of the region which the police will prevent," said Binita Thakur, IG, Udaipur Range. The incidents have instilled fear among the locals who have accused the consecutive governments for creating a divide between the two groups. "I am a non-tribal living in Dungarpur with my hard work and have access to all luxuries, but I will remain vulnerable until I don’t have a political voice. The reservation of ST from the bottom to the top has made us politically apartheid," said Piyush Pandya, a businessman in Dungarpur. Calling the Tribal Sub Plan area akin to the Article 370 scrapped by the central government due it is discriminatory provisions, he said, "The TSP notified areas follows certain rules meant for the progress of the STs, especially government jobs, political representation and allocation of resources. A person living in Jaipur or non-notified areas cannot apply for a government job in TSP area until he/she has a history of living here. Is it not discriminatory?" Expressing regret over the incidents, Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP, continued to bat for tribal rights in tribal areas. "This land belongs to everyone who lives here, but tribals are the indigenous clans. No one from the non-notified area should be allowed to own land here since it is our land. Our culture and identity will be saved in a separate state ‘Bhil Pradesh’ on the lines of Jharkhand with a place for all," said Ghogra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/violence-a-result-of-simmering-tension-between-sts-and-non-tribals/articleshow/78354924.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaswant Singh wanted to represent Barmer||JAISALMER: Former Union minister Jaswant Singh who started his political career in 1960s could not fulfil his wish of representing his native place Barmer in the parliament. In his six-decade political career, he won four Lok Sabha polls and was nominated five times to the Rajya Sabha. He won twice from Chittorgarh and once from Jodhpur and Darjeeling in West Bengal. In 2009 elections, he had asked to contest from his native Lok Sabha seat but the party had some other plans and fielded him from Darjeeling. He didn’t resist and contested from an alien territory. Realizing his age and ignorance in the party, Singh offered to contest Lok Sabha polls from Barmer in 2014. He also announced the polls to be his last election. The veteran started lobbying for ticket and faced opposition from a section of BJP leaders. “Raje then had a strong influence in the party. She was the one who brought Congress leader Sonaram Choudhary in BJP and put her weight around his candidature from Barmer. It wasn’t difficult for Raje to eliminate Singh’s chance of contesting from Barmer,” said a source close to Singh. Disgruntled by the denial, Singh made the tough call of going ahead as an independent candidate from Barmer. The decision hogged national limelight and BJP leaders did everything to convince him to drop the idea but he didn’t budge. Finally, he did contest from his native place as an independent but lost to his party’s candidate Col Sonaram Choudhary by a margin of 80,000 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaswant-wanted-to-represent-barmer-in-parliament/articleshow/78354921.cms||Vimal Bhatia
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Confusion prevails after Harley announces wind-up of India ops||HYDERABAD: Confusion followed Harley Davidson’s announcement to discontinue sales and manufacturing operations in India. Both, dealerships and bike owners in the city, have been left scratching their heads over the future of their choppers. As per dealership estimates, the city is home to nearly 5,000 Harley Davidson owners, many of them adventure enthusiasts who prefer taking their choppers on long-distance rallies. “We are yet to get a clear direction on the plan ahead. We have only recently moved our dealership — from Banjara Hills to Madhapur — and are in the process of identifying locations for two more showrooms in the city,” said a dealership executive on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, some existing owners have been left wondering as to what the decision will mean for them when it comes to parts and servicing of their choppers. “Most Harley owners use their bikes frequently and for long distances. This makes regular servicing all the more important,” said local Harley Davidson owner and motoring enthusiast, Deepak Kant Gir. He added that if a complete winding up of operations were to take place then existing Harley owners may have to import parts which will be an expensive proposition. However, Hyderabad Bikers Club (HBC) in-charge and Harley Davidson owner Puneet Mantri was unperturbed by the American bike manufacturer’s move. “From what we know, it is only manufacturing that will stop in India. The company has assured us that existing dealerships and service centres will continue as per their contracts as of now but even they are unclear on the exact guidelines going forward,” Mantri said. The HBC in-charge said the company would most likely tie-up with a third party to provide services for current owners. “Even if they don’t, there are several after-market garages in the city that offer excellent services and can cater to personal customisation requests of owners,” Mantri said. As reported by TOI, the American manufacturer may strike a partnership with home-grown Hero MotoCorp but for now, it has remained tight-lipped over its plan of action for the Indian market. While the impact on existing customers will become clearer in due course, Harley Davidson’s move to pull out India operations will result in close to 2,000 job losses across the country, according to the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/confusion-prevails-after-harley-announces-wind-up-of-india-ops/articleshow/78354010.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaswant Singh cremated in Jodhpur with full military honours||JODHPUR: Former Union cabinet minister and founding member of BJP Jaswant Singh Jasol passed away in Delhi on Sunday morning after a prolonged illness. He was cremated at his residence in Jodhpur with military honours. His body was brought to Jodhpur in a defence plane in the afternoon and was taken straight to his farmhouse (Jodhpur residence) at Pabupura near Jodhpur airport for last rites. After rituals, death procession set off from the house to the funeral pyre, made at the farm house. “There was a direction from his family members that he be cremated at his farmhouse in Jodhpur instead of native place Jasol in Barmer,” said a family member. He was consigned to flames by his son Manvendra Singh (former Sheo MLA) with military honours at 5.30pm amid presence of family members and followers, politicians and MLAs, members from BJP, administrative and defence officials. On hearing the news, grief gripped many areas of Rajasthan, including Marwar. Jaswant's maternal grandparents were from Khuhadi village in Jaisalmer. A wave of mourning spread in Barmer, Jaisalmer and nearby areas. At the time of his funeral hundreds of people from Jodhpur, Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jalore and other areas had given tearful farewell and shouted slogans. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad, MLAs, BJP and Congress many leaders were present during his cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaswant-cremated-with-full-military-honours/articleshow/78354928.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolhapur||22 teams to check method of treatment in pvt hosps||Kolhapur: With Sangli district reporting many Covid-19 deaths, especially from private hospitals, the district administration has formed 10 teams for the rural areas and 12 teams for the municipal areas to scrutinise the treatment administered to patients in private hospitals. District civil surgeon Sanjay Salunkhe said, “The teams, comprising health experts, will check if the Covid-19 treatment protocol has been adhered to and if not, directions will be issued to the private hospital to improve the course of treatment. The teams will also see what medicines are being given and in what quantities.” District guardian minister Jayant Patil announced six teams have been appointed to audit the bills issued by private hospitals to Covid patients. Speaking at Sangli, he said, “Complaints of non-availability of beds have stopped as we have increased bed capacity. Now, we are receiving many complaints of exorbitant bills issued to patients or doctors denying treatment. We have learnt that unnecessary medicines are being billed to Covid patients. If these allegation are found true, strict action will be taken against the concerned doctors.” Patil said that he has directed the district administration to take strict action against black-marketing of medicines required for Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/22-teams-to-check-method-of-treatment-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78354001.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Visit to IAF museum switched Shivangi Singh’s ambition, goal in life||LUCKNOW: India’s first woman fighter pilot to fly the Rafale jet, Flight Lieutenant Shivangi Singh, aspired to become an IPS officer, but a visit to the Indian Air Force museum at Palam in Delhi changed her dream and the course of life. Inspired by women in the Air Force uniform, Shivangi decided to become a fighter pilot, recalls her mother Seema Singh. “In 2012, when Shivangi was pursuing BSc, she visited my parents in Delhi. My father Colonel (retired) Vidhi Narayan Singh took her to the IAF museum and that was the turning point. She got inspired by IAF and its women officers,” said Seema. Interestingly, Seema learnt about Shivangi’s decision to become a fighter pilot only when she appeared for IAF entrance. “I didn’t know about her decision to join IAF, until my husband told me. Shivangi had consulted her father as she is very close to him,” said the proud mon. Shivangi’s father Kumareshwar Singh (also known as Sushil Singh) is into tour and travel business. The middle-class family family lives in Phulwariya area of Varanasi. After her maternal grandfather, Shivangi is the second in the family serving in defence force. After graduation, Shivangi joined 7 UP Air Squadron NCC at Banaras Hindu University. She cracked the entrance and joined the Air Force Academy for training in July 2016. Commissioned in 2017 as part of the second batch of women fighter pilots, Shivangi is currently undergoing conversion training and upon its completion will become part of 17 Squadron, Golden Arrows, in Ambala. Her younger brother Mayank Singh also spires to join the defence forces and is busy preparing for National Defence Academy exam. “Shivangi has always been a smart learner and leads from the front. She motivates others but leads a simple life. She had made it clear that she would only be joining IAF to become a fighter pilot,” said Kumareshwar Singh. A gold medallist in athletics (javelin throw), she loves playing basketball and guitar, and is equally good at singing and dancing. She was also a meritorious student in school. “It’s a proud moment for all of us that Shivangi will be the first Indian woman to fly the Rafale jet,” said maternal grandfather Col (retd) Vidhi Narayan Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/visit-to-iaf-museum-switched-shivangis-ambition-goal-in-life/articleshow/78354938.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 28, 2020||Nashik||2,000 students in Surguna, Dindori & Peth suffer due to poor cell network||Nashik: Lack of mobile connectivity in Surgana, Peth and Dindori talukas is affecting the online studies of more than 2,000 students. The towers meant to provide better mobile coverage have already been installed, but they are yet to become operational for the want of permission from the forest department. According to a senior official of the zilla parisahd (ZP) education department, villages around semi-urban areas have good mobile connectivity. They, therefore, face no issues. However, there is a major problem in the remote villages and hilly areas. “There are some remote areas in the talukas were mobile connectivity is not available despite the towers being constructed by the respective mobile companies. Besides, there are some shadow areas as well where there is no connectivity at all. In such cases the students are unable to take online lessons,” the official said. There are around 90 such villages speared across the three talukas with Surgana being the most-affected. However, the ZP teachers have already started going to the homes of the students or coming up with alternative methods of teaching. “Our teachers have even donated their mobile phones or tablets in some cases with downloaded content and the same is then taught to the children by some senior students in the village,” the official said. Speaking about the mobile connectivity, the official pointed out that if good connectivity was available, the children would have benefitted and it would have ensured regular and faster update of the information to be sent to the students. “We have requested the district collector to look into the matter so that the children in the remote areas could at least get exposure to the audio-video mode of education,” he said. An official from the district collectorate said that a meeting with all the officials concerned would be held soon in order to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2000-students-in-surguna-dindori-peth-suffer-due-to-poor-cell-network/articleshow/78354019.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Detained cancer patient dies in Ahmedabad's Vejalpur police custody||AHMEDABAD: A man, 51, patient of throat cancer, who was detained in connection with a gambling case along with seven others, died in custody of Vejalpur police on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Abdul Kadar Shaikh, resident of Mohammed Sohail Society in Vejalpur. He was caught by a team of state monitoring cell while allegedly gambling along with other accused persons from Vejalpur at around 7.30pm on Saturday. Inspector L D Odedara of Vejalpur police said, “He was handed over to Vejalpur police along with other accused and Rs 50,000 cash at around 12.15am on Sunday. As their Covid-19 test was pending, which was supposed to be done on Sunday morning, Shaikh along with other accused were made to sit behind PSO chamber.” Odedara added that Shaikh and other accused were given tea and breakfast at around 8.30am on Sunday which has been captured in the CCTV cameras. “He had gone to sleep, but as he did not wake up after a long time, other accused persons tried to wake him up and found that he was unconscious. The PSO called up 108 ambulance and medicos declared him dead,” said Odedara. Family members of the deceased alleged that the cops did not allow them to give his medicines which caused the death. Odedara said, “We cannot allow any medicines without proper prescription.” DCP Zone-7, Premsukh Delu said Kadar was an old person and suffering from a deadly disease. “We have been following procedure of National Human Rights Commission in this case and postmortem will be done by a panel of doctors under video camera,” said Delu. He said that the Vejalpur police station has been covered with CCTV cameras and denied any custodial torture of Shaikh. Odedara said that the postmortem will be done at Civil hospital in Asarwa on Monday which will give the exact reason behind the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/detained-cancer-patient-dies-in-vejalpur-police-custody/articleshow/78354033.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cleric defies ban, holds majlis at Bada Imambara||LUCKNOW: In protest against the government and district administration’s refusal to allow majlis at Bada Imambara, a large number of Shia Muslims attended a majlis held at the monument by Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad. The crowd threw social distancing norm to the wind. The cleric, who is the general secretary of Majlis-e-Ulama-e-Hind, announced that majlis will now be held all through the days starting 11am on Monday at the Bada Imambara. “The Imambara is meant for mourning the martyrdom of Imam Husain and his companions in Karbala. It is not a tourist destination. But the administration has converted it into a tourist spot. We have no problem with tourists but it is not acceptable that the prime purpose of the building is not allowed,” said Jawad. “If the administration does not grant us permission by Monday morning, then this majlis in the night will be shifted to the day. And more majlis will be held from Monday all through the day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cleric-defies-ban-holds-majlis-at-bada-imambara/articleshow/78354943.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Online Chinese gambling rackets still luring Indians||HYDERABAD: Days after a Chinese online gambling racket was busted in the state, police have discovered more China-based companies luring Indians to invest money in online betting. Officials say that their modus operandi has become more transparent now. Prior to the cyber crime wing of Hyderabad police uncovering the gambling racket, the Chinese firms used to run their operations in the garb of e-commerce. A visitor used to get to the website by clicking a link shared through a reference and then was redirected to an online gambling platform. “But now, these companies have removed their masks of being e-commerce and are indulging in gambling brazenly. The moment one clicks the reference link, they are redirected to play an online gambling game of their choice,” officials associated with the investigation told TOI. The URL of all the websites have been traced to China. For the last one months, security agencies are keenly monitoring the Chinese companies that are trying to lure the Indian gamers and make easy money by changing different facets of the website. Officials have also been trying to find out if the companies are taking control over the gadgets of Indian users. Though the number of Indians falling into the trap of these games has come down ever since the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Telangana police lodges complaints against the Chinese companies, a few people are still indulging into it. However, no formal complaint has been filed yet. As of now, the cyber crime officials are verifying the number of bank account into which the money was transferred from the Chinese companies’ accounts. Officials are primarily focussing on gathering evidence to prove money laundering, cheating of gamers by manipulating the gambling, data theft and identity of all those were involved in helping the Chinese firms in India to further their alleged illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-chinese-gambling-rackets-still-luring-indians/articleshow/78354027.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Cargo ship sinks off Okha coast, 12 rescued||Rajkot: A cargo ship sank off Okha coast on Saturday night. The Indian coast guard rescued its 12 crew members.According to the coast guard officials, the crew members of ‘Krushna Sudama’ ship sent them frenetic SOS, saying that water had started seeping into the ship and that it had started sinking. “Two coast guard speed boats from Mundra and Porbandar rushed to the spot and rescued all the 12 crew members who were floating in water with the help of rubber tube and wooden planks,” said a coast guard official. The ship had set sail from Mundra Port after uploading the supply of rice and sugar on Sunday morning and was headed for Djibouti Port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cargo-ship-sinks-off-okha-coast-12-rescued/articleshow/78352880.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Citizens raise Rs 2cr for Covid fight in Sinnar||Nashik: Good samaritans came to the rescue of state health agencies hard-pressed for infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients in Sinnar taluka and raised a corpus of around Rs 2 crore that was used to set up health facilities to treat mild symptomatic patients in the region. Stating that people in Sinnar were very “sensitive”, MLA Manik Kokate said, “When we decided to treat Covid-19 patients in Sinnar taluka on May 1, we had nothing more than a newly constructed rural hospital, that too without any furniture or furnishings. Today, the same hospital has been converted into a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) with 40 oxygen beds and 60 other beds for treating Covid-19 patients.” “The entire set-up has been sponsored from the CSR funds of the companies and donations made by individuals,” said Kokate. The help from individuals came in the form of donations for PPE kits, water filters, hot water systems, furniture, refrigerator, CCTV cameras, television sets for the entertainment of patients and a host of other infrastructure. Tehsildar Rahul Khotade said that a pharmaceutical company donated cots and medical equipment to the DCHC. Recalling how a person donated a computer and a printer that helped the Sinnar DCHC to maintain a record of all the activities, Nirmala Gangurde, a doctor at the hospital, said, “A large number of patients who were treated for the infection gave us whatever they could in their individual capacities.” Kokate pointed out that an unused building of an industry in the taluka was being transformed into a Covid care centre (CCC) with 100 oxygen beds. “Once this CCC is ready, we will have 140 oxygen beds and will be able to provide better treatment to the patients,” said Kokate thanking the people in Sinnar for their fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-raise-rs-2cr-for-covid-fight-in-sinnar/articleshow/78354028.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Forest dept to assess wild boar population||Hyderabad: The state forest department sought a detailed population assessment of wild boar region-wise to take a call on declaring the wild boar as vermin. The government has asked the forest department to submit a report on declaring the wild boar as vermin based on the representations from farmers’ bodies and MLAs. “We have informed the government that a population assessment of wild boar shall be done before declaring it as vermin. We also brought to the notice of the government that in states like Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Kerala, wild boar is not declared as vermin. In some states, village sarpanches were given authority to order culling of wild boar by conducting a gram sabha and after taking the farmers’opinions,” said a senior official of the state government. In Kerala, the divisional forest officer (DFO) can engage shooters. “We have a current system of DFOs giving permission for engaging shooters,” said a wildlife wing official. In certain states, wild boar is declared as vermin only in certain tehsils and not across the district or state. Shooter Pervaram Santhaji told TOI, “Man-animal conflict red zones shall be marked. We have represented to the government to declare it as vermin,” TRS Jangaon MLA Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy has been demanding government to allow farmers to shoot wild boars for damaging crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forest-dept-to-assess-wild-boar-population/articleshow/78354053.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Tagore says no to star hotels||Hyderabad: Manickam Tagore, the new general secretary in charge of Telangana, opted to stay in a government guest house in the city instead of a star hotel. Tagore, who is an MP from Tamil Nadu, has been staying at the Dilkusha Guest on Raj Bhavan Road since his arrival on Saturday. By refusing to stay in a star hotel, he has has departed from the usual practice of party leaders putting up at top hotels during their visit to the city. He has told party members, including veterans and seniors, to constantly stay in touch with the people. “We are here to serve the people and I don’t want to stay in star hotels,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tagore-says-no-to-star-hotels/articleshow/78354034.cms||Roushan Ali
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||City recorded only 398 +ve cases, did 2,625 tests on Sun||Nagpur: There were 398 Covid-19 positive cases in the city on Sunday, which is the lowest single day spike since 247 registered on August 4. Total number of tests done have also gone down to 2,625 on Sunday. Highest cases in a single day in the city had been 1,502 on September 10. Due to fewer tests and cases in the city, the district’s positive cases were down to 590 and tests were at 4,355 on Sunday. TOI had reported on Sunday that Covid-19 deaths and case fatality rate (CFR) declined in the city since third week of September. Officials and experts had said data of at least 15-21 days needed to be considered to detect any flattening of the curve. They had also said test positivity rate (TPR), which is the number of positive cases as against total number of tests, was also very crucial to monitor flattening of curve. Overall TPR is declining in the city. TPR was 20.22% by end of August. TPR of September 1-7 was 19.93% followed by 17.87% in September 8-14, 17.99% in September 15-21 and 18.24% by September 27. The number of positive cases has gone down in the city along with tests since third week of September. The daily average of positive cases was 740 whereas average for tests was 3,096 in August. The daily average of positive cases was 1,303 whereas it was 6,811 for tests in first week of September. The number of tests increased to 10,261 per day in second week and positive cases slightly to 1,307 per day. The tests declined to 6,598 per day and positive cases to 1,231 per day in third week of September. The declining trend has continued. Number of tests were 4,861 per day and positive cases were 1,011 in last six days between September 22 to 27. Of total tests, 60% are being done through Rapid Antigen while 40% through RT-PCR. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) can do as many Rapid Antigen tests as needed. The capacity of RT-PCR tests in the city is around 8,000 per day, of which 5,000 per day are done at five private laboratories and 3,000 per day at six government-run laboratories. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “If TPR declines, then only we can consider it a good sign for the city. Therefore, we should wait for at least three weeks. There might be various reasons for reduction in number of tests. Testing of high-risk contacts of positive patients plays a big role in number of tests, which needs to be looked at. Also, some people seem to be avoiding tests now for various reasons.” Admitting tests have gone down, NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “NMC is facilitating tests for Rapid Antigen as well as RT-PCR at 52 locations. Number of people coming for tests has gone down. NMC shifted one of the six testing centres from Morris College to Dattatray Nagar in South Nagpur on Sunday. There was no testing centre in South Nagpur. There are urban primary health centres (UPHCs) and health posts in South Nagpur where too NMC has started Rapid Antigen as well as RT-PCR tests.” Joshi added, “NMC converted an ambulance into Mobile Swab Collection Centre for RT-PCR, to test large number of people at a time by going to any flat scheme or area. We are converting some mini city buses on the same lines. We are also planning to hold special camps for swab collections in slums and market places, where people, especially labourers, are not ready to come to testing centres and get the tests done,” he said. Till July-end, NMC used to compulsorily trace high-risk contacts of positive patients, bring them to institutional quarantine centres and test them. With rise in cases, NMC had allowed home quarantine from last week of July. Since then, NMC’s rapid response team (RRT) is visiting houses of positive patients and requesting everyone in the family to come to testing centres and get tests done. But NMC is not monitoring whether all come for tests or not. Some NGOs have joined hands with NMC to ensure testing of high-risk contacts for last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-recorded-only-398-ve-cases-did-2625-tests-on-sun/articleshow/78354067.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Congress to take up padayatra||HYDERABAD: Congress leaders in Telangana have decided to carry out a padayatra in all the 150 wards of Greater Hyderabad to try and reach at the doorsteps of every voter and explain to them the work done by the party for developing Hyderabad into a global city. In a core-committee meeting, All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge in the state, Manickam Tagore, asked the party leaders to get in the field and connect with people. “This is the only way for the party to stop TRS from misusing government machinery and unleashing police force to suppress the voices of opposition,” said Tagore. The candidates who contested the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections from GHMC were told to take up the responsibility of ensuring victory of Congress candidates in the ensuing polls. Congress has also decided to come out with a ward-wise manifesto for each of the 150-wards in addition to a city-level manifesto. A majority of party leaders are in favour of early finalisation of candidates for the GHMC polls. All the division and city-level committees are expected to be filled soon. The Congress core-committee meeting, however, did not finalise their stance on ballot or EVM polling for GHMC elections. “There are doubts of conspiracy behind the ruling TRS opting for ballot box. The party will take a final call in a day or two,” a source privy to the meeting said. Elections to three MLC seats and by-poll to Dubbak Assembly segment were discussed. About 70 senior party leaders will be appointed as in-charge of 10 mandals. The congress has also decided to submit a memorandum to the Governor in connection with three anti-farmer bills passed by the BJP government at the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-cong-to-take-up-padayatra/articleshow/78354080.cms||Roushan Ali
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Five child marriages stopped, cases up during lockdown||HYDERABAD: As many as five child marriages were stopped across the city in the past three months as schools remained shut due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Child rights activists in the city have flagged concerns over rising cases of child marriages. As several alerts are sounded from the schools, officials say that many child marriages may also be going unreported in the current situation. The SHE team of police stopped two child marriages under the Cyberabad limits this month. The victims in both the cases were 16-year-old girls. After verifying the education certificates of both the girls, officials took the necessary steps. “The child development protection officer counselled the parents of the victims in the presence of village sarpanches and took an undertaking letter from their fathers, assuring that they will not get them married off before they attain the legal age,” said a cop. According to experts, the lockdown has been catastrophic for the underprivileged families and children, who are especially at risk. Officials said that many adolescent girls turn victims of child marriages after they attend their 10th standard exams. In most cases, the schools or teachers reach out to alert the officials. “However with schools shut amid the pandemic, several children may have become victims this practice. Many child marriages are suspected to have gone unreported,” said a source from the women and child welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-child-marriages-stopped-cases-up-during-lockdown/articleshow/78354088.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Scooter rider dies after being hit by car on SG Road||AHMEDABAD: Rutvij Patel, 24, from the Sola area of the city died on Sunday afternoon after his scooter was hit by a speeding car in front of Rajpath Club in Bodakdev on SG Road. The accident took place at around 1.30pm on Sunday. Patel died after brief treatment at Sola civil hospital, said officers of SG-2 division traffic police who registered a case of negligent driving causing death on a complaint filed by Patel’s relative Kamal Patel. The car driver remains unidentified. A police officer said that the car driver, aged around 55, who also suffered severe injuries in the accident, was taken out from the damaged car by locals and rushed to a nearby private hospital in a 108 ambulance. “After the car hit Patel, the driver got stuck inside the damaged car by the intensity of the collision. First the car hit Patel and then rammed into a road divider,’ said an officer. According to primary investigation, the car driver lost control over steering as his brakes failed and he could not reduce the speed which caused the fatal accident. An FSL team was also called to the accident spot which will submit detailed inquiry report to SG-2 division traffic police. Police have also recovered CCTV footage of the accident which shows that the car was moving at high speed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scooter-rider-dies-after-being-hit-by-car-on-sg-road/articleshow/78354102.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||LMC slashes budget, civic works to be hit in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The revised 2020-21 budget of Lucknow Municipal Corporation approved by its House on Sunday slashed the civic body’s expenditure by 18%, which will hit the development work, including road construction and repair, cleaning of drains, streetlighting and sanitation among others. In March, LMC’s executive body had approved a budget with Rs 2,016 crore expenditure and Rs 2,226 crore revenue estimates. However, it could not be approved by the House due to the lockdown. During the pandemic period from March till date, LMC’s revenue dropped while expenditure on sanitation increased, disturbing its financial planning. In fact, it had to divert some money allocated from the 14th Finance Commission for payment of salaries to employees. As a result, LMC had to revise its budgetary provisions for 2020-21. In the revised budget, Rs 1,656 crore has been marked for expenditure, while revenue estimates have been put at Rs 1,930 crore. The expenditure has been reduced by 18% in comparison to March and revenue by about 14%. The planned expenditure on road repair has been reduced by 8%, sanitisation by 28%, streetlighting by 11% and cleaning/repair of drains by 15%. The budget also projected losses. For instance, revenue from parking lots is expected to come down to Rs 8 crore from Rs 10 crore estimated earlier, advertisement to Rs 11 crore from Rs 15 crore, and rent from commercial and housing establishment to Rs 98 crore to Rs 101 crore. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “We will improve our revenue in coming months and may increase allocations for development work in the supplementary budget.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-slashes-budget-civic-works-to-be-hit/articleshow/78354963.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Bio-markers as important as testing’||AHMEDABAD: With rise in number of daily positive cases – the state has recorded 9,340 cases in past seven days at the average of 1,334 cases daily – the focus is on the severity of the cases along with mere positive or negative status. Dr Jayesh Sheth, chairman of Ahmedabad-based Foundation for Research in Genetics and Endocrinology (FRIGE), said that they had carried out a study on the data collected from 300 persons who had come for diagnosis with suspected Covid-19 infection at the centre in past two months.  “RT-PCR and RAT are still go-to tests to ascertain whether a person is infected with Covid-19. But with high rate of false negative with RAT, markers like ferritin level, CRP and D-dimer are as important as Covid-19 testing to ascertain the severity. In some cases, we reported rise in ferritin initially whereas in some it was CRP. D-Dimer reports rise once infection is active and blood clots are formed. So in mild or asymptomatic cases, it’s possible that all three markers could be normal,” said Dr Sheth, adding that it shows that the body is coping with the infection and only quarantine is recommended. He said that Covid-19 infection triggers body immune system and macrophage in the body gets activated. “These macrophages also activate cytokine that lead to ferritinopathy. Increased ferritin also has a direct correlation with the severity of Covid-19,” he added. It’s now a norm to check the bio-markers in Covid-19 patients under treatment to anticipate severity, deterioration or immune response to schedule administering the drugs, said city-based experts. Dr Sheth said that ferritin level holds key as it also points at iron deficiency. “Nearly 50% of the persons tested had iron deficiency. It points towards possible health implications not only for Covid-19 but overall infections that can lead to immuno-compromised system,” he said, adding that iron intake should be increased through regular diet. “Food nutrition is not only an issue in lower social strata – 16% of the persons from upper strata of society were also found to have low iron levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bio-markers-as-important-as-testing/articleshow/78354109.cms||Parth Shastri
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Doctors croon to administer music therapy to destress ailing hearts||LUCKNOW: How would you feel if you see your doctor crooning famous Bollywood songs for you? Happy or Healed? Well, if not in the doctor’s consultation cabin in the hospital, this musical treat was available on social media ahead of World Heart Day which falls on September 29. Around eight well established doctors of the city, all experts from various fields, like cardiologists from King George’s Medical University and SGPGI sang their hearts out in a special initiative in times of the corona pandemic. The programme titled ‘Dil ke Naghme, Doctors ke Sang Me’ was organised by Helping Hearts Foundation and was premiered on Saturday night as part of a weeklong World Heart Day celebration — Jashn-e-Dil. The video uploaded on YouTube by Helping Hearts Foundation features Dr Archana Dixit, Dr Alok Dixit, Dr Anoop Kumar Joshi and wife Deepti Joshi, couple Dr Abha Dalela and Dr Divakar Dalela, Dr Rishi Sethi and husband wife duo of Dr Aditya Kapoor and Dr Prerna Kapoor, and had garnered over 1,250 views by Sunday. A number of people appreciated the efforts and extended compliments to the doctors, who succeeded in treating their stress, anxiety and depression in Covid-19 times with their music therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/docs-croon-to-administer-music-therapy-to-destress-ailing-hearts/articleshow/78354974.cms||Yusra Husain
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||India needs more creative varsities for global reach||LUCKNOW: It is unbelievable that double damage is being done for excellent researchers in most of the universities. First, parameters for quality measurement of research in science and allied subjects are globally well established. However, possibly in one university only the best research papers, based on Impact Factor, are displayed in the library in descending order of their quality. Second, in other subjects we have not even started laying down globally or widely accepted parameters for quality measurement in research. During the sixties, when youth in the European universities were in turmoil, a delegation from the USA came to Oxford University, met the vice-chancellor and asked him two interesting questions. Their first question was how was the university being run. The vice-chancellor said that he was not running the university. Oxford University was being run on traditions. The delegation asked the second question how their lawns were so beautiful. The vice-chancellor replied "800 years of rolling and mowing". We often get pleasure in attacking some of our vice-chancellors. However, we rarely recollect that most of them had done at least a few good things. Often a shade of envy or disinterest prompts the new vice-chancellor to ignore or undo the good decisions taken by his predecessors. As a result, traditions are not laid down. There was only one governor-chancellor in India, Dr KM Munshi, who started an excellent programme of holding chancellor's camp for the best students, who were allowed to interact with our best brains from all over. Their lectures were published by Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan, Mumbai. Why can't we continue such an excellent programme in all states of India? I wish that our vice-chancellors may continue their efforts to bask in public limelight, but allow at least some of their best students and researchers also to be adequately and regularly projected. Our libraries are still being run with primitive methods. Most of our librarians hold a degree in library and information science. However, we have yet to adopt the basic principles of information science: Usage of key words for retrieval of required text from at least the best books. Professor G Ram Reddy, the then chairman of the UGC laid down the foundation stone of the Centre for Information Science Technology at Bareilly instead of the usual central library; and publicly announced that the same practice should be followed in every University in India. However, the pioneering effort was stalled later. If our Prime Minister Narendra Modiji's idea of enhancing globally valid quality intensive knowledge flow in our Universities has to be started, this is the first minimal step that should be taken without delay. We are living in an age when there is huge production of new knowledge globally. However, our demand and consumption for it are generally very low. Let us remember that when Ernest Hemingway published his famous book, "Old Man and the Sea" in 1952, five million copies were sold in just two days. Our reading habits are generally poor. Our videosphere dominates over the graphosphere, although we worship Mother Saraswati, holding a book in her hand. (This article is written by Prof Bhoomittra Dev. Writer is former vice-chancellor of the Universities at Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Agra and Aligarh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/india-needs-more-creative-varsities-for-global-reach/articleshow/78354982.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Private hospitals for Covid-19 patients nearly full in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Shrey Chavda (name changed), a resident of Gota, had to run from pillar to post on Sunday evening to find an ICU bed for his mother under treatment in a Covid-19 hospital near SG Road. “My mother’s health deteriorated and the doctors said that she needed an ICU care. As the hospital did not have the ICU, we had to search for the hospital that could admit her,” said Chavda. “After pulling a few strings, we could finally shift her in a hospital after an hour-long search.”  What complicated Chavda’s case was the fact that his father was already battling for his life in another Covid-19 hospital. His parents could not be together in a single hospital due to lack of beds. Ahmedabad city on Saturday and Sunday recorded 175 and 178 cases respectively compared to average 154 cases in September. The city has also recorded 87 deaths in September so far, which is higher than cumulative total of Surat (53) and Vadodara (31) cities. However, Chavda is not alone facing the ordeal. With the rise in cases, finding beds in private hospitals has become an uphill task. The administrators of government-run Civil Hospital and Sola Civil Hospital said that they have not faced the issue. Sources said that the patients from western Ahmedabad increasingly prefer treatment in private facilities, and with spike in cases, the corresponding effect is observed on hospital infrastructure. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) requisitioned beds roughly translate into 50% of the bed capacity for majority of the hospitals. “The numbers are nearly the same for the patients who are admitted on their own. Catchment area of the city hospitals has increased with cases reporting spike from areas where there were lower cases. Ventilator occupancy is over 90% in the past few days,” he said. The website of AHNA on Sunday evening showed the break-up of 1,819 beds which are under requisition by the AMC. Overall occupancy was close to 84%, whereas the occupancy of the ICU with ventilators was 90.3% — out of 145 listed beds, 131 were occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/private-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients-nearly-full-in-city/articleshow/78354122.cms||Parth Shastri
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||In-laws accused of torture||Ahmedabad: Shivangi Rana, 30, of Jivan Arya Residency in Vastral lodged a complaint with women’s police station (East) on Sunday alleging that her husband and in-laws harassed and tortured her. Police registered a case under Section 498 (a), 294 (b), 323, 506(2) and 114 of IPC and have begun a probe. The accused are the complainant’s husband Ashutosh Rana, mother-in-law Jayvanti, father-in-law Bhanubhai, sisters-in-law Vanita and Pinal, and Pinal’s husband Hitendra Patel. Case details show the complainant was married to Rana in February 2012 and went to live with her in-laws at Dakor Road in Nadiad. “The complainant has claimed that her husband threatened he would commit suicide if she didn’t leave and go back to her parent’s home. Her sisters-in-law, Vinita and Pinal, also used to torture her whenever they came on a visit,” said a police official. The woman has also claimed that once she had posted one of her photos on her Facebook account, and Pinal’s husband, Hitendra Patel posted a lewd comment on the photo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-laws-accused-of-torture/articleshow/78354111.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Rajkot||Bhavnagar BJP workers defy Covid rules for Shiyal’s political appointment||Rajkot: Navratri came in tad too early for the Bhavnagar BJP workers who used the ruse of celebrating the appointment of Bhavnagar MP Bharti Shiyal as a national vice president to throw Covid caution to the air by performing garba, lighting and lighting fire crackers on the public road. Videos and pictures of the atmosphere of merriment defied all sorts of Covid-19 moratoriums that the state government has put in place.Masks at half mast, sweet-gobbling party workers playing impromptu garba also included Bhavnagar mayor Manhar Mori and deputy mayor Ashok Bariaya. The celebrations lasted over than two hours but cops were conspicuous by their complete absence in the chaotic scene that took place outside the BJP office in Bhavnagar. Incidentally, this area falls in the silence zone owing to its proximity to government-run Sir T Hospital located just 200 m away where Covid patients from Bhavanagar, Botad and Amreli are getting treated. When contacted, Shiyal told TOI over phone from Delhi, “I believe that the workers celebrated my appointment by following all the rules inside the party office. It’s possible that in overenthusiasm they may have mistakenly violated norms.”District collector Gaurang Makwana said, “We did not receive any complaint, but we will look into it and take action if we find any violation of the notification. As per new guidelines, 100 people can gather for a function without prior approval.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhavnagar-bjp-workers-defy-covid-rules-for-shiyals-political-appointment/articleshow/78353010.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Blockchain not just about cryptocurrency’||Ahmedabad: Blockchain technology – which allows ‘blocks’ of information/data in several chains (several public databases) simultaneously – could well be synonymous with cryptocurrency such as Bitcoins, but its applications are widespread and several of them are already finding resonance with government and private enterprises, said speakers at a webinar on theme of ‘Blockchain Technology and e-Governance’ by Gujarat National Law University (GNLU). Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary (IT), Government of Telangana, said that the state has initiated ‘Dharini’ project where the digitized land records get added protection layer of blockchain. He also said about T-Chits initiative to organize and make chit fund projects in the state transparent. Adarsh S, convener of Kerala Blockchain Academy, said that the technology can be used in sectors such as certificate and degree management, maintaining records of tender processing, identity management, crime records, insurance and so on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/blockchain-not-just-about-cryptocurrency/articleshow/78354134.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civic body to extend project deadlines on case-to-case basis||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown has not only delayed infrastructure projects but also caused their costs to escalate as the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) will now be forced to extend the deadlines for ongoing works. Sources in the AMC said the civic body is reviewing each such project and will extend deadlines based on the progress. The state government issued a directive telling all corporations to extend such project deadlines by six months. Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “We are not giving a blanket extension for deadlines but are evaluating each project and will extend deadlines on a case-to-case basis. For some projects it could be by two months, while for others it could be six months.” Projects taken up by the Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (Auda) have also suffered and Auda also intends to extend deadlines by six months. A senior AMC officer said some reviews have been undertaken and projects have had their deadlines extended, for example, the deadline for transport projects was extended by two months, while that for drainage or drinking pipeline projects were extended by six months. Projects concerning over-bridges and under-bridges are being reviewed and will be extended according to their progress. If progress is according to the agreed time frame, the extension will be six months. If there have been delays, the deadline will be extended accordingly. Work on such projects have halted or are going ahead with 50% of the workforce required since March, as several workers had gone home for the Holi festival but were forced to stay back due to the lockdown. Other workers were forced to leave the city due to their precarious situation during the lockdown. Contractors who need skilled manpower were forced to arrange to bring these labourers back. Citing an example, an officer said that for the ground-breaking ceremony at Shahpur for the underground tunnel work, the authorities had to airlift workers in from Odisha. What is now worrying the authorities is that extended deadlines will also cause cost escalations and contractor will raise tender costs citing higher raw material prices. This will put additional burden on corporation. An AMC officer said projects worth Rs 3,000 crore are under way and a 10% escalation will mean mean an additional burden of Rs 300 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-body-to-extend-project-deadlines-on-case-to-case-basis/articleshow/78354126.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Now, Census report likely in December 2022||LUCKNOW: It is now official. There would be no census report in 2021 and it's now expected to be released in December 2022. The first phase of census exercise has been put on hold due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Registrar-general and census commissioner of India under the Union home ministry conducts the census exercise every tenth year and submits its report to the home ministry for policy making in view of demographic and social changes. However, the pandemic has forced the census commissioner to postpone the exercise across the country by a year. Talking to TOI, an official spokesman of the census office here said that the census 2021 which was to be carried out this year has been postponed mainly to protect government staff involved in the mammoth exercise from the virus. Meanwhile, the freeze on the delimitation of the administrative units like districts, blocks and tehsils has been lifted, allowing states to make changes in this regard till December 31, 2020. Usually the delimitation is freezed when census operations are under way. Since census operations are on hold, states have been allowed to take decisions on delimitation of administrative units till the end of current year. The census would take place next year and then at least one more year will be required to submit a report to the government. This time, the census report will be compiled in a short period as the exercise will be carried out through a mobile app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-census-report-likely-in-dec-2022/articleshow/78354984.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Highest daily tally for Ahmedabad in 65 days||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat recorded 1,411 positive cases in last 24 hours, taking the total case figure to 1.33 lakh. It was the fourth consecutive day where the state recorded 1,400-plus daily cases. The new cases included 269 from Surat, 197 from Ahmedabad, 171 from Rajkot, 133 from Vadodara, and 99 from Jamnagar. For Ahmedabad district, it was the highest daily tally since July 23, when the district had recorded 210 cases. It was also the highest tally for Ahmedabad city since July 23 when it recorded 187 cases compared to 178 on September 27. To put the figure in perspective, the average daily cases for Ahmedabad city in September have been 154. The state also recorded deaths of 10 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,419. The deaths in Gujarat include three from Ahmedabad, two each from Surat and Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Junagadh. It was the lowest daily death toll for the state in 73 days as the state had recorded 10 deaths on July 16. Since August 18 – when the state had recorded 20 deaths of Covid-19 patients in a day – the daily death toll has not crossed 20. In September, the average daily deaths have been 15 with 397 deaths so far. A total of 1,231 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.13 lakh. The discharges numbers include 283 from Surat, 221 from Rajkot, 202 from Ahmedabad, and 133 from Vadodara. With the update, the active cases in Gujarat climbed to 16,660, which is 12.5% of the total Covid-19 positive patients so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 84.9% and 2.6% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 60,357 tests, taking the total to 42.32 lakh. The state health department officials said that the figure indicates 928 tests per day per million population. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 6.05 lakh persons under quarantine — out of total, 448 were under facility quarantine, whereas the rest were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/highest-daily-tally-for-ahmedabad-in-65-days/articleshow/78354132.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||EG coconuts to soon enter European markets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Green coconuts from East Godavari district are all set to travel to Europe to meet the rise in demand for spices, fruits and vegetables from India. “Post the Covid-19 outbreak, some research claimed that Indian spices, fruits and vegetables are very useful as immunity boosters. The demand for Indian produce had increased in European countries. Kerala has already started exporting spices in bulk and Andhra will follow with coconuts from East Godavari and some other local produce,” Villa Dorababu, a large-scale coconut farmer told TOI. A native of Ainavalli, situated around 65 km from Rajahmundry, Dorababu had bagged the Best Coconut Farmer of India award in 2009 from the Coconut Development Board of India. At nearly 1.5 lakh acres, East Godavari district has the highest acreage under coconut plantations in Andhra Pradesh. Unlike the variety imported from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka that is hybrid and gives up to 400 ml of water, coconuts from this district offer only about 200 ml of water. They are, however, in great demand as they are tender and cultivated using traditional methods. The Europe India Centre for Business and Industries (EICBI) – a UK-based business chamber that promotes bilateral trade – will be facilitating the export. The chamber has a presence in five European countries; the UK, Netherlands, Spain, Italy and Germany. “Besides coconuts, Andhra would also export turmeric and millets from Araku, red chilli powder, cereals, pulses and honey. So much so that the chamber is all set to set up an office in Vizag city to foresee the procurement and shipments of these exports,” added Dorababu, who is also steering committee member and legal adviser of EICBI for Andhra Pradesh. The proposed office is all set to come up in Vizag city by December and exports will start soon after.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/eg-coconuts-to-soon-enter-european-mkts/articleshow/78352231.cms||Arpit Basu
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||What Surya & Ravi’s promotions mean for Karnataka politics||BENGALURU: The appointment of tourism minister CT Ravi and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya to national-level BJP posts was not particularly surprising, considering their relative popularity. But political observers believe the move, announced by national party president JP Nadda on Saturday, sent an important signal: Karnataka BJP will adopt an aggressive approach to issues in the coming months. Both Surya and Ravi are known to take hard-line stances, something that the likes of BS Yediyurappa avoid in favour of a moderate position. In absence of second-line politicians who can continue Yediyurappa’s brand of politics, the party has perhaps decided to give more prominence to party faces who do the opposite: stir up emotions. Ravi is among the eight new BJP national general secretaries, whereas Surya will lead the Yuva Morcha as its president. Their promotion follows a familiar party pattern in which Nalin Kumar Kateel, also an exponent of strong Hindutva, was made the Karnataka BJP president. “There is no doubt that the central BJP leadership is looking to elevate faithful ideologues to key posts as it believes that’s the way forward,” said a Sangh Parivar functionary. Surya has no prior experience in playing a larger organisational role, while Ravi is not fluent in Hindi or English. But party functionaries insist they will do well. “Ravi understands the party structure very well, while Surya is popular among a section of youngsters because of his speeches and tweets. These are important aspects. Involvement of local BJP members on the national stage makes Karnataka an indispensable state for the central leadership,” said state party general secretary N Ravi Kumar. Surya is only 29 years old and this serves as a big advantage in a party that’s looking for young talent. Besides, the Yuva Morcha post can only be occupied by a member aged 35 or less. Ravi’s promotion may ease one headache for Yediyurappa, who needs to accommodate a number of people in his cabinet. There is a possibility that Ravi may be asked to vacate his ministerial berth and concentrate on party activities. The vacancy can be then filled by MLC CP Yogeeshwara from the Vokkaliga community, Arvind Limbavali from the Bhovi community or one of the three former Congress-JD(S) politicians — AH Vishwanath, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar. Ravi, according to some BJP functionaries, has indicated to the central leadership that his priority is the organisation. “He was asked to weigh the options and has chosen the organisation. This would mean that he may have to vacate the ministerial berth,” said a senior party member. New roles Karnataka has always been an indispensable element of BJP’s scheme of things. Party has given important roles to Kannadigas. Now, for the first time, a Yuva Morcha president has been chosen from the state. Our politics has always been aligned with the party ideology. Tejasvi Surya, Bengaluru South MP and Yuva Morcha chief I’ve been working my way up in party organisation since 1988. Latest elevation proves it is only BJP which recognises the ordinary party worker. As far for my ministerial berth, I will act as per party’s directions. CT Ravi, tourism minister and BJP national general secy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/what-surya-ravis-promotions-mean-for-karnataka-politics/articleshow/78355368.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Strict action for violations||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has made it clear that if social distancing and mask rules are violated, the offenders will face stringent action. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the forest and environment department who heads the anti-Covid mission in the city, has given a stern warning to establishments as well as citizens. In a statement, Gupta said: “The AMC has taken several measures to stop the spread of Covid in the city. We have noted that youths hang out in groups and in large numbers at eateries.” He went on to say: “The AMC is determined to fight the coronavirus and will take harsh action as the situation demands.” Gupta said that on August 25, a special operation was carried out to assess the conditions on the ground, and it was discovered that norms were being flouted brazenly. He said such irresponsibility was causing Covid to spread.  “Earlier this week, the AMC had appealed to youths to maintain social distancing and had urged them not to go to eateries in big groups,” Gupta’s statement said. The statement said that AMC officials had caught violators across the city, but the offenders were concentrated on Sindhu Bhavan Road, Prahladnagar Road, IIM Road, SG Highway, Bopal-Ambli Road, and Iskcon Crossroads. Gupta said that if these youths get infected, they will not only transmit the disease to their groups but will also pass it on to their parents and grandparents. He said that based on the current government guidelines, the AMC has prepared SOPs for various categories of establishments such as shopping malls, hotels, clubs, and religious places. The solid waste management department of the AMC has formed more than 192 teams to ensure the effective implementation of the SOPs. Along with police personnel, these teams visit places across the city and penalize establishments and people for breaching Covid protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strict-action-for-violations/articleshow/78354140.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Demand-supply gap pushes up egg prices in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Poultry farmers in Andhra Pradesh who had suffered huge losses earlier this year due to Covid-19 are now hoping for a revival in fortunes with the price of eggs increasing due to a gap between demand and supply. However, consumers are unhappy that after onion, tomato and potato, now eggs are getting dearer amid the pandemic. Retail prices of eggs are now hovering between Rs 72 to Rs 84 per dozen in parts of AP as against Rs 66 a week ago. Traders explained the rise in price as a result of increased demand over the past few months and the shortfall in production on account of the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, chairman of National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC), Visakhapatnam zone, T Uday Bhaskar said consumption of egg in parts of the country drastically decreased in March following rumours that consumption would lead to spread of Covid-19. The current rise in price is the result of supply chain disruption caused by the lockdown, he said. “At least 30% of poultry farmers in the state had to close their business amid the lockdown. Now supply is unable to keep pace with demand as consumption has increased with people wanting to improve their immune system with protein-rich eggs. Prices will remain high till January 2021, perhaps rise further,” Bhaskar said, adding “We are hoping that farmers will recover their losses and those who closed their business will resume in the coming days.” AP produces over 3.5 crore eggs a day. However, production fell by between 30 to 40% in March and April after some farmers shut their business. Meanwhile, prices of onion and tomato touched Rs 50 a kg while potato is selling at around Rs 36 a kg and chicken at Rs 250 a kg. Now, with eggs selling at Rs 7 a piece, up from Rs 5, “how will a common household manage expenses as eggs are the most basic source of protein?” said P Divakar, a resident of Vizag city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/demand-supply-gap-pushes-up-egg-prices/articleshow/78352253.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 28, 2020||Hubballi||Houses, temples collapse as heavy showers continue to pound North Karnataka||DHARWAD: Unrelenting rain in North Karnataka since Friday has made the life of residents in the districts miserable. The wet weekend has not been without tragedy, with a 27-year-old man being washed away while crossing an overflowing stream in Vantagodi village in Mudhol taluk, Bagalkot. The body of the victim, Subhas Adavi, was fished out of the stream on Sunday by personnel of the fire and emergency services department. Adavi was an employee of the DCC Bank in Bagalkot. Meanwhile, in Dharwad district, unceasing rain since Friday night has destroyed standing crops across hundreds of acres, while many houses have been damaged. Although there was some relaxation in the intensity of rain in Dharwad city on Sunday, the downpour continued in Hubballi. Commute on the Dharwad-Savadatti Road has turned into a nightmare with an overflowing Tupparihalla flooding the thoroughfare. The bridge at Harobelavadi across the Tupparihalla having been breached, the authorities have provided an alternative route for commuters. In Hubballi city, a house collapsed, while 11 others have sustained some damage, while in Budarsingi village in Hubballi taluk, three houses have collapsed following heavy showers. Officials in the Dharwad district agriculture department said that standing crops across 8,000 hectares had been destroyed. Soya, cotton and maize crops on fields by the Tupparihalla have been destroyed. Many onion and chilli farmers too have reported enormous loss of their respective crops. Continuous rain in Alnavar taluk has disrupted normal life greatly. People living in the vicinity of Hulikeri Tank are growing increasingly worried since the waterbody is already full to the brim, and the prospect of its overflowing seeming imminent. Low-lying areas in twin cities bear the brunt In what has become a recurrent problem in most urban pockets of the state, water gushed into the houses of low-lying areas in Hubballi-Dharwad on Saturday evening leaving residents an anguished lot. The prolonged spell of rain also resulted in a power outage in several localities of the twin cities from Friday night till Saturday evening. In Old Dharwad, Haveripeth was flooded and commuters on the Dharwad-Saundatti Road were forced to travel through a waterlogged thoroughfare. In twin cities of Dharwad and Hubballi water gushed in to the houses in several layouts in low-lying areas giving the people sleepless nights. Showers lash Bagalkot In Bagalkot district, 750 houses have been reported damaged while two in Mannikatti village have collapsed. The road between Bekamaladinni and Hunagud has been breached. Meanwhile, in Badami taluk, home to numerous historical sites, the Agastya Pond is brimming, while the Hanuman temple in Tulasigeri has been submerged. Meanwhile, the Shri Matha temple in Mallapur village in Sindhanur taluk, Raichur has collapsed owing to the rain, while 235 houses have reported damage in Vijayapura, with five animals having died in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/houses-temples-collapse-as-heavy-showers-continue-to-pound-n-ktaka/articleshow/78354782.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 28,000 engineering seats vacant after mock round||AHMEDABAD: After allotting colleges on the basis of choice filling by students for the conducted mock round, 27,889 seats lie vacant for the engineering colleges in Gujarat. The Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) recently announced the final merit list based on which the mock round was conducted. “The mock round saw participation from 24,735 candidates. Of these 22,647 were allocated colleges,” said sources in ACPC. In all there are 64,782 seats this year of which ACPC was given the task to fill 50,536 seats. The remaining seats are to be filled by the self-financed colleges. In the provisional merit list, 23,483 candidates were shortlisted from Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Board, 3,390 are from CBSE, 256 from ICSE, 87 from NIOS and 45 were domicile candidates. This year the total number of seats for engineering has been lowered as compared to 73,345 seats last year. As many as 6,000 seats have been reduced after closure of five self-financed colleges. In the case of government colleges, there is a reduction of 2,130 seats in faculties like EC, IC, power electronics, mining and production engineering. ACPC extended the deadline for online registration thrice this year. The deadline was first extended from August 8 to August 28. Later a new deadline of September 5 was given for registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28k-engg-seats-vacant-after-mock-round/articleshow/78354163.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vet: Can’t cull canines to control stray population||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has initiated inquiry following allegations that some municipal volunteers were culling stay dogs in the city. Meanwhile, animal activists and veterinary doctors in the city state that such practices to control population of strays was a violation of norms. “In no way can a dog be killed for the sake of controlling stray population. A vet can take the final call whether to conduct euthanasia of a dog. Normally, if a dog is aged or suffering from an incurable disease and has lost mobility or developed lack of appetite doctors conduct euthanasia,” said G Janardhan Rao, a veterinary surgeon. “Whatever may be the reasons behind the death of the dogs, the dumping of carcass was not done in proper way,” he added. On Sunday, TOI had reported that Pradeep Kumar Nath, an animal activist, had lodged a complaint with GVMC commissioner alleging that a section of civic body volunteers are killing at least around 10 dogs a day since August and are dumping the carcass at the Arilova dumping grounds. A few pictures of dogs’ carcasses being dumped by GVMC volunteers have gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vet-cant-cull-canines-to-control-stray-population/articleshow/78352243.cms||Arpit Basu
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||‘Recovery rate over 84% in UP but beware of callous approach’||LUCKNOW: The recovery rate of Covid-19 cases in UP climbed to over 84.1% on Sunday even as the number of people getting cured remained higher than the number of people getting afflicted with the virus in the last 24 hours. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said that in the last 10 days the number of people getting cured is more than those getting afflicted with the virus. This pattern may reflect potential slide after a peak case load, he said, adding that this was the period of extreme caution as people might fall in the trap of `false security’ and turn callous which could lead to a second wave of positivity. “There is little or no room for being careless at this stage. People need to exercise extreme precaution during this period which can help the state government in its battle against the highly contagious virus,” Prasad said. In the last 24 hours, UP recorded 4,403 fresh Covid cases, against which 5,656 people got cured and discharged from hospital or came out of home isolation. In all 3,25,888 people have been discharged since the outbreak of novel coronavirus pandemic in the state. He said that the rate of case positivity was falling gradually. “This was despite the large number of testing of samples,” he said. In all, 1,57,710 samples were tested by health department in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested to 96,25,076. The state government is aiming to touch a mark of testing one croresamples by the end of this month. As many as 5,594 people died in last 24 hours. The number of active cases is 55,603 of which 27,826 were in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recovery-rate-over-84-but-beware-of-callous-approach/articleshow/78354988.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Mom gets life for smothering child to death in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 26-year-old woman, who murdered her two-and-a-half-year-old daughter to remove what she thought was a hurdle to her second marriage to an old friend, has been sentenced to life imprisonment by the Bengaluru Rural principal sessions court. Tavarekere police had arrested Shraddha, a resident of Kodigehalli Colony near Yeshwantpur, on the charges of murdering her daughter Anjana in October 2017. Judge Venkatesh Naik T dropped charges of criminal conspiracy against Shraddha and her lover Sharath Kumar due to lack of evidence. Also, other charges against Kumar were dropped as he died during trial. According to the prosecution, Shraddha had banged her child’s head against the wall multiple times. Having found that the girl had survived the assault, she later smothered her to death. Investigations by then Magadi circle police inspector VS Shabaresh revealed Shraddha had separated from her first husband Naveen, a cab driver, after she met her school classmate Sharath Kumar, also a driver, in 2016. She fell in love with Kumar and decided to marry him. But the duo considered Anjana a hindrance and conspired to eliminate the child. Shraddha executed the plan on October 11, 2017 and projected it as an accidental death. She managed to bury the child after informing her parents, husband and in-laws that she accidentally fell from the cot and died before reaching hospital. But Shraddha’s mother Manju N Jadhav suspected something amiss and informed police within a few days. Police exhumed the body on October 16, 2017 and conducted a postmortem, which confirmed it was a murder case. The autopsy report, which reached police on October 19, read: “Death was due to injuries sustained.” Child suffered brain haemorrhage, 8 rib fractures According to public prosecutor SV Bhat, Shraddha banged Anjana’s head against the wall and when the child fell down, she thrust a pillow into her face, pressed her knee on the child’s chest and sat on her abdomen till the girl breathed her last. Dr Nissan Ahmed, professor, department of forensic medicine, Rajarajeshwari Medical College, had conducted the postmortem. He deposed in court that he found blood extravasation (leakage) in the frontal right side of the girl’s body. At least eight of her ribs were fractured. All the injuries were ante-mortem in nature and were the cause of death. The investigating officer sought clarification about the injuries from Ahmed. “The IO sought to know the effect of the child having fallen from the 18-inch high cot. “Injuries mentioned in the postmortem report could not have been caused by such a fall or resulted in death,” Ahmed said. According to Ahmed, apart from the rib fractures, the child suffered external injuries on the lip, internal injuries on the scalp, brain haemorrhage, spleen laceration and internal haemorrhage, which were followed by death due to shock. The injuries could be caused by holding the child’s head tightly and dashing it against a hard surface, closing the lips and mouth with force and pressing with knees and elbow the chest and front of abdomen. Terrace claim false: Court Shraddha claimed her daughter died as she fell from the terrace, but the court said evidence proved it was false and her house had a sheet roof. “Why was she silent about it if the child had fallen from the terrace? She also failed to explain why and how her child climbed the terrace as there were no stairs. Her ‘two-line’ false explanation cannot be considered cogent,” the court observed. The defence counsel contended that if a child falls from a height of about 10 feet on a rough surface, internal injuries mentioned in the autopsy could be caused. The ribs were fractured as the body was put into a 6-ft pit, which was filled with mud. But the court did not consider the contention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mom-gets-life-for-smothering-child-to-death/articleshow/78353558.cms||Santosh kumar.B
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Misconduct case: Farmer held for colluding with tahsildar in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths have arrested K Dharma Reddy, a farmer from Rampally village in Keesara, in the criminal misconduct case involving tahsildar E B Nagaraju. According to ACB sleuths, despite knowing that he or his relatives did not have ownership rights over 24 acres and 16 guntas of land in Rampally village, Darma Reddy in collusion with Nagaraju, the then tahsildar of Keesara, had used forged succession proceedings and other documents to get passbooks issued for the land in his and his relative’s names. ACB also found out that after getting the passbooks issued with the help of Nagaraju, in July 2020, Dharma Reddy even made an agreement with a real estate company about the development of property. Based on the vigilance and enforcement department inquiry report, ACB had registered a criminal misconduct case against Nagaraju, currently in judicial remand in a bribery case, Dharma Reddy, and others under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the IPC. “The appeal about the land was pending before Keesara RDO. Despite knowing that, Nagaraju on July 9 digitally signed for issuance of new passbooks in favour of K Laxman, K Manemma and K Dharma Reddy for 24 acres and 16 guntas whose market value is Rs 48 crore,” an ACB official said. ACB subsequently conducted searches at the houses of the accused, including Dharma Reddy and seized some incriminating evidence. On Saturday, Dharma Reddy was arrested and produced before a magistrate. He was sent in judicial remand to Chanchalguda central prison, an ACB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/misconduct-case-farmer-held-for-colluding-with-tahsildar/articleshow/78354182.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengalureans win design awards for inclusive innovations||BENGALURU: Three individuals/organisations from Bengaluru have won the NCPEDP-Mphasis Universal Design Awards-2020 for developing innovations to help people with various disabilities. Instituted in 2010 by National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People in partnership with Mphasis, the awards — which will be presented virtually on Monday — recognise the best practices on accessibility for all, promoting local solutions with a focus on affordability, accessibility and scale. TOI looks at the creators and their innovations: Apps to aid speech and hearing impairedEmpathetic towards his younger brother’s intellectual disability, Adarsh Hasija always wanted to do something for him but didn’t know how to go about it. “I realised that early intervention is important to help children with such disabilities, and Artificial Intelligence could help,” said Hasija, a tech consultant. He studied and worked in the US till 2014, but felt he could help in a better way if he was closer home. Hasija, a Koramangala resident, moved back to Bengaluru in 2014. His participation in a hackathon the next year was the first step towards his journey as an innovator. “My solution, LetsTalk, was ready in three or four hours and I was glad to know the participating NGO’s users were happy with it.” LetsTalk allows speech-impaired people to communicate using pictures. His second app, Stars Earth, is a chatbot that helps the user learn sign language as well as raises awareness on social media platforms. Another creation, One, enables the visually impaired to learn and practise typing skills without needing a laptop or desktop and Suno – Be My Ears (iPhone compliant) uses speech-to-text technology to help a hearing-impaired person communicate. In 2020, Hasija released a new version of Suno called SunoDayko, which assists people with visuals disabilities. Adarsh Hasija, 31Swivel seat mechanism for those with multiple ailmentsTurnPlus, built by Truce Consultancy Assistive Technology (also called True Consultancy), is a swivel seat mechanism for the car passenger seat. It is well tested for crash, pull, abuse load, cyclic corrosion and climate life Cycle. Anand Kutre, CEO of the company and a resident of Indiranagar, said with an experience of 25 years in the automotive industry, he realised the Indian market needed innovations to suit local needs. “Though my initial project in 2011 was for a foreign company, in 2017, I redesigned the easy seat to be compatible with our needs. TurnPlus can fit into almost any car, rotate completely and even slide out for a passenger’s comfort,” he said. Truce Consultancy has sold more than 100 pieces in two years. The seat is suitable for those with various conditions like osteoarthritis, paralysis/stroke, traumatic brain injury, pregnancy and backbone/knee/spine ailments, he claimed. Anand Kutre, 40They develop learning material for spl kidsSaloni Mehta, a Bellandur resident, and Karen D’Mello started Tactopus Learning Solutions in 2018 with the aim of making education inclusive for kids with disabilities. Their startup designs and develops learning material and mobile apps for children with disability in the age group of 3 to 12 and helps parents get in touch with special educators. “In the regular set-up, images are not usually included for students with visual disabilities, which stops them from pursuing STEM subjects. From activities and learning mathematics to tactile imagery, we want to make sure they are included in every part,” said Mehta. Saloni Mehta, 29 & Karen D’Mello, 34||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blureans-win-design-awards-for-inclusive-innovations/articleshow/78353521.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||CBD to KIA in 10 minutes? Study on hyperloop viability to begin in Karnataka||BENGALURU: A 10-minute travel time from central business district to Kempegowda International Airport may not remain a fantasy if a hyperloop transportation project becomes a reality. Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) and Richard Branson’s Virgin Hyperloop on Sunday inked a memorandum of understanding to study the feasibility of constructing a hyperloop transportation system to enable 10-minute travel from CBD to KIA. It’s said to be the first-of-its-kind initiative in the country to connect a city with an international airport. Karnataka chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, who’s also chairman of the board of directors of BIAL, signed the MoU online with Sultan bin Sulayem, chairman of Virgin Hyperloop and CEO of DP World in the UAE. As per the agreement, the feasibility study is expected to be carried out in two phases over six months and will begin soon with a focus on technical, economic and route possibilities. With a well-established road link already in place connecting KIA, a suburban railway line is expected to be unveiled soon apart from a Metro corridor likely to be operational within four years. Bhaskar said the study will commence with full support of the government, which is keen on setting up a faster, safer and eco-friendly mode of transport and making the city an even bigger international hub. Meanwhile, the Sultan expressed pleasure over the hyperloop initiative, which according to him can explore ways to use the hi-end transport technology as a solution to tackle congestion and support economic growth in Bengaluru. Hari Marar, managing director and CEO, BIAL, lauded the MoU as a landmark step and the first ever to in India connect a city with an airport through hyperloop. “Technological innovation is key to building and sustaining a world-class transportation hub, and this study is an important step towards that. This mode of transportation offers enormous economic potential, connecting passengers at unprecedented speeds and with zero emissions,” he added. According to preliminary analysis, the feasibility study which is expected to completed in early 2021 could give the go ahead for a hyperloop technology network with travel pods from the city centre cruising at very high speeds with a transport capacity of 1000 passengers per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbd-to-kia-in-10-mins-study-on-hyperloop-viability-to-begin/articleshow/78353155.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||LS constituencies base in TDP’s restructuring||AMARAVATI: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday appointed new chiefs to all district units. Naidu disbanded district-level committees and set up committees with Lok Sabha constituency as a unit. The decision has been taken in view of the state government’s plans to create new districts with Lok Sabha constituencies as the headquarters. Making a fine balance among various social groups, Naidu gave nearly 50% posts to backward classes, SC, ST and minorities. To step up the Amaravati agitation, Naidu appointed former Tadikonda legislator and Dalit leader Tenali Sravan Kumar as Guntur Lok Sabha district committee president. The Andhra Pradesh wing president Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao is likely to be replaced with senior legislator from Srikakulam, K Atchannaidu. Naidu appointed Venkata Rao’s nephew Nagarjuna as Vizianagaram district unit president. Naidu’s decision to appoint former minister Nettem Raghuram as Vijayawada committee president surprised many in party circles. Although Raghuram is a non-controversial leader, he had quit active politics long back. He had served in the Naidu’s cabinet in the undivided AP. At least five leaders from Kamma community — Ganni Veeranjaneyulu (Eluru), Nettem Raghuram (Vijayawada), GVSSR Anjaneyulu (Narasaraopet), Eluri Sambasiva Rao (Bapatla), Puliverthy Nani (Chittoor) got the chance to head district committees in their home constituencies. Naidu was compelled to fall back on his community leaders in 20% committees as the party needs resources to run as it is in the opposition. Minority leader and former mayor Abdul Azeez has been named Nellore unit president while former minister Kalava Srinivasulu will head Anantapur unit. Naidu appointed senior leaders, former ministers and legislators as parliament constituency unit coordinators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ls-constituencies-base-in-tdps-restructuring/articleshow/78352180.cms||Samdani MN
September 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid can set off cardiac emergency, warn docs||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ahead of World Heart Day on September 29, doctors pointed out how Covid-19 has been triggering cardiac emergencies. Cardiologists observed that a comorbid condition such as a cardiac disease can make Covid-19 fatal and the virus can also cause long-term damage in patients without any previous history of cardiac disease. Additionally, fear of hospital visits during the ongoing pandemic has acted as a deterrent for cardiac patients seeking routine check-up and emergency care. “As per a study at our hospital, during the lockdown, we noticed that fear of contracting the virus during hospital visit (iatrophobia) was one of the major reasons for cardiac patients to avoid hospitals or turn up late for consultation, exposing themselves to serious complications,” said Dr Dibya Kumar Baruah, director at Cardiac Cathlab, Apollo Hospitals. Illustrating the direct involvement of the heart during Covid-19 infection, Dr Baruah said a 32 year-old who recovered from Covid-19 three weeks ago suffered from severe breathing difficulties for five days even though he had no previous history of cardiac ailment. After examination, he was found to have very poor pumping capacity of the heart. “The SARS CoV-2 virus gets attached to heart cell and causes damage to cellular linings of micro blood vessel leading to clotting of millions of them. This results in diminished blood supply to the heart causing damage to the heart muscle, which in turn gives rise to heart failure and can also produce life-threatening arrhythmia. It is also capable of establishing blocks in stable coronary artery leading to sudden thrombus (blood clot) and acute myocardial infarction (heart attack),” added the cardiologist. Doctors also caution against smoking as it more than doubles the risk of aggravating cardiac ailments as well as Covid-19. The Covid-19 mortality rate is higher among patients with heart disease and other comorbidities that are directly related to smoking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-can-set-off-cardiac-emergency-warn-docs/articleshow/78352265.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coast Guard rescues 12 crew members of sinking cargo ship||AHMEDABAD: Twelve crew members of a cargo vessel sinking in the Arabian Sea off the Gujarat coast have been rescued by the Coast Guard, officials said on Sunday. Around 9pm on Saturday, the Coast Guard received information that there was flooding on-board the vessel ‘MSV Krishna Sudama’ around 10 nautical miles off the Okha coast.  The vessel had on Saturday started sailing from Mundra in Gujarat for Djibouti, carrying 905 tonne rice and sugar to the African nation, the Coast Guard said in a statement. “Search and rescue was immediately commenced wherein Coast Guard Ship C-411 sailed from Okha, C-161 was diverted from off Mundra, and MV Southern Robin in the vicinity of the area was diverted to render assistance,” it said. Coast Guard ship C-411 arrived in the approximate position indicated by Southern Robin and undertook extensive search in the area. The Coast Guard ship C-411 arrived near the vessel in distress. It undertook extensive search in the area and located the craft carrying 12 crew members who had abandoned the vessel as it was sinking due to flooding, it said. The Coast Guard ship rescued all the 12 crew under challenging circumstances owing to night hours, floating dangerous debris and unfavourable weather conditions, it said. “They were brought to Okha and are safe,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coast-guard-rescues-12-crew-members-of-sinking-cargo-ship/articleshow/78354216.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||About 13,000 Gujarat University commerce seats empty||AHMEDABAD: After holding four rounds of online admissions for commerce courses at colleges affiliated with Gujarat University, 12,633 seats remain vacant. In the fourth round, 2,899 candidates had been enlisted of which 2,797 were allocated colleges by the admission committee. Out of the total 40,744 seats, 28,111 seats have been filled so far, said sources in the admission committee. Faced with the challenge of filling up the large number of vacant seats in commerce colleges after three rounds of online admissions, Gujarat University had decided to conduct fourth round only for the 11,000 candidates who could not secure admission in the earlier rounds as they could not get the college of their choice. The thin participation from candidates for whom the fourth round was held suggests that they have secured admissions in other colleges. The admission committee had initiated the process for about 40,000 seats of commerce colleges this year. About 36,000 students had successfully registered for the admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/about-13k-gu-commerce-seats-empty/articleshow/78354193.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Only 4% of Covid patients take the benefit of cost-free treatment under Maharashtra govt plan||PUNE: Barely 8,125 (4%) of the over two lakh Covid-19 patients discharged from various hospitals in PMR have availed of the free-of-cost treatment benefit as part of the state government’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana at the empanelled private health hubs between March 9 and September 20. The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has recorded 2.76 lakh positive cases and 6,300 casualties till September 27. Experts and health activists have urged the state and civic health authorities to initiate efforts to popularize the scheme’s benefits using mass media tools and empanelling more hospitals. As many as 23 private hospitals, including some health hubs run by prominent trusts in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, have been given authorized by the state government to offer free treatment to the moderate and severely-ill infected patients, irrespective of their financial status. “The district collector has reviewed the scheme through a video conference with the empanelled hospitals. The hospitals have been told to extend the benefit to as many admitted patients with Covid-19 as possible,” said Amol Maske, regional manager of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana in Pune, The scheme provides medical insurance of Rs1.5 lakh to every household without any rider. “Though the scheme is applicable for every citizen of the state, irrespective of her or his financial status, people from the lower and middle-income categories mostly avail of the scheme’s benefit,” Maske said. “Anyone can avail of the benefit, irrespective of the income slab. Producing documents such as ration card of any colour and Aadhar card at the time of admission is also not mandatory,” said health activist and medical practitioner Abhijit More. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India’s Pune chapter, said, “Currently, 120 hospitals in PMR are treating Covid-19 patients. But the scheme can be availed of at only 23 empanelled hospitals. More hospitals should be brought under the scheme’s purview.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-4-of-covid-patients-avail-of-free-treatment-under-state-scheme/articleshow/78354200.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eateries on Sindhu Bhavan Road sealed||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation carried out sealing drive across the city on Sunday night. The shops were sealed and fined as they flouted the social distancing and Covid protocol. The AMC officials said that the raids were carried out in Vastrapur, IIM, Prahladnagar, Sindhu Bhavan Road and SG Highway. The eating joints that were sealed on the Sindhu Bhavan Road included Devraj Farm, Bismillah Fast Food, The Putnir, SBR, Grace Café. The officials said that even the road side vendors on the Prahladnagar road were also removed by the AMC officials at the time of going to press Punjab Malva in Gota was also sealed by the AMC. The raids were carried out by solid waste department teams and was monitored by senior officers including the deputy municipal commissioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eateries-on-sindhu-bhavan-road-sealed/articleshow/78354185.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Gangster in police escort killed in car crash in Guna||LUCKNOW: A man against whom Gangster Act was slapped died, while four persons, including two policemen, suffered injuries when the car in which they were travelling to Lucknow from Mumbai met with an accident at National Highway 46 in Guna district of Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. A team of Thakurganj police consisting of sub inspectors Jagdish Pandey and Rajeev Singh had raided the house of accused Firoz Ali aka Shami of Bahraich needed under the Gangster Act since 2018. He was accused in over ten cases of loot and dacoity, the police said. “In 2019, the police had also sought anNBW from the court against Ali and then on information of him being in Mumbai a team was sent there,” said a senior police officer. The team left for a slum area in Nalasopara locality in Mumbai and raided Firoz’s house on Saturday. The team left for Lucknow and in the car Firoz’s relative who resides in Lucknow was also present besides the policemen and the driver. “When they reached Chachoda police station in Guna, the car hit a blue bull and overturned,” said Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey. He said that in the accident the accused Firoz died, while four others, including the policemen, the deceased’s relative Afzal and car driver, suffered injuries. They have been admitted to a private hospital in Raigarh locality near the accident place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangster-in-police-escort-killed-in-car-crash-in-guna/articleshow/78354992.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||32-bed NMC-Sai hospital in Imambada starts today||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), in association with Sai Mandir Trust, is all set to start 32-bed Covid Hospital in Imambada from Monday. With the help of Railways, the civic body is also likely to begin operations at 47-bed Covid Hospital in Sadar from Wednesday. TOI had on September 22 reported Sai Mandir Trust and the civic body’s an agreement to run Covid Hospital in Imambada. Trust president Omprakash ‘Munna’ Yadav and trustee Dr Ravindra ‘Chhotu’ Bhoyar, who is also a corporator, told TOI, “We will start admitting and treating Covid-19 patients from Wednesday. Treatment will be free of cost. The patients will not require to spend even on medicines and injections as NMC would be supplying it.” Dr Bhoyar added, “Eight beds will be converted into ICU as soon as we receive ventilators.” The hospital was supposed to begin operations from September 23. One of the corporators had raised objection and the issue has been resolved now. Also, the Trust had to make arrangements for separate entry and exit for ambulance and Covid patients as the NMC also runs an isolation hospital on the same premises. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “NMC’s Covid Hospital developed in Sadar will start probably from Wednesday. Railways has agreed to provide doctors and NMC will facilitate RMOs, nurses and attendants.” After operationalizing the two hospitals, 79 beds will be added to the total Covid treatment capacity of the city. These two hospitals are part of the five which were developed by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe along with Dr Yogendra Savai and Dr Praveen Gantawar in May with the help of funds sanctioned by guardian minister Nitin Raut. However, all five hospitals could not be started due to manpower shortage. One hospital with 110 beds was started at LAD Square mid-August. A few days ago, the NMC had started another one at Pachpaoli which is special hospital for pregnant Covid patients. As on Sunday, 25 of the total 110 beds are in operation and the number is likely to be increased soon. Joshi said efforts are on to also start fifth hospital at KT Nagar with 100 beds soon. As per NMC claim, 3,436 beds in 53 hospitals are available in the city for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/32-bed-nmc-sai-hospital-in-imambada-starts-today/articleshow/78354186.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC corporator booked for vandalism||HYDERABAD: Banjara Hills police on Sunday registered a case against a corporator of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), who allegedly trespassed into a function hall and damaged its property. The police said that the corporator had entered into a five years lease agreement with a function hall owner. But they had approached a local court over some dispute a while ago. The court had given an order in favour of the property owner. The corporator was directed to pay the pending rent besides asking him to vacate the premises. The corporator vacated the function hall a month ago and the owner had been in possession of it since then. “Few days ago, the corporator and few others trespassed the function hall and took away tubelights and other articles besides damaging the property. He is also accused of clearing the pending rental dues, which he owes to the function hall owner,” Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-corporator-booked-for-vandalism/articleshow/78354219.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Maintain strict vigil on borders, UP CM tells officers||LUCKNOW: Laying stress on the need for maintaining law and order during the upcoming festive season, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to also initiate steps to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus pandemic. Presiding over a review meeting at his official residence here on Sunday, Yogi said that a strict vigil should be kept on border areas and anti-social elements who could potentially disturb peace be booked. “Uttar Pradesh cannot be a `sharnasthali’ (safe haven) for anti-social elements,” the CM said, emphasising on enhancing foot patrolling. This, he said, helps in controlling crime. He also laid stress on more effective patrolling by 112 vans by specifying places which require more vigilance. Yogi said that the patrolling and arrangement of ambulance on the Yamuna expressway and the Lucknow-Agra expressway should be done by agencies which are collecting toll tax. Reiterating his resolve to have zero tolerance against corruption, Yogi said that the state government would never be lenient towards gangsters and gang-lords. He also directed the officials to intensify campaign against mafia dons. Besides, `thana diwas’ should also be organised to address people's complaints, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maintain-strict-vigil-on-borders-cm-tells-officers/articleshow/78354998.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Over 3,300 test positive, 80 die as PMR's case tally crosses 2.76 lakh||PUNE: More than 3,300 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the tally for Pune Metropolitan Region over the 2.76 lakh-mark. Sunday also saw more people recover from the contagion than infected — 3,894 were discharged, compared to 3,313 fresh positives, as per a report from the district health office. The progressive tally (total caseload) stood at 2,76,325. Eighty people succumbed to the virus on Sunday, taking the overall death toll for the region to 6,300. Across the region, there were 41,430 active cases — 23,957 are being treated in hospitals, while 17,473 are under home quarantine. Of the 3,313 cases reported on Sunday, Pune Municipal Corporation limits accounted for 1,548. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 812 new cases, while rural areas (660), cantonments (85) and municipal council areas (208) made up the rest. According to the daily report issued by PMC, the Pune municipal limits have 3,492 patients being treated on oxygen beds. The number of critical patients admitted in hospitals across the city was 940, of whom 420 were on ventilator support. Of 80 fatalities on Sunday, 41 died in hospitals in PMC, while PCMC areas reported 17 deaths. The rural areas recorded 18 casualties, while municipal council areas recorded four fatalities. Those who succumbed had underlying health conditions, such as diabetes, hypertension and heart problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-3300-test-positive-80-people-succumb-case-tally-over-2-76-lakh/articleshow/78354240.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Fear of Covid leading to illness anxiety disorder||Nagpur: Obsession with Covid-19, leading to frequent checking of temperature or blood oxygen saturation, or excessive use of sanitizers, may be an indication of ‘illness anxiety disorder’ (IAD). Many extreme cases of such obsession are seeking treatment from government as well as private psychiatrists. The number of first time cases is on the rise, say doctors. Though confused with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), doctors prefer to describe it as IAD, in which people exhibit short lived symptoms. Among the complaints psychiatrists are getting from relatives include repeated checking of body temperature and blood oxygen saturation (SPO2) level, and excessive use of hand sanitizers. In some cases, patients start believing they have been infected by the novel coronavirus, even if their body temperature is 99. Some are getting expensive investigations like CAT scans or insisting on hospital admission for even mild symptoms, which are not remotely linked to Covid-19. IGGMCH psychiatry professor Dr Abhishek Somani said the most common type of obsessive compulsive phenomenon like washing hands frequently and excessive attention to personal hygiene has been accepted as healthy and preventive towards corona rather than abnormal. “There is no change in number of such people seeking treatment. But certainly more people are reporting obsessive anxiety of having corona. There is increase in number of patients who complain they are unable to leave corona thoughts behind due to excessive talk and media coverage,” he said. Dr Praveen Navkhare, senior psychiatrist at Regional Mental Hospital, said the behaviour of patients may be close to OCD. “What we are seeing among patients is best explained as IAD,” he said. This disorder basically is a result of mainly four types of thinking-style errors. “Magnification, minimization, tunnel-vision and mental filtering can be linked to anxiety disorder,” said Navkhare. In magnification, a patient tends to magnify even mildest common symptoms and believes he is suffering from a particular disease. “today, patients remain highly anxious till Covid report comes,” Dr Navkhare said. Minimization refers to downplaying and believing no such disease exists. In tunnel-vision, the patient’s ideas about reality are based on limited information, which may not be exact. In mental filtering, the patient focuses only on specific information and negates other relevant information. He could negate information about recoveries but selectively focus on death,” said Dr Navkhare. Dr Somani, who is also president of Psychiatric Society, Nagpur, said they help patients overcome their condition by explaining Covid is fatal in very few cases. “A proper explanation helps them understand the disease,” he said. Dr Somani added more men have reported the problem than women. Dr Sonakshi Jyrwa of AIIMS Nagpur said ‘infodemic’ from media coverage and fear of growing pandemic crisis are breeding ground for apprehension, fear and anxiety. “We have seen a surge in depression and anxiety-related disorders,” she said. Psychiatrist Dr Avinash Joshi, who runs a private clinic, said the pandemic has only increased problems for OCD patients. “It is manifested in their behaviour, movement and sleep pattern. In common people, I would say it is obsessive concern resulting in loss of interest in work, depressing mood and low energy level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fear-of-covid-leading-to-illness-anxiety-disorder/articleshow/78354262.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Written consent is a must for remdesivir||PUNE: The state’s medical task force under the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) issued a notification on September 23, making it mandatory for treating hospitals/doctors to seek written consent of patients or their relatives before administering the antiviral drug remdesivir. The objective is to involve a patient’s kin in the medical management of Covid-19 while using expensive drugs, and to check the drug’s indiscriminate use. “We have simply reinforced the guideline already laid down by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) about the judicious use of remdesivir. Seeking the patient’s or their relative consent is an important mandate and we want hospitals and doctors to follow it in letter and spirit,” DMER director Tatyrao Lahane said. Currently, doctors seek consent only when remdesivir is used in patients with chronic kidney and liver diseases, or pregnant and breastfeeding women. “We will follow the norm. So far we have not received any alert from any government body, including the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation,” Sanjeevan hospital’s chief intensivist Subhal Dixit said. “The DMER’s notification is self-explanatory, hence there should not be any doubt about implementing the norm,” Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC said. An office-bearer of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), who refused to come on record, stressed on more clarity about seeking written consent. “The DMER’s notification asks for written consent only in patients who are RT-PCR negative for Covid-19, but have severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and whose radiological investigation also shows lung involvement typically seen in Covid-19 infected patients,” the official said. Task force experts have also requested doctors to use the drug only in patients who are hypoxic (blood oxygen saturation below 94%) and need supplemental oxygen support. The Food and Drug Administration has made it clear that patients’ relatives should not approach retail medical stores or wholesale distributors as the drug is supplied directly to hospitals as per need. “Hence, relatives should approach the hospital’s pharmacy or the chemists’ association helpline set up for remdesivir,” FDA Pune joint commissioner S B Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/written-consent-is-a-must-for-remdesivir/articleshow/78354218.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 12-year-old girl gets buried alive in Pirana dump||AHMEDABAD: Neha Vasava, 12, and Anil Marwadi, 7, on Sunday went to the Pirana dumping yard in search of discarded toys. They used to do this regularly, and their parents later sold anything that could be salvaged. But this time her luck ran out as a portion of sludge and garbage fell on her and she got buried alive. A joint operation by police and fire brigade is on to find her but her chances of survival grows thinner by the minute. Neha's mother and siblings are in shockNeha’s mother Ranjan works as a daily wager since the death of Neha’s father a year ago. Ranjan and her three kids, Kishan, 18, Vaishali, 19, and Rahul, 7, were mute with grief. Gujarat: 12-year-old girl gets buried alive in #Pirana dumphttps://t.co/aoE2CU4c35 https://t.co/E6f33UPUEV— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1601262634000According to locals and police, Neha was playing at the Pirana dumping yard along with Anil. “They had climbed a mound to find some toys and articles from the garbage. At that time, they lost their footing and fell inside the garbage mound. Some locals who witnessed them rescued the boy but could not find Neha,” said an officer of Danilimda police. The boy, who was having trouble to breathe, said his head remained above the garbage so he was seen and saved, but no one could find Neha. A police officer said four cops from Danilimida police station and five fire brigade personnel were deployed in the search which was on till late Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12-year-old-girl-gets-buried-alive-in-pirana-dump/articleshow/78354251.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Third PCMC corporator succumbs to contagion||Pimpri Chinchwad: BJP corporator Laxman Unde from Dighi-Bopkhel area succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday at a private hospital in Chinchwad. He had been under treatment in the Intensive Care Unit for almost a month. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s health department stated that Unde had been admitted to a private hospital on August 27 and his oxygen saturation level had dropped considerably. Mahesh Landge, Pimpri-Chinchwad BJP unit president, said that Unde’s death was a personal loss for him. He added that public representatives should exercise precaution during the pandemic. “We cannot stop meeting people at this time but we have to exercise extreme safety precaution so as to make sure the infection remains at bay,” he said. An official from the civic body said that Unde had been suffering from comorbid conditions and had developed kidney failure during the treatment. He was shifted to the ICU at the private hospital on August 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/third-pcmc-corporator-succumbs-to-contagion/articleshow/78354252.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||IPL betting racket busted, duo held||Hyderabad: The north zone task force team busted an online cricket betting racket at New Mettuguda in Chilkalguda and arrested two people working under a Rajasthan-based organizer. The accused were identified as Polapally Shiva Kumar and Daddojwala Naveen Kumar, both sub-organizers from Mettuguga. The duo was found accepting cricket betting over cell phones from punters for ongoing IPL 2020 Cricket matches for the main organiser. Police seized Rs 20,000 net cash betting amount and two cellphones from their possession. The duo was booked under the TS Gaming Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ipl-betting-racket-busted-duo-held/articleshow/78354264.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||Lobo: Will clear all refuse-derived fuel in 3 months||PANAJI: Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) will take three months to dispose of over two lakh tonne of refuse-derived fuel (RDF) which has been lying across the state since lockdown. Waste management minister Michael Lobo had a review meeting with managing director Levinson Martin, general manager Domnic Fernandes and Ganesh Kandaswami from Hindustan Waste Management.  During the discussions the project related to RDF disposal from Saligao was reviewed. “Since lockdown, no RDF was disposed of but we have started post lockdown. Approximately 9,000 tonne of RDF was disposed of in the last 25 days. The balance will be disposed of and cleared in the next 2 to 3 months,” Lobo said. He also said that the recovered RDF from the remediation site of Sonsoddo will be disposed of from now onwards. “Within one month we will clear RDF from Sonsoddo which is around 45,000 tonnes,” Lobo said. The waste management minister said he will call for a review meeting of RDF at Mormugao. “The contractor is saying that he has cleared most of the RDF there but I don’t think he has cleared it,” he said. Lobo said GMWC is waiting for a letter from the Margao Muncipal Council (MMC) to set up seven bio-methanation plants at Sonsoddo and it will treat 35 tonne of wet waste per day. “Initially, GMWC will set up three bio-methanation plants and four will follow immediately. MMC has funds of the 15 finance commission and they have to release Rs 35 crore to GMWC. The rest of the money will be put by GMWC to repair the shed and other things,” Lobo said The minister said that GWMC will complete the work and hand over the facility to MMC. GWMC has proposed the upgradation of the waste management facility at Sonsoddo. It further proposed that the upgradation be taken up in two phases. The first phase proposes the setting up of an integrated dry waste management facility and bio-digester plants with a cumulative capacity of 15 tonne per day. It will also include the construction of proper roads leading to the shed, remediation of legacy waste to generate space for construction of a shed, shifting of high tension line and repair and commissioning of the existing landfill at Sonsoddo. In the second phase, it proposes the setting up of bio-digester plants with a cumulative capacity of 20 tonne per day, construction of a leachate disposal line which will connect to the main sewerage line and avenue planting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-will-clear-all-refuse-derived-fuel-in-3-months/articleshow/78354292.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Zilla parishad seeks 200 O2 concentrators via CSR initiatives||PUNE: The zilla parishad (ZP) authorities are working on a plan to procure at least 200 oxygen concentrators from various companies in the district as part of the companies’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. An oxygen concentrator, which costs at least Rs50,000, is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply (typically ambient air) by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched product gas stream. It can be deployed to augment oxygen beds in hospitals. According to the ZP records, rural Pune has 1,721 oxygen beds, 585 ICU beds and 264 beds with ventilators. “Our aim is to make available as many oxygen beds as possible for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Officials from the tehsil headquarters have already approached some companies with a plea to offer the devices under their CSR initiatives. The companies have responded positively. We expect to get some devices soon for our facilities in Khed tehsil,” ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad told TOI on Sunday. “One of the auto manufacturing companies in Chakan has agreed to give us 75 beds with oxygen concentrators. The actual delivery is expected in the first week of October. These devices will be installed at the Covid-19 care centre in Mhalunge village. We are also in talks with other companies for similar initiatives. As of now, we require 100 oxygen beds for patients with low O2 saturation,” Khed block development officer Ajay Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-eyes-200-o2-concentrators-via-csr-schemes/articleshow/78354265.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Biker hurt by freak accident||Ahmedabad: City traffic police booked an unidentified person in Ghatlodia for injuring a motorcycle-borne man by abruptly opening the door of his car. The two-wheeler rider suffered severe injuries. Arvind Limbachia, 37, resident of Ghatlodia and a hair dresser, states in his FIR with A division traffic police that the accident took place on Saturday afternoon. “I saw a car parked near my shop when I began riding my motorcycle. When I came close to that car, its driver suddenly opened the door and I hit it. I fell on road and suffered injuries on my right knee and foot. I started screaming with the pain seeing which the car driver fled from there,” stated Limbachia. Limbachia’s employees, took him to a hospital where he was diagnosed with multiple fractures in his right leg. On Limbachia’s complaint, A division traffic police registered a case of negligent driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/biker-hurt-by-freak-accident/articleshow/78354267.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||CM: Many places in UP can become eco-tourism spots||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that the rural areas of the state are not just rich in religious tourism, but have immense potential to be developed into eco-tourism sites. Yogi said tourism does not mean merely a picnic, but it is also a sector which creates jobs. “This would further push to the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign,” he said. Yogi said the right perception about tourism will help explore unlimited possibilities in the state. Greeting the people on ‘World Tourism Day’, whose this year’s theme is ‘Tourism and rural development’, Yogi said UP has multiple spots which could be developed as eco-tourism spots. “In Gorakhpur, there is Ramgarh lake and places like Budhia Mai, the nearby forest, which are ecologically very rich and can be developed into tourist hotspots,” he said. Lehra Devi temple in Maharajganj and the nearby area can also be developed as a tourism centre, he said. Besides, the 428sqkm area around the west bank of the Gandak river in Maharajganj is a big sector for eco-tourism, he said and added that the forest area around Chuka area in Lakhimpur Kheri and Chandra Prabha in Chandauli, too, is rich from the ecological tourism point of view. On the occasion, the CM also released two short documentaries made by the forest department in Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-many-places-in-up-can-become-eco-tourism-spots/articleshow/78355002.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||37-yr-old man dies in bike accident||Hyderabad: A 37-year-old private employee died after his bike hit the road divider on Sunday in Nacharam limits. Ajay Kumar from Raghavendra Nagar, was on his way to buy medicines in early hours of Sunday on his Pulsar bike. According to police, he drove the vehicle rashly and lost control. He hit the road median and sustained a severe head injury. Ajay Kumar died on the spot. A case was registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/37-yr-old-man-dies-in-bike-accident/articleshow/78354278.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Covid-19 skews crime pattern, murders shoot up, thefts down||BHOPAL: Lockdown slammed the brakes on how we lived our days, but turned crime patterns upside down. Data from the period between April and June shows a drop in crimes against women — not necessarily an indication that offences didn’t happen — but an alarming 30% jump in murders. Petty crime, like theft, also dropped but still came at a shocking rate of at least three a day during 81 days of lockdown. It’s surprising since people were indoors nearly all the time. Vehicle theft plummeted by 50% — no surprise since there were far fewer vehicles on the road — but 713 cases were still recorded till August 4. The average of three vehicles thefts a day remained mostly steady during 71 days of lockdown from March 22 to May 31 and 10 days lockdown from July 26 to August 4. According to police data, thieves made off with stole goods worth Rs 3.1 crore — the bulk of it, Rs 2.1 crore, in burglaries. The actual booty could be much higher since in some cases, the victims disclose less than what was stolen, a police source said. In the same period, vehicles worth around Rs 2.4 crore were stolen from the city streets in eight months. Recovery of stolen goods by police was around 17%. In vehicle thefts, recovery was better at 38%, thanks to the Vehicle Detection Portal (VDP) initiative of the police. In loot cases, the recovery rate was 35% while in chain snatching cases it was 65%. DIG Irshad Wali said police were making serious efforts to improve recovery rate in theft and burglaries. “Habitual offenders and thieves caught in the past 10 years are being identified and tracked. Activities of many juvenile delinquents, who have now grown up, are being monitored on a daily basis, using criminal tracking techniques. Earlier, theft and burglary cases were being monitored at SHO or CSP level, but now more senior officers are monitoring them,” he said. He acknowledged that theft and burglaries are serious offences. “If any criminal trespasses a house and somebody wakes up, they could be killed. Police understand the gravity of these cases and are now monitoring them on a day to day basis. There are some flaws in the system but police are handling them with best efforts,” he said. Not surprisingly, a drop in burglaries, theft and vehicle theft was seen during the 81 days of lockdown as people were confined to their homes and police maintained constant vigil on roads. But as soon as ‘unlock’ started, thefts and house break-ins shot up. During complete lockdown in April, 46 thefts (including 20 burglaries) were reported and in May, this shot up to 75, perhaps a sign of desperation among criminals. As soon as ‘Unlock’ started in June, the figures started rising. In June, 157 thefts were reported — including 43 break-ins — and in July 184 (including 44 break-ins). In August, this rose to 197, including 67 burglaries. Only one loot case was reported in the city during lockdown in April and an attempted loot in May. However, in ‘Unlock’ seven each were reported in June and July. This month, six loot cases — including two chain snatching incidents in Govindpura and Awadhpuri in clear daylight —have already been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-skews-crime-pattern-murders-shoot-up-thefts-down/articleshow/78355008.cms||Sudeept Mishra
September 28, 2020||Pune||Housing societies allow doorstep-delivery with caution||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Several housing societies in the city had disallowed doorstep delivery to flats in an attempt to curb Covid-19 spread but some of them are gradually but cautiously lifting their restrictions keeping in mind the convenience of elderly and ailing residents. “My husband and I are seniors and we prefer to have the option of having grocery and other items delivered at home. Though our security guards have been helping us with heavy bags all these days, they are sometimes busy and we have to wait till they are free before we can bring our grocery home,” said 67-year-old Smita Dhule, a resident of Wanowrie. “We had stopped delivery guys from entering the society premises, but they could hand over parcels to residents at the gate. The security guards too would take it and keep it in a room where the residents could come and pick it up. We have many cancer patients and elders in the society. Some of them have had strokes, heart problems and are highly susceptible to Covid-19. We wanted to do everything we could to ensure their safety. Now we have started allowing delivery guys to go up to the flats,” said a member of the managing committee of a housing society in the NIBM area. “Though we have relaxed the rules of allowing entry to people in our society, we are still checking and logging their temperatures. We encourage them to use the sanitizer placed outside the lift before pressing the buttons,” said the chairman of another society in Kondhwa. Delivery agent Parag Mohite said, “We have to go to multiples places where we come in contact with several different people. We have to be extra careful because we don’t want to infect our family members. We avoid physical contact and use the company-provided sanitizer. Face masks are mandatory for us at all times while on the job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-allow-delivery-guys-but-with-caution/articleshow/78354277.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Man faints three times in a day, Covid-19 makes heart skip a beat||PUNE: When 58-year-old Sujit fainted at home while watching TV, his family rushed him to a physician. At the doctor's, while waiting for his turn, he would go on to lose consciousness two more times. Doctors promptly sent him to the hospital's emergency ward. The health reports were normal: Sujit had never had a heart attack in his life. After some inquiry, he finally revealed a fever of 101°F that had lasted for a day and subsided after he popped some paracetamol. He was feeling better all through the following week, until the fainting spells. After an investigation, doctors diagnosed him with viral myocarditis - a rare condition that causes inflammation in the middle layer of the heart's wall. Experts said that in turn, affects the heart muscle and its 'electrical systems', causing a dip in its ability to pump and rapid or abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias). Importantly, Sujit was also found to be positive for Covid-19. Doctors have now highlighted his case and urged people not to hide a fever or self-medicate especially if one's a resident of an area that has registered a high number of Covid cases. "If you live in or around areas that have had a rise in Covid-19 cases, get yourself tested, and treated," said Columbia Asia hospital's Mahesh Lakhe. Lakhe is an infectious diseases expert and the doctor who treated Sujit, who has now been fitted with a pacemaker. Had his treatment started at the right time, without a week's delay, Lakhe said Sujit's heart muscles could have been saved. "This is very important because the Sars-CoV-2 virus may cause permanent damage to the heart. The long pauses of sinoatrial nodes can cause glitches in the heart's electrical system. This is very risky because it can lead to syncopal (fainting) attacks," Lakhe said. The sinoatrial node (SA node) is a specialized myocardial structure that initiates electrical impulses to stimulate contraction. Senior cardiologist Mohsin Wali said, "The most harmful feature of this virus is that it is uncertain. The virus either increases heartbeat or decreases it, even if there is no fever. Patients need to be aware of their normal heart rate and if there are shifts, they should inform a doctor." Wali had presented his views on the matter during a recent webinar organised by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM). "The first symptom of this disease is that there's no symptom. Some people I noticed would tire easily. At such a stage, if we are alert, we can avert serious damages," Wali said. In young, working professionals doctors noticed changes in chest scan results, even after negative Covid tests a day before. "It is important that patients reach out to doctors immediately if there are any symptoms. If you start to feel slowness or exhaustion, get in touch with a specialist immediately," Wali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-faints-three-times-in-a-day-covid-19-makes-his-heart-skip-a-beat/articleshow/78354276.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Suspended ex-Mahoba SP, others to undergo Narco test||LUCKNOW: The Mahoba police has started preparations for Narco analysis of suspended IPS officer Manilal Patidar and others as recommended by forensic experts in the crusher dealer Indrakant Tripathi murder case. Besides Patidar, FSL has recommended the Narco test of suspended inspector Devesh Shukla, trader Suresh Soni, Brahma Dutt and others. The test has been recommended by medico-legal experts from the state forensic department. Police have sought recorded statements of eye-witnesses and accused from the SIT to finalise questions to be asked during Narco analysis. An officer said police were waiting for Patidar to recover from Covid-19 as the Narco test can be conducted only after that. The recommendation also includes voice sampling and tests of videos and audios posted by Tripathi and audios leaked later on Whatsapp. A report prepared by the ballistic unit of Agra will be part of the probe. Mahoba police will also visit the hotel at Chhatarpur where Tripathi had stayed . An officer privy to the probe said cases registered by Patidar against Tripathi, including a notice issued on August 30 and a video showing that Tripathi was involved in gambling activities, would also be investigated. SP Mahoba, Arun Srivastava said all the facts traced by SIT and recommendations would be considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suspended-ex-mahoba-sp-others-to-undergo-narco-test/articleshow/78355022.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctor says two colleagues molested her, both booked||PUNE: The Shivajinagar police on Sunday filed a case against two doctors after a 25-year-old woman doctor lodged an FIR accusing them of repeatedly approaching and touching her inappropriately in the doctors’ room, and demanding sexual favours from her between September 21 and 25. All three are working at the College of Engineering Pune jumbo facility. The complainant, and the two doctors facing the accusation are part of a medical team from Mumbai working at the facility since the last one month. She has alleged that the duo would pass sexually coloured remarks at her, the police said. A senior police officer told TOI, “The woman doctor raised her voice and told everyone at the jumbo facility that she was going to the police station for lodging an FIR. She also discussed the matter with some management staff. However, with her announcement, the two doctors ran away from the facility. We are now searching for them and have sought their details from the management, besides, the CCTV footage of the facility.” According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, who are coordinating the jumbo facility, no such complaint was received by the civic administration. "Police officials will carry out an enquiry. After the complaint with the police was registered, we have cross-verified whether any such complaint was given to the PMC pertaining to this issue. But our record shows that no such issue was raised with us. Senior PMC officials are present at the jumbo facility most of the time and they have not come cross any such objection from the doctor," Rajendra Muthe, a senior PMC official looking after the jumbo facility, said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-look-for-2-docs-after-colleague-files-fir-over-molestation/articleshow/78354282.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh in worst 10 states in tests, but positivity rate still high||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh is among 10 states where more than one lakh and less than two lakh positive cases have been reported so far. And among those 10 states, Madhya Pradesh is still worse in terms of tests per million done. However, when it comes to positivity rate — which is on the rise in the state — it is still better than 5 of the 10 states and is one the sixth position. Though it is considered that positivity rate — the number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested — is low if more tests are conducted but in Madhya Pradesh, despite the fact that the there has been slight increase in testing during the month of September, there has also been an increase in positivity rate. However despite the increasing positivity rate and low test per million, number of tests done per day in MP is still below 25000 mark. Since March 20 when the first Covid-19 patient was found in the state, a total of 1952747 tests have been done in Madhya Pradesh as on September 26. If the overall average of those 191 days between March 20 and September 26 is considered then statistically, only around 10,233 tests have been done per day in state. As on September 26, only 22973 tests per million were done in the state, which was lowest among the 10 states which have reported more than 1 lakh and less than 2 cases of Covid-19. The overall positivity rate in the state has also increased: It was only 4.6% as on August 31. Now on September 26, it was above 6%. If the positivity rate of only the month of September is considered then it is around 8% in the state which is considerably higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-in-worst-10-states-in-tests-but-positivity-rate-still-high/articleshow/78355024.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bicyclists set wheel of change in motion||AHMEDABAD: The Cycle4Change rally, a citizen-driven initiative demanding better bicycle tracks and safe and regulated infrastructure in Ahmedabad, took off on Sunday with many participants actively getting involved in the campaign. A survey of 1,333 bicyclists was undertaken in which 55% of the respondents said that they cycled for health reasons. Of them, 35% drove cars and 53% drove two-wheelers. When asked what they dread the most as bicyclists on Ahmedabad roads, 62% said accidents. What worried 49% of the respondents was the growing traffic congestion. When asked about their riding experience on bicycle tracks, 40% said they feared that their pedals will hit the kerbs of the existing bicycle tracks and preferred to move into the mixed-traffic lanes, which they found unsafe. In all, 32% of the respondents said that they pedalled up to 3km while 47% said they ride up to 5km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bicyclists-set-wheel-of-change-in-motion/articleshow/78354366.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Da Covid code: Museums curate virtual tours of collections||Museums around the world, shuttered over the past few months, are slowly reopening in other parts of the world. Many are pre-booking visitors and installing elaborate safety measures. Some are struggling to survive, others have closed. This interlude, though, has stretched their imaginations and practically every museum is putting on virtual exhibitions and events. British Museum, in partnership with Google Arts and Culture, has launched an immersive Museum of the World project, while Louvre has expanded virtual tours of its collections. In India, museums are not community hubs focused on visitor experience — they have so far been more like encyclopedias pinned to the wall. Making the digital transition and telling compelling stories naturally takes more effort. “Everything has come to a halt; our calendar of programmes and exhibitions has been put on hold. At the moment, everything is under construction,” said Roobina Karode, director and chief curator of Kiran Nadar Museum of Art. The museum has now put its third major exhibition, City Tales, online. In Karode’s view, a museum is all about the “flesh-and-blood encounter” with art. “An exhibition has to be an experience. As curators, we get immersed in space-making and creating ambience for the content. These possibilities don’t exist online, so we have to find ways to translate our material to that medium,” she added. National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) made a creditable effort to showcase its collection online. It did virtual exhibitions on Yoga Day, Mother’s Day and, most recently, on Abanindranath Tagore. “Art museums are about bringing people closer, but we are all forced to distance,” said Adwaita Gadanayak, its director-general. NGMA has started sessions with artists in their studios, explaining aspects of their technique to students across the country. Summer workshops titled Naimisha have been conducted online. The documentation of earlier exhibitions is basic, but it’s there. Gadanayak, a sculptor himself, keeps in touch with artists and focuses especially on indigenous ones who worry about their livelihood. “This long isolation has been mentally stressful for some, but it has also been creatively refreshing for other artists,” he said. The museum has temperature screening for staff and visitors and intends to install floor markers for social distancing when it reopens. Some museums are less prepared for the digital experience. National Science Centre has a clunky website where a pop-up banner promises to meet visitors soon and directs them to its Facebook page. It barely has any vivid content, apart from text and some grainy images of its exhibits. The museums run by Archaeological Survey of India do not have a digital presence either. National Museum, under its new CEO Raghavendra Singh, was undergoing a renewal even as the pandemic struck, said a museum official. Like most public museums in India, it possesses vast holdings, but only began focusing on visitor experience recently. Even if you spend just one minute with each piece in this museum, it will take you three years, nine months and 23 days to go through it all. Objects were so far arranged by period or region, rather than telling a story, contextualising the object or sparking the viewer’s curiosity. Only a fraction of the museum’s collections had been on display, the rest were in storage. “We used this opportunity to go headlong into rethinking our galleries of civilisation, sculpture and painting. The top floor will become a Buddha gallery and include all kinds of artefacts from across India, central Asia, etc, to be seen for the first time,” said Singh. A new virtual gallery on Ajanta art will be unveiled soon, among nine others. The museum is doubling the size and capacity of its conservation lab, and visitors will be able to observe these processes first hand as they browse paintings, textiles and sculptures. The old reception area will be made into an orientation hall where the museum’s new attractions will be pointed out. An app highlighting important pieces has also been launched, featuring 3D images of each object. The layout is also being refreshed, with a new path for visitor flow and exit, flanked by a souvenir shop and a cafe on the lines of Craft Museum’s popular restaurant. “It was not a big deal to make digital galleries, since we were already identifying objects to be strung into storylines,” Singh said. The painting gallery will be exponentially expanded, with focus on so-called “Company paintings” from before 1857 offering a glimpse of the richness of the period. A new manuscripts gallery, fitted with digital storytelling devices, will also be opened. Now, you can catch a virtual exhibition from anywhere in the world. What museums lose in terms of physical footfall, they more than make up for it through online traffic. “We had 5,000 people attend the first session of our ‘Revelations’ discussion series with Neelima Sheikh discussing her versatile use of space,” said Karode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/da-covid-code-museums-curate-virtual-tours-of-collections/articleshow/78354321.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizman hit by lorry on NH dies||Hyderabad: A 68-year-old businessman was killed in a road accident after a lorry hit his two-wheeler on Sunday. The deceased, Dindu Vijay Kumar, from Vinayakanagar was proceeding on his two-wheeler on Hayathnagar National Highway-65 when a lorry hit him from behind. The victim sustained multiple injuries and died on the spot. A case was registered and the lorry driver was taken into custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-hit-by-lorry-on-nh-dies/articleshow/78354317.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Raskhan memorial in Mathura to get a makeover||LUCKNOW: People visiting the 17th century memorial of Sufi poet Raskhan in Mathura will not only get a chance to pay homage to the ardent devotee of Lord Krishna but will also spend some good time in the serene environs of the place as the state government is planning to revamp the monument. Besides renovation, an interpretation centre is being built and tourist amenities like food court and utility counter are being developed around it. The project also entails development of pathways and landscaping of the memorial located in Mathura-Vrindavan area. Funds to the tune of Rs 8.9 crore have been earmarked for various sub-projects. According to tour operators in the region, Raskhan Memorial is a popular site especially among foreigners. "The serenity of the place and the sentimental value of surrendering oneself to the supreme power bring many to the place," said Prateek Hira of the Tour Operators Association of India. The renovation project was discussed in detail during a review meeting of tourism development projects under the Braj region being implemented by the ‘Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad’. The board’s vice-chairman Shailja Kant Mishra was also present in the meeting wherein the progress of work under more than two dozen projects was reviewed. Sharing the update about the projects, tourism department officials said interpretation centre building was completed while the work of parking along it was in advanced stage. Landscaping and pathway construction work is in early stages but the vision and timelines are on track. Historians list Raskhan as a bright star of both Bhakti and Sufi traditions. While the true story behind the Pathan Ibrahim Khan turning into Raskhan remains shrouded in mystery, the plaque at his memorial reads: "Born in a Pathan family in Delhi, an exasperated Raskhan headed to Vrindavan after he lost a sense of purpose following violence unleashed by then Mughal ruler Humayun. He kept roaming in the lanes of Braj till he found solace in the feet of Goswami Vitthaldas." It further states that upon being initiated, Raskhan started dreaming about Lord Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/raskhan-memorial-to-get-a-makeover/articleshow/78355030.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||15k students from Telangana appear for JEE (Adv)||HYDERABAD: About 15,000 students from the state appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination JEE (Advanced) on Sunday. Faculty working in various colleges in the state said that about 30% of the registered candidates might have skipped the exam. “Most of the students who are placed at the bottom of the table might have skipped the test today. They are not serious JEE aspirants and generally every year, the number is more or less the same,” said Ashok Kumar, IIT coordinator, Narayana Group of Institutions. The faculty said that even those students who have already secured seats in deemed or private universities or those belonging to the non-reserved category, whose chances of securing a seat in IIT are less, might have also skipped the exam. This year, both JEE (Advanced) and JEE (Main) in September were conducted amid stringent rules due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While 2.45 lakh candidates qualified for the JEE (Advanced), only 1.6 lakh registered for the examination, which was held on September 27. Of the 1.6 lakh candidates, close to 40,000 are from IIT Madras zone, which also includes Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are done through JEE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15k-students-from-t-appear-for-jee-adv/articleshow/78354342.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Less footfalls at diagnostic centre amid Covid infection scare||Nagpur: With major hospitals giving priority to Covid-19 patients, diagnosis for other ailments has taken a hit. The fact that now all types of patients are being treated and examined everywhere, patients are reluctant to visit big hospitals and even diagnostic centres unless there is an emergency. Numbers are falling despite the state government’s cap on CT-scan while people are also not going for X-rays, MRI, ECG and EEG. Recently, a woman from East Nagpur suffered breathlessness and underwent an ECG and other blood tests which were normal. A second opinion by doctor suggested her MRI of cervical spine. However, she is now reluctant to visit any of the radiologists fearing infection from Covid-19 patients getting investigated there. Left with no choice, she has postponed the MRI till situation improves. A leading diagnostic center in Ramdaspeth said, “MRI and CT scan is done separately. Covid-19 patients are visiting for CT scan but we sanitize the place after tests. Hence, it is safe for non-Covid patients too.” Dr Sudhir Soni, a well-known orthopaedic surgeon, says, “Though our OPD is open. We are asking the patients to go for Covid-19 tests before surgery. Elective surgeries are being postponed while those in emergency are only being done. As all hospitals are looking after Covid-19 patients, inflow of non-Covid patients is less.” ENT surgeon Dr Naresh Agrawal said, “It is true that other diagnosis has taken a back seat as doctors are busy treating Covid-19 patients. The other side is that patients themselves are avoiding visiting hospitals even if there are no Covid patients.” However, National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) working president Habib Khan said at big hospitals like Central Railway, diagnosis of non-Covid patients have taken a hit due to shifting of doctors and nursing staff to treat Covid-19 patients at government hospitals. “At least 650 patients daily visit Central Railway hospital. There is no guarantee all will get treatment,” Khan said. Manoj Band of Pulak Manch Pariwar said, “As a heart hospital in Dhantoli turned into Covid-19 hospital, we had to admit an emergency patient to other hospital.” Consulting radiologist Dr MA Biviji said he is dealing with both – Covid and non-Covid – patients at his centre. “We have set up a green channel for Covid patients wherein all measures are taken to ensure safety for staff and non-Covid patients need not worry. We encourage positive patients to come by appointment and with prescription so that staff is ready and a green channel is ready to avoid contamination. Non-Covid patients can come anytime but with a prescription as per government norms,” he said. Dr Biviji said of late there has been drastic fall in number of patients coming for diagnosis. “But I would attribute it to flattening of the pandemic curve. I feel we are past the peak,” he said. Another reason, he said, is patients from neighbouring states are unable to travel. “I am yet to see a patient who is fearful,” he said. GMCH officials said only their MRI scan is not functioning while several X-rays are done for both types of patients. “Some machines are exclusive for Covid patients. IGGMCH officials said diagnosis was affected for only one day due to technical reasons. But they agreed MRI and CT-Scan are being done for emergency cases only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-footfalls-at-diagnostic-centre-amid-covid-infection-scare/articleshow/78354318.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Adityapur gets new garbage dumping site||Jamshedpur: After two years of irregular garbage collection and dumping, the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration has allotted a 24-acre plot in Kandra’s Gopinathpur are to set up a waste dump. Located 15km away from the industrial town of Adityapur, the plot will serve as a garbage dump for waste generated from the 35 wards of Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC). Adityapur deputy mayor Amit Singh said, “We will acquire the land in about a week and transfer it to the corporation to set up a garbage dump site. By October, it will be operational.” He further said there are no human settlements in the vicinity of the site, which lies next to Tatanagar-Kandra highway. Singh expressed hope that apart from mitigating the problems of the residents, the site will help AMC improve its Swacch Bharat Mission rankings. Adityapur was 143rd in this year’s clean city rankings. “In the past two years, we often received two different sets of complaints. While residents rued irregular lifting of garbage, health workers often dump waste at random places exposing everyone to unhygienic conditions. These problems will be resolved now,” an AMC official said. A K Mishra of Ekta Vikas Manch, who gave several representations to the district administration, to find a solution to the waste disposal issue, said, “A dedicated site for dumping garbage was a long-pending demand and we expect some relief now.” AMC sources said with close to 2.75 lakh population, the command area generates over 35,000 tonne of waste every day. “With 35 vehicles to ferry garbage and sufficient hands for door-to-door collection, the lifting of garbage was not an issue but the dumping was a problem,” the AMC official said, adding that over the past two years, different sites were identified but could not set up the dump site after protests from residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/adityapur-gets-new-garbage-dumping-site/articleshow/78354331.cms||B Sridhar
September 28, 2020||Goa||Mounds of uncleared entangled garbage getting buried in sand||COLVA: The situation triggered by uncleared waste along the Salcete beach belt is worsening as mounds of non-biodegradable garbage collected by the government-appointed Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC) have started getting buried in the sand. TOI has been persistently highlighting that waste is not being cleared from beaches. After collection, it is merely dumped at the foot of the sand dunes or amid the vegetation. The waste that lies strewn on the beaches comprises cement bags used for fortifying shacks, cloth, wood, plastic and other items that get entangled in nets and ropes that wash ashore during the monsoon due to tidal movements. Collected waste has been lying uncleared for more than a fortnight now. TOI had last highlighted this issue on August 30. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said the problem with such garbage is its disposal. “The Saligao garbage treatment plant does not accept this waste, so we have to tie up with local bodies or agencies to dispose it,” he said. When asked whether action would be initiated against KCIC for not clearing the waste, D’Souza said, “The only action we can initiate is to not pay them for the day.” When informed that waste has been lying for days on the shore and getting buried in the sand, the tourism director asked TOI to send him pictures. The same pictures were sent to tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, who said he would initiate an enquiry. KCIC officials did not respond to calls or text messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mounds-of-uncleared-entangled-garbage-getting-buried-in-sand/articleshow/78354346.cms||Nisser Dias
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for cricket betting||Hyderabad: The west zone task force nabbed a cricket betting organizer, Madduri Sudhakar, from Borabanda for collecting the betting amount from punters for ongoing IPL match. According to police, Sudhakar has been organizing Cricket betting for the past nine months and handling nearly 15 to 20 punters in the twin cities. Police seized net cash of Rs 13,000 and other material from his possession. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-cricket-betting/articleshow/78354340.cms||---
September 28, 2020||India||Opposition parties hail Akalis’ NDA exit, Congress not enthused||Led by NCP chief Sharad Pawar, several opposition members on Sunday hailed SAD for quitting NDA over the farm bills and thanked the Akalis for snapping their ties with BJP. In a tweet, Pawar congratulated SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal “who under the leadership of Hon Shri Parkash Singh Badal” pulled out of NDA. “Thanks for firmly standing with the Farmers!” the NCP chief said. NCP’s ally in the Maharashtra government, Shiv Sena, too, “appreciated” SAD’s decision to quit NDA in the interest of farmers. Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said his party and SAD used to be the “strong pillars of NDA and without them I don’t consider the alliance as NDA any longer”. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’ Brien backed Badal and his party for their stand and tweeted that fighting for farmers ‘is part of Trinamool DNA’. Badal tweeted back thanking O’Brien and said TMC’s stand against the farm bills in Parliament is ‘well known’. Another opposition party, BJD, which had backed NDA on policies like demonetisation, triple talaq and CAA but opposed the farm bills in RS, said it respected SAD’s decision to walk out of NDA. RJD’s RS MP Manoj Jha said it was BJP’s “egoistic attitude” that forced its oldest ally, SAD, to part ways with NDA. However, while several opposition parties welcomed SAD’s move, Punjab PCC president Sunil Jakhar said the Akalis were “desperately” hoping for some rapprochement with BJP till the last minute but the senior ally ‘saw through their game’. “Fearing farmers’ wrath on the one hand and being equally scared of antagonising the Prime Minister on the other, Akalis were caught between a rock and a hard place and tried to do a balancing act,” the Punjab Congress chief said on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-parties-hail-akalis-nda-exit-congress-not-enthused/articleshow/78355570.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Agra||Agra: Families of those arrested threatening us, says father of 19-year-old Dalit rape survivor||AGRA: While a 19-year-old Dalit girl who had been allegedly raped by four dominant caste men battles for survival, her family said they have been receiving threats from the families of the accused. All four have been arrested by now. “There has been no improvement in her condition. Her doctors told us that she would get better treatment in Delhi. She needs surgery. We just want to see her make it,” her elder brother told TOI on Sunday. The family has not formally asked for a referral to Delhi, Dr Fakhrul Hoda, head of neurosurgery at the hospital where she is being treated said. “She remains unconscious and on life support … If her family wants to move her to Delhi, we will do that,” he added. She has been on the ventilator for 13 days now. Sadabad circle officer Brahma Singh told TOI that the chargesheet against the four — Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi — is being prepared. “The Forensic Science Laboratory report from Agra is awaited to confirm the rape charges. The survivor’s statement will be recorded before a magistrate, in keeping with Section 164(5A)(a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, after there is some improvement in her condition,” he said. She is paralysed, her arms partially so and her spinal cord severely injured. The families of the four men, meanwhile, have been threatening the girl’s family, her father said. “We told the police and additional forces have been deployed for our security,” he added. PAC forces had been deployed three days ago. The brutality of the crime has shaken the political establishment, meanwhile. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad reached Aligarh on Sunday to meet the survivor amid high security but was not allowed to since she was in the ICU. He saw her on video call and later told the media, “We want her to be referred to AIIMS in Delhi for better treatment … Women in the state are feeling unsafe under the Yogi government.” At the time of filing the report, an FIR was being registered against Chandrashekhar and 150 unidentified persons for violating prohibitory orders and Section 269 of IPC, along with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, while visiting her in hospital. BSP workers, too, have submitted a memorandum to chief minister Yogi Adityanath through district authorities demanding action against the accused. “They should be booked under the Gangster Act to end this atmosphere of fear. The family should be given Rs 50 lakh in compensation and action should be taken against police officers for not reacting on time,” the memorandum states. Rape charges had been added a week after the girl was hospitalised, when she gave her statement to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/families-of-those-arrested-threatening-us-says-father-of-19-yr-old-dalit-rape-survivor/articleshow/78351406.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civil hosp delivered babies of 62 Covid +ve women||Nashik: Amid the fear of Covid-19, when a large section of hospitals are turning away expecting mothers to take up maternal deliveries irrespective of whether the concerned women are infected with Covid 19 or not, the doctors, nurses and other medical and non-medical staff of the maternity department of Nashik civil hospital are putting in outstanding efforts to ensure safe maternal delivery of covid women and those with symptoms. Over the past five months, the maternity department of civil hospital has handled the deliveries, including c-section surgeries, of 62 pregnant women infected with the coronavirus. The doctors here also successfully treated and discharged two newborns who were found to have the infection. Nikhil Saindane, the additional civil surgeon of Nashik civil hospital, said: “A team of six gynaecologists in our maternity department has been working very hard over the past six months. When the pandemic broke out, we knew that as the cases increase, pregnant women infected with Covid-19 would also start arriving at the hospital. Therefore, we made separate arrangements for women who either had the infection or had the symptoms.” A 20-bed facility was set up with 10 beds reserved for Covid-positive women and 10 for women who have the symptoms, but their reports are awaited. The ward also had a labour room and a surgery room. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, this ward has had a total of 240 admissions, which also included Covid-19 symptomatic women. Women who were two or three months pregnant and had tested positive were kept in the same ward and discharged after treatment. Quite a few emergency C-section surgeries were also performed. If the Covid test reports suggested that the woman who underwent the c-section was positive, then the fumigation of the entire surgery ward was taken up. Saindane said that there was no death in the past five months of any pregnant woman arriving for delivery. However, in one case in May, an eight-month pregnant woman suffering from breathlessness and high blood pressure was rushed to the hospital. While she was initially taken to the labour room, as her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU). She died within two hours of admission to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civil-hosp-delivered-babies-of-62-covid-ve-women/articleshow/78352130.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli reports 4 Covid deaths; Amravati sees more recoveries||AMRAVATI: For third day on the trot, the district on Sunday posted more recoveries than new Covid cases to give a semblance of relief to the people who are fast coming to terms with the coronavirus. While 285 patients walked home recovered, 205 new cases occupied the beds for treatment on Sunday. The recovered patients took the tally of recovered patients past 10,000-mark to 10,033. The district’s recovery percentage was 79.10. The new cases took the caseload to 12,683, which included 274 deaths. Civil surgeon’s office reported six deaths again on Sunday. These included four males (aged 63, 52, 78 and 70) from city and two males (aged 50 and 68) from the rural belt of Adgaon Bujruk and Morshi. This left 2,376 under treatment, including 1,355 in Covid hospitals in the district, 12 under treatment in Nagpur and 1,009 placed in home isolation. The district has 11 Covid hospitals and six Covid health care centres. Their collective bed capacity including general, oxygen and ICU wards is 1,457. While 917 are abed at these centres, 543 beds are still vacant, a health department release said. Barring Daryapur and Morshi health care centres, patients are on bed at rest of the centres, the release said. YAVATMAL: The district witnessed three more Covid deaths on Sunday while 95 new cases were detected. The deceased include 58 year old man from the city, 55 year old man from Ghatanji and 55 year old woman from Arni. Of the 95 new patients detected on Sunday, 26 are women. At present there are 559 patients under treatment in the district, while 543 are in home isolation and 275 in the isolation wards of Yavatmal GMCH. As on date, 8,190 patients were detected in the district of which 6,838 have been discharged. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the Covid situation in the district through videoconferencing. He also assessed the government-sponsored ‘My family; my responsibility’ campaign under which nearly 43% households in the district have been covered. CHANDRAPUR: With the detection of 232 new cases on Sunday, Covid-19 patient count in the district climbed to 9,582. The day also recorded discharge of 149 patients, leading the total recoveries to 5,511. This has left 3,928 patients under treatment. The day witnessed a solitary death of 52-year-old person from Rampur in Rajura teshil and the toll has now reached 143. Newfound patients include 126 from Chandrapur and suburbs, Ballarpur 12, Chimur 3, Mul 8, Gondpipri 1, Korpana 9, Bramhapuri 12, Nagbhid 14, Warora 5, Bhadrawati 1, Saoli 12,. Rajura 19, along with five from Gadchiroli, three from Yavatmal, and one each from Wardha and neighbouring state Telangana. WARDHA: A 50-year-old man from Samudrapur, 65-year-old woman from Hinganghat and 69-year-old man from Ashti died due to coronavirus on Sunday. Moreover, 106 persons turned out to be Covid positive out of 520 reports and the caseload of the district reached 4,258. Also, 94 patients were discharged after they were cured of coronavirus on Sunday. With this, the total of cured patients has reached 2,200, while the Covid toll reached 115 after three more deaths were reported in the day. The number of patients undergoing treatment is 1,943. The new patients, 69 men and 37 women reported today, include 60 from Wardha, Hinganghat 16, Selu 12, Deoli 7, Arvi 5, Ashti 3, Samudrapur 2 and Karanja 1. BHANDARA: The district reported two Covid deaths and 277 new cases taking its toll to 103 and patient count to 4,950, respectively. The district’s patient recovery was quite low at 71 against the tally of new cases. On Sunday, the number of patients under treatment increased to 1,888. Till date, 2,959 persons have beaten Covid-19 in the district. The new cases are from Bhandara tehsil 151, Sakoli 24, Lakhandur 7, Tumsar 22, Mohadi 26, Paoni 26 and Lakhni 210. GONDIA: The district again reported over 200 new cases on Sunday and two deaths. With 263 new cases, the patient tally jumped to 6,430 and fatalities to 88. However, 186 patients were declared recovered in the day. The number of patients under treatment jumped to 2,083. Shrinagar 10, Ganeshnagar 9, Shiddhi Colony, Matatoli, Chhota Gondia 8 each, Ring Road 6, Taj Colony and Gaushala Ward (5 each) were among the areas that reported new cases. GADCHIROLI: Four Covid patients, including a 70-year-old suffering from hypertension , a 63-year-old woman, 50-year-old kidney patient, and 53-year-old SARI patient passed away on Sunday. With 95 new cases detected, the patient count has gone up to 2,514. The toll stands at 20 while 642 patients are under treatment. Moreover, 61 persons were discharged and sent home. BULDHANA: Out of 565 reports received from lab and rapid antigen testing centres, 398 were negative and 167 positive. The district didn’t report any death on Sunday. The results of 155 were confirmed through lab testing while 12 were positive in rapid test. Another 971 samples are pending. Positive cases have now reached 6,770, while 5,472 have recovered and 1,214 under treatment. The toll remains at 84. WASHIM: In the last 24 hours, 105 persons tested positive for Covid-19. Washim’s single-day recovery was more than new cases with 121 being discharged. It has 4,122 total cases, 3,335 discharged, 83 deaths and 703 under treatment. The number of patients under treatment dropped slightly from 719 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-reports-4-covid-deaths-amravati-sees-more-recoveries/articleshow/78354349.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||AICC general secretary to not shift to ‘family’ bungalow||LUCKNOW: AICC general secretary and UP incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will not shift to a traditional 'family' bungalow here as was speculated in the party circles earlier. She had last stayed in the 'family' bungalow, which was once owned by former Union minister Sheila Kaul, on October 2, 2019. After the Union government had cancelled allotment of her house in a posh New Delhi locality it was rumoured that she might shift to Lucknow and would stay in her 'family' bungalow here. The Gokhle Marg bungalow of Shiela Kaul, a relative of late prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, has been lying vacant after her death in 2015. Following the nomination of Priyanka as UP incharge it was stated that she would finally lead the party from Lucknow. The speculations gained ground when Priyanka had stayed there for a few days last year. She had visited the state capital to participate in a programme to commemorate Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary. The bungalow was also spruced up for her visits, but Priyanka did not visit this house after that. “Priyanka had no plan to settle in Lucknow. But whenever she would visit the city she would definitely stay in her 'family' bungalow as it offers her complete privacy and here she can interact with party workers freely,” divulged a family aide, who has been associated with the Gandhi family since decades. “But this does not mean that she is not taking interest in party affairs in the state. She is taking the BJP government head on and has adopted aggressive postures against it,” he added. In fact, under Priyanka's leadership the Congress has launched several movements against the UP government. Even during the lockdown Congress workers were on streets, challenging the Yogi government on various issues. Over a dozen times Priyanka, too, had addressed party workers via video conferencing, exhorting them to wage a decisive battle against the BJP government. On her call five AICC secretaries are looking after five constituencies, while in two other constituencies, her personal secretary Sandeep Singh and a family loyalist Kishori Lal Sharmaare camping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priyanka-not-to-shift-to-family-bungalow/articleshow/78355040.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Markaz to marghat, Muslims respond to hate with service||Nagpur: When even kin of a Covid deceased are wary, unhesitant workers of organizations like Jamiat-e-Ulema Hind (JUH) and Jamiat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) have been carrying out the last rites at the burning ghat (also known as marghat), irrespective of the religion. The two are perhaps the only bodies which are regularly offering funeral services, at least in the city. It’s part of a nationwide drive, which includes other services to the Covid-affected people. Blamed for spreading Covid, especially after the Nizamuddin Markaz incident, leaders of the Muslim bodies hope the efforts put in, especially for the last rites, will help in changing general perception about the community. The leaders maintained that it’s part of the social service these organizations have carried out even during earlier calamities. There is no other objective except service. However, subtle attempts can be seen to make their efforts visible. TOI came across messages on social media about how members of the very community that was targeted for spreading the disease are now risking their lives to carry out last rites of even non-Muslim Covid victims. Some messages also speak of Muslim doctors treating patients without safety gear. “We have carried out last rites of over 250 persons in Nagpur, which include non-Muslims too. If the deceased is a Hindu, we do everything till keeping the body on the pyre. The rest is done by the relatives,” said Javed Akhtar, JUH’s Nagpur district secretary. “One of the workers was also infected in the initial days. He is cured and back to work now,” said Akhtar. “In Kamptee town, out of the 60 funerals done, majority are of non-Muslims. Apart from the service to mankind, we also want to send across a message to hatemongers that they cannot damage the country’s secular fabric,” said Maulana Mumtaz Ahmad from Kamptee unit of JUH. In a video clip, a national leader of JIH is seen telling that its units across the country were directed to carry out the funeral services. “JUH, which is a century-old body of clerics, has two factions. One is led by Maulana Arshad Madni and other by Mehmood Madni. Workers of both the groups are rendering the service,” said Abdul Bari Patel, who heads the Nagpur unit of the latter. “Over a month ago, we had also sent a proposal to the NMC for offering services in mobilizing plasma donors. A reply is awaited. We had asked the civic body to share the list of eligible donors so that our workers can approach them and convince for plasma donation,” said Patel. “It has been learnt that people are reluctant to donate plasma. However, it can make a difference if they are approached by a social organization, instead of government officials,” he said. Patel said it is expected that their work would speak and eventually also change the people’s mindset about Muslims in general. Patel, who also heads Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh centres of Tablighi Jamat, said the recent judgment acquitting the Tablighis also comes as a relief. Nadeem Siddiqui, Maharashtra head of the JUH (Mehmood Madni faction), said the organization began its work since the lockdown by distributing ration kits. Later, even PPE kits were distributed to doctors. It’s being done all over the country. A report was also submitted to chief minister after he had sought details of the services done by various NGOs during the period. “We also hope that it helps in changing the perception. What happened after the Markaz incident had a temporary effect, although,” he said. Advocate Firdaus Mirza said the two organizations have rose to the occasion even earlier. “Even if earning goodwill is not their prime objective, at least now there should be a change of opinion about Muslims,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/markaz-to-marghat-muslims-respond-to-hate-with-service/articleshow/78354355.cms||Shishir Arya
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||BC community holds key to Dubbak bypoll outcome||Hyderabad: Voters from Backward Classes (BC) community hold the key for victory of any candidate from Dubbak assembly constituency. The Election Commission is likely to announce the by-poll for Dubbak on September 28. The by-election has been necessitated following the death of MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy of the ruling TRS. Although the sympathy factor is expected to play a major role in the outcome of the by-poll, aspirants from major political parties are trying to woo the voters by raising various issues. Of the nearly two lakh voters in the constituency, over 40,000 are from the Mudiraj community, another 30,000 comprise Golla Kurma and Yadavs and 30,000 from Goud, Munnur Kapu and Padmashali communities. Despite the constituency having over 60% BC voters, the electorate had elected a non-BC candidate in 2009, 2014 and 2018 Assembly elections. All the three candidates were from Reddy community with Congress winning the seat in 2009 and the TRS thereafter. A majority of the BC voters have been backing the ruling TRS since 2014. “It is not uncommon in Telangana that BC voters comprise more than 50% of the electorate in a constituency. On an average, every assembly segment has 50% BC voters, but they have been giving their votes to candidates of various communities from different parties. So, the argument that BC voters would back only a BC candidate does not hold good,” said M Raghunandan Rao of BJP, who has already covered 69 of 146 villages in the constituency as part of his campaigning. Though TRS, BJP, Congress and other political parties are yet to officially announce their candidates, the campaigning by the aspirants has picked up in the last 15 days. Finance minister T Harish Rao is spearheading the campaign for the ruling party with one of the family members of the late Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bc-community-holds-key-to-dubbak-bypoll-outcome/articleshow/78354350.cms||Roushan Ali
September 28, 2020||Nashik||10 DCHCs to come up in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district health department has decided to set up 10 more Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) across the district with 300 additional beds in areas where Covid-19 cases are rapidly spreading. Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said that coronavirus cases are increasing at a fast pace across the district. While there are sufficient Covid Care Centres to cater to the rising number of patients, there is a particular load on the DCHCs since patients with medium symptoms are increasing. Also, at times, such patients need oxygen support. According to Raokhande, currently there are 19 DCHCs in the district. The additional DCHCs would bring down the load on the Nashik civil hospital as well as other dedicated centres. In addition, the health department has arranged centralized oxygen system at all DCHCs. Officials of the health department said that due to the lack of sufficient beds at DCHCs in rural areas of the district, Covid-19 patients turn to the city for treatment, thereby adding to the load at the Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) based in the city. With the availability of the DCHCs at taluka levels, the concerned patients will not have to travel all the way to the city for seeking treatment. Instead, they can directly approach the DCHC set up at their respective talukas for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-dchcs-to-come-up-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78352142.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 28, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur woman professor gets Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for cancer research||KANPUR: Prof Bushra Ateeq, assistant professor in the department of biological sciences and bioengineering (BSBE) at Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, has been selected for the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science & Technology, 2020, in the Medical Sciences category. IIT Kanpur director, Prof Abhay Karandikar congratulated Dr Bushra. “It gives great pleasure to IIT-K that Dr Bushra Ateeq has been chosen for the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science & Technology 2020 in the category of Medical Sciences. You have made us proud,” said Karandikar. She was also congratulated by her colleagues, students and other IIT staff. Prof Bushra, who joined IIT-Kanpur in 2013, has been doing research on cancer. The award is named after the founder Director of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) India, the late Dr Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar. The prize is given each year for outstanding contributions in science and technology. Prof Bushra is among 12 scientists to be honoured. The award was announced on September 26, the foundation day of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). Her primary research focus is to understand the complex molecular events involved in prostate and breast cancer progression, identify early diagnostic markers and valuable therapeutic targets. Dr Bushra said, she feels humbled and honoured. “I am extremely thankful to IIT, Kanpur for the supportive environment,” she said. IIT-K sources further informed that Dr. Bushra Ateeq had also been chosen for the CNR Rao Faculty Award 2018 for her work in establishing the role of specific microRNAs in regulating the levels of SPINK1, a protein found in elevated levels in prostate cancer patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-woman-prof-gets-shanti-swarup-bhatnagar-prize-for-cancer-research/articleshow/78355048.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Former state Congress chief Ajoy Kumar rejoins party||RANCHI: Former Jharkhand Congress chief Ajoy Kumar, who joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal months before the state assembly election last year, returned to the party , a statement issued by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) said on Sunday. The party’s verified Twitter handle posted a statement signed by AICC general secretary K C Venugopal which mentioned Ajoy’s return was approved by party president Sonia Gandhi. In a tweet, Kumar, who was also the AICC’s national spokesperson before being appointed Jharkhand Congress chief in 2018, said, “Amid health, farmers, unemployment and economic crisis, it is Shri @RahulGandhi & Smt. Sonia Gandhi who have been steadfast in their support for the people and idea of India. I really admire this tenacity and they have inspired me to come back to @INCIndia again.” In another tweet, he said, “...Driven by my conscience to speak up against injustice & institutional capture, I’ve been inspired by Shri @RahulGandhi & decided to come back to @INCIndia.” Kumar’s “homecoming” triggered speculations whether he will be deployed in Jharkhand for organisational work, but the Grand Old Party’s camp in Ranchi remained tight-lipped on the matter. Kumar had resigned from the post of Jharkhand Congress president on August 9 last year, days after he was met with high-pitched protests from a section of party functionaries who are loyal to party veteran Subodh Kant Sahay. In his letter, he had blamed a section of senior functionaries, including the current state chief Rameshwar Oraon, for working in their self-interests and not being dedicated to the cause of organisation building ahead of the assembly polls. It was under Kumar’s stewardship that the Congress had sealed a seat-sharing pact with JMM and the erstwhile JVM(P) for the Lok Sabha polls. In the run-up to his resignation, Kumar also had a fallout with AICC’s Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh. Kumar is an ex-IPS officer and was posted as SP of East Singhbhum district between 1994 and 1996. He had also served as SP Patna in Bihar. His entry into politics was through a JVM(P) ticket in the 2011 Jamshedpur Lok Sabha bypoll. Later he quit JVM(P) and joined Congress as its state president. He left Congress and joined AAP on November 9 ahead of the Delhi polls, but was not fielded as a candidate. Oraon could not be reached for a comment on Ajoy’s return, but an office-bearer said, “We welcome him back, but its not known whether he will return to Jharkhand.” (With inputs from Debasish Chatterjee in Jamshedpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-state-cong-chief-ajoy-kumar-rejoins-party/articleshow/78354348.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nashik||CM Uddhav Thackery inaugurates MTDC resort in Nashik||NASHIK: Chief minister Uddhav Thackery virtually inaugurated the MTDC resort Grape Park in Nashik along with MTDC residency project in Navi Mumbai’s Kharghar on Sunday afternoon. During the inauguration, Thackeray said that like many other districts, Nashik, too, has a huge potential in the tourism sector. He addressed a small gathering after the inauguration. The chief minister said that state, including Nashik, is blessed with different forts, ancient temples and abundant tourism spots. Praising the MTDC’s state-of-the-art Grape Park resort, Thackeray said that we need to give fillip to the hospitality sector to boost tourism and the MTDC resort in Nashik and residency projects at Kharghar are a step towards the purpose. “We want development in the state, but not at the cost of nature. We should ensure that we pave way for development without hampering nature and environment. We should preserve whatever we have while, at the same time, taking a step towards betterment,” the CM said. Thackeray also told the district guardian minister and the state minister for civic food supplies Chhagan Bhujbal that he should make the boat club project in Nashik in such a way that it would attract more tourists and boost the tourism sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/thackeray-inaugurates-mtdc-resort-in-nashik/articleshow/78352152.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Young techie couple, set to marry next year, killed in New Town accident||KOLKATA: A young techie couple returning home on a scooter after Puja shopping and dinner at a Sector V restaurant was run over by a truck near Biswa Bangla Gate in New Town on Saturday night. The incident happened beside a subway construction site that has eaten up half of the road space. The two were killed when a truck had hit them from behind while overtaking and they rammed against an iron guard wall. By the time the two were taken to a government hospital around 9 km away in Salt Lake, they were declared dead. Helmets strapped on, none had any major external injuries. Doctors said both succumbed to internal haemorrhage. Baranagar resident Deepayan Mukherjee (29) was a senior executive in the infrastructure management department of Cognizant while his fiancée Medha Pal (27), a resident of Birati, was associated with another tech firm in Bangalore. She had returned home post lockdown and was working from home. They were set to marry in August next year. Deepayan, also a professional cricketer, had played first and second division cricket and was the current captain of Baranagar sporting club and his office team. Police said the accident happened around 9.30pm, shortly after the no-entry restrictions for goods vehicles were lifted. “It seems the couple had tried to overtake a vehicle from right at a high speed. But since the road has become very narrow because of the barricading, they could not cross over and had to slow down when another vehicle hit them from behind. When our officers found them, they were unconscious and the helmets were found beside them. But there were no major visible injuries. We rushed them to the nearest government hospital in a police ambulance, where they were declared dead on arrival,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the deputy commissioner (traffic) of Bidhannagar city police. Some witnesses – mostly labourers at the construction site – however, told TOI that the couple was not speeding and a truck carrying construction materials driving rashly hit them. “The two were flung off their vehicle and we even tried to fetch water for them. But by the time cops came they were unconscious,” said a labourer. Cops added they are scanning the CCTV footage for further clarity. Family members of the victims are upset with the fact that the two were taken to a government hospital in Salt Lake rather than a private hospital in New Town less than a km away. “There was no delay in emergency medical response. Our traffic ambulance from the Biswa Bangla Gate crossing rushed the couple to the Salt Lake hospital within minutes. But they were declared dead by an attending doctor,” said another senior officer of the commissionerate. Family members said Deepayan (29), the only child of his parents, had lost his father when he was 13 and was brought up by his mother Mukti. Medha (27), a resident of Nilgunj in Birati, was also the only child of her parents Nabin and Sonali. “Medha had called me around 8.30pm and said she would have dinner outside with Deepayan and will be a bit late. Two hours later, a stranger called from her mobile and said she had met with an accident,” said Sonali. “The duo was to get married on August next year. Like every weekend, they had met on Saturday, did some puja shopping and were coming back home after dinner. Both were very bright and I can’t believe they died such a tragic death,” said Kabindranath Banerjee, Mukherjee’s cricket coach and family friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/young-techie-couple-set-to-marry-next-year-killed-in-new-town-accident/articleshow/78355074.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 28, 2020||Agra||Agra metro casting yard to be developed in Etmadpur||AGRA: The first casting yard of the Agra metro rail project will be developed in Etmadpur block under Sadar sub-division. Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) will take five hectares of land from the Agra Development Authority (ADA) for four years to set up the casting yard. On Sunday morning, the additional chief secretary of the state government Awanish Kumar Awasthi inspected the land for the casting yard. He directed officials to increase the pace of work related to the Agra Metro Rail Project. Additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) Yogendra Kumar said, “A piece of land has been identified in Etmadpur block for the development of the Agra metro casting yard. The work for setting up the facility will start next month.” “The first metro depot will be developed at the PAC ground on the Fatehabad Road. The PAC ground will be shifted near the Inner Ring road. For this, required piece of land is being identified,” he added. According to the Agra Development Authority (ADA) officials, the Metro rail project is estimated to cost Rs 8,379 crore. It will prove to be a major boost to the urban public transport connectivity in Agra. Implementation of the metro rail system will result in less vehicular traffic and better movement on the roads leading to reduction in congestion, travel time, cost of journey and pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-metro-casting-yard-to-be-developed-in-etmadpur/articleshow/78351425.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee’s Irani gang behind 25 offences across state, MP||Nagpur: Around 25 offences registered in different districts of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were detected by crime branch after the arrest of seven members of ‘Irani gang’ who posed as cops or Good Samaritan to dupe people. Police have recovered stolen valuables worth more than Rs five lakh from the gang based in Kamptee. The gang members were rounded up from Maharashtra-Karnataka border. Cops got their clue after two gang members robbed a woman near Dahi bazaar bridge on the pretext of shielding her from robbers. Apart from city, the gang has robbed people in Pune, Dhule, Satara, Malegaon, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Kolhapur in Maharashtra and two places in Madhya Pradesh too. Under supervision of senior inspector Trupti Sonawane, sub-inspector Hemant Thorat’s team comprising constables Dayashankar Bisandre, Manjeet Singh, Santosh Thakur and others arrested the gang members from different places. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, Jt CP Nilesh Bharne, DCP Gajanan Rajmane and ACP Sudhir Nandanvar are supervising the investigation as more offences are likely to come to fore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptees-irani-gang-behind-25-offences-across-state-mp/articleshow/78354356.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Campaign run for BC candidate||Hyderabad: National BC Welfare Association president R Krishnaiah said as many as 12 BC welfare associations and its members would campaign for the victory of any political party which fields a BC candidate. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/campaign-run-for-bc-candidate/articleshow/78354357.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Intensify contact tracing, keep Covid death rate under 1%: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Escalating measures to control the spread of coronavirus in the state, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday pitched for intensifying surveillance and contact tracing to keep positivity rate under 5% and death rate below 1%. Presiding over a review meeting with the nodal officers and specialist doctors from 16 districts, including Lucknow, where case burden has been more than 100 per day, the CM directed the nodal officers to submit their daily report to his office. The CM’s instructions came two days after his video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who called for adequate measures to be put in place in battle against the contagious virus which has already claimed over 5,500 lives in the state since coronavirus outbreak in March this year. “A strategy should be chalked out in consultation with the DMs, CMOs and senior officials of the health and medical education,” the CM said. Stressing on the importance of testing of high-risk groups, he said combined measures were the only way to keep Covid-19 death rate under check. “Testing should be precisely focussed and one-third of the testing should be done through Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) while the remaining may be done through Rapid Antigen method,” he said, adding that focussed testing was low in Lucknow and should be increased. The CM sought activation of rapid response teams through Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCC) in every district. The centres have been at the core of the state government’s strategy to check caseload. Yogi said the DMs and CMOs should hold morning meetings at Covid hospitals while evening meeting should be held at ICCC. The CM stressed on creation of micro containment zones with areas being reduced and more compact than the containment zones made earlier. “Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD) jawans, NCC cadets and social workers should be involved in the task. Districts where case fatality rate (CFR) is more than one, contact tracing and surveillance should be made more aggressive,” he added. Yogi said the hospitals should be equipped with all facilities including oxygen and ventilators. “Mass awareness drive should be accelerated through the public address system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/intensify-contact-tracing-keep-covid-death-rate-under-1-cm/articleshow/78355065.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Labour shortage eases as migrant workers return||Nagpur: Acute labour shortage in the city during the summer is a thing of past as a large number of migrant workers have returned from their native villages. Their migration had badly hit the construction and industrial sectors. MahaMetro director project Mahesh Kumar said the number of workers employed by Nagpur Metro contractors was over 5,000 in December 2019. “By March this year, just before the lockdown, the number reduced to 2,800 as workers went for the rabi harvest. When the trains started during lockdown, the number dropped to 1,200. Now around 4,700 labourers are working on the project and we are not facing labour shortage anymore,” he told TOI. Abhijit Jichkar, project officer of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said things are manageable now. “The labour shortage is not as bad as summer. Our contractors have managed to source workers from here and there,” he said. C Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association (MIA), Hingna, said many migrant labourers have returned to the city even though many still are in their native villages. “Many skilled labourers, who can get work near their villages, have not returned but still industries are not facing much of a workforce shortage,” he added. Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), said the number of labourers is expected to reach pre-lockdown levels by October-end. “Right now, the number of Covid cases is very high in Nagpur and this is a deterrent for many. However, things seem to be improving and this will encourage people to come back. Secondly, industries have also not called back their workforce because of lack of demand or problems in sourcing raw material. When the industrial scenario improves, owners will ask their workers to return,” he further said. Workers had gone back as most employers had stopped paying them wages during the lockdown. The national lockdown was enforced in mid-March. While many workers got wages for March, they did not get a single penny for April. Some agencies like MahaMetro asked the contractors to provide them food, but, in most cases, the workers were left high and dry. Consequently, when the trains started in May, thousands of workers went home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/labour-shortage-eases-as-migrant-workers-return/articleshow/78354429.cms||Ashish Roy
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||First level warning for Prakasam Barrage issued||Vijayawada: With incessant rains in the Krishna catchment area, water level at Prakasam Barrage rose on Sunday. The irrigation department issued the first level warning at the barrage and warned the district administration about huge flood likely to come from Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects. As Rayalaseema region received heavy rain on Friday, the authorities diverted excess water from Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar projects to Prakasam Barrage. With heavy rain in Khammam in Telangana, Munneru rivulet also received huge inflow. All the 70 gates at Prakasam barrage were lifted and around 4.5 lakh cusecs of water was released into the Bay of Bengal. The revenue department has shifted people from the villages on the river bund in the downstream of Prakasam Barrage. Police deployed barriers at river bunds to prevent cattle and people from venturing into the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-level-warning-for-prakasam-barrage-issued/articleshow/78354389.cms||Venu Lanka
September 28, 2020||Agra||Agra: SNMC to purchase 600 oxygen cylinders to meet Covid patients’ needs||AGRA: Following shortage of oxygen to treat critical Covid-19 patients, the SN Medical College administration is going to purchase 600 oxygen cylinders. These will be used in the Emergency, Medicine, Surgery and Pediatrics departments. The hospital has also sent a demand to the state government to set up two Oxygen generators. With all its ICU beds occupied by Covid patients, the demand for oxygen has doubled at SNMC over the last week. The 6,000 kilolitre oxygen tank, which earlier needed to be filled once in two days, is now filled every day. Also, the process to replace it with a 11,000 kilolitre tank has been initiated. With the existing 22 mm supply pipeline failing to deliver the required amount of oxygen, the hospital has sent a proposal for a 44 mm supply pipeline to the state government, following complaints from doctors. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “The size of the existing liquid oxygen supply pipeline is small and is affecting Covid patients in the ICU. A proposal has been sent to the state government to set up a larger pipeline to ensure high oxygen flow. We hope these measures will resolve the issue of insufficient oxygen supply to Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-to-purchase-600-oxygen-cylinders-to-meet-covid-patients-needs/articleshow/78351453.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||BJP leader Uma Bharti carries on with journey to Badrinath after visit to Kedarnath despite being told she could be Covid-positive by authorities||Dehradun: Former Union cabinet minister, Uma Bharti, who visited Badrinath temple on Thursday, was found Covid-positive late on Saturday. Last week, on Monday, the former minister had come in contact with state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat who accompanied her to Kedarnath. Subsequently, on Wednesday, Rawat tested Covid-positive and as per protocol, those who had come in contact with him were advised to take precautions and self-isolate. Sources said that Bharti, too, was advised by doctors not to travel for a few days as she had come in contact with a Covid-positive person but she nevertheless continued her Badrinath journey where she also met several people, priests and officials of the shrine included. Chief medical officer of Rudraprayag, Dr BP Shukla told TOI that Bharti had called a team to get herself and her associates tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday, soon after she learnt about the positive status of Dhan Singh Rawat. “She underwent a TrueNAT test which turned out to be negative, We nevertheless advised her that she should be in isolation as she had come in contact with an infected person,” he added. However, she continued with her planned itinerary and reached Badrinath on Thursday where she met the priests of the shrine as well as officials, including Badri-Kedar Temple Committee CEO, BD Singh. Photographs taken during the visit show that social distancing norms were barely followed. On Friday, after she returned to Rishikesh from Badrinath, Bharti underwent an RT-PCR test which confirmed her Covid-positive status. In a Tweet on Saturday soon after her Covid test results came, Bharti said that after reaching Rishikesh, she urged the district administration to send a team to test her as she had been running slight fever for three days. “While in the Himalayas, I followed all protocols and social distancing but still turned out to be Covid-positive,” she tweeted. Chief medical officer of Chamoli, Dr GS Rana told TOI that contact tracing of Bharti had been done. “All the priests, security personnel and administrative staff who came in contact with her will be tested on Monday,” he added. Meanwhile, in a series of tweets, Bharti said that she had gone into isolation at an ashram situated between Haridwar and Rishikesh. She added that there were some reports being circulated that she had got infected after coming in contact with some seers in the Himalayas. “I deny all such reports. My driver had in fact got infected with the virus but he was himself unaware about it. After his test, when I was tested, then we became aware of the situation,” she tweeted. Meanwhile, opposition Congress accused the state government of not following norms and allowing Bharti to proceed with her journey, overlooking the threat that she may spread the infection. “It is ironic but none of the leaders of the BJP, which is the ruling party in both the state and in the country, are serious about the pandemic and its protocols. Initially, Satpal Maharaj moved out of prescribed isolation and later tested positive putting so many lives in danger and then the party’s state president Bansidhar Bhagat conducted house-warming parties without precautions and then tested positive and infected many others. Now, it’s the party’s national-level leaders like Uma Bharti who refused to follow the guidelines. Is this how the party sets examples for people?” alleged Suryakant Dhasmana, vice-president of the state Congress unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-leader-uma-bharti-carries-on-with-journey-to-badrinath-after-visit-to-kedarnath-despite-being-told-she-could-be-covid-positive-by-authorities/articleshow/78352204.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||@590 +ve, Nagpur sees 54-day low in new cases on Sunday||Nagpur: Probably for the first time in 54 days, Nagpur’s single-day Covid-19 patient count fell below 600 with the district reporting 590 new cases on Sunday. The district had reported 340 cases on August 4 while the surge had began from the next day touching 658 cases and over 1,000 new patients in a single-day since August 11 onwards. Within a span of two days, the district’s detection of new cases has remained under 1,000. Nagpur, which had been the highest contributor among Vidarbha’s 11 districts, also brought down the region’s single-day tally to its second lowest in 20 days at 2,231. Though six districts witnessed upward trend in active cases as compared to a day before, Nagpur’s recoveries of 1,650 made a difference in slashing the count to 31,039 from 32,389. Total 2,719 patients stood recovered in a day, 488 more than the number of new cases on Sunday. Fatalities continued to worry health authorities as 66 Covid patients passed away in Vidarbha on Sunday. Nagpur 43, Amravati 6, Yavatmal 3, Akola 1, Bhandara 2, Wardha 3, Gondia 2, Chandrapur 1 and Gadchiroli 4 reported Covid casualties while Washim and Buldhana didn’t report any. Yet, the fatalities were lowest since September 2. Since September 24 when deaths touched 100 a day, the fatalities have plummeted sharply. Low testing numbers are being considered as one of the reasons for falling Covid count in Nagpur. Sunday’s figures came down to 4,355 tests, of which 590 turned out to be positive. On September 25, a total of 5,595 tests were conducted and 971 were found positive, while the next day, of the 2,026 samples, 1,205 had tested positive. Yet, there was not much difference in RT-PCR testing with 1,698 samples being tested on Sunday, 1,795 on Saturday and 1,754 on Friday. Beside Nagpur, cases were reported from Amravati 205, Yavatmal 95, Akola 96, Bhandara 277, Wardha 106, Gondia 263, Chandrapur 232 and Gadchiroli 95, Washim 105 and Buldhana 167. This took Vidarbha’s total patient count to 1,41,509 and 3,772 deaths while 1,05,902 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/590-ve-nagpur-sees-54-day-low-in-new-cases-on-sunday/articleshow/78354398.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 28, 2020||Nashik||20L people covered in door-to-door survey||Nashik: Health teams fanned across the district have so far covered 20 lakh individuals under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ progamme — a state government initiative started to arrest the spread of Covid-19. “We have a target of reaching out to 73 lakh people in the district that includes both the municipal corporations,” Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare, said. The survey is being carried out by a team comprising a health worker and two others who are expected to complete their task in 25 days since the campaign was launched on September 16. “The teams are doing their jobs in the field and have reached out will 20 lakh people so far. The activity is being carried out on war footing and we are optimistic of completing the first round at the earliest,” the collector said. The survey teams were successful in tracking down 1,214 people who Covid-19 positive. “This has effectively cut down the spread of the infection by at least 4,000 considering the multiplication factor,” another senior officer from the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20l-people-covered-in-door-to-door-survey/articleshow/78352192.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik ZP officer booked under DMA for non-performance||Nashik: A senior officer of the Nashik Zilla Parishad has been booked under the Disaster Management Act for alleged non-performance of the epidemic-related duties. Prashant Waghmare, the district disaster management officer (DDMO), registered a complaint with the Sarkarwada police station on Sunday in this regard. In the complaint, the senior officer has been accused of not performing his duties properly and also not replying to the notices issued. According to the complaint, the officer was given Covid--related responsibilities, but he allegedly failed to complete the tasks assigned to him. As per the complainant, the officer had submitted the wrong information to the district collectorate and, therefore, the corona cell of the district collector had issued a notice to him seeking his response to the charges levelled against him. The complaint also said that the officer failed to reply to the notices issued. Therefore, the district administration had to register a complaint under section 56 of the DMA. According to Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare, “The delinquent behaviour and non-performance of epidemic-related duties cannot be tolerated. Despite repeated warnings, no improvement was observed. The administration was compelled to invoke section 56 of the DMA against the said officer.” The collector also added that if the officer made a commitment to work, the process could be terminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-zp-officer-booked-under-dma-for-non-performance/articleshow/78352199.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 28, 2020||Nashik||1,110 new cases, 19 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 1,110 Covid-19 positive cases, including 726 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 72,831. The district also reported 19 Covid-related deaths, of which, 12 were from the city. The death toll stands at 716 in the city and 1,314 in the district. As many as 1,383 patients were discharged from across the district on Sunday, of which 1,175 patients were from Nashik city alone. Presently, the district has 7,037 active cases, of which 3,039 active cases are in the city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1110-new-cases-19-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78352201.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Lucknow||Ramleela firsts: No audience and Urdu broadcast in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: The star-studded Ramleela at Lakshman Qila on banks of Saryu in Ayodhya will have no audience and will be broadcast live on social media platforms and Youtube amidst the pandemic cloud over Dusshera festivity. And in a first, the epic performance will broadcast in Urdu along with 13 other regional languages between October 17 and 25. Talking to TOI, founder of Meri Maa Foundation and organiser of Ramleela event, Subhash Malik, said, “It will be a historic moment when Ramleela will broadcast in Urdu and the star cast will also include Muslim actors like Raza Muraad and Shahbaz Khan.” Malik adds that BJP MP and president of Ramleela Committee, Parvesh Varma, is the driving force behind the event. “We got the administration’s nod for performing at Ayodhya and we will strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. A mammoth LED screen will be installed above a grand stage which will mirror the epic ambience of Ramayana. We’ll focus on state-of-the-art light and sound so that dialogues are clear during seamless translation and broadcast. The special attraction of the event will be ‘Ramraj’ or places where the Lord’s feet fell and a 30-minute programme on Ayodhya’s history.” The Ramleela will be held with the cooperation of the tourism and cultural department of Uttar Pradesh government. The star cast includes BJP MP from North-East Delhi Manoj Tiwari, who will play the role of Angad, Gorakhpur MP and Bhojpuri actor Ravi Kishen will be Bharat, Vindu Dara Singh will re-enact his television role of Lord Hanuman, actor Raza Murad will portray Ahiravan and Asrani will appear as Narad Muni. Actor Shahbaz Khan will bring alive Ravan on stage and Rakesh Bedi will play Vibhishan, said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ramleela-firsts-no-audience-urdu-broadcast/articleshow/78355098.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Durga Pujas in city parks keep 75% open space, to do away with fairs this year||KOLKATA: Several Durga Puja organizers who are hosting their Pujas in different city parks are trying to abide by “every advisory” given by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Two of them have taken a decision of not allowing pandal hoppers inside the park and three others will not allow revellers to come near the idol. For this, the biggies — Ahiritola Sarbojonin, Jagat Mukherjee Park, Kumartuli Park and Bagbazar Sarbojanin — are ready to even let go of the melas hosted inside parks that have actually earned them their unique identity over decades. The Jorabagan and Shyambazar traffic guards, who had initially mooted the plan, said the final decision on some of the other major pujas in the area is likely to be taken by next Thursday. It is not the north alone that has decided to stop people from coming close to the idol. South’s biggest draws — Deshapriya Park, along with Triangular park — are going to set up barricades and a minimum distance of 15-20 feet from the idol. Across the city, from north to south, none of the parks will host any cultural function and stalls that would come up on the approach would be very limited in numbers. Ahiritola Sarbojonin, for example, will not allow any common pandal hopper to enter inside the park. “We will place Maa Durga closer to the main gate and closer to the main road so that the idol is visible from a distance. Our pandal will be open from all four sides and our idol will be visible from a distance. Devotees will walk down the road and then return. There will be no VIP gates. A decision in this regard has now been approved in our meeting and is final,” said Dulal Sil, joint general secretary of Ahiritola Sarbojanin. In the south, Triangular Park, too, has decided not to allow people inside the park. “This time, the idea is to be safe first,” said an organizer. At Jagat Mukherjee Park, stated joint secretary Dwaipayan Roy, the plan is to let in only five to seven people inside the park at one go. “No one will be allowed to wait. We will be setting up barricades keeping a 15-feet gap from the idol. Except for the place where Maa Durga will be installed, the rest of the pandal will be open. Besides masks and sanitizers, we are keeping thermal guns. We plan to usher in pandal hoppers from Madanmohantala and then divert them on to two different channels to stop crowding,” said Roy. Partha Mitra, the local coordinator and patron of Shyam Park puja said not more than five people will be allowed inside the park. At Kumartuli Park, the plan is not to allow more than 50 people inside the big park. “Ours is an open pandal but we are not keeping the the park packed with stalls like other years to stop crowding.” said Ashok Ghosh, its president. Sudipto Kumar, the president of Deshapriya Park Puja said that the pandal will be open on all sides and has been constructed on a raised platform so that it is visible from a distance. “Ours is too big a park and we have to allow entry to pandal hoppers. But then again, we will channel their entry and no one will be allowed anywhere near the idol,” said Kumar. In central Kolkata, Md Ali Park has not even tried returning to its original venue. “This year, too, we are sticking to the fire station venue,” said an organizer. The police said that such attempts from organizers send out positive signals for others to follow. “The positive thing is that these pandals are being constructed with 75% open spaces. Despite that, the organizers are restricting entry in parks,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durga-pujas-in-city-parks-keep-75-open-space-to-do-away-with-fairs-this-year/articleshow/78355103.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||High-powered committee constituted by SC seeks EIA report for Char Dham road project from highway ministry||Dehradun: The high-powered committee (HPC) appointed by the Supreme Court (SC) has sought an environmental impact assessment (EIA) report along with inventory of vulnerable slopes and muck dumps on the all-weather Char Dham road project routes from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). The committee asked the ministry to provide these details soon after the apex court decided on September 8 that the Char Dham highway should be kept not more than 5.5m-wide in accordance with a circular issued by MoRTH in 2018. Stressing on the urgent need to construct “safe, environmentally sustainable and legally compliant roads on all the Char Dham routes without any unnecessary delays”, HPC chairman Ravi Chopra said that documents pertaining to the project should be sent by the ministry to the HPC for correct implementation of the apex court's order. The details will help in the timely, proper and strict compliance of mitigation measures and restoration work, he added. In their communication to the secretary of MoRTH dated September 11, the members of the HPC also expressed concern at “the unabated hill cutting without taking adequate technical and environmentally sustainable steps to ensure stabilisation of mountain slopes and for proper disposal of muck which has heavily damaged forest areas and rivers.” The panel members further asked the ministry for a work plan for "sustainable restoration of the damaged slopes and authorised muck dump sites, starting with a comprehensive vulnerability assessment of the failed slopes.” “Generic and patchwork solutions are to be avoided as they quickly fail, resulting in the loss of life and limb, besides property damage or destruction and wastage of public funds. Proposals for restoration works are also to be put in the public domain,” read the letter sent by the committee to MoRTH, also asking the ministry to "not proceed with any new hill cutting" until they get the HPC’s final recommendations as directed by the SC in its 2019 order. The committee members said that despite the letter having been sent over two weeks ago, they had not received any details from the MoRTH so far. Meanwhile, the ministry was unavailable for any official comment as they claimed that "they are working on making the new project in compliance with the SC's orders". However, an MoRTH official, on the condition of anonymity, told TOI, "We are working on the details sought by the HPC. Most of it is related to our future plans and it takes a while to make the new project in accordance with the SC orders."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/high-powered-committee-constituted-by-sc-seeks-eia-report-for-char-dham-road-project-from-highway-ministry/articleshow/78352214.cms||Shivani Azad
September 28, 2020||Goa||Cops suspect 2 youths’ deaths are connected||MARGAO: The alleged drowning of Anisha Velip, 18, at Padi, has raised suspicion after her friend Sarvesh Gaonkar, 23, was found dead within hours at Cavrem, Quepem on Sunday. Police said Velip was brought dead to the primary health centre, Balli, as a case of drowning. Velip’s family reportedly told police she was washing clothes in a stream when she accidentally slipped into the water and drowned. However, even as Cuncolim police booked the case as unnatural death, investigations observed that the water level was low, thereby raising doubts about her death. What deepened the mystery was the recovery of Gaonkar’s body hanging from a tree, 200-300m from his residence. “Police investigations had pointed to Gaonkar’s presence near Velip’s house around the time of her death, as corroborated by witnesses. Velip's mother had also seen him near the spot where her daughter was found,” South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh told TOI. Police said Gaonkar’s death was a suicide, but the cause of Velip’s death will be known after an autopsy on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-suspect-2-youths-deaths-are-connected/articleshow/78354439.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||HC appoints Shukul as amicus to plead Zero Mile PIL||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday appointed Kartik Shukul as amicus curiae in a suo motu PIL on the neglect of Zero Mile monument. A division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala adjourned the hearing till September 29. During last hearing, the Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Limited had explained its plans to beautify city’s iconic monument and stretch of Wardha Road between Zero Mile Metro station and the historic, monument erected in 1907, and requirement of land for it. A Grade-I heritage, the historic monument was earlier under the Nagpur Improvement Trust for maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-appoints-shukul-as-amicus-to-plead-zero-mile-pil/articleshow/78355088.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||21 of interstate dacoity gang held||Tirupati: Kadapa district police arrested 21 members of an interstate dacoity gang wanted for multiple crimes in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan said the modus operandi of the gang was to identify well-off persons, such as moneylenders, realtors, politicians, businessmen and traders and decamp with their valuables. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-of-interstate-dacoity-gang-held/articleshow/78354411.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Amt officials ‘averse’ to Mahendri sanct close door on wildlife warden||Nagpur: At a time when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and local MP have shown interest in declaring Mahendri at Warud in Amravati district a wildlife sanctuary, officials there are trying to scuttle the plan. On Saturday, when Amravati district honorary wildlife warden Sawan Deshmukh and some NGOs went to Mahendri to meet PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar and PCCF (IT & policy) MK Rao, who were on tour to get a know-how, Deshmukh and others were “humiliated” by Amravati CCF Praveen Chavan. “We were kept waiting outside and later asked to get out of the premises when we wanted to submit a memorandum in support of the sanctuary to both PCCFs. As a wildlife warden, I was there to meet PCCF (wildlife) to welcome him during his maiden visit to the proposed sanctuary,” said Deshmukh. “I am working for conservation for the last 20 years and always helped the department. CCF Chavan knows me well. Yet, we were driven away like dogs,” alleged Deshmukh. “This shows negative attitude of the officials towards the sanctuary. I strongly condemn this act. I have gone through similar humiliation in 1999 and hence can realize the mental stress dedicated honorary wardens face. I hope PCCF (wildlife) will take appropriate action. I will take up this issue in the next state wildlife board meeting,” said wildlife conservationist Kishor Rithe. According to sources, Amravati officials were not prepared and had a negative mindset since the beginning of the meeting held to discuss the proposal. They apprehended forest area under them will reduce if sanctuary is notified. Chavan did not respond to repeated calls. He also did not reply to SMS. DFO HS Waghmode said, “The PCCFs examined the area and held discussions. Nothing can be said about opposition or support to the sanctuary at this juncture.” PCCF (wildlife) office on August 20 had sought a proposal for Mahendri from CCF but even after over a month it has not been submitted. There are deliberate attempts by Amravati forest officials to delay the proposal by citing some or the other reason. Thackeray had given a go ahead for Mahendri at state wildlife board meeting held on August 7. He had also said that forest officials should work with positive mind on such issues. BJP MP Ramdas Tadas too has given his consent for the sanctuary. Kakodkar said, “We went to see things on the ground. It included likely employment potential the sanctuary will generate, forest produce, dependence of people, villages to be affected and grazing pressure, the forest uniqueness and biodiversity.” On asked about opposition to the sanctuary, Kakodkar said, “In 2015, then CCF had submitted a proposal saying making Mahendri a protected area won’t make any difference. Hence, we went to cross-check the facts. We will take a decision on merits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-officials-averse-to-mahendri-sanct-close-door-on-wildlife-warden/articleshow/78354431.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents protest over closed roads in Sec’bad||Secunderabad: As the road closure issue of northeastern part of Secunderabad could not be raised in the recent parliament sessions, which were wound up in view of Covid-19 pandemic, nearly 20 residential welfare associations (RWAs) joined hands and took part in a silent candlelight protest in the city on Sunday evening. Residents of the RWAs come on the colonies’ roads with placards and candles. Women and children took part in the event and raised their voices against the road closure issue. “We have started this initiative every Sunday and many colonies have joined us in solidarity regarding reopening the 21 roads, which were closed by local military authority (LMA),” said, CS Chandrasekhar, secretary, Federation of North-Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS). The details of the event, along with photos and representations, were forwarded to Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, with a demand to reopen 21 out of 25 civilian roads, he said. The RWAs are appealing both state and Central governments to reopen all roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-protest-over-closed-roads-in-secbad/articleshow/78354435.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Guntur doc ranks 10th in NEET-SS||Guntur: Dr Kapu Venkatesh Chowdary, a Guntur-based medical professional, has ranked tenth in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Super Speciality Courses. Venkatesh, who did his graduation from NRI Institute of Medical Sciences, plans to take admission in the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guntur-doc-ranks-10th-in-neet-ss/articleshow/78354436.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Homestays open doors, await train service resumption in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Homestays in the Hills and forests of North Bengal have started welcoming guests after staying shut for almost six months but the flow of tourists is yet to pick up after the pandemic as rail connectivity with Kolkata and other parts of the country is yet to be restored. Homestay owners are optimistic about a surge in business when tourism starts full swing after train connectivity to Kolkata and other parts of the country is restored According to them, the homestays which not only provide an affordable option to tourists combined with comforts and privacy of a home, will be preferred over hotels and resorts after the pandemic as most of them are standalone properties with only limited number of gusts. “A lot of families in the interiors, who would let their homes out to tourists, have suffered a lot during the lockdown. Many of them even had to take loans from relatives. A lot of families had invested a lot of amount in converting a part of their homes into homestays,” said Prasanth Pradhan, general secretary of the Himalayan Homestay Owners’ Association. Guests have already started trickling in and homestay owners have been receiving booking queries for winter season. Everything will, however, depend on when the rain connectivity between North Bengal and Kolkata and other parts of the country is restored. On September 5, the state government allowed hotels and homestays to resume operation in Darjeeling and Kalimpong, with adequate distancing norms and other safety measures in place. “Some homestays have started receiving guests already. Many families are preferring homestays because they can take up an entire unit, which minimises any interaction with outsiders. As homestay owners we are also taking all precautions for the safety of our guests, including proper sanitisation of the property and social distancing,” said Tshering Bhutia, a homestay owner in Mirik. Many homestay owners have made provisions for separate kitchens for the guests so that they don’t have to come in contact with the owners and staff very often.  “If guests want they can buy vegetables and groceries from the local markets. We are also trying to get a good internet connection for those who want to do their office work while staying here,” said Bikas Chetri, owner of a homestay in Kalimpong. Most homestays are located away from the bustling market places and tourist attraction, which means the risk of the virus is minimum. “Many villages, where homestays are located are untouched by the virus because of the seclusion and low density of population. There are close to 1,200 homestays in North Bengal, which are registered with the state government, but the actual numbers are more than 3,000 in the Hills and the forests. Earlier this year, the government made several changes in the law making it easy to register the homestays. The government has also proposed a one-time grant of Rs 1.5 lakhs for registered homestays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/homestays-open-doors-await-train-service-resumption/articleshow/78355112.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi gets closer to paying sewage pollution charges||NEW DELHI: The city has moved one step closer to the “polluters pays principle” under which all houses would have to pay a sewage pollution charge even if they do not have a sewage connection. The proposal cleared by Delhi Jal Board (DJB), which would now be sent to the urban development department and ultimately for final approval by the cabinet, mentions charges varying between Rs 100 and Rs 5,000 annually for domestic category of users and higher fees for non-domestic users based on their sanctioned electricity load. The charges would be collected by the power distribution companies along with the electricity bill. A senior DJB official said that the sewage pollution charge was being proposed in compliance with a National Green Tribunal order, which was upheld by Supreme Court last year. “The court said that everyone was a polluter. As every household generates sewage, which pollutes the environment, drains and the Yamuna, a fixed monthly amount should be levied. It can be used to create infrastructure to counter the harmful effects,” the official added. The proposed annual charges in the domestic segment for category A and B colonies are Rs 5,000, for category C Rs 2,000, category D Rs 1,000, category E and F Rs 200 and category G and H Rs 100. For non-domestic users, the charges would have additional components varying between Rs 50 and Rs 200 per kW, depending on the power load and locality. “Electricity bills have been selected as the medium of collection as every family uses power and the discoms have the largest billing and collection network. The sewage pollution charge component is proposed to be added in April every year,” an official said. While DJB has 25.2 lakh active water connections, all of which generate sewage, only 19.9 lakh pay the sewerage charges. Delhi socio-economic survey states that 60.1% toilets in the city are connected to sewers, 36.7% households having septic tanks and 1.2% houses use toilets linked to open drains. “If the cabinet clears the proposal, every generator of sewage will have to pay this charge. The current charges collected by DJB are for maintaining and upgrading the sewerage network. They do not address the issue of environment pollution,” said the official. NGT had initially passed the order for imposition of environment fee in May 2015. This was reiterated several times till its September 2019 order. The matter was taken up at several levels, including the Delhi cabinet over this five-year period. In October 2019, Supreme Court finally gave the order for implementation of the directions. An official told TOI, “The file has been sent to the urban development department, which is the administrative division. The UD department will now send it to the cabinet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-gets-closer-to-paying-sewage-pollution-charges/articleshow/78354450.cms||Paras Singh
September 28, 2020||Nashik||NMC begins pothole-filling work using tar||Nashik: After receiving an ultimatum of eight days by the chairperson of Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) standing committee Ganesh Gite on Thursday, the public works department (PWD) has finally started repairing potholes on city roads. The PWD department also began the tar work on long stretches of city roads as soon as the city got a break from the incessant rainfall. Civic officials said that they could not repair potholes earlier due to continuous rainfall over the last few days; however, the work has now been started with full force and is expected to get over soon. During the last standing committee meeting, the members had expressed concern over the negligence of the civic administration regarding the pothole-filling work. They had complained that the condition of most roads in the city was deteriorating further owing to the heavy downpour. Taking the cognizance of the same, Gite directed the civic administration to repair potholes within eight days. “We were unable to do tar-related work during monsoon, but we had fill potholes temporarily with murum and construction debris. Now that the rainly season is almost over, we have started repairing potholes using tar and the work will be completed in the next few days,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-begins-pothole-filling-work-using-tar/articleshow/78352215.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 28, 2020||Varanasi||Property of liquor smuggler worth crores seized by cops in Varanasi||VARANASI: A hotel and a shopping complex, constructed with the help of illegally earned money by a liquor smuggling gang’s kingpin Shivshankar Seth alias Babu Seth, worth over Rs 4.88 crore were seized by police under their ongoing drive against gangsters on Sunday. SSP Amit Pathak said that Sonu and his brother Chhotu had remained involved in criminal activities especially liquor smuggling for long time and they had created huge wealth with illegally earned money. Sonu had purchased plots along Varanasi-Lucknow highway on which he had constructed a hotel and a shopping complex, he said. After proper investigation in his case the value of one property was assessed as Rs 1.49 crore and Rs 3.39 crore of other, he said adding after completing all initial legal formalities both the properties were seized by a team of police led by CO Badagaon NP Singh. A total of 11 cases are lodged against Sonu and four against his brother, he said adding, Sonu is the leader of his gang and he had also been booked under Gangster Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/property-of-liquor-smuggler-worth-crores-seized-by-cops/articleshow/78355117.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE (Adv) paper 2 tougher than paper 1, say candidates||HYDERABAD: Most of the students, who appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) 2020, found physics and mathematics to be lengthy, with paper 2 being tougher than paper 1. They said that in both the sessions, physics was the toughest, followed by mathematics, and chemistry. The overall difficulty of the paper was said to be moderate to tough. “Physics in paper 2 was toughest for me. Nowhere in the exam, I could go with the flow while writing this section. It was lengthy, testing patience, but the good thing was I did not lose my patience and made any silly errors,” said Muttareddy Sahil, who appeared for the exam at CMR Institute of Technology, Medchal. Sahil, who secured 99.97 percentile in the JEE (Main), said that he is confident that his performance will land him either in IIT Mumbai, Delhi, or Chennai. Another candidate, V Sai Teja, who secured All India Rank 35 in JEE (Main), said that he is not quite sure about his performance. “I might have made some mistakes as the paper was very lengthy,” he said. A majority of students said that they could not attempt all questions as they wasted time in physics sections, which was lengthy in both paper 1 and paper 2. “I could have done better. I wasted a lot of time in physics sections, assuming that I could manage to finish the exam in three hours, but that was not the case,” said Bhaskar Jha, who secured 99.85 percentile in JEE (Main). Coaching institutions’ faculty, meanwhile, seconded with their students and said that both the papers were lengthy, which in turn, made students feel that the papers were tough. “I don’t think anyone could have attempted all questions in paper 2 as it was very lengthy. In mathematics, they gave questions on both numericals and integers, which are time taking to solve. Further, there was negative marking for integers sections,” said A Krishna Kumar from Narayana Group of Institutions. M Uma Shankar, all India IIT coordinator of Sri Chaitanya Group of Institutions, said that if a student secures 360 or more out of 390 marks, he/she will find a spot in the top 10. “The cut-off will mostly be like every year, 35% for General,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-adv-paper-2-tougher-than-paper-1-say-candidates/articleshow/78354445.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Madurai||HC orders probe into hospital charging Rs 8L for treating Covid||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the authorities and Tamil Nadu Medical Council to inquire and take action on a complaint against a private hospital for collecting exorbitant charges for Covid-19 treatment in Madurai.Petitioner Nehru and his wife Vasuki, who were suffering from severe fever and headache, went to NTC Hospital at Vaithiyanathapuram which told them that they were probably suffering from Covid-19, and asked them to pay Rs 8 lakh for admission. The petitioner paid Rs 5lakh in cash and the balance Rs 3lakh through credit card after which they were admitted to the hospital on July 8. After test results turned negative, they were discharged on July 10. Though they were given a bill of Rs 65,840 each, the hospital had refunded only Rs 1,05,000 and said there would not be any further refund. Hence, Nehru moved HC Madurai seeking action against the hospital.The hospital management in their counter denied the petitioner’s claim and stated that he had paid only Rs 3lakh. It was also submitted that they had charged only as per the scheduled rates and that the balance amount was also refunded. Justice G R Swaminathan observed that in normal course of events, the court should have dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the matter involves an investigation into a factual dispute. The judge said there is nothing on record to indicate that the petitioner had paid Rs 5lakh in cash.However, the judge recalled that another person, Nagendran, had filed a similar petition against the same hospital stating that he had paid Rs 5.9lakh for treatment and though bills were given for only Rs 40,000 the remaining amount was not refunded. The judge observed that the man’s counsel withdrew his petition informing that the balance Rs 5.5 lakh was refunded.When the hospital had collected Rs 5.9lakh from a single patient, it is difficult to believe that they collected only Rs 3lakh for both Nehru and his wife. Hence the judge directed the director of medical and rural health services to inquire into the complaint and take appropriate actions. The judge also permitted the petitioner to submit a malpractice complaint to the Tamil Nadu Medical Council and further directed them to inquire into the complaint and take appropriate action on merits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-probe-into-hospital-charging-rs-8l-for-treating-covid/articleshow/78354447.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Last rites of three Maoists over: Cops||Hyderabad: Telangana police’s bid to bring back bodies of the three slain Maoists, who died in an alleged encounter with police in Kothagudem last week, on the directions of the high court now looks practically impossible. Police on Sunday received information, through their sources, that the last rites of the three were already performed by their respective families. “Their families have already performed the last rites, as informed to us by villagers,” a senior Telangana police officer told TOI. Now, it has to be seen what Telangana police would inform the high court, which a few days ago directed the state government to retrieve the bodies of the trio — local guerilla squad (LGS) commander Sodi Jogaiah, 25, a resident of Krishnarampadu of Charla, dalam member Mandakam Malli, 22, a resident of Chennapuram, and LGS member Mandakam Mangi, 24, a resident of Kuknoor in East Godavari of Andhra Pradesh — from their families to perform repost-mortem examination (PME). Following the encounter on Wednesday night, local police shifted the bodies of the three Maoists to district government hospital and got PME done. Later, they handed over the bodies to their family members. Subsequently, civil rights activists filed PIL raising doubts over the encounter and the court directed the government to perform an autopsy again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-rites-of-three-maoists-over-cops/articleshow/78354465.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||CP orders inquiry into Binekar murder video going viral||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has ordered an inquiry into the CCTV footage clip of Kishor Binekar alias Balya’s murder at Bole petrol pump square on Saturday, which had gone viral on social media, creating furore in the city. Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) authorities too are now set to write to the police department about the gross misuse of the clip. In the past, former corporator Deva Usre’s murder clip too had gone viral. Kumar, who has taken a stern view of the murder clip going viral, said he was stunned by the confidential footage surfacing in public domain and hitting social media platforms across the state. “The contents of the video were frightening and inappropriate for public viewing. I have directed a probe to find out how the clip went viral,” said the top cop, expressing his disappointment over the episode. The clip of five assailants dragging out the gambling kingpin from his car and stabbing and hacking him to death had been shared from Mumbai to Gadchiroli within a couple of hours. Casual banter of some cops in the background showed some insensitivity towards the serious crime. A senior officer of the police department explained that the footage is collected and sent to the constabulary to identify the culprits. “The footage is shared among personnel of detection branch wing of police stations and crime branch, who generally send it to their informers and people who could help them identify the culprits,” he said. “The cops generally do not leak footage but such mistakes may happen from the informers, who also share it in their groups with an intention to gather information to help detect the crime,” said the officer. “In Binekar’s murder too, this footage was helpful in giving cops many clues and actually led to quickest possible detection,” he said. Mahesh Moroney, chief executive officer (CEO), NSSCDCL, said a letter would be sent to the nodal officer of the police department (Zonal DCP Neelotpal) and copies marked to CP and other officers stating that footage meant for crime investigation cannot be leaked into public domain. “A letter from nodal officer (DCP) and copy of FIR is required for procuring footage for crime investigation. In this case, it seems some police personnel may have collected the footage on his mobile phone and passed it on,” he said. A senior NMC official said the rules and regulations related to collection of footage are being kept liberal for speedy investigation in ‘good faith’. Activist lawyer Ankita Shah said the leakage should be treated as a violation of Officials Secret Act, 1923. In an earlier fiasco, a video of an action under Narcotics Act was given under RTI Act following which the applicant had cornered police department before the high court. Police department had then asked NSSCDCL not to share video footage with public without seeking their permission in matters under probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-orders-inquiry-into-binekar-murder-video-going-viral/articleshow/78355115.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Man arrested for robbing vegetable vendor||Nashik : The Panchavati police have arrested a person for allegedly robbing a vegetable vendor of Rs 7,500 in the Datta Nagar area of Panchavati. The police said the arrested person has been identified as 22-year-old Sonu Bacchav, a resident of Datta Nagar. Vegetable vendor Balu Ghuge (40), stated in his complaint that on Saturday at 9 pm, he had gone to a medical store when Bacchav and another youth stopped him and started demanding money to purchase liquor. When Ghuge refused, the duo allegedly started punching him. Bacchav also took out an axe-like weapon and threatened Ghuge. He then snatched Rs 7,500 from the vendor's trouser pocket and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-arrested-for-robbing-vegetable-vendor/articleshow/78352227.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Gutka worth Rs13.50L seized||Nashik: A special squad set up by IG (Special) of Nashik Range Pratap Dighavkar seized gutka worth Rs 13.50 lakh from a shop in the Soygaon area of Malegaon on Saturday morning. The case has been handed over to the Malegoan Camp police station for further investigation. Dighavkar said that the special squad set up by him comprising an API, PSI and five constables would be keeping a watch on illegal sale and transport of gutka across Nashik, Jalgaon, Dhule, Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts. The IG (Special) said that his team received a tip-off about gutka being stocked up in a shop in Soygaon area of Malegaon. Acting on the tip-off, the squad plunged into action and raided the shop, following which they seized gutka. “Gutkha is not only sold in markets, but also around school and colleges. Young students get addicted to the banned product and later suffer from dangerous illnesses like cancer. Hence, it is necessary that the police keep a special check on such illegal activities,” said Dighavkar. He also said that the special squad would also keep watch on gambling activities across the five districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gutka-worth-rs13-50l-seized/articleshow/78352225.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Adhichanallur pipeline structure hints at ancient habitation||MADURAI: A pipeline structure having 21 pipes fitted continuously was found at Adhichanallur in Tuticorin district, where the state archaeology department is on an endeavour to find a habitation site. This is considered to be one of the oldest archaeological sites in the country. The archaeology department started its excavation on the site on May 25, and is expected to go on till September 30. One of the first excavations in the country was conducted in Adhichanallur in 1876, following which excavations were done in 114 acres of protected land on this site in 1902 and in 2004. As a large number of burial urns were unearthed at the site, it was concluded that Adhichanallur was an ancient burial site. Now, the archaeologists led by excavation director J Baskar and archaeological officer Loganathan and students of archaeology are on the endeavour to find the habitation site in the area. The interesting fact is that the pipeline structure is longer than those found in Keeladi in Sivaganga. Baskar said that the recent findings help prove that Adhichanallur had a habitation site as well as a burial site. As early excavationists had only concentrated on the burial urns and the things found along with them, it was believed that it was an ancient burial site. Now, 76 trenches have been unearthed and they have found a lot of evidence to show that this also had a habitation site. While the pipeline is a major finding, other things that the archaeologists have found here, to show that people also lived here, are roof tiles, pottery with Tamil Brahmi inscriptions and graffiti, smoking pipes and also games, which look like chess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/adhichanallur-pipeline-structure-hints-at-ancient-habitation/articleshow/78354463.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Witness protection scheme ineffective, says Madras HC||Madurai: The Madras high court has said that the Witness Protection Scheme devised on the directions of the Supreme Court to give confidence to witnesses to come forward and assist law enforcement and judicial authorities has failed to yield the desired result. Though the system came into force in 2018 with full assurance of safety, it is still not providing confidence to witnesses to come out with the truth against the criminals. The court made the observations while confirming the conviction and sentence awarded to three people by the trial court in a murder case in Ramanathapuram district in 2014 despite all the eye witnesses turning hostile.  Padhakumar owns a bar along with a liquor shop at Poomalaivalasai village in the district. A person called Karthi who went to consume alcohol there picked up a quarrel with him and assaulted him. Irked over this, Padhakumar went to Karthi’s house and threatened his pregnant wife. Fearing consequences, she sent her husband Karthi to Kerala for work. When Karthi returned to his village after a few months to see his newborn child, Padhakumar along with his friends Alex Pandiyan and Mari murdered him.  Kenikarai police registered a case and the Ramanathapuram additional district and sessions court convicted and sentenced the three to life imprisonment. Challenging the order of the trial court, the trio filed an appeal before HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/witness-protection-scheme-ineffective-says-madras-hc/articleshow/78354453.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Hosps told to give empty vials to patients||Nashik: The Jalgaon Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) issued a notice to all Covid-19 hospitals on September 23 informing them to return empty vials of Remdisivir injection to Covid-19 patients at the time of discharge along with bills. “We have asked the hospitals to ensure that they return the empty vials of the injection to patients who have been administered the same so that hospitals earn the faith of patients regarding Covid-19 treatment,” drug inspector of FDA, Jalgaon unit, Anil Manikrao said. The move comes in view of the rising demand for Remdisivir injection in Jalgaon.District administration authorities said that they have been receiving a lot of queries about the availability of the said drug in the market. Manikrao also pointed out that besides the demand for Covid-19 medicines, some people have also raised questions about the usage of the costly injection stating that it is not given to the patients in the presence of their relatives. “On one hand people are questioning if a particular hospital has actually given the injection to a patient while, on the other hand, there is a rising demand for Remdisivir across the district. We are flooded with calls from people enquiring about its availability,” Manikrao added. “By issuing the notice to hospitals trating Covid-19 patients, we served two purposes — firstly, the hospital would earn faith of people that the medicines were administered to their patients and, secondly, the demand for Remdisivir would be regulated,” the FDA officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hosps-told-to-give-empty-vials-to-patients/articleshow/78352237.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Robbers decamp with 2 chains worth Rs 1.30 lakh||Nashik: Chain robbers have again become active in the city whith two such incidents being reported with Indiranagar police and Mumbai Naka police on Friday. In the first incident registered with Indiranagar police, Vijay Sawaria (21), a resident of Wadala Pathardi Road, was walking with his friend towards Guru Gobind Singh College from Saptashrungi hospital in the Mauli Nagar area around 9:45pm on Friday when two unidentified people on a bike came towards him from the opposite direction. The one riding pillion snatched his gold locket worth Rs 70,000. In the second incident registered with Mumnbai Naka police, Shobha Nangre (48) was walking with her friend towards Vinay Nagar bus stop around 10pm on Friday when two people on a bike came towards them and the one riding pillion snatched her gold chain worth Rs 60,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/robbers-decamp-with-2-chains-worth-rs-1-30-lakh/articleshow/78352232.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New Town hosts first live show since February in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The first live cultural event at an open-air theatre in New Town since February was organized at Nazrul Tirtha on Sunday evening, strictly adhering to all precautionary measures. Though entry to the event was free, the authorities restricted the number of audience to 50 as per the Covid-safety protocol so that social distancing could be properly maintained. The audience entered the premises wearing masks and disinfected themselves using sanitizer that were provided at the venue. Music composers and singers Santanu Basu and Brishtilekha Nandini, along with five musicians, presented a scintillating performance. The theme of the event was ‘Bhalobashar Gaan o Bhalolagar Gaan’. “It was a well-organized event. We presented a variety of songs from Rabindrasangeet to Bengali modern genre,” said Basu. “It was a wonderful feeling to perform before a live audience at the open-air theatre after so many days,” added Nandini. Before the musical event, Hidco launched its ‘Adoption of Trees’ programme as part of its drive to encourage citizens to take up green initiatives in the township. The next event planned at the open air theatre is a poetry event next Sunday. Hidco had periodically organized online cultural events from Nazrul Tirtha and Rabindra Tirtha to break the monotony of the residents during the lockdown. It also observed ‘25 Baisakh’, ‘22 Srabon’ and Kavi Nazrul’s death anniversary that were broadcast via social media and other online platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-hosts-first-live-show-since-feb/articleshow/78354460.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Business as usual on Sunday, janata curfew flops||Nagpur: There was no impact of mayor Sandip Joshi’s appeal to observe janata curfew on Sunday as many shops remained open. On account of it being Sunday, all offices, government as well as private, were closed and so were some shops. But September 27 was no different from any other Sunday. Joshi had appealed to people to stay indoors on Saturday and Sunday on September 24 to contain the spread of Covid-19. However, people did not take his appeal seriously. The administration has refused to support the mayor in enforcing the lockdown. Both Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and police have made it clear that it is completely voluntary. When janata curfew was announced for the first time, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe supported it and had asked police to enforce it. The second time the trade associations supported it and so some shops were closed. However, this time there was no appeal by trade associations to observe a janata curfew. Rajkumar Sangtani, an opticals shop owner in Dharampeth, said he had suffered a lot of loss during the lockdown when the markets were closed. “Normally, I keep my shop closed on Sunday but now things are different. I have to recoup the loss incurred during the lockdown so there is no time for rest. These curfews will not help the city. The mayor should instead increase the number of hospitals treating Covid patients. There is tremendous shortage of beds,” he told TOI. Other shopkeepers too advised the mayor to focus on improving the health care infrastructure rather than asking people to stay indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/business-as-usual-on-sunday-janata-curfew-flops/articleshow/78355120.cms||Ashish Roy
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Now, experience the heritage of Kolkata on a 90-minute Hooghly cruise at just Rs 39||KOLKATA: A cruise on the Hooghly fascinates every visitor to the city. Most of these were being run by private operators at expensive rates so far. However, now, state transport undertaking West Bengal Transport Corporation has decided to offer the same at just Rs 39 for 90 minutes from October 1.  “It is a busy riverine route for ferrying passengers and cargo and leisure trips are rare, except for a few operated by private players. These are good, but quite expensive,” an official said. River water cruises are very across the world. Whether it is London River Cruise or Singapore Boat Ride — they are loved by locals and tourists alike. Something similar is being planned for Hooghly.The vessel for the cruise will reflect the eclectic culture of Kolkata. “The idea is to make heritage river-cruise experience affordable and popular among the youth”, said MD of WBTC Rajanvir Singh Kapur. Traditional Bengali music will be played during the cruise. The trip will start and end at Millenium Park jetty. Guests will have the comfort of a cruise café that will serve snacks and tea/coffee. There will also be selfie booths. A free tour guide will help guests identify the various attractions on the way and explain the history behind those spots. Complimentary heritage navigation brochures, listing the landmarks, will be given to each guest as a souvenir . The cruise will operate daily from Millenium Park at 4pm and 6pm. On Holidays and weekends, it will have two additional slots at 12pm and 2pm. There would be special booking arrangements for educational tours in the future. Proper sanitization protocols are being followed for safety by theWBTC. With social distancing norms, a maximum of 150 people would be accommodated in one ride of the cruise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-experience-the-heritage-of-kolkata-on-a-90-minute-hooghly-cruise-at-just-rs-39/articleshow/78354454.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 fatality less than 1% in last 10 days: Delhi health minister||NEW DELHI: For the second day in a row, the capital recorded more than 40 Covid-19 deaths, taking the total fatalities due to the pandemic in Delhi to 5,235. On Saturday, the city recorded 46 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a day since July 16 when 58 deaths were reported. Health minister Satyendar Jain, however, said the fatality rate in the capital was 0.9% in the last 10 days and the rise in cases was the result of massive increase in testing. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 3,292 fresh cases, taking the total number of positive cases beyond 2.7 lakh. In the last 24 hours, 3,739 patients have recovered, taking the total recovery count to 2.3 lakh. Referring to the low fatality rate, Jain said, "We do not look at the figures for a single day. The patients who have succumbed are not those who tested positive for Covid in a day. These are people who tested positive 15-20 days ago. That is why we take the average of 10 days." More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news With the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 higher than new cases in the last three days, the active Covid-19 cases in Delhi have come down to 29,228 from 31,125 on Thursday. The overall recovery rate stands at 87.2 per cent, while the positivity rate stands at 6.4 per cent. In the last 24 hours, 51,416 tests were conducted, including 11,414 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 40,002 rapid antigen tests. The health minister said the occupancy of beds in Delhi hospitals had declined in the last five days and 55 per cent of the beds were unoccupied. A three-member committee constituted by the state government to audit Covid-19 deaths daily covers all hospitals and the report is satisfactory, he added. "There were a few glitches, which have been ironed out. There was a time when the fatality rate was at 4% but it has remained below 1% in the last 10 days." The number of containment zones in the capital went up to 2,380 from 2,231 on Saturday. "We have tripled the number of tests and those who tested positive were isolated in small containment zones to contain the spread. We knew we would have to do it aggressively for two to four weeks and we are seeing positive results now as the cases are declining," the health minister said. "Wherever cases were reported, there is a slowdown now. In the last seven days, cases and positivity rate have declined. The positivity rate in the last seven days has been 6.5 per cent. Two weeks ago, it was 8.5 per cent and three weeks ago, 9 per cent," Jain added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-fatality-less-than-1-in-last-10-days-delhi-health-minister/articleshow/78355590.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||24x7 supply: Delhi Jal Board to extract more from floodplain||NEW DELHI: With plans afoot to supply water 24x7 in the city, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) is trying to increase raw water availability from multiple sources. To maximise groundwater extraction from the Yamuna floodplain, DJB has approved installation of 200 tubewells starting from Palla to Wazirabad. A senior DJB official said the project would be extended to all areas along the floodplain where groundwater levels were very high. Groundwater extraction would be doubled from the current 27 million gallons per day (MGD) to 65 MGD at a cost of Rs 72 crore. “At present, there are 169 tubewells and 4 Ranney wells in the Palla floodplain. Of these, 18 wells have been abandoned or closed permanently. Another 35 tubewells are yet to be energised, so the total raw water yield is currently 26-27 MGD. Once the new tubewells are made operational, the extraction can be increased by 32-35 MGD,” the official said. DJB is planning to add the 200 tubewells in phases, the focus being on meeting the additional demand during the summer months. The initial proposal was cleared in August 2019 and Wapcos, a public sector company, was appointed the consultant in February this year for preparing a detailed project report on installation of tubewells in the floodplain at Palla and other suitable locations. “The preliminary report submitted by Wapcos states that there is a potential of extracting 65 million gallons of water daily. Of this, 50 million gallons can be extracted from the floodplain at Palla and nearby areas. Another 15 MGD can be extracted from locations like Wazirabad and Kalindi Kunj,” the official said. The estimated period of completion of the project is 18 months. “Of the total project cost, Rs 41 crore will be spent on civil work and Rs 30.8 crore on maintenance and operations for a period of two years. All tubewells will be connected to a central Scada monitoring system, which is already functional at Palla,” said another DJB official. While some environmentalists have raised concerns about over-exploitation of floodplain groundwater, which could lead to permanent damage to the aquifers, DJB officials maintain that the environmental sustainability of the project has been studied and extraction would be well within the replenishment limits. “Besides Palla, water will be extracted from places where groundwater level is very high. For example, we are developing a lake in Rohini Sector 25 where the groundwater level is 5-6m. Central Ground Water Commission itself recommends that water can be extracted from places where the level is higher than 8m. Similar extraction points will be set up in places like Haiderpur and Sonia Vihar,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/24x7-supply-djb-to-extract-more-from-floodplain/articleshow/78354486.cms||Paras Singh
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Dussehra fest to be low key affair||Tuticorin: The Dussehra festival celebration in Kulasekharam in the district, which draws lakhs of people annually, will be a subdued affair this year. District collector Sandeep Nanduri presided over the preparatory meeting for the festival which is celebrated at the Mutharamman temple in Kulasekharam. In terms of crowd participation, the festival is the second biggest in the district, next to the Soorasamharam at the Tiruchendur Subramaniasamy temple. People flock in large numbers from across the state and redeem their vows by dressing up like deities and making offerings. This year the festival will begin on October 17 and will go on for 11 days. On October 1, 10 and 11, devotees would be allowed to enter the temple from 7am to 8pm based on prior online reservation. The deity would not be taken on procession on the streets around the temple. All people attending the festival would have to wear mask and the temple would have to make arrangements for hand sanitization and thermal scanning. Arrangements have been made to telecast the festival on YouTube and local channels and no ceremonial rituals would be conducted by the temple for the devotees. The district has also asked the devotees to refrain from coming to the temple during the festival, keeping in mind Covid-19 pandemic, advising them to celebrate the festival in their local temples as much as possible. Further regulations for the festival will be announced after September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dussehra-fest-to-be-low-key-affair/articleshow/78354474.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Beach clean-up drive resumes in Mulky||MANGALURU: Around 150 volunteers participated in the Mantra beach clean-up drive organised in Mulky on Sunday. It was the first beach clean-up event organised since the pandemic and it also marked World Tourism Day. The drive that was scheduled to be held last Sunday was postponed due to heavy rain. All precautionary measures were in place including registration of participants, temperature check and provision of masks and gloves. Participants were briefed about the importance of waste segregation. Glass, plastic and synthetic materials were segregated accordingly and kept in different coloured bags to be dispatched to a recycling plant. DIG SB Venkatesh, commander, Coast Guard, Karnataka, and KG Nath, deputy chairman, NMPT, were present. Organised by the Surfing Swami Foundation, Mantra Surf Club, Young Indians and CII, sponsors and members representing groups, organisations and associations took part in the activity. The team hopes to extend beach clean-up drives to other beaches in Dakshina Kannada soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/beach-clean-up-drive-resumes/articleshow/78354823.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,900 new Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 1,967 new Covid-19 positive cases and nine deaths, even as 1,54,499 patients were declared recovered from the novel coronavirus infection. With the latest numbers, the total Covid-19 caseload reached 1,85,833 and the death toll crossed 1,100. So far, there are 30,234 active cases in the state currently. The case fatality rate in the state is below 1%, lower than the country average of close to 2%. The case fatality rate is a measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus when compared to the total number of infected patients and low case fatality rate means a lower number of Covid-19 patients dying. The recovery rate is currently 83% in the state, slightly higher than the national average of 82%. A total of 50,108 samples were analysed in the state on Sunday, taking the total number of tests done so far to 28.5 lakh. With this, the number of samples tested per million population is 76,788 in the state. The figure has meanwhile seen a substantial increase over the past two months. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits saw 297 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. This was followed by 152 new cases in Karimnagar, 147 cases in Ranga Reddy, 137 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 105 cases in Nalgonda and 91 cases in Bhadadri Kothagudem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-1900-new-cases-9-deaths/articleshow/78354483.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir should immediately resign as SAD chief: Bajwa||CHANDIGARH: Punjab rural development and panchayat minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa has asked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to immediately resign from the post of president saying that his party, despite being a long time ally in the NDA government, has miserably failed to protect the interests of Punjabis. Bajwa said the decision to sever ties with the BJP and come out of the NDA was in fact a “confession” of the SAD. “Instead of fighting for implementing federal structure in the country, distribution of river waters as per riparian act, giving back Punjabi speaking areas to Punjab and its capital Chandigarh, implementing Swaminathathan report to get remunerative prices of agricultural produce and fighting for release of Sikh prisoners languishing in jails for a long time despite completing their sentences, the present SAD leadership has always been confined to the fulfill their personal interests,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-should-immediately-resign-as-sad-chief-bajwa/articleshow/78354467.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hubballi||Tolankere lake will soon attract fitness freaks, nature lovers||HUBBALLI: Tolankere lake and its adjacent park will soon become a one-stop solution for fitness freaks and nature lovers, as per plans made by Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL). Come December, walkers will be able to either tread on a reflexology path barefoot or do foot reflexology, an exercise that helps to improve health. Those who want to meditate can do so in a Zen garden which will be developed in the 17-acre park. According to details shared by HDSCL, Tolankere is undergoing complete overhaul. “It will become one of the beautiful spots of the city. We have planned many amenities including skating ring, open gym, meditation centre, yoga space, artificial islands, aromatherapy garden and other facilities,” said HDSCL deputy general manager Channabasavaraj. “The entire park will wear green cover. Many trees which attract birds, bees and butterflies are being planted,” he added. He said the project was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and the incessant rains last year and this year. All civil works have been completed while landscaping work yet to begin. Plants have been brought and work will begin in a few days, he said. Earlier, the pathways were planned to be just three metres wide, but now they will be 7 metres wide. The park will have a 1.25km pathway and people can stroll on a promenade (a long open area next to the lake), he said. HDSCL special officer SH Naregal said the project is being developed to save and protect the endangered lake at a cost of Rs 17.57 crore. A 810-metre-long retaining wall is being built while work on an amphitheatre, cattle feeder tank, toilet complex and watch tower has been completed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tolankere-will-soon-attract-fitness-freaks-nature-lovers/articleshow/78352987.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Cops to be roped in squads to check on errant citizens||NASHIK: With a section of citizens refusing to observe the safety protocols, most importantly wearing masks in public places, the civic administration has decided to rope in police personnel into the six special squads that have been formed to check on errant citizens and slap a fine on them. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has written to the commissioner of police requesting to provide police personnel for all the teams appointed for the six divisions. Officials from the civic administration said, “There has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city because of negligence of a section of citizens who are not observing safety protocols like wearing masks and observing social distancing. Hence, we have decided to take strict action against those who are caught without a mask and slap a fine of Rs 200 on them.” Sources in the NMC said when asked to pay the fine, a section of citizens intimidate the squad members. Some even boast of having connections with local politicians and refuse to pay the fine. “We have set up six squads for the six divisional offices. The east squad is led by divisional sanitary inspector among other officials. The other squads find themselves in a tight spot when a group errant citizens intimidate them and refuse to pay the fine. Hence, we feel that it is important to have police personnel in the squads,” said officials. Mayor Satish Kulkarni has already lashed out at the citizens refusing to wear masks in public places for their irresponsible behaviour. “We have appealed to citizens to observe safety protocols and also create awareness about the same among their fellow residents. However, there is still a section of errant citizens not paying heed to our appeals. Hence, I have directed the NMC to slap maximum fine on those who are found without masks in public places,” said Kulkarni||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-to-be-roped-in-squads-to-check-on-errant-citizens/articleshow/78352246.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 28, 2020||Nashik||Percolation tank develops breach in Baglan||Nashik: A minor irrigation tank, maintained by the water resources department (WRD), in Baglan taluka of Nashik district has developed a breach due to which the WRD teams have started the process to empty the tank. “The breach of the percolation tank with capacity of 45 million cubic feet at Talwade was noticed by the villagers early on Sunday following which they alerted us. We went to the spot with earth movers and started drawing out water from the other side so that the structure should not be damaged,” Jitendra Ingle, tehsildar of Baglan, said. The tehsildar also alerted the three villages in the downstream about the possible danger and shifted around four families that would have been directly affected by the breach, to a community centre in the village. The WRD teams also arrived at the spot at 9am and after inspection decided to empty the tank till the safety level. “The tank that provides irrigation water for about 10 surrounding villages was constructed in the year 1972 and is filled to the capacity for the first time since 1995. The rain has been good this year in the parched region of the taluka. Probably there is something wrong with the wall and appropriate measure would be taken after studying the same,” Alka Ahirrao, superintendent engineer of the WRD, said. The officer said that the water was being removed from the wall near the waste weir of the tank till the safe level so that the damaged part could be preserved till examination and then further treatment would be given to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/percolation-tank-develops-breach-in-baglan/articleshow/78352250.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir calls for joint fight for rights of farmers, farm labour, traders||CHANDIGARH: A day after the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) severed its 24-year-old tie-up with BJP, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal in a public address on Sunday called upon all political parties and organisations to come together on a single platform to protect the interests of farmers, farm labour and farm produce traders. After the SAD finally broke the ‘nau-mass da rishta’ (ties like nail and flesh) with the saffron party on Saturday late evening, its leaders, including Sukhbir, opened an attack on BJP’s senior leadership, accusing it of not taking the Akalis on board before taking important decisions, especially those concerning Punjab and Punjabis. “Anything like new farm bills, which increase the uncertainty over the fate of farmers’ produce can have disastrous implications not only for the economy but also for social stability in the country,” he said. Addressing SAD workers at Ropar, Hoshiarpur and Phagwara, Sukhbir reiterated his party’s firm commitment to preserving peace, communal harmony and fraternity in Punjab at all costs. He urged party workers to mobilise for the October 1 ‘kisan march’, which would commence from three religious Takhts in Punjab and culminate at Mohali. At the conclusion of these marches, the SAD had palanned to submit a memorandum to the Punjab governor for the President, urging him not to sign the three anti-farmer bills, but on the President gave his assent to the bills on Sunday. Later, talking to media persons, Sukhbir said, “The BJP leadership wasn’t ready to heed our repeated pleas against the anti-farmer bills. Nor were they listening to our objections on the exclusion of Punjabi as an official language in Jammu and Kashmir. After that, it was meaningless to stay on.” Therefore, first the party’s representative Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the cabinet and then after consulting the people, including party workers and leaders, the SAD decided to pull out of the alliance, he added. He again urged Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to issue an ordinance to declare the whole state a mandi (principal marketing yard) to save farmers from the ‘black laws’. Lashing out at the chief minister for his “baseless statements”, Sukhbir asked him to come out of hiding rather than issuing petty tweets through officials. He also asked Amarinder to call a special session of legislative assembly and repeal the state’s APMC Act as implemented by the Congress government in 2017 to allegedly favour corporate houses. Where do SAD and BJP stand in Punjab? 2017 Punjab assembly elections and bypoll >> SAD had contested the 2017 Punjab assembly elections on 94 seats and its alliance partner BJP on the remaining 23 seats in the 117-member assembly. SAD could win 15 assembly segments and BJP clinched three assembly seats of Phagwara, Sujanpur and Abohar. SAD bagged a vote share of 25.24% and BJP fetched 5.39% of votes. After the October 2019 bypoll in four assembly seats, SAD was left with 14 MLAs and BJP with two. 2019 Lok Sabha elections In 2019, Lok Sabha polls, SAD contested on 10 parliamentary seats and could win two seats – Bathinda and Ferozepur. The remaining three seats were contested by its ally BJP, and it could bag two seats – Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur. SAD’s vote share was recorded at 27.45% and BJP’s at 9.63%. Congress won eight Lok Sabha seats with 40.12% vote share and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) could only win the Sangrur Lok Sabha seat and got 7.38% votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-calls-for-joint-fight-for-rights-of-farmers-farm-labour-traders/articleshow/78355127.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||‘BJP leadership wanted to get rid of Akalis’: PPCC president Sunil Jakhar||CHANDIGARH: A day after SAD decided to break up the alliance with its BJP, PPCC president Sunil Jakhar said on Sunday that the BJP leadership wanted to break ties with the Akalis. He said the Akalis had it coming for a while now. “Fearful of farmers’ wrath on the one hand and equally scared of antagonising the PM on the other, Akalis tried to do a balancing act,” said Jakhar. He said the Akalis did not want to break their ties with the BJP and were keen on keeping up this pretense of an alliance. This, he said, was evident from their not walking out of the BJP-led NDA “even when they were shown the door out of central cabinet and afterwards Harsimrat Badal still insisting that she was not calling these laws anti-farmer and only farmers had termed these as anti-farmer.” Jakhar said Akalis were waiting for some sign of rapprochement from BJP. But what to talk of the PM, no senior leader was willing to meet them and their calls for seeking appointment went unheeded. “It was a clear sign that BJP saw through their game and was in no mood to accept a kind of loose arrangement akin to a ‘live in relationship’, being proposed by the Akalis. They wanted to get rid of the Akalis but didn’t want to be seen as initiators of this ‘break-up’,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-leadership-wanted-to-get-rid-of-akalis/articleshow/78354464.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar aide’s nephew nabbed from Nadesar||VARANASI: Cantonment police arrested a history-sheeter Pervez on Sunday for providing shelter to his uncle Meraj Ahmed, a close aide of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari. Meraj is absconding after being booked in a case of fraud and Arms Act. SSP Amit Pathak said Pervez was arrested from his residence in Nadesar area of Cantonment for providing shelter to Meraj and helping him in escaping. During initial questioning, Pervez confessed he got linked with Mukhtar through Meraj and used to extort money and grab property of people by using the terror of his uncle, said Pathak. As many as 21 criminal cases are lodged against Pervez with different police stations in Varanasi and Jaunpur, said Pathak. Pervez was also associated with mafia don Munna Bajrangi. Before nabbing Pervez, police had arrested Meraj’s brother Seraj Ahmed on Saturday. Pervez came on the radar of police after it came to light that he had given shelter to Meraj, who is absconding after an FIR was lodged against him at Jaitpura police station for procuring arms licences on the basis of fake information and documents. During investigation, police found that eight arms licences had been issued to Meraj’s family members, relatives, driver and personal security guard. The licences were cancelled and six arms were seized. Meraj had come in limelight when he was booked under Section 3 (4) of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) with Mukhtar, Bajrangi and Iftekhar Ahmed for being a member of an organised crime syndicate by the Special Cell of Delhi Police in 2009 for threatening a South Delhi businessman to extort money. They were, however, acquitted in 2016 due to lack of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-aides-nephew-nabbed-from-nadesar/articleshow/78355125.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Conmen try to sell fake liquid iridium in Tuticorin, 4 held||Tuticorin: Tuticorin district police have arrested four conmen who tried to sell fake liquid iridium with the intention to cheat and also seized a car and machete from them. The accused were identified as S Vaithialingam, 60, from Karaikudi, K Muthuramalingam, 45, from Mudukulathur, A Mariadoss, 49, and M Murugan, 47, from Tuticorin. According to the police, Vaithialingam and Muthuramalingam recently approached Mariadoss and Murugan to sell iridium to potential clients. They claimed that iridium is in high demand and the six vials in their possession can be sold up to Rs 120 crore in the international market, but were ready to sell it even for a few crore rupees. Murugan and Maridoss were offered a handsome commission if they could sell it. They approached S Thangam, 55, from Muthaiyapuram, seeking his help to sell the iridium on Ettayapuram Road on Saturday night. Thangam became suspicious after taking a look at the vials. Vaithialingam tried to convince him by saying that it was stolen from a consignment sold to a Japanese company from an Indian organisation. Thangam was not moved by their claims and said he did not want to be part of the deal. The gang let him go with a warning that he will be in trouble if he informs the police. However, Thangam called up Sipcot police. A police team led by inspector Muthusubramanian apprehended the gang in a SUV at Vattakovil in Thalamuthu Nagar. Six vials containing liquid like substance and a machete were seized. Tuticorin SP S Jayakumar said, “It looks like a usual cheating attempt similar to selling sand boa claiming to have medicinal values. The said iridium also looks like fake. We are sending it to a lab in Chennai to get an official confirmation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/conmen-try-to-sell-fake-liquid-iridium-in-tuticorin-4-held/articleshow/78354466.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Madurai||SHGs may take over micro compost centres in Madurai||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation is planning to hand over micro composting centres (MCCs) to self-help group (SHG) members as part of bringing down cost involved in running them. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) is likely to be signed between the corporation and the SHG federation this week.MCCs are meant to handle waste produced in each area locally, instead of shifting them to the centralised dump yard. The civic body had proposed 41 MCCs in various pockets of the city, which are brought to operation as and when construction and procurement of machinery are completed. Each MCC can handle up to 5 tonnes of waste every day and the garbage is turned into organic manureOfficials from engineering wing of the corporation said that out of the 41 proposed MCCs, work has been completed on 15 MCCs and have become operational. “The work, which came to a grinding halt due to Covid lockdown, picked up pace recently. Around 15 MCCs will be completed in a month or so. While construction work is nearing completion, machinery required for the units have been ordered from Coimbatore,” an official said.A health official said that all the 15 MCCs that are operational will be handed over to SHGs. The running of MCCs involves money to be paid through salaries for contract employees and each centre has four to five employees. The official said that SHG will turn the centres into more efficient ones by handling more waste per day since the earnings will be directly proportionate to the amount of waste handled. as they can sell the manure in their respective areas. “We will provide running cost for the first year. We will also allow them to utilize the land available at each MCC to grow vegetables,” the health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shgs-may-take-over-micro-compost-centres-in-madurai/articleshow/78354489.cms||V Devanathan
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Protest against GRH nurses in labour ward seeking bribe||Madurai: Citing an incident that happened on Friday, Makkal Satta Urimai Iyakkam has alleged that bribery is rampant in the labour wards of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), and threatened to stage a demonstration if this is not brought under check. S Jaganesan, the outfit’s state organizing secretary, has also submitted a written statement to hospital dean Dr J Sangumani, seeking appropriate action.The statement said nurses in white saris seeking bribes of Rs 1,000 (if it’s a boy) and Rs 800 (girl child) for handing over the baby to the mother are common at the hospital. “On Friday, at 9.50 pm, a couple, Kalaiavani and Muthuprabhakaran, were asked to pay Rs 800 to see their just-born girl child. It was only when the couple asked for her name, the nurse said she backed away,” he said. The activist alleged it was not the first such incident and that some of the nurses were getting bribes of up to Rs 10,000 a day and hence lakhs in a year from poor families.“Couples often don’t come forward to report bribery because they are afraid the nurses might harm their child if they don’t give the money. If this practice continues, we will stage a demonstration,” said Jaganesan. The statement has also been forwarded to the Madurai district collector, health minister, health secretary and the office of the chief minister. GRH authorities meanwhile have assured prompt and strict action.In May, the activist had filed a written complaint on behalf of a couple against a nurse in the labour ward and six others at GRH for taking a bribe of more than Rs 1,000 to facilitate various services they availed since admission to the hospital. An inquiry was subsequently held by the dean and the staff were also sensitised about bribery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protest-against-grh-nurses-in-labour-ward-seeking-bribe/articleshow/78354491.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Activist moves HC over poor sanitation in SBS Nagar||LUDHIANA: An activist and resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar has now approached the Punjab and Haryana high court to raise the issue of poor sanitation of the locality and apathetic attitude of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and MC for not paying attention towards the basic amenities of residents. Activist Arvind Sharma in his complaint mentioned that LIT and MC were responsible for providing better health and sanitation services to the residents of this area but their employees were not doing their job with honesty and responsibility. No health or garbage collection drives are run by them. He has demanded action against the authorities concerned. The prime concern is the City Centre project which has been on hold for over a decade. The building has been left abandoned and has gradually turned into a garbage dump. This place has no boundary walls and so becomes very dangerous for commuters during night. Rainwater is also getting stagnant in the corners of this incomplete under construction site. This can become the reason for spread of malaria, dengue, etc. in the nearby locality. There are no adequate arrangements for fresh water for all residents. There is no monitoring system to check the purity of drinking water by testing residual chlorine and bacteriological analysis. Moreover, there is no option available for the residents where they can raise the voice regarding the related issues as the officials are not taking the responsibility. There are very poor arrangements of sanitation, drains, toilets inside the colonies and flats. No one is taking the responsibility for maintenance of these. There is a major issue of garbage collection in all colonies as it can be seen dumped here and there in open spaces. Dry leaves, polythene, scrap, etc. are strewn everywhere in all colonies. The drains are not covered properly and not getting cleaned regularly. Most of the drains are blocked in front of the houses. Some of the drains are blocked and left open along link roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/activist-moves-hc-over-poor-sanitation-in-sbs-nagar/articleshow/78353382.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19: Recovery rate improves in AP, daily cases drop||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh has seen a steady decline in the Covid-19 positivity rate in September. While it peaked to an average 16.6% in August, it has reduced to 12.8% this month. The number of fresh infections increased by only about 70% in the last one month, making it the lowest growth rate for any 30-day period since the beginning of the pandemic. The case doubling time - the number of days taken for the case count to double – now stands at about 40 days from its once worst case scenario of four to five days. Going by the incidence trends, AP has been witnessing the stretch of downward slide in the daily infection numbers and positivity rate, if it had not already attained peak. Corroborating with the trend, the recovery rate improved to an impressive 89.5% as of Sunday. The recovery rate was above 90% in eight districts, indicating several districts crossing their peaks or on the verge of crossing. Andhra Pradesh first breached the 10,000 daily case mark on July 29. Even though it has not demonstrated a significant decline other than posting less than 8,000 cases for the last one week, the daily numbers remained almost the same for the last two months in a plateauing trend. Targeted testing to prevent the transmissions, increasing mask compliance, gradually moving towards herd immunity, etc. are some of the factors attributed to the declining numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-19-positivity-rate-declines-in-ap/articleshow/78354508.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Paddy procurement kicks off in Punjab, Haryana||Procurement of paddy crop started in the states of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday, instead of October 1, following a directive from the central government to advance the procurement season. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure a safe procurement operation. While around 170 lakh metric tonne (LMT) of paddy will be procured in Punjab at 4,035 procurement centres this kharif season, Haryana has set up 198 such centres in the mandis of the state to procure close to 64 LMT of the crop. The minimum support price (MSP) is Rs 1,888 for Grade A variety procurement in both states. Kick-starting the paddy procurement from Rajpura grain market on Sunday, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the state government has made elaborate arrangements for the expected arrival of 170 lakh metric tonnes of paddy in the mandis of the state. They would ensure early payments for the crop to the farmers, he said. This time, the Punjab Mandi Board’s 4,035 procurement centres include 1,872 official centres, where 30x30 feet space has been earmarked in the wake of Covid pandemic. Besides, masks and soaps and sanitisers for hand washing are being provided to farmers and arrangements have also been made for the labour. Ashu appealed to the farmers not to set crop residue on fire in the fields as it will exacerbate Covid-19 situation in the state and urged them to bring only dry produce to the mandis for easy and hassle-free procurement. Similar to the wheat season, farmers would be able to bring their produce in the mandis by obtaining passes through commission agents and these would be of different colours for various days. “Arhtiyas have been asked to make the payment of the purchased crop as per the MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal for Grade A directly to the accounts of farmers right after receiving payments from the procurement agencies,” he added. In Haryana, the Food Corporation of India (FCI), along with the state procurement agencies, Hafed and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC), started procurement at 198 mandis in the state. The state government has made all necessary arrangements, like packaging material, deputing staff, storage space, finances, etc, for a smooth procurement operation. The state is also planning to introduce motor-operated electrical loaders, bag stackers, electronic weighing scales and bag stitching machines in around 80 mandis of the state, to start with. An official of the state said to ensure that the benefit of MSP reaches the genuine farmers, for the first time e-procurement and online payment system would be implemented in toto through e-Kharid portal. The payments will be made online directly in the farmers’ bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/paddy-procurement-kicks-off-in-punjab-haryana/articleshow/78355129.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||boxSAD launches campaign to get back in farmers’ good graces||Bathinda: After cutting off ties with BJP over agri bills, SAD has coined new slogans on farmers and Punjabiyat, besides publishing a pamphlet. The party is trying to project its “sacrifice” by resigning from the Union Cabinet and breaking the alliance with BJP for the sake of farmers. It party has come up with the slogan, “Kisan sadda maan, kisan saddi shaan” (farmer is our pride and farmer is our dignity), “Ikko naara, kisan pyara” (only one slogan, the farmer is dear). The pamphlet, which sports a picture of Sukhbir Singh Badal, says, Punjab Punjabiat ate kisana lei vajirian te gathjod kurban (sacrifice of ministries and alliance are for Punjab, Punjabiyat and farmers). The party plans to take these slogans to people in villages and run a campaign on social media. “The SAD always stands for welfare of farmers. Most welfare measures for farmers, including the ambitious free electricity scheme, were started during the SAD government. Now, when BJP tried to crush farmers by getting three agri bills passed in both houses of Parliament, even using undemocratic means for the purpose, we decided to withdraw our representative from the Union cabinet and Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned,” said SAD farmer wing head and former minister Sikandar Singh Maluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/boxsad-launches-campaign-to-get-back-in-farmers-good-graces/articleshow/78355135.cms||---
September 28, 2020||India||Kerala cautions people, says may bring back curbs||Reminding that a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has hit the world and several countries are going back to lockdown, Kerala health minister K K Shailaja has warned that if people in the state are not ready to follow the protocol “we will be forced to bring back the restrictions”. “The coming days are crucial and any laxity in approach will lead to a major crisis. The people have to strictly follow the protocol,” she said on Sunday. “The central directive is to not wait for the negative result. However, the state is continuing with one negative result as we are not ready to take any risk,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-cautions-people-says-may-bring-back-curbs/articleshow/78355571.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Explore Covid testing, treatment at govt rates in pvt hospitals: HC||Nagpur: To provide affordable treatment to Covid-19 patients, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court asked government and civic authorities to explore the possibility of testing and treatment at private hospitals at government rates. To enable this, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala called on authorities to make available medicines and oxygen at government prescribed rates. “One aspect in our mind is in respect of providing consumables and investigation of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals at the government cost. The authorities like divisional commissioner, municipal commissioner, collector, Food and Drugs Department commissioner can arrange for monitoring and supervising all these facilities in private hospitals, so that the cost of treatment is reduced,” the judges said. While hearing a suo motu PIL based on TOI report on beds shortage, they made it clear that all consumables can be obtained in minimum price in bulk and can be supplied to private hospitals at prescribed cost on demand. “It shall be open for these authorities to enter into an agreement with private laboratories and radiologists regarding charges of testing and investigation. It can only be held in recognized laboratory and MRI CT Scan centres with whom the pacts are inked. Those who disagree to reduce rates, their establishments shouldn’t be entitled to carry out investigation and testing of Covid-19 patients.” Flaying the authorities, the judges said they don’t seem to have any plan while granting sanctions for buildings. “Actually, Nagpur city has become a medical hub. However, facilities and services are randomly spread all over, even in thickly populated residential areas, creating problems of traffic congestion.” Before adjourning the hearing till Monday, the judges sought to know facilities made available at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya and utilization of beds along with information on vacant beds at GMCH and IGGMCH. “We’ve come across ‘NSCI dome Covid-19 jumbo facility’ created by Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. We’re told that it’s free of cost. We wanted to know why such facility isn’t made available in Nagpur to cater to patients’ needs,” they asked. The HC directed coordination committee members to provide minutes of their meetings to all respondents along with amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar and Nidhi Dayani, stating that there’s no confidentiality in it WHAT HC SAID * Make available medicines & oxygen at govt prescribed rates to Covid-19 patients * All consumables purchased at minimum price in bulk & supplied at prescribed cost * Authorities can enter into pacts with private labs & radiologists to reduce testing & investigation rates * Both can only be held in recognized laboratory & MRI CT Scan centres with whom pacts are inked * Those who disagree, shouldn’t be allowed to carry out investigation & testing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explore-covid-testing-treatment-at-govt-rates-in-pvt-hospitals-hc/articleshow/78354523.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Consult states and farmers before enacting farm bills||At present, farmers, their organisations, political parties and a few state governments are intensely up in arms against the three agriculture bills passed in Parliament. These bills were promulgated as ordinances by the President on June 5, 2020. The move was widely criticised as a ploy to push the bills clandestinely during the pandemic when Parliament was not in session, and that too without taking into confidence the farmers — the major stakeholders — and also political parties and state governments. The period spanning over three months since the promulgation has seen intense debates in media as well as widespread dharnas, agitations and protests in many parts of the country. The stakes are so high that a Union cabinet minister resigned (supposedly) to make a point that any sacrifice could be made to uphold the farmers’ interests. Of the three bills, the most controversial is the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, while the other two, easing regulations under the Essential Commodities Act and facilitating contract farming, are in a way of complementing and enabling farmers. Punjab being predominantly an agricultural state, it is not surprising to see farmers at the forefront of the agitations. The state, with its reputation of being the country’s food bowl, has a deep interest in public procurement. During 2014-15 to 2018-19, on an average, the state contributed almost 68.7% of the production of its wheat and 84.6% of paddy to the central procurement. It also underlines the role that an arhtiya (commission agent) plays in the APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) markets by earning 2.5% commission on the sales that he mediates in the market. Since private purchase in mandis is relatively insignificant, therefore, an arhtiya earns commission primarily by mediating sale to public procurement. However, under the proposed bill, there is no such provision for commission, and hence, the purchaser in the trade area will undoubtedly save on this account. Two basic objections raised by the state governments, for example Punjab, are: the bill is an attack on cooperative federalism as agriculture is the state subject, and that it will cause immense loss to the state exchequer as the bill prohibits imposition of any tax or levy or fee under any state law on the scheduled farmers’ produce transacted in the trade area. Punjab collected a market fee of Rs 1,830 crore (at the rate of 3%) in 2019-20 and an equal amount — by way of the rural development fund. The state will lose the fee collections that it has been productively using to maintain rural roads and fund other agricultural activities. On the contrary, the bill will benefit private players (the corporates) at the cost of the state as they will be saving taxes/fees which they were supposed to pay if they had purchased it from the APMC market. Whereas transgressing the state subject is in legal domain, the loss to state exchequer should be evaluated in terms of the volume of purchase by the private players in the APMC markets and the corresponding benefits, direct and indirect, that may accrue to the state due to inter- and intra-state sale. The APMC has failed to promote a competitive environment in the mandis leading to market inefficiencies and asymmetrical information. Except for the paddy and wheat where open procurement system at MSP is prevalent, the price discovery in other crop has not been satisfactory. On the other hand, strong fears have been expressed that the bill will lead to exploitation of the marginal and small farmers (87% of the farming community) at the hands of the corporates. There is substance in this argument as these farmers tend to have poor bargaining power. The primary issue, therefore, is what safeguards are being provided in the bills to protect the interests of the farmers so that they get remunerative price for their crops. A provision of minimum fair price for the crops in the Bill will allay the real fears in the minds of the farmers. On the other hand, organising farmers in collectives as farmer producers organisations (FPOs) will greatly improve the bargaining power of the farmers — marginal and small included. Punjab has recently notified its policy on FPOs which is a welcome step. In addition, the central government should continue the present procurement policy that enables the MSP system. In addition, the central government should consult the agriculturally dominant states and the farmer organisations before taking a final call on enacting the bills directed at agricultural reforms. The writer is RBI Chair Professor at the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/consult-states-and-farmers-before-enacting-farm-bills/articleshow/78355138.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop on the run after shooting at woman friend||NEW DELHI: A sub-inspector with Delhi Police allegedly shot at his woman friend in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Sunday. The accused has been identified as SI Sandeep Dahiya. He is currently at large and raids are being conducted to nab him, police said. The woman is admitted at a hospital and has undergone surgery. Her condition is stable. Initial details suggest that Dahiya became friends with the woman on Facebook. The woman works at a private company. Dahiya is married but his relationship with his wife is allegedly strained. On Sunday evening, Dahiya called the woman to meet but the two had a heated argument in his car. The sub-inspector then took out his pistol and shot at the woman thrice. He then dumped her on the road and fled the spot even as another cop spotted the woman lying on the side of the road and informed the police. He also took her to a hospital. The cops have registered an FIR of attempted murder and are waiting for the woman to give a statement. Commenting on the incident, a Delhi Police spokesperson said: “Information was received at PS Alipur from SI Jaiveer, posted in PS Shahbad dairy of outer north district, that while crossing Sai Mandir on GTK road, he spotted a woman lying by the road. He immediately put her in his car and rushed her to a nearby hospital.” “On the way, the woman said that she had been shot by SI Sandeep Dahiya, presently posted at PS Lahori Gate. The victim and the accused are in a relationship for the past year. The shooting took place in the midst of a quarrel between them while they were in his car,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cop-on-the-run-after-shooting-at-woman-friend/articleshow/78354569.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||Government to hold meeting with departments to review ease of doing business||PANAJI: Amidst criticism about the ease of doing business in the state, the government has decided to review the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 2020. It has asked all departments to collate data and inputs about their ease of doing business (EODB) action points. The department of Industries Trade and Commerce (DITC), department of information and technology (DoIT) and Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB), have called for stakeholder consultations from Monday onwards. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, which reports to the Union ministry of commerce and industry, has identified 300 action points or reforms for the states to undertake as part of an annual exercise to improve the investment environment in the country. “DITC, DoIT through GEL and IPB will be holding consultations with various departments for appraising the implementation status of the action points of the BRAP for the improvement of the state’s ranking in the BRAP 2020 exercise. A schedule for such consultations has been worked out,” the government said in a statement. The government statement comes days after Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) said that the BJP-led government is least concerned about the industry. GSIA president Damodar Kochkar said that chief minister Pramod Sawant had failed to look into the issues that led to Goa slipping from 21 to 24 in DPIIT’s ease of doing business ranking. IPB has hired Ernst & Young as consultants to assist the state in improving its ranking. There are 300-odd action points in the BRAP 2020 exercise based on which states will be judged. On Monday, consultation will be held with the department of Labour and Labour Welfare Board, factories and boilers, Goa Pollution Control Board, legal metrology, Goa Industrial Development Corporation, fire and emergency services, PWD, town and country planning and forest. Consultations with departments of municipal administration, Goa police, panchayat, tourism, revenue, traffic, registration and sub registrar and finance will be held on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the departments of electricity and electrical inspectorate, excise, commercial tax, water resources and central groundwater health, transport, education, entertainment society of Goa, agriculture, geology and mines, chief controller explosives, civil supplies, and national highway authority of India will meet to discuss the action points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-hold-meeting-with-depts-to-review-ease-of-doing-business/articleshow/78354568.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: How gangs from Rajasthan, Jharkhand con people remotely||CHENNAI: A tiny tweak in the procedure to receive and process cybercrime-related complaints in the city has yielded rich dividends, both for victims and police. Those affected are now able to get their complaints registered, as the new norms enable them to lodge a complaint with jurisdictional police stations. Earlier, under a centralised regimen, cybercrime complaints were entertained only at city police headquarter. On their part, police have now mapped the cybercrime graph well and worked out the modus operandi of different gangs operating from different corners of the nation, specialising in specific nature of frauds. For instance, the gang uploading fake Facebook profiles of police officers and enticing people to part with money operates out of Bharatpur in Rajasthan. A ‘bank loan’ and ‘account verification’ gang operates from Jamtara in Jharkhand. A Delhi-based gang operates an illegal call centre that targets elderly people. If it is job racket, then a gang based in Haryana or Nigerian gang operating in Jharkhand is responsible. “Now we know where to head to the moment we receive a complaint of bank fraud, phishing or job racket,” said deputy commissioner of police V Vikraman. Swindlers looted at least Rs 3 crore through cyber tactics on the internet in the last five months alone, according to records with the Chennai City police. The decentralised cybercrime units, inaugurated city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on August 1, comprise four to six police personnel led by a sub-inspector of police, who has either studied or acquired knowledge in computer technology. Police say the 12 new cybercrime units, which function under each deputy commissioner of police, have resolved 57 complaints and retrieved about Rs 22.81 lakh from fraudsters’ bank accounts. A cybercrime wing police, which went to Jamtara village in Jharkhand managed to freeze about Rs 3.5 crore deposited in seven separate bank accounts in a top suspect’s name. Inquiries revealed that these accounts were opened only four months ago. Police have tracked IP addresses in several cases to Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Delhi and Haryana. Cases were booked for fraudulent transactions using debit/credit card, online lottery, fake OTPs, loans and employment, said a cybercrime wing police officer. They have also collected details of debit/credit cards of cyber gangs that run a “fake job portal”. Since the onset of the pandemic and lockdowns in March, the number of cybercrimes, particularly those that rely on cash transactions, has spiked. Recently, a businessman in Alwarpet received a call from a woman claiming to have sent an expensive watch as a birthday gift to him. She even made arrangements for a “customs officer” to speak to him. The “officer” who was her accomplice, told the businessman that he had to pay a customs duty of Rs35,000 to get the watch that was worth Rs10 lakh. When the woman sought help, the businessman transferred the money. “It took him some time to realise he had been duped,” said an inspector of police of the cybercrime wing in the commissioner’s office, who was a part of the special team that busted the infamous OLX scam. “They speak to their targets through social media and befriend them by sending texts and videos on social media,” he said. On most occasions, the accused and their accomplices operate from the same room. Watch Chennai: Tiny tweak helps police solve cybercrime cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-gangs-from-rajasthan-jharkhand-con-people-remotely/articleshow/78353384.cms||A Selvaraj
September 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Couple end lives after married son elopes with girl in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Agonised by their married son’s elopement with a girl from the same ‘gotra’, a couple committed suicide by hanging from a fan at their house in Masuriya locality here on Sunday morning. Their older son, who was at home during the incident, raised alarm after finding his parents hanging in their room. Relatives from neighbourhood rushed to the spot and took them to a hospital, but they were declared brought dead. According to Dev Nagar SHO Som Karan, Vishnudutt, 48, and his wife Manju Devi, 45, had been living with their two sons, both married, in Shramikpura in Masuriya area. “Meanwhile, the younger son eloped with a girl of their own community and ‘gotra’ three days ago and the couple was under stress due to this step of their married son,” said the officer. He said that due to the trauma caused by their son’s elopement and a sense of social stigma caused by this, the couple hanged themselves from the fan in their room on Sunday morning. Interestingly, both the parents had been seen attending to daily morning chores before taking to suicide. The official said that the family members and police tried contacting the eloped son, but his phone was switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/couple-end-lives-after-married-son-elopes-with-girl-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78355148.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal returns to meetings in gurdwaras||PHAGWARA/HOSHIARPUR: The political battle for Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has entered a new and tougher phase after severing ties with BJP. Now, the entire focus is on reclaiming panthic and farming base of the party. Gurdwaras are once again becoming venues for meetings of the Akali Dal. Notably, the party has already announced to take out processions from three Sikh Takhts – Akal Takht, Damdami Sahib and Kesgarh Sahib – to take a delegation to meet the Punjab governor at Chandigarh on the issue of agri-marketing bills. All the three meetings addressed by Badal on Sunday in Rohpar, Hoshiarpur and Phagwara were held in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) controlled historic gurdwaras. These meetings were held to mobilise party cadres for the October 1 processions. At Ropar the meeting was held at Gurdwara Bhatha Sahib, in Hoshiarpur it was in Gurdwara Chhevin Patshahi Purheeran and at Phagwara – where it was joint meeting of district Kapurthala and Jalandhar – it was held at Gurdwara Suchchainana Sahib. In last few years, usually meetings were taking place in air-conditioned venues like hotels or palaces mostly. Several meetings were also jointly held with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Only occasionally Akali Dal’s meetings were held in gurdwaras that too at local levels. The shift in the venue also means leaving chairs and sitting on ground. “For years Akali dal has been taking its panthic vote base for granted but now after it has lost part of its hold among Sikh voters, BJP has shown how much it cared for its alliance partner. As Sikh and farmer base overlaps to a major extent, party leadership is now desperate to reclaim its base. It has little option but to return to the panthic idiom and symbolism with more aggression,” said a senior SAD leader. However, district Jalandhar SAD president and Nakodar MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala said palaces were not having permission to hold big meetings and they were left with no choice but to hold meetings at gurdwaras. SAD secretary and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema, who organised the meeting at Anandpur Sahib, also said palaces were closed and they were left with no other option but hold meetings in gurdwaras. Boxes: Modi never held meeting with NDA partners in 6 years After showering praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for over six years, when it was usually projected that the Union government would heed to whatever issues they flagged, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said in the last six years not even a single meeting with presidents of NDA allies were held. “Not even once Modi has called even for a tea party of presidents of parties who are part of NDA,” Badal said while addressing party leaders and workers at Phagwara. Sikh activists hold protest during Sukhbir’s meeting As Sukhbir came to address the meeting at Gurdwara Sukhchainana Sahib, Phagwara-based Sikh activists held a protest by holding placards about missing Birs of Guru Granth Sahib. They sat near the place where shoes are kept. SAD or SGPC leaders and workers did not disturb the activists. After Badal left, former SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and SGPC member Sarwan Singh Kumar spoke to the activists. Bibi told them that only the SGPC employees indulged in wrongdoings and there was no malafide at the level of SGPC leaders. She also explained the reasons that why the case was not being given to police. However, Alliance of Sikh Organizations leader Sukhdev Singh countered her on different points. While both sides exchanged their points, no acrimonious language was used and there was no heated exchange.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-dal-returns-to-meetings-in-gurdwaras/articleshow/78355136.cms||IP Singh
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Sandhu, Bittu attack SAD on breaking alliance with BJP||LUDHIANA: The Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD) decision to part ways with its oldest ally BJP has given a chance to its arch rival Congress ammunition to launch an all-out attack against SAD. Terming the decision as a big drama, Captain Sandeep Sandhu, political adviser to chief minister, Punjab, has asked SAD president Sukhbir Badal to clear that what benefit Punjab and its farmers got from SAD breaking alliance with BJP. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu also lashed out against SAD on breaking alliance with the BJP. Taking a dig at SAD, Sandhu said, “Like always this is another drama by the Badals, who are known for their double standards. First, SAD got these anti-farmer bills passed in the Union cabinet and later, when the Badals realised that day by day the anger of farmers of Punjab was rising against these bills, they took a complete U turn. First Harsimrat Badal resigned from the cabinet and now SAD broke alliance with the BJP to play the sacrifice card. But this time unfortunately for them , they got exposed in front of every Punjabi and as a result they got no sympathy from the public on their drama.” Sandhu added, “The way both SAD and BJP have tried to destroy the farmers, no one will forgive them. Whether it’s the farmers of Punjab or general public, people will teach them a lesson through their votes in all upcoming elections. People have already started questioning Sukhbir, his wife and other SAD leaders that when they had supported these bills initially then didn’t they knew that they are backstabbing the farmers of Punjab.” Bittu said, “This is a cheap publicity stunt of SAD and reminds me of the old saying ‘sau chuhe kha ke billi haj ko chali’. After being part of this unholy alliance, which has taken anti-farmer, anti-poor, anti-worker and ant- businessmen decisions, thereby destroying every section of society, Badals have ended this alliance. SAD leaders are under wrong impression that this stunt will help them regain the lost ground but reality is the other way round and regardless of anything they do, their sins will not be forgiven and this act may well prove to be the beginning of end of their petty politics in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sandhu-bittu-attack-sad-on-breaking-alliance-with-bjp/articleshow/78353413.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 7k Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,923 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,75,674 as the toll rose to 5,708 with 45 more people succumbing to the disease. The cumulative recoveries crossed the six-lakh mark to touch 6,05,090 with 7,796 getting discharged. There are currently 64,876 active cases with an overall recovery rate of 89.5%. East Godavari reported 1,006 new cases on Sunday, followed by West Godavari (929), Prakasam (659), Chittoor (577), Guntur (535), Nellore (506) and Srikakulam (503). East Godavari continued to lead the infection table with 94,190 cases. The neighbouring West Godavari stood second with 64,433 cases. Seven districts have at least 50,000 confirmed infections as of Sunday, while Krishna is at the bottom with 26,487 cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 76,416 samples on Sunday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 12% as the state logged in over 56 lakh tests as of Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-7k-covid-19-cases-45-deaths/articleshow/78354537.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Onion prices start climbing down, consumption rises||Hyderabad: Onion prices, which had the consumers teary-eyed in the last couple of weeks as it shot up to around Rs 70 per kg in the retail market, have started becoming slightly affordable this week. The prices in the retail market on Sunday were between Rs 56 to Rs 59 per kg. Retail store owners in the city said that the drop in prices have improved their sales as more people are buying them in bulk. “Unlike the last couple of weeks, we have more people coming forward to buy onions in bulk quantities after the prices have gone down below Rs 60. In the beginning of the month, majority of them would only buy half a kilogram or one kg depending on their requirement. Now that the prices have come down, it seems like the consumption has also increased,” said G Lakshmi, a retail store owner in Moosapet. Attributing the price stabilisation to the damaged produce due to heavy rains and government’s ban on export of all varieties of onions to foreign countries, the traders and officials of Agriculture Market Committee (AMC) said that the prices are likely to further come down or remain stable for the next few days. “The produce that is currently being released into the market yard is from the crop which was harvested in February in Maharashtra. Since, there is a ban on exports now, the stock in Nafed which used to be exported earlier, might be released to the markets in Telangana due to which the prices might not increase further,” said Vijay Kishore, assistant secretary, AMC. “The prices might also see a decline if the produce which has been damaged due to the recent rains is sent to the markets in the coming weeks. As per the information, the new crops have been damaged in Kurnool and Mahabubnagar areas so far,” said Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/onion-prices-start-climbing-down-consumption-rises/articleshow/78354542.cms||Moulika.KV
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid: Festivals a worry for govt||Vijayawada: The upcoming festive season may come with new challenges for Andhra Pradesh government in the fight againt Covid-19 pandemic. Dasara celebrations will see a huge influx of people from other parts of the country, according to railway reservation data and projected demand for buses. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-festivals-a-worry-for-govt/articleshow/78354561.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||‘Student was shot dead for refusing marriage proposal’||Jaipur: In the murder of the college student in Jaipur on Saturday morning, cops have found that the accused wanted to get married to her but she apparently refused. He acquired a country-made pistol from Uttar Pradesh. The accused was sent to three days police remand on Sunday. During the questioning, police found that he had planned the murder just few days back after the victim distanced herself from him. The woman, Garima Jat, 21, had come from Jhunjhunu to appear for her final year BSc exam when the accused, a native of Dholpur and nephew of a former sarpanch, shot her after she came out from the college around 10:15 am on Saturday. The accused was identified as Vishnu Choudhary (23). Rahul Jain, DCP, Jaipur East said, “It appears to be a case of unrequited love and while the accused had bought the weapon two months back, he planned the murder just few days back. He got the pistol from a village in UP which is close to Dholpur as well.” The accused has no criminal history but had come well prepared and carried the pistol as well as the knife in a school bag when he reached the college. At the time of the arrest, the accused was completely in his senses and police did not find any evidence of intoxicants. Vishnu first stabbed Garima in the throat and then shot her in the stomach. Vishnu, who hails from Dholpur’s Umrara village, was staying in Jaipur while Garima had returned home to Jhunjhunu’s Pujari Ki Dhani village during the lockdown. She had returned for the college examination only few days back and was staying at her maternal uncle’s residence. The two were known to each other after having met at the coaching centre in Jaipur where they were preparing for RAS examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/student-was-shot-dead-for-refusing-marriage-proposal/articleshow/78355145.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||Covid curbs out, Uttarakhand hotels see 80% bookings for October 2 weekend||MUSSOORIE/NAINITAL: Hotels in the hill state of Uttarakhand had been allowed to open their doors to guests in June. But for four months, bookings did not pick up. And then in the last week of September there was a sudden spurt, with nearly 80% bookings for the long weekend coinciding with Gandhi Jayanti. The difference? The easing of Covid checks. Till September 23, every tourist entering the state needed a Covid-19 report, those without a report had to undergo compulsory quarantine for seven nights, and had to stay a minimum of two nights to be able to book a hotel room. So, the cautious interest did not translate into great business. Starting last Tuesday, all that a visitor needs to do is register on the Dehradun Smart City site. And with that, hotel registers have started filling up. “The hotels that have opened across Uttarakhand have had 70-80% bookings for the long weekend around October 2,” president of the Uttarakhand Hotels Association, Sandeep Sahni, told TOI. Hoteliers expect the curve to be an upward one. “Hotels across the state are looking at a 30-40% increase in business (compared to last month) starting October,” Sahni added. For the tourism-dependent state, this means a big push to the slowing economy. The state budget this year had allocated Rs 285 crore to tourism development, with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who also holds the finance portfolio, calling it the “mainstay of livelihood of the people of Uttarakhand.” When the lockdown started, he had expressed his concern about the impact on the sector. “The day the state government eased rules, we got 50 calls about availability of rooms,” said Ved Sah, who runs Alka Hotel in Nainital. The phone had been silent all this while. “People want to get out, visit hill stations. This should help them and us.” A large number of calls have been from Delhi, hotel owners in Nainital said. “Online bookings have started trickling in as well,” said Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of the Mussoorie Hotels Association, without going into exact figures. In all, business is picking up. There have been some teething problems. “It seems information about the new guidelines has not reached officials on the ground. Some of our guests complained they had been stopped by police officials while entering the state or entering Nainital. But we expect that to get resolved,” said Dinesh Sah, president of the Nainital Hotel and Restaurant Association. What about the Covid curve in the meantime? “As the economy opens up, the risks increase. So, it is important for us to follow the SOP and every protocol in place,” Sahni said. The fresh rules, notified on September 22, allow hotels to come up with their own procedure to allow tourists. If a guest tests positive, the hotel management has to notify the district administration which, in turn, can conduct random checks to make sure health ministry guidelines are being followed. Locals are apprehensive. “The borders have been thrown open. This will surely lead to an increase in Covid infections. With abysmal health infrastructure, it will be bad for us,” a resident of Nainital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-curbs-out-uttarakhand-hotels-see-80-bookings-for-oct-2-weekend/articleshow/78352278.cms||Anmol Jain
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu: Central region reports 11 fresh deaths, southern dists 10||TRICHY/MADURAI: With 622 fresh Covid-19 cases, the central region tally on Sunday climbed to 50,032, which include 5,167 active cases. The region also recorded 11 deaths taking the toll to 697. Meanwhile, the southern region of the state reported 563 fresh cases and 10 deaths, taking the tally to 1,09,947, which include 5,404 active cases. The ten districts have so far recorded 1,02,701 recoveries and 1,842 deaths. Tirunelveli recorded 111 new cases on Sunday, the heighest in the region, though the active cases remained at 904. Kanyakumari, with 92 new cases has the highest number (980) of active cases in the region. Madurai reported 82 new cases taking the number of active cases to 738. Except for Theni (76), all other southern districts, including Virudhunagar (50), Tuticorin, (42), Dindigul (39), Sivaganga (30), Tenkasi (30), and Ramanathapuram (11) reported 50 fresh cases or less. The 10 deaths in the region were reported from Dindigul (2), Tirunelveli (2) and one death each from Kanyakumari, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, and Theni. The total deaths in Tirunelveli are 198. The district death rate is 1.6%, which is just below the regional and state average. The Covid-19 death rate of the southern region is 1.7%. In the central TN, Thanjavur reported 190 cases taking the tally to 10,551. Tiruvarur recorded 123 fresh cases, taking the total count to 6,950. Pudukottai and Trichy recorded 96 and 83 positive cases. Meanwhile, Pudukottai district witnessed three deaths on Sunday. Covid cases were also reported in Nagapattinam (41), Karur (38), Ariyalur (37), and Perambalur (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-region-reports-11-deaths-southern-dists-10/articleshow/78354560.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Armed robberies in Kalamna, Ganga Jamuna residents threatened||NAGPUR: A spate of armed robberies in Kalamna kept cops on the toes on Saturday while on Sunday an offence was registered at Lakadganj police station after a goon threatened residents of red-light locality of Ganga Jamuna for Rs1,000 at knife point. On Saturday, three armed goons decamped with sweet lime worth Rs23,000 from a man who had parked his vehicle at the fruits market in Kalamna to load the consignment. The goon threatened the driver, Shaikh Imran, at knife before leaving the place with the fruits. An offence was registered at Kalamna police station. Later in the evening, armed goons robbed Vijay Wasewad and Deepak Pal at knife point at different places and fled with their mobile phones. Another offence was registered at Kalamna police station. In the latest incident of extortion, Lakadganj police booked Manoj Satnami for threatening women at Ganga Jamuna for Rs1,000 per person if they wished to continue earning livelihood in the red-light locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armed-robberies-in-kalamna-ganga-jamuna-residents-threatened/articleshow/78355141.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Doctors perform brain surgery on Covid-19 patient||MADURAI: Doctors at a private hospital in Madurai have successfully performed brain surgery on a 43-year-old Covid-19 positive patient with grievous head injury. The patient has now made full recovery and has shown no signs of ill health even in follow-up. On August 22, the man from Tuticorin had suffered a head injury, received first aid and was shifted to a private hospital in Madurai on referral. “During diagnosis, it was revealed that he was Covid-19 positive and also required a brain surgery. Surgery also had to be performed immediately without delay or his condition was in danger of worsening further,” said Dr Ganesh Kumar, consultant neurosurgeon at Velammal Medical College Hospital. The doctor added that the patient’s Covid-19 positive status posed high risk for doctors and the patient. The surgery was then performed by a team of doctors led by Dr Ganesh Kumar. “Since we had to cut through the bone to perform the surgery, it posed risk of aerosol spread. Viral load would also be high. However, with all precautions in place, the surgery was performed successfully. Post surgery, the patient was treated for Covid-19 as well and he made rapid recovery,” said the neurosurgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-perform-brain-surgery-on-covid-19-patient/articleshow/78354535.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Madurai||With no govt guidelines, special schools take to blended learning||Madurai: At a time when reopening of regular schools has become a challenge owing to the pandemic, it remains even a distant dream for schools catering to the children with special needs. Stuck as they are, special schools in the city have started conducting learning sessions for special children online and offline. However, as the worried parents struggle to ensure proper care, special educators are hoping for some directives from the government for the welfare of special children. “For children with special needs, it is a tough challenge for parents every day to keep them engaged and just at home in the pandemic situation. Over time, this loss of routine, not going out, especially if the child is requiring physiotherapy, can lead to a big setback in their development,” said Jeyapal A, founding member, Bethshan Special School, Madurai. Many special schools have slowly started introducing online classes for at least 30 minutes per day. Schools are also asking parents to bring their children for physiotherapy sessions in limited numbers. Activities and worksheets are also being provided online and offline for students to keep them engaged. “We saw positive responses for online classes as it was something new and exciting for the children. The idea was to bring a routine for the children and something they can look forward to,” said Jeyapal. Roshan Fathima, general secretary, Indian Association for Blind (IAB), Madurai, said that they are holding online classes through an audio-conferencing system. “To increase the effectiveness of teaching, the teacher also sends pre-classroom reading materials and recording of the session at end of each day via WhatsApp or email. Special attention is given to the slow learners by providing smaller cluster of classes with different virtual meeting rooms,” she said. Some schools are holding both online classes and offline classes, with special educators visiting the children’s homes. “For our hearing-impaired students and children with intellectual disabilities, we are making short videos for them to learn simple concepts. Special educators visit children with intellectual disabilities at their homes to teach them and give them therapy,” said J Shamila Doris, correspondent, YMCA Kamak Higher Secondary School. Educators said that special education is highly necessary and the government must act soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-no-govt-guidelines-special-schools-take-to-blended-learning/articleshow/78354540.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||Man dumps six-year-old son in water tank in Barmer||JAISALMER: A man murdered his 6-year-old son by throwing him into a water tank and fled in Baytoo police station area of Barmer. Police recovered the body from the tank. On the report by child’s mother, police have lodged a case under Section 302 against five persons including the boy’s father. Baytoo SHO Lalit Kishore said that Sugani Devi, a resident of Huddo ki Dhani in Baytoo area of Barmer district, gave a report that her husband Jeharam alias Devilal would regularly beat and harass her and their children. On Thursday around 7pm, the accused beat his wife and children. The couple had a fight after which the woman went to her parents’ house, leaving the two kids behind. The man left his younger kid at his brother’s house and threw his elder son Vikram in the water tank and fled from the spot. On Saturday, when the woman returned to her home, she felt a foul smell coming from the tank. She spotted her son’s body in the tank and informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-dumps-6-yr-old-son-in-water-tank-in-barmer/articleshow/78355146.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||Kanota deaths: Police seize diaries of jeweller||JAIPUR: In the suicide of the jeweller’s family in Kanota on September 19, cops have seized half-a-dozen diaries which have been sent to FSL. Police have completed questioning all the persons of interest in the case. The family of four had been found hanging at their residence and in the suicide note, the deceased had cited financial duress as the reason behind them taking this step. “We have confiscated several diaries in which the deceased had kept accounts of their business. We are hoping that these diaries will lead us to more in-depth knowledge about the deaths. At present the debt owed by them appears to be the reason behind the mass suicide,” said an official who is part of the investigation. The deceased were Yashwant Soni, 45, his wife Mamta Soni, 41, and their two sons Ajit, 23, and Bharat, 21. While the bodies of Yashwant and his two sons were found hanging in the courtyard of their residence, Mamta’s body was found hanging in one of the bedrooms. They all had used ‘sari’ to hang themselves and the case got more intriguing as the feet of the two sons were tied together loosely to ensure that the feet do not touch the ground. Yashwant’s father had also committed suicide by shooting himself with a revolver. The deceased jeweller was also under heavy debt and himself had attempted suicide last month by slitting his wrists. Both sons also apparently worked with him and their bodies were found by his brother who just the previous night had assured the family that they would pay off the debts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kanota-deaths-police-seize-diaries-of-jeweller/articleshow/78355171.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Police clueless on checking robberies, snatchings in Gill road area||LUDHIANA: Gill road area has been the most vulnerable area when it comes to robberies. In recent times, several such robberies and snatchings have been reported from this area. Though almost all robberies have been solved, however, Ludhiana police have not been able to come up with a concrete plan to curb such incidents. Gill road area is among the busiest areas with Punjab’s biggest iron and steel raw material trading market, scrap market, hardware market, cycle parts trading and fastener market. Therefore, the availability of cash is obvious there. Thereafter, several banks are also in this area, where these traders deposit and withdraw cash for trading. All these factors are enough to make this area prone to cash snatchings and robberies. Raj Kumar Singla, president of Fastener Suppliers Association, Ludhiana, said that several snatchings and robberies have been reported in this area lately. This area specifically is the hub of trading. With such loot cases, we get worried while keeping cash with us or while depositing and withdrawing it from the nearby banks. I feel that there is a need to increase the presence of police in this particular area. Besides patrolling, the police administration should establish some checkposts also. The presence of police here may definitely help in curbing such crimes. Recently on September 22, Upinder Gupta, a factory worker was robbed of Rs 8 lakh in cash by four miscreants on two bikes near Pratap Chowk. The accused sprinkled chilli powder in Gupta’s eyes, attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon before fleeing with the cash. Prior to that, some miscreants had robbed a factory owner of Rs 5.57 lakh near Millar Gunj. In this case the police arrested all accused, including a worker of a factory. On September ,1an employee of a bearing and oil store, Dholewal, was robbed of Rs 2.80 lakh outside IndusInd Bank, Gill road. According to police another worker of the store, along with his accomplices, who were in need of money, had executed the loot and were also arrested by police. The owner of a travel agency on Gill road said, “There are so many offices in the inside lanes in which small crimes like thefts and mobile snatching go unreported. The presence of police and surveillance of CCTV cameras is a must here.” Box- Some previous cases June 12- Four masked assailants, impersonating as courier delivery boys executed a robbery of Rs 7 Lakh at an office of an industrialist on Gill road in broad daylight. The accused struck there within a few minutes of a man coming there with a payment of Rs 5.28 lakh. The accused tied up two workers and the man who came there to give payment with ropes after threatening them with a gun  March 4- Three miscreants looted a jewellery shop owner Davinder Singh, 47, at gun point on Gill road. The accused threatened the man at gunpoint and escaped with 1kg gold jewellery February 17- Five robbers barged into the Gill road branch of IIFL Gold Loan, kept employees hostage and decamped with 30 kg gold jewellery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-clueless-on-checking-robberies-snatchings-in-gill-road-area/articleshow/78353418.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Build on your strength to create physically fit society||Sky is the limit in the field of strength coaching, if done with proper planning, efforts and dedication. Students can go for a bachelor’s degree in the field, but a master’s is preferable, which is also becoming a norm among budding strength trainers. Some majors for the degree course include exercise science, exercise physiology, physical education and athletic training. There are a few courses which one can consider after a bachelor’s degree in any other field as well. But certification is necessary. To be a certified trainer, student is expected to learn an exercise science programme if he/she do not possess a fitness related degree. Without a degree, there is an option to work as a private coach, but that limits the options of employment as a professional trainer. Other option is to pursue a diploma course. The duration for courses vary, depending upon their type. Master trainer Madhuri Sakpal said, “Even in this field, education matters like in any other career. A trainer must be aware of the science behind the training.” According to her, salary packages are not limited and a person can excel according as per ability. She said, “Fitness industry is something which is never going to shut down, the demand and scope is increasing rapidly.” After completing the course or while doing it, people must consider doing internships. It gives you chance to start with coaching athletes, which would prove helpful in not only connecting with professionals but also add to experience. Where most of the internships are unpaid, some offer a modest compensation. Fitness trainer Makrand Pawar said, “The demand for professionals in this field is increasing due to rise in number of leagues for sports like cricket, kabaddi, soccer, kabaddi, etc.” On job options, he said that one can work as fitness coach, cricket fitness coach, fitness expert, gym manager and more. Post-secondary education and certifications are important, but a person must put in efforts to practice what has been learnt daily. Without practice, the abilities get limited. As this is a practical field, a person learns more from personal training than just reading books. WHY OPT FOR THE FIELD - Increased demand for professionals - Provides a stable income. Advantage of earning by pursuing passion - Promotes a healthy and active lifestyle - Better chances of recognition PROFESSIONALS SPEAK Gym professionals are much in demand. They must possess proper knowledge about various exercises and focus on increasing their strength Atul Neware Students can choose from which include bachelor’s, master’s, diploma and various other certification courses to become a certified trainer Gyani Kaushik Certification course is a must and gain knowledge about body, impact of certain exercises and so on. Start as an intern, freelancer, personal trainer etc before start working as an athletic trainer, exercise physiologist, physical therapist, sport trainer and more Abdul Gulbar Theoretical knowledge is not enough, practical application is equally important. Not every exercise can be suggested to all. This understanding is developed with practically training Anushree Ashwekar This field promotes a healthy lifestyle. Strength training as a career brings lot of options. If a person is passionate about fitness, nutrition, and a healthy lifestyle they should definitely get into this field. Now, people are also doing online coaching. Rutwik Bhishikar EXPERT VIEW: Aashay Hatkar — Senior Fitness Expert Fitness instructors needed more than ever Our day-to day life has become very hectic, which is adversely affecting our mental and physical well being. Keeping ourselves fit for better functionality has become one of the basic needs of every human being. People have started realizing the importance of fitness. Almost 8 out of 10 people are doing some or the other activity to keep themselves fit but they seek professional guidance and a proper structured workout plan. This is where fitness instructors come into picture. They not only give you precise guidance but also add variations in the process, which keeps a person active and fit. Calculated elevation in intensity of workout is equally needed for avoiding injuries during the journey. Professional certified fitness instructors adhere to safety norms and demonstrate exercises in a correct way for injury-free execution. Demand such professionals is increasing day by day. It is a very good career choice for the those who are want to enter sports field as well. Every athlete, irrespective of nature of the game, requires a certain level of fitness and that’s where professional fitness instructor or strength and conditioning coaches play a big role. There are lots of national and international private institutes and associations that offer certification courses that can land you jobs in various sports with decent salaries. Even freelancers can earn handsomely depending upon their knowledge, experience and expertise. Being a professional in this field changes perception towards health and well being. (Compiled by Janhavi Dave)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/build-on-your-strength-to-create-physically-fit-society/articleshow/78354600.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Qaida module: NIA makes 7th arrest in Domkal||KOLKATA: The National Investigation Agency on Sunday arrested another person from Murshidabad for his alleged links with the “Pakistan-sponsored module of al-Qaida”. This is the seventh arrest from the district in the past eight days. The accused, Shamim Ansari, will be taken to New Delhi for further interrogation. After the simultaneous raids in Murshidabad and Ernakulam last week, NIA busted the module and arrested nine persons, including six from Bengal. The agency was, however, looking for a few more people linked to the module. Ansari, a resident of Naodapara in Domkal, was picked up on Friday and quizzed over his involvement. According to sources, he was responsible for procuring arms and ammunition for the module. “Ansari was produced before CJM Murshidabad and his transit remand has been taken,” said an NIA official. A neighbour of Al Mamun Kamal, Ansari was also working in Kerala and used to visit his family at times. However, he returned after lockdown was imposed and was staying at his Domkal house. Locals said Ansari went out in the evening after the six persons were arrested and came back in the morning. NIA officials nabbed him on Friday night when he was sneaking out of his home. His mother Mafura Dewa said, “My son worked as a construction labourer in Kerala. He came back and started selling vegetables at a local market. He is a religious person since childhood and never had any connection with terror groups.” Ansari’s brother Mustafa said they were still in the dark about his arrest. “What is his crime? He is being framed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/qaida-module-nia-makes-7th-arrest-in-domkal/articleshow/78355143.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 28, 2020||Chennai||When a Class XI student tried to ‘avenge’ his rejection, online||CHENNAI: “It took us two weeks to close in on a suspect who posted obscene messages and details of a woman on Instagram. He turned out to be a Class XI student," said sub-inspector Maharajan. The juvenile invited people to watch live a nude video of the woman, and mentioned her mobile number, and specified a particular date and time, too, he said. In his case, though he was a juvenile, police insisted that he be detained in a correctional facility for boys and girls, as it was his second incident. Earlier, the boy circulated a morphed photograph of his teacher who had chided him in the classroom. It spread in the WhatsApp group among his school friends. Maharajan said: "We received a prompt reply from the Instagram main server office located in the US and we were able to trace the boy’s IP address." Inquiries revealed that the boy fell in love with a girl studying in another school in the neighbourhood. As the girl stopped talking to him, he was worried. During the lockdown, as the girl stayed home, he wanted to meet her. But the girl ignored his calls and blocked him. The juvenile then created a fake identity on Instagram and uploaded a post. "The mobile number uploaded by the boy was that of the girl’s mother. She rushed to cybercrime police after she was flooded with calls from strangers," said Maharajan. The juvenile remained brazen during inquiry and told police that he dubbed the girl a ‘call girl’ just to create a ‘sensation’. He, however, deleted the mobile number after coming to know that it belonged to the girl’s mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-a-class-xi-student-tried-to-avenge-his-rejection-online/articleshow/78353423.cms||A Selvaraj
September 28, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for murder of youth from Sodala||JAIPUR: Police arrested two accused in the murder of a youth from Sodala who was killed by his two friends in Todaraisingh police station area in Tonk district on Friday and his body was found on Saturday morning. The deceased was identified as Amit Acharya, 27, while the accused named in the FIR were Sonu and Vikas, both in their mid-20s. Todaraisingh SHO Amar Singh said, “We arrested the duo from Jaipur and the motive behind the murder as told to us by the accused is that the victim was in a relationship with Sonu’s sister which he did not appreciate and wanted Acharya to end it.” The accused under the pretext of going to Bisalpur took the victim with them on Friday from Jaipur. It appears that they never reached Bisalpur and also consumed alcohol on the way. While no missing person’s report was filed, the victim’s body was found on the highway near Malpura. The accused made Acharya consume alcohol following which they strangled him using a cloth before dumping the body in a shallow water body close to the highway. A case of murder has been registered against the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-murder-of-youth-from-sodala/articleshow/78355170.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal doctor gifts 25-year-old a new lease of life||YAVATMAL: A 25-year-old on the verge of losing a limb after an accident got a new lease of life as orthopaedic surgeon Dr Nilesh Yelnare came to his rescue and offered his services free of cost. The youth Vaibhav Dilip Deshmukh, only breadwinner in the family residing in Pandharkawda tehsil, worked as tile fitter at construction sites. He had met with an accident in which his one knee was badly damaged. Some doctors had even told him that he would never be able to stand on his legs. Because of economic conditions, Vaibhav could not afford costly treatment or surgery. Responding to a plea by Vaibhav’s mother, municipal councillor of Pandharkawda Bunty Juawe approached Dr Yelnare who examined the patient and agreed to operate the youth. Dr Yelnare and his team successfully performed the operation recently and the youth was discharged from the hospital on Thursday and sent back home hale and hearty. Talking to TOI, Dr Yelnare said he is satisfied with the speedy recovery of the patient and added that such a difficult surgery was seldom performed in a small place like Yavatmal. Vaibhav will be able to resume his work within a fortnight, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-doc-gifts-25-yr-old-a-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/78355254.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD, BJP play blame game over alliance break up||LUDHIANA: With SAD breaking the almost two decade old alliance with the BJP over farm bills, local Akali leaders are considering this step a wise decision even as the BJP leadership considers these in favour of farmers. However, both parties’ leaders claimed that they were ready to contest upcoming elections on their own. SAD district president Ranjit Dhillon said, “This alliance was done to improve the Hindu-Sikh relations in Punjab and since then the environment in Punjab had changed for good. But for the past six years we were being ignored continuously even then we kept on supporting BJP at every level.” He said BJP ignored that party leaders who had supported them when they had only a handful of seats in the Parliament. Regarding future alliance with any other party, he said this decision had to be taken at core committee level, but they have candidates on all 117 seats in the state. Meanwhile, SAD MLA from Dakha constituency Manpreet Ayali said this decision was the need of the hour and all party workers were demanding this for a long time. However, state vice-president of BJP Parveen Bansal said, “SAD has broken this alliance, not the BJP, so they can tell why they have taken this step. As far as BJP is concerned, we have achieved from just two seats to 303 in the Parliament. We have done it at our level in Haryana and in Maharashtra, so we will do it in Punjab as well. We are prepared for any challenge in the coming days.” BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said, “In 2017 assembly polls we lost because of Akali Dal and their misdeeds. People had asked us to break this alliance at that time only but we continued with them. Even now they have broken the alliance, not us.” He said party was ready to contest all 117 seats in Punjab and if he got an order right now, he had six clean image candidates for constituencies of Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-bjp-play-blame-game-over-alliance-break-up/articleshow/78353430.cms||---
September 28, 2020||India||Uma carried on with yatra despite docs’ Covid advice||DEHRADUN: Former Union cabinet minister and national vice-president of BJP, Uma Bharti, who visited Badrinath temple on Thursday, was found Covid-positive late on Saturday. Last week, on Monday, the former minister had come in contact with state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat who, on Wednesday, tested Covid-positive. Sources said that Bharti, too, was advised by doctors not to travel for a few days as she had come in contact with a Covid-positive person but she nevertheless continued her journey to Badrinath temple. Meanwhile, in a series of tweets, Bharti said, after testing positive on Saturday, that she had gone into isolation at an ashram situated between Haridwar and Rishikesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uma-carried-on-with-yatra-despite-docs-covid-advice/articleshow/78355604.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 28, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, 70 hot springs in Himalayas identified for producing electricity||Dehradun: In a first-of-its-kind project in the country, over 70 hot springs — around 40 in Uttarakhand and 30 in Himachal — have been identified which have the potential to produce electricity. The springs were identified by scientists at Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG). Talking to TOI, Kalachand Sain, director of WIHG said, “The process of studying the springs is continuing. Most of these springs can generate as much as 5 MW electric power.” He added that as part of the initiative to tap these springs for power generation, WIHG last week inked an MoU with Jaydevm Energies Private Limited, a private firm, to generate 5 MW electricity from Tapovan hot springs in Chamoli’s Joshimath area. “A geothermal energy plant would be constructed in Tapovan hot springs. WIHG scientists would provide technical assistance in the construction of the plant,” Sain said, adding that “the water temperature is around 89-90 degrees Celsius at Tapovan hot springs and hence, it is a good place to start the geothermal project.” Similar geothermal projects would be set up at the other identified hot springs as well, the WIHG director said. Sameer Tiwari, the WIHG scientist who is heading the Tapovan project, said that hot springs — ranging from 28 to 98 degrees Celsius — are abundantly available in the Himalayas in Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh. “In Uttarakhand, there are a number of hot springs around religious places at high-altitude locations like Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath, and Kedarnath,” he said, adding that “at Tapovan, the power production company has already started work.” He further informed that a pilot project on the same lines was being conducted in Chumathang (Ladakh) where the power from a hot spring heated a restaurant with six rooms round the clock, with additional support from solar power. Santosh K Rai, another scientist from WIHG involved in the project said that the infrastructure of the project may cost four times higher than thermal power plants, but once set up, the cost of production will be four-to-five times lesser. “The reason for the high cost in geothermal is that the parts of the plant and other necessary elements are not commonly available in the market. However, we can make up later as production cost is lesser. This project will cost around Rs 150 crore,” added Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-70-hot-springs-in-himalayas-identified-for-producing-electricity/articleshow/78352293.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka unveils tourism policy, plans Rs 410-crore sops||BENGALURU: On the World Tourism Day on Sunday, chief minister B S Yediyurappa unveiled a new tourism policy with a five-year vision. The Karnataka Tourism Policy 2020-25 aims at shoring up the Covid-hit sector by generating 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs, and attracting an investment of Rs 5,000 crore in five years. The policy looks to provide sops of Rs 410 crore to 190 projects in the state. It also proposes to promote rural tourism, inviting visitors to experience farming as well as cultural activities. A UN body has designated 2020 as the Year of Tourism and Rural Development. Disbursal of subsidies of Rs 410 crore will bring in a minimum investment of Rs 2,789 crore to the state tourism sector, the policy states. The investments are expected to create or expand 190 tourism projects. The maximum investment is expected in premium hotel projects, while a minimum of Rs 90 crore is likely to be invested in agricultural, cultural, heritage and safety, and hygiene tourism. The culture of Lambani and Adivasi communities will be given impetus. “The policy aims to ensure visitors to this beautiful land take back cherishable experiences,” said tourism minister CT Ravi. A 360-degree marketing strategy will be adopted to promote Karnataka in domestic and key international markets, said the minister. “Karnataka’s USP ‘One State, Many Worlds’ will be leveraged to attract higher tourist footfalls,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-unveils-tourism-policy-plans-rs-410-cr-sops/articleshow/78355373.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Seven arrested over violence in village near Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Police arrested seven people after two groups engaged in a violent clash in Bengti Khurd village in Phalodi near Jodhpur on Sunday afternoon. A vehicle was also torched during the clash. Reportedly shots were fired too, but there was no confirmation from police. SHO Suresh Choudhary said that three people were injured in the clash from both the sides, of whom one was seriously injured. “We have arrested seven people from both the sides, including one Saddam, for setting a vehicle ablaze during the clash,” Choudhary said. According to him, some people from village Indagol had come to attend a wedding function in Bengti Khurd where they had an altercation with some people over an old issue. “This altercation turned violent with both sides attacking each other. A vehicle from the other group was also set ablaze,” Choudhary said. There were allegations of firing also, but police did not confirm it. “We have registered two cases from opposite sides and are investigating the allegations of firing,” said the officer. Situation, meanwhile, is under control and police have been camping in the village as a precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/7-arrested-over-violence-in-village-near-jodhpur/articleshow/78355164.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen want Udhyam registration to be simplified||LUDHIANA: Launched three months back the Udyam registration portal of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) ministry has received good response from city businessmen, but they are demanding government assistance for new registrations and migration from the old system of Udyog Adhar registration. Though several businessmen have got themselves registered on the portal and generated the Udyam certificate, which is a type of registration of the central government for the MSME industry, it is being reported that the process to fill online form is lengthy and complex, which is not possible for every businessmen to complete easily. Giving more information, Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “Udyam registration is a great initiative launched by the central government for the MSME industry. On the basis of this certificate the businessmen can get easy financing for their venture but can also become eligible to avail of the benefits of schemes for various sectors. But as far as the process of registering on the Udyam registration portal www.udyamregistration.gov.in is concerned, it’s a bit tough for majority of the businessmen from the city, who are not tech-savvy. Therefore, the government should take immediate steps to resolve this issue so that more businessmen can come forward to get themselves registered and avail of the benefits.” According to Rajesh Bansal, president of All India Tiny and Small Manufacturers Association, “The scheme of Udyog Adhar registration has now been replaced with Udyam registration by the MSME ministry. We know that the registration is for the benefit of the industry, especially micro and small units. But the only hurdle is the process of registration on the new portal and migration of old Udyog Adhaar numbers to the Udyam certificates is the complex system of registration, which is very difficult for us. Until the process of registration is made smoother, majority of the MSME industry will not be able to reap the benefits of Udyam scheme of government.” Meanwhile, reacting to the concerns raised by the businessmen, Gurpreet Singh Kahlon, member of MSME board of India, said, “I have noted the concerns of the industry with regard to the difficulties being faced in getting the Udyam certificates. At this moment due to coronavirus, we cannot organise physical camps for the registration but we will definitely try to start some online orientation and awareness sessions for the interested businessmen, so that they can learn about the process and easily register themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-want-udhyam-registration-to-be-simplified/articleshow/78353448.cms||Mohit Behl
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||In Covid-19 fight, other epidemic disease cases drops drastically||Bengaluru: The Covid-19 pandemic may have wreaked havoc across the globe, killing close to a million people and robbing livelihoods of many more, but it has had a welcome fallout in Bengaluru — a remarkable decline in other epidemic diseases. As per Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) records, dengue and chikungunya, the most common viral epidemics, has declined drastically — by 84% and about 50% respectively. The city recorded only 1,295 cases of dengue till Sunday (September 27) this year compared to 7,273 cases in the same period last year (from January to September). Chikungunya cases have dipped from 210 to 100 during the period. There were 1,101 recorded cases of ARI/Influenza like illness (ILI) last year, but this year, the number has fallen to 635. “Epidemic diseases other than Covid-19 have touched the lowest level this year compared to the last three years. We are analysing the reasons,” said Dr BK Vijayendra, BBMP chief health officer (public health). While experts say under reporting is largely to blame, N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, sought to attribute the unexpected positive development to the spirited fight against the pandemic. He said as part of the fight against Covid-19, the civic agency has carried out extensive sanitisation and fumigation drives and, as a result, mosquito density has drastically fallen in the city. “The lockdown also contributed to the cause,” Prasad said. “Since people’s movement was restricted and commercial activities had come almost to a standstill, the amount of waste produced was far lower than average. What perhaps played a bigger rile is social distancing rules. The spread of infection was automatically controlled because of social distancing norms people followed for Covid reasons.” Vijayendra also said the production of mosquito larva fell remarkably this year because of steady rains. “Normally, to beat drinking water scarcity, people would store water in plastic drums which are the main sources of larva. This year, it was not the case since there was no drinking water scarcity. Also, steady rains washed away larva breeding points, cleansing a large part of the city,” said Vijayendra. However, experts and stakeholders, while concurring with BBMP officials to some extent, insisted the low record of cases was largely due to under reporting. “The lockdown and sanitisation drives besides less stagnant water may have cut mosquito density to some extent. But, the main reason is undoubtedly under reporting. Most of those who were infected evidently did not come forward to report for fear of testing positive for Covid-19,” said epidemiologist Giridhara R Babu. Dr HM Prasanna, orthopaedic and president elect of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said the spread of chikungunya has not declined as drastically as is being projected. “We receive cases of chikungunya at our hospital every day,” Dr Prasanna said. “The difference, compared to last year, is that people are coming to the hospital only at a stage when the disease is aggravated.” He said dengue cases are overlapping with Covid-19 cases since patients would invariably test positive for the virus. “Both diseases are similar in that they require hydration treatment. While 99% of dengue patients don’t require platelet transfusion, they would be cured by Covid-19 treatment. This is also a reason why there is a low record of dengue cases this year,” Dr Prasanna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-covid-19-fight-other-epidemic-disease-cases-drops-drastically/articleshow/78352300.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Temperatures likely to dip from next week in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhiites are likely to get relief from the hot and humid weather with India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting a drop in temperatures from next week. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said, "From next week onwards, both the maximum and minimum temperatures will start decreasing by at least two degrees." He added, "The monsoon has withdrawn from west Rajasthan and as the weather is dry in the capital, the monsoon will withdraw from here in two-three days." On Sunday, the maximum temperature stood at 36.2° Celsius, two notches above the normal. The minimum temperature, meanwhile, settled at 23.2° Celsius, one notch above the normal. The capital's humidity level hovered between 79% and 49%. Delhi's AQI was at 117, in the moderate range on Sunday. SAFAR, a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, on Sunday said the AQI has improved marginally due to the high ventilation and rainfall in Rajasthan, which has reduced dust intrusion. "Favourable ventilation condition is likely to keep Delhi's AQI in the moderate category," SAFAR's report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/temperatures-likely-to-dip-from-next-week-in-delhi/articleshow/78355609.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Varanasi||Pilgrims’ passage from ghat to KV Dham reality soon||VARANASI: In yet another step towards the realization of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream project of accessing Kashi Vishwanath temple from the Ganga through KV Dham (corridor) project, the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) has approved the design of jetties at Lalita Ghat, key access point from riverside. And to ensure that the over Rs 700 crore KV Dham project does not miss its August 2021 deadline due to Covid-19 lockdown delay, work will resume on war footing from October 10 with over 2,000 labourers being engaged per day. Pure white Makrana marble consignments will also start reaching the project site soon. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said on Sunday, “After finalisation of detailed project report of KV Dham project in 2019, drawing of jetties proposed at Lalita Ghat had been sent to IWAI for approval. “We received IWAI’s nod on Saturday. The proposed jetties have been designed in such a way that they remain in use round the year except peak flood season, when boating also remains prohibited, added Agrawal. Since the nod has come and then flood season is getting over, the construction of jetties will also begin soon. Once the project is ready, people can alight at Lalita Ghat from boats and directly reach KVT, he said. Like all others, KV Dham project was also hit by the lockdown, though work restarted immediately with relaxations. Still the construction work is delayed a bit and only 15% work could be completed against the target of 16.5% by September-end. Currently, nearly 900 labourers are working at the site, where foundation work is on the verge of completion, Agarwal said. “The number of labourers could not be increased due to unavailability of space for accommodating labourers at the project site. Now a school campus has been identified where labourers will stay and 2,000-2,500 labourers will start working per day from October 10 to speed up work,” he added. The work has to be completed fast as consignments of 40,000 sqft pure white Makrana marble will start arriving in phases after three-four months, said Agarwal. The KV Dham project had started immediately after formation of BJP government in state as chief minister Yogi Adityanath sanctioned a budget of Rs 600 crores for it in December 2017. As many as 296 buildings were purchased and razed for to create a 75 mt wide corridor in five lakh sqmt area from the banks of the Ganga to Kashi Vishwanath temple. PM Modi had laid the foundation of this project on March 8, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pilgrims-passage-from-ghat-to-kv-dham-reality-soon/articleshow/78355186.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Twin babies die, kin say hosps denied treatment||KOZHIKODE: In a tragic incident, a pregnant woman who faced delay in getting medical treatment while she was on labour from Manjeri government medical college and from two other hospitals, lost the twin babies she was carrying on Sunday at the Kozhikode government medical college hospital where she was finally admitted on Saturday evening. The woman was allegedly denied timely treatment by the hospitals citing Covid-19 protocol. The 20 year old Shahala hailing from Kizhissery in Malappuram had recovered from Covid-19 and discharged from the Manjeri medical collge on September 15. The woman’s husband, N C Shareef, said that his wife was taken to the Manjeri medical college at 4.30am on Saturday for delivery, but the hospital authorities maintained that currently only Covid-19 positive patients were being treated at the hospital and after examining her at the labour room she was referred to the Kottaparamba government hospital in Kozhikode. Shereef said that his wife experienced severe labour pain on the way to the hospital and when they reached the Kottaparamba hospital at 1.38pm, they were told that there was no doctor at the gynaecology department and was referred to the Kozhikode MCH. After hospital authorities themselves suggested that it is better to seek treatment at private hospitals considering the rush at Kozhikode medical college, Shareef telephoned a hospital at Omasery but they insisted that an RT-PCR test result showing Covid-19 negative was needed for admission. The woman was then taken to KMCT Medical college at Mukkam who agreed to provide treatment and the antigen test conducted on her was negative. After she was subjected to scanning, the woman was referred to the Kozhikode MCH where she was admitted at 6.30pm on Saturday. The woman experienced bleeding and a C-section operation was conducted on Sunday but the twin babies had died. Shereef demanded action against the doctors of the Manjeri medical college and that it is unfortunate that the antigen test certificate issued to show recovery from Covid-19 is not being recognized by private hospitals. Malappuram DMO K Sakeena said that she has sought a report from the superintendent of the Manjeri medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/twin-babies-die-kin-say-hosps-denied-treatment/articleshow/78353505.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University teachers to go on relay strike over dues||NEW DELHI: The tussle between DUTA and Delhi government does not seem to be dying down anytime soon. The varsity’s teachers’ association has called for a relay strike in the university for four days over allegedly releasing only partial funds to colleges. Fifteen colleges will cancel classes as a part of the strike. DUTA criticised the government for releasing “inadequate” funds for six colleges while not paying any money to the other six that are under audit. “The government has set a bad precedent for funding for colleges by connecting it to formation of Governing Bodies. Whatever may be the reason behind withholding funds, there is a limit to what teachers will tolerate,” said the president for the teacher’s body, Rajib Ray. A rolling cluster-wise strike will start from Monday and go on till October 1. There will be a ‘Satyagraha’ on the first two days of the protest. “We do not want to halt the teaching-learning process, but the strike is the least we can do to fight for our rights,” Ray added. Delhi government had on September 22 released funds for six fully funded Delhi University colleges that are not under any special audit. However, teachers alleged that the fund is not adequate and only covers the pending salaries till July. Responding to DUTA’s strike, Delhi government said complete funds due for six colleges have been paid. “The salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff can now be paid. The funds for the remaining colleges can be released once the audit is over,” said a government official. “The colleges did not show any papers to the auditors till they were asked to do so by Delhi High Court. As soon as the total revenue of the college known, Delhi government will provide the remaining funds, which is the net deficit between total revenue and total expenditure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-teachers-to-go-on-relay-strike-over-dues/articleshow/78354637.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: More estranged couples file social media hacking complaints||PUNE: Data provided by the Pune cyber crime police shows that as many as 450 of 508 complaints related to hacking of accounts on social networking sites received so far this year are from estranged couples. There has also been a significant increase in the number of such cases that were filed last year. In 2019, the cyber crime police received 443 complaints related to hacking of accounts on social networking sites. Usually, the social media accounts mentioned in the complaints are such where individuals post photos, videos and text. “Often, it has been found that the men or women filing the complaints are not on talking terms with their estranged spouse due to a pending divorce or domestic violence case,” cybercrime police inspector Jayram Paygude told TOI. Paygude said, “After hacking the accounts, the men or women have shared photographs or chat details with their relatives in order to seek revenge on each other. In a majority of the cases, the men or women had shared their Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) with each other in better times but they did not change their PINs after their relationship went south. Using the same PINs, they have uploaded defamatory pictures, text or shared pictures and other details. In some cases, they also checked old texts on the online messenger service,” he said. “Of the total 508 cases, a large number of complaints have been filed by women against their husbands stating that they have misused their photographs to defame them. In some cases, the men saved photographs of their wives without their consent and have created a similar profile on the social networking site defaming her,” he said. “Actually, there are very few cases of hacking where the persons involved are not sparring spouses. In many cases, it was found that the men and women have shared their PINs of their social networking accounts with their spouses. Either men or women have misused the PINs after they parted ways. They just forget that they have shared the PIN and do not change them after separating,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-estranged-couples-file-social-media-hacking-plaints/articleshow/78353496.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||After crash, pandemic now sends chicken prices soaring in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Although it is the slack season, chicken prices in Bengaluru have hovered around Rs 200 per kg for the past three months in Bengaluru and those tracking the poultry sector blame it on Covid-19. Manjesh Kumar Jadhav of the Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Broilers Association told TOI: “There are two factors at play: Reduced production capacity and increased demand.” Jadhav pointed out that the supply side took a beating in January and February following rumours and fake news linking Covid-19 to consumption of chicken. There were few takers for chicken across the state and prices dropped to less than Rs 40 per kg. Karnataka, which used to consume 10,000 birds per day, witnessed a 30% fall in production. The poultry sector suffered losses of about Rs 4,000 crore between January 15 and April 15 and as a result, more than 100 of the nearly 500 producers closed down, denting the production capacity. When the medical fraternity dispelled rumours linking chicken to Covid-19 and amplified the benefits of consuming chicken and eggs, saying it would build immunity, the demand for chicken shot up, so much so that even during the slack months (Shravana and Karthika lunar months), the price continues to be high when it should have actually fallen. Jadhav said: “While the farm gate price of chicken during slack periods is around Rs 60 per kg and the retail price around Rs 130-140, the trend has been different in the past three months. The farm gate price is around Rs 100 per kg and the retail price of chicken continues to be around Rs 220.” Yet, many broiler farmers are still struggling to come to terms with the initial impact of the pandemic. Manjunath V Thawde, a broiler farmer for 20 years in Hubballi, told TOI: “I lost Rs 25 lakh in just two months. Only I know how hard it was for me to arrange that money. I don’t have enough money to even start again and banks are asking for collateral security which I don’t have. I’ve never seen anything like this. We incur losses every year, but we normally get by. This situation is choking.” Narendra K Pasuparthy, CEO of Nandu’s chicken, a leading retailer in the meat market, said, “About 90% of chickens are slaughtered in Bengaluru. In February, March and April, the government was still figuring out how to contain the spread of the virus. They were trying to keep the entire city clean which is why they did not allow slaughtering of animals within the city.” He said the meat market has taken a beating of nearly Rs 25,000 crores across the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-pandemic-sends-chicken-prices-soaring-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78352325.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Baner-Pashan Link Road hit by water shortage||PUNE: Even as the four dams that supply around 50% water to the city have almost reached to full capacity, around 30 housing societies on Baner-Pashan Link Road are dependent on water tankers since the last 15 days as they are not getting adequate water supply from the Pune Municipal Corporation. The area has had a history of water shortage, but this monsoon, residents of some housing societies said the pressure in the taps has been particularly low. Others reported that they were now heavily reliant on private water tankers, with some societies paying for six to seven tankers per day to meet their requirements. The residents said their complaints have evoked template responses from the civic administration, such as, ongoing maintenance work and air build up in pipes. The residents stated that the PMC was yet to take any concrete action to restore the full supply. The ward officials, however, claimed that they had notified the higher authorities of getting low pressure of water from Chandni Chowk distribution centre, due to which the remaining area was also being affected. Rajendra Chutar, president of Baner Pashan Link Road Residents’ Vikas Samitee (BPLRVS), said, “We have about 60 societies and over 50% of them are facing acute water shortage. While some societies are not receiving any water, others are receiving supply for a short duration at very low pressure. My society gets six tankers per day with each tanker costing around Rs1,000.” Another resident, Rajeev Gupta, said that even though many people had registered complaints on the PMC helpline application and also called up the water department, there had been no response. Santosh Lanjekar, deputy engineer at PMC water department in Aundh ward office, stated that the issue was beyond their jurisdiction and was therefore forwarded to the senior authorities for resolution. “We are receiving low-pressure water supply from Warje-Chandni Chowk distribution centre, which supplies the water to the low lying areas of Baner-Pashan, among others. Due to the low pressure from Warje itself, the pressure is reduced later on as well. Secondly, a pipe burst at Pashan pumping station a few days ago also created a lot of problems in terms of supply. We feel there was some foul play involved and are investigating the matter. We have notified our senior officers of the issue and this will be resolved soon,” Lanjekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/baner-pashan-link-road-hit-by-water-shortage/articleshow/78353508.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Six months on, KIMS-Hubballi set to resume non-elective surgeries||Hubballi: In good news for non-Covid-19 patients, Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, is set to perform elective surgeries for the first time since the pandemic struck seven months ago. Dr Ramalingappa Antartani, director, KIMS, said, “Keeping administration and MCI guidelines in mind besides demand from patients, surgeries will resume soon. RT-PCR and RAT test will be compulsory before surgeries.” When the nationwide lockdown was announced, the director of KIMS has sent out a circular to all the doctors and department heads to put off all elective surgeries. KIMS used to perform almost 50,000 surgeries every year. However, doctors continued to perform life-threatening, serious and lifesaving-surgeries even during the lockdown. In fact, the gynaecology department performed the highest number of Caesarean section deliveries. Doctors say elective surgeries must be performed as non-Covid patients are also suffering. Postponing surgeries may worsen the condition. “Many patients at KIMS are from surrounding districts who seek treatment for various health ailments. We have had to turn away poor patients who cannot afford joint replacement, knee, shoulder and other surgeries and they have had to return to their native places. So resuming elective surgeries is a good idea,” said one doctor. Another doctor said, the virus will remain and it’s not possible to postpone surgeries indefinitely. “By taking adequate precautions and donning all protective gear, we can perform surgeries. There could be a huge backlog which needs to be cleared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/six-months-on-kims-hubballi-set-to-resume-non-elective-surgeries/articleshow/78352455.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 28, 2020||India||Ex-Bihar DGP joins JD(U), tipped to get Assembly poll ticket||PATNA: Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joined JD(U) on Sunday in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar, making a swift transition to politics within five days of taking voluntary retirement from a police career marked by controversies such as his statement about actor Rhea Chakraborty not having the “aukat” (stature) to question his boss’ stand on the Sushant Singh Rajput case. “I was influenced by the working style of Nitish Kumar from the very beginning. This is why I decided to join the party led by him,” Pandey said after stepping out of the CM’s residence. On whether he would contest the assembly election in November, the former state police chief said, “It is not for me to decide. Now, I am a disciplined sepoy of JD(U). Whatever decision the party brass takes, I will follow. The onus is on them to utilise my services.” The 1987-batch IPS officer is tipped to get a JD(U) ticket to contest a seat either in his native Buxar or the neighbouring Bhojpur district. Pandey could also be considered for the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat that fell vacant after the death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahto, a senior party functionary said. While the ex-DGP’s plunge into politics didn’t surprise anyone, he had played his cards close to his chest until Saturday, when he met Nitish to “thank him for his support” and claimed that they “didn’t discuss anything political”. Watch Bihar polls: Ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joins JD(U), opposition allege 'abuse of position'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-bihar-dgp-joins-jdu-tipped-to-get-assembly-poll-ticket/articleshow/78355616.cms||---
September 28, 2020||---||Ex-Bihar DGP joins JD(U), tipped to get Assembly poll ticket||PATNA: Former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joined JD(U) on Sunday in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar, making a swift transition to politics within five days of taking voluntary retirement from a police career marked by controversies such as his statement about actor Rhea Chakraborty not having the “aukat” (stature) to question his boss’ stand on the Sushant Singh Rajput case. “I was influenced by the working style of Nitish Kumar from the very beginning. This is why I decided to join the party led by him,” Pandey said after stepping out of the CM’s residence. On whether he would contest the assembly election in November, the former state police chief said, “It is not for me to decide. Now, I am a disciplined sepoy of JD(U). Whatever decision the party brass takes, I will follow. The onus is on them to utilise my services.” The 1987-batch IPS officer is tipped to get a JD(U) ticket to contest a seat either in his native Buxar or the neighbouring Bhojpur district. Pandey could also be considered for the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat that fell vacant after the death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahto, a senior party functionary said. While the ex-DGP’s plunge into politics didn’t surprise anyone, he had played his cards close to his chest until Saturday, when he met Nitish to “thank him for his support” and claimed that they “didn’t discuss anything political”. Watch Bihar polls: Ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joins JD(U), opposition allege 'abuse of position'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ex-bihar-dgp-joins-jdu-tipped-to-get-assembly-poll-ticket/articleshow/78355580.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal's Hamidia hospital adds new oxygen unit in record time||BHOPAL: Largest tertiary care hospital in Bhopal is creating a record of sorts by adding additional 6KL oxygen facility. The facility will cover for 240-beds new Covid-19 wing of the hospital at a time when oxygen supply is in short supply. The new oxygen supply would be operational from Monday. “The new oxygen facility was installed on Sunday. The new wing would be operational in two days,” said Bhopal divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyawat. The divisional commissioner is also head of Gandhi Medical College (GMC) autonomous body. Hamidia hospital is an associated hospital of GMC. During Covid-19 hospitals are using many times more oxygen than it ever previously had. The challenge to keep oxygen flowing has been compounded by shortages in supply. Hamidia hospital by adding new tanks has covered for need and can store more oxygen. Demand for medical oxygen has exposed many hospitals. However, by adding to existing facility Hamidia hospital has set an example for others to replicate. “We have a government contract for supply of LMO and oxygen cylinders,” explained Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr ID Chaurasia. The supply oxygen cylinders are an issue, he added. 6KL has been installed. We have 2 KL tanks in TB hospital. In Hamidia hospital we have 4KL tank in trauma unit. The main hospital has 7KL of oxygen supply which is the oldest unit, he explained. ICU beds are almost full in the hospital. The medical oxygen is needed for all the 300 plus COVID-19 beds in the hospital. High-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) overcomes flow limitations of low- and intermediate-flow devices and delivers up to 60 L/min, he added. AIIMS Bhopal also awaits installation of LMO in the entire hospital. A section of the hospital is dependent on portable oxygen cylinders. Similar is the case for Hamidia hospital. State government clarity on oxygen price cap awaited: Hospitals in the state capital are in a fix over supply of oxygen. Discrepancy is linked with supply of oxygen. However, hospitals are awaiting state government clarification on the matter a day after National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) decided to cap the ex-factory price of LMO at manufacturers end at Rs15.22/cubic metre (CUM) exclusive of GST. It is subject to the transportation cost fixation at the state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hamidia-hosp-adds-new-oxygen-unit-in-record-time/articleshow/78354671.cms||Jamal Ayub
September 28, 2020||Kanpur||Covid recovery rate in Jhansi crosses 85%||JHANSI: Two Covid patients died while 42 persons, including a doctor, tested Covid positive in Jhansi on Sunday. The total number of Covid deaths has climbed to 149. In other news, the recovery rate in Jhansi has surged to 85.38%, which is higher than the state and national average. As per the medical bulletin released by Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi, total number of positive cases in the district is 7,097, of which 5,299 have been discharged so far including 50 discharged on Sunday. Presently, active positive cases in the district are 888. Of these, 179 are symptomatic—29 severe, 74 moderate and 76 mild in nature. The total number of Covid deaths is 149. The case fatality rate (CFR) of Jhansi stands at 2%. Presently, 761 patients are in home isolation in the district. The two Covid patients who died on Sunday include a 63-year-old-man from Civil Lines and a 60-year-old man from Khatibaba. Both were undergoing treatment at Jhansi Medical College. Meanwhile, DM Vamsi, in a meeting with the private pathology lab and nursing home owners, informed them that they will be provided with Covid antigen kits, and in turn, they will be conducting free tests in their labs. Anyone who wants to get tested, will have to provide an Aadhaar card and fill up a prescribed form by ICMR. He further informed that the administration has set a target of 5,000 tests per day. For this, around 100 private nursing homes have been roped in. A late night review meeting was held on Saturday, headed by MD, UP Jal Nigam, Vikas Gothanwal, who is also the Covid nodal head of the district. During the meeting, he informed that Jhansi is among the 16 districts of the state which record more than 50 positive cases (on an average) daily. It is necessary to work on reducing the rising numbers. The administration has to focus extensively on tracing and testing. He also suggested spreading more awareness among the masses about the necessity of wearing masks and adhering to social distancing norms. Gothanwal said the police have an important role to play in this regard. He also appreciated the working and arrangements of the L1 hospital in Jhansi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-recovery-rate-in-jhansi-crosses-85/articleshow/78355200.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traders’ body seeks leeway on numberplates||NEW DELHI: In a letter written to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and transport minister Kailash Gahlot, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Saturday said that while Delhi government’s public notice for affixing High Security Registration Plates (HRSP) and colour-coded fuel stickers is a welcome and much needed step, vehicle owners should be given time till December 31 before a drive against violators is started. Gahlot said that while he is yet to see the letter, “adequate time will be given to all for compliance”. In a public notice on September 22, the transport department had said it will start an enforcement drive soon against vehicles without HSRP and fuel stickers. In the letter, CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said that there are more than one crore registered vehicles in Delhi and only 236 Vehicle Dealers have been authorised to fix HSRP in the city. “Practically, if 236 authorised centers work 24 hours even then they will not be able to meet the deadline while adopting social distancing norms,” Khandelwal wrote. “The issue needs to be looked at from a practical angle and the date should be extended till December 31, enabling vehicle owners to comply with the notification,” he wrote, adding the number of authorised centres should be increased too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-body-seeks-leeway-on-numberplates/articleshow/78354720.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: 46 attacks on police reported from January||PUNE: As many as 46 cases of attacks on police personnel trying to enforce traffic or face mask rules have been reported since January under Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerates. The Pune police commissinerate recorded 20 such cases. Pimpri Chinchwad accounted for 26. The latest incident occurred at Hinjewadi traffic branch around noon on September 24. Two persons abused, roughed up and pushed assistant inspector Umesh Londhe after he acted against one of them for illegally ferrying people in a private vehicle.  Police later arrested the duo — Santosh Manjulkar (41) of Pashan and Udaram Ghachi (38) of Wakad — and registered a case under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 352 (assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC. Inspector Sunil Dahiphale said the Hinjewadi police had taken action against one of the two arrested men for illegally transporting people in a private vehicle.  “On September 24 afternoon, he came to the traffic branch with the other person and started arguing with the officer. When Londhe warned them of legal action, they abused him and pushed him down,” Dahiphale said. A businessman, along with his employee from an establishment in Nana Peth, was arrested on September 23 evening and his brother-in-law was booked after a constable lodged an FIR accusing them of assaulting him when he told them to pay fine for not wearing face masks. Pune’s additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “At least four cases of attack on police personnel have been reported recently and overall, 20 cases were recorded. Police personnel have been told to deal politely with people. Yet, most cases are due to disputes arising from action against traffic rule violations and, now, wearing of masks.” Additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde said, “In the interest of public safety, we have launched a drive against people not wearing masks.” “We are requesting those found violating the mask rule to follow the norm. We want people to follow the guidelines on their own, without the police enforcing them,” he said. Shridhar Jadhav, Pimpri Chinchwad’s assistant commissioner of police, said traffic police were like brand ambassadors of every police unit as they dealt with people daily. “They have been trained to be polite and on how to talk with people. It is unfortunate people resort to unruly behaviour when acted against for rule violation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/46-attacks-on-police-reported-from-january/articleshow/78353525.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 28, 2020||Kochi||Changanassery MLA C F Thomas passes away||KOTTAYAM: Changanassery MLA C F Thomas passed away at a private hospital in Thiruvalla on Sunday. He was 81. Thomas died of a cardiac arrest while under treatment at Believers Church hospital in Thiruvalla at around 10am. He was admitted to hospital on September 19. He was undergoing treatment for cancer for the last two years. Thomas represented Changanassery in the state assembly for over four decades and was a former minister and deputy chairman of Kerala Congress (M). He served as the minister for registration and rural development in the UDF government in 2001-2006. Thomas entered politics in 1956 as an activist of KSU, the student wing of Congress. He joined Kerala Congress in 1964 and was a founder member of the party. He was elected to the Kerala legislative assembly in 1980, 1982, 1987, 1991, 1996, 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016, representing the Changanassery constituency. He had been a close aide of K M Mani ever since the formation of Kerala Congress. However, after Mani’s death, Thomas decided to stay with P J Joseph, the rival of Mani’s son Jose K Mani. He was born to C T Francis and Annamma on July 30, 1939. He did his schooling from SB High school and completed graduation from S B College. He completed BEd from NSS training college. He worked as a teacher for 18 years till he first contested elections in 1980. His mortal remains will be kept for public homage at the parish hall of Metropolitan church in Changanassery at 11am. Funeral will be held at 3pm at the church cemetery with state honours. He is survived by wife Kunjamma. Saiju, Sini and Anu are children. Leena, Bobby and Manu are in-laws. Changanassery municipal chairman Sajan Francis is his brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/changanassery-mla-c-f-thomas-passes-away/articleshow/78353523.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||Govt, not CM, interfering in GIDC: Ticlo||Panaji: While continuing to blame the government for preventing the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) from functioning efficiently, GIDC chairman Glenn Ticlo said the blame could not be attributed to chief minister Pramod Sawant. The Aldona MLA said that he reiterates the BJP-led government’s resolve to bring in clean and job creating industries to the state. “I had said that the government is not allowing the corporation the space required for effective functioning but not once did I refer to the chief minister, except praising his dynamism,” said Ticlo while responding to the criticism voiced by Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Refuting the Porvorim MLA’s claim that BJP MLAs were speaking against the chief minister, Ticlo said it was Sawant’s vision that has led to the establishment of India’s first Maritime Cluster (Konkan Maritime Cluster) at Verna. Ticlo said that under his tenure as GIDC chairman, Commscope (Andrew Telecommunications) is expanding operations in Goa and 50-odd Goan entrepreneurs are setting up the Konkan Maritime Cluster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-not-cm-interfering-in-gidc-ticlo/articleshow/78354749.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Students opt for a gap year, prefer on-campus learning||PUNE: Professional courses aspirants in the city are willingly taking a break this academic year and beginning afresh from 2021-22 academic year given the uncertainty in the current year. The trend is especially noticed in students willing to take up fresh admissions to courses such as law, hotel management, business management, among others. Many said they were willing to take up short-term online certificate courses instead and begin degree courses from the next session given the fact that half the year had already gone by with no productive move towards education. A business administration aspirant, Sakshi Shelar, had planned to take admission to a master’s course in a city college but the Covid-19 situation made her rethink her decision. “There is no end to this current dicey situation with the admissions and all we are hearing is just postponement of dates everyday. It is taking a toll on me and I am not sure how the admissions will pan out. So, I decided to take a drop this year and start my course from next year,” she said. Devansh Shah, an engineering aspirant, said, “I have given all the engineering entrance examinations and I will also be appearing for the state entrance for engineering but that will only be for practice. I have decided in consultation with my coaching tutor that I will be dropping this year and giving the entrance tests all over again next year to start the new academic year from 2021-22,” he said. Professor of law at a deemed university in the city, Sukrut Deo, saidthe gap year is especially seen in those who are going in for professional courses because these important years are to make a career. “Nearly 40% of students who take admission for law at our university are from outside so moving out from their hometowns at this juncture looks difficult for the outside students,” he said. A hotel management aspirant, Vaishnavi Bhaduri, was keen on taking admission to the Maharashtra State Institute of Hotel Management and Catering in Model Colony, but has other plans now. Bhaduri said, “A course in hotel management requires hands-on training and there is no alternative to it. Online teaching in hotel management does not work even if it is for the initial months. The half-yearly pattern in the normal academic year ends in October and we are just a month away from it. So, half the year is already gone. We do not know what the future is going to be like so I thought it will be better to take a break now and start next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-opt-for-a-gap-year-prefer-on-campus-learning/articleshow/78353520.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Professionals in Bengaluru: Farming to beat urban stress||BENGALURU: Professionals in Bengaluru are increasingly investing in farmland and agro-forestry, in a bid to beat the stress of their busy urban lives. For many, it’s a way to stay in touch with their agricultural roots, while for others they are havens for quiet weekends with their families. For Naresh R, 33, a break from his everyday hectic routine meant a visit to his ancestral farmland in Tamil Nadu, where he would spend at least 10 days. But with the nationwide lockdown, the techie says he realised the uncertainties of life and the market. “Two friends of mine and I decided to invest in two acres on the outskirts and we began a business of sheep rearing,” Naresh said, adding that they plan to build a two-bedroom outhouse to serve as a holiday home. “The extra time during the lockdown gave us a chance to plan the venture.” A homemaker says she decided to convert a piece of family land near Bannerghatta into farmland. “I realised we couldn’t keep waiting to build a bungalow there. I grow my vegetables and even jackfruit there now. It is not for economic purpose, but the satisfaction of eating what you grow. We also drive there every weekend to spend some quality time,” she says, adding that hired helps ensure the land is safe and the produce perfect. Rohan Lobo, 39, a chartered accountant, bought 1.5 acres of farmland six months ago through Hosachiguru, a city-based start-up. “My grandparents were agriculturalists and we owned large tracts of land but due to circumstances, we lost it all. Since then, my mother and I always dreamt of owning farmland.” Lobo now spends quality time with his mother at his new farm. “For most professionals like me, after being holed up in a small flat, we find it important to have space where one can just breathe and stretch,” he says. Lobo has 300-odd trees on his farmland and he is glad he is helping the environment. Anoop Jain, also a chartered accountant, says people have always opted for equities, gold and property but not farmland as an investment. He says farmland has long-term benefits and will help young professionals beat a middle-life crisis. In fact, the ‘apartment culture’ is driving many into such investments. Hosachiguru, a Bangalore-based agricultural asset management company, has been receiving 20-25 enquiries every day for farmland since Unlock began. Founded by Srinath Setty, Ashok J and Sriram Chitlur in 2014, Hosachiguru offers farmlands to customers, develops and manages the land and helps them earn income on the produce. Shetty, director and head business development, told TOI: “People have realised, especially during the lockdown, that experiences are as important as earning and saving money. The need for open spaces has never been higher.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/professionals-increasingly-taking-to-farming-to-beat-urban-stress/articleshow/78352347.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 28, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Toddler, two others killed, 4 injured as bus rams car||KANPUR: Three persons, including a one-and-a-half-year old child, were killed and four others were grievously injured after the four-wheeler they were travelling in was hit by UPSRTC bus in Kannauj district on Sunday evening. The accident took place near in Jalalpur area under the limits of Kotwali police station of the district. The victims, all members of a family, hailing from Balramnagar locality in Billaur area of the district, were returning from Farrukhabad after attending a funeral ceremony of their relative in a car. “It was when their van was passing through Jalalpur area, an UPSRTC bus, on it’s way to Farrukhabad from Kannauj, collided with it. Three occupants of the four-wheeler identified as Shakuntala, her one-and-a-half-year old son and driver Ajit died on the spot. The four injured have been admitted to the district hospital,” said SP Kannauj Amrendra Singh. A police official said, “The victims were travelling in a van. Locals said that the mishap occurred when the driver of SRTC bus lost control over vehicle and rammed it into the van with a great speed leading to the massive collision. The bus driver and conductors managed to flee the site.” According to the local sources, the police reached the spot and made arrangements to send the victims to the nearest hospital. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed condolences over the incident. “Instructions have been given to provide all help to the injured,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/toddler-two-others-killed-4-injured-as-bus-rams-car/articleshow/78355201.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman murdered, two arrested and one detained||PUNE: The Dehu Road police on Sunday arrested a 35-year-old man and his friend and detained a 17-year-old boy for allegedly strangulating a woman (20) to death and disposing off her body in a quarry in Adarshnagar. Preliminary police investigation revealed that the man, Prashant Gaikwad, a farmer and a part-time property broker, is married and has two children. He was involved in a relationship with the deceased woman and had hired a room for her near his house in Kiwale, where she was living with her sister and other family members. Gaikwad also has a six-month-old daughter with the woman. The woman wanted to get married to him and the two would often quarrel over this issue, police said. “On Friday, the woman created a ruckus in front of Gaikwad’s home and damaged a vehicle. At midnight, he went to her room and took her out after a heated argument,” senior inspector Manish Kalyankar said. When the woman did not return home till Saturday afternoon, her sister approached the police and lodged an FIR accusing Gaikwad of abducting the woman. “During investigation, we got information that Gaikwad ws about to leave the city.We arrested him from Rahatani,” Kalyankar said. “During questioning, Gaikwad admitted that he killed the woman with the help of his two accomplices. We have arrested Vikram Rokde (34), one of the two accomplices and have detained the other one who is a minor.” Kalyankar said. Investigation revealed that Gaikwad took the woman near a quarry in Adarshnagar in Dehu Road. “He first throttled her to death and then smashed her head with a stone. Gaikwad with the help of his accomplices, dumped the body into the quarry filled with water,” Kalyankar said. The police have recovered the body and sent it for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-murdered-two-arrested-one-detained/articleshow/78353531.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Twice as many passengers choose to fly out since May||PUNE: Air passenger traffic from Pune has increased from 2,503 on May 25 to 7,500 on September 25, recording 200% increase ever since domestic flight operations resumed on May 25 after the nationwide lockdown. On September 25, the airport also handled the largest number of passengers in the last four months, the authorities said. “There has been a constant rise in the number of passengers at the Pune airport. With more than 7,500 passengers handled on September 25, it is the highest since May 25 when the airport resumed flight operations. There has been an increase in total flight movements too since May,” said Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh. Airport authorities said the number of flights were set to increase. “Between 100 to 110 flight movements are expected. The work on the runway has started and things are moving smoothly. However, the real challenge will start from the end of October when the runway will only be available for 12 hours. The winter schedule is also beginning from around the same time and all airlines and stakeholders have been informed about the timeline and restriction,” another official said. The 12-hour runway closure will start from October 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/twice-as-many-passengers-choose-to-fly-out-since-may/articleshow/78353534.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Education director tells colleges to appoint nodal officers||PUNE: Universities and educational institutes must provide physically-challenged students every facility to write the final year examination in the online or offline mode, said state higher and technical education director Dhanraj Mane. As many as 756 physically-challenged students registered with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will appear for the final examination. They are to be given ground floor classrooms as exam centres, provided writer facility and 20 extra minutes per exam, said SPPU director of examination and evaluation Mahesh Kakade. In a notification dated September 18, Mane stated that apart from following all the guidelines issued by the government, a nodal officer must be appointed at every college/university in order to look into the problems faced by physically-challenged students. “The nodal officer’s contact number as well as e-mail id should be displayed on the official website of the college and university. Such students also need to be made aware of all the facilities available to them latest by September 21,” stated the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-director-tells-colleges-to-appoint-nodal-officers/articleshow/78353529.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 28, 2020||Nagpur||Assailants collected Binekar’s pics from social media account||Nagpur: The assailants of Kishor Binekar alias Balya had taken his photographs from social media accounts while planning his murder. Binekar, operator of a gambling den and Saoji eateries, was stabbed and hacked to death at Bole petrol pump square on Saturday, allegedly by Chetan Hazare and his gang to avenge a previous murder. Four, including Hazare, have been arrested by crime branch. CP Amitesh Kumar said on Sunday all police units have been asked to begin a crackdown on goons across the city on war-footing. Senior officers have been tasked to update records of goons having assault cases (body offenders), said the top cop. Kumar assured Nagpurians that police are geared up to put a brake on such criminal activities. “We are going for deterrent actions,” the top cop said. On Sunday, Binekar’s body was brought to Lalgunj Khairipura after post mortem at Government Medical College and Hospital. Hundreds of local residents thronged the funeral procession to the cremation ground with cops deployed to keep the situation under control. CP said the probe would be conducted by Senior PI of Sitabuldi police station under supervision of Zonal DCP Vinita S. “I would be monitoring the probe. Though the murder seemed to be prima facie fallout of the murder of the father of one of the assailants (Chetan Hazare), we are probing other angles too,” he said. After committing the murder, the gang is learnt to have gone to Mecosabagh, where they created ruckus and threatened neighbours of Hazare’s accomplice Bharat Pandit. Later, they sneaked away to a farmhouse at Ramtek, from where they were nabbed by crime branch team under sub-inspectors Mayur Chourasiya and Rajkumar Tripathi in the early hours of Sunday. Sources said a notorious gangster is learnt to have played crucial role in helping the cops nab Hazare, Pandit and Rajat Tambe from Ramtek. Aniket, another suspect, is yet to be arrested. The cops are also yet to ascertain who dropped the magazine of a firearm at the murder spot. Shortly after the murder, crime branch team of senior inspector Santosh Khandekar had arrested Aseem Luderkar from Khamla. Hazare, who is believed to have engineered the murder to avenge his father’s killing by Balya and his family in 2001, had tried to trap Binekar near 10 Number Puliya in north Nagpur a couple of days ago, but had to abort the plan. He had later planned to barge into Binekar’s residence at Dharampeth but again had to drop the plan. It’s learnt the assailants also tried to flee with Binekar’s car after murdering him but could not start the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/assailants-collected-binekars-pics-from-social-media-account/articleshow/78354891.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||City & state relieved with fewer number of fever cases this year||Hyderabad: The city and the state heaved a sigh of relief with less number of malaria, dengue and chikungunya cases reported compared to other southern cities and states during the pandemic. Data available with TOI shows the state recorded less cases till July compared to past three years. Till July, the state had reported 699 dengue, 570 malaria and 364 chikungunya cases, mostly in Greater Hyderabad. Andhra Pradesh has logged 480 cases dengue cases, while Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala reported 1,731, 2,777 and 2,420 cases respectively. Considering that the state had reported 13,331 dengue cases last year, the drop is huge. The state also had low number of malaria cases (570) along with Tamil Nadu (249). Telangana has reported 364 chikungunya cases so far, while AP (267), Kerala (865) and Tamil Nadu (189) also logged low numbers. On the other hand, Karnataka had 9,953 chikungunya cases. Dr Kiran Madala, associate professor, Government General Hospital, Nizamabad, said during pandemics other fevers and infection percentages come down. “Many science journals have reported that when a virus is in active mode, other viral attacks and fevers will be reduced. However, we should not lower the guard,” he added. Dr Y Sridhar, critical care physician at Apollo Hospitals, said there was a 70% dip in fevers related to mosquito bite getting reported at private hospitals in the city. However, the concern in the immediate future could be swine flu. During October-February, swine flu cases are reported more, the authorities have to take more care, said another doctor from city. Health minister Eatala Rajender had recently directed health authorities to focus on controlling fevers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-state-relieved-with-fewer-number-of-fever-cases-this-year/articleshow/78354719.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Maths, physics papers in JEE tough, say students||CHENNAI: Many students who appeared for JEE Advanced on Sunday said the questions were lengthier and they had to do more calculations compared to last year. They said physics and maths questions in both the papers were tough while chemistry was easier. JEE Advanced had paper 1 and paper 2 with each paper carrying 54 questions and 198 marks each. Physics, chemistry, maths subjects had three sections each and each section had six questions. More than 1.5 lakh candidates appeared for the exam. JEE aspirant Letchumanan said the question paper was a bit more difficult compared to previous year. "In both papers, chemistry was easy and maths, physics questions were lengthy and took a lot of time. I expect the marks would be similar compared to last year," he said. Another candidate A Balaji said the JEE advanced exam was as usual tough. "Overall, physics questions were toughest among three subjects and it was followed by maths and chemistry. There was no matrix matching this year. Paper 2 was tougher than paper 1," he said. "This year there were more numerical questions and particularly physics questions were tougher than last year," another candidate said. "It seems JEE Advanced was tough this year compared to last two years and physics, maths was equally tough," said B Pavan Kumar, deputy director, FIITJEE, Chennai. He said the question paper format was student friendly. "Last year, comprehension type questions and the following questions were asked. This year, these two types of questions are missing. Usually, students would get marks in the match the following section," he added. Chandan Chand, regional director of Aakash Institute, said students gave mixed feedback. "Students found the paper moderate to difficult. It was as per the standard of JEE Advanced," he said. Anbalagan, an employee of a private organisation and one of the parents assembled outside the exam centre in Kovilambakkam, said there were no proper arrangements made for parents to wait outside the exam centre. "The exam centres could accommodate parents in the parking or other places. We were made to wait on the roads from morning to evening without any basic amenities. Candidates also had their lunch on the pavements and on the road," he said asking the authorities to make some basic arrangements for parents and students in future exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maths-physics-papers-in-jee-tough-students/articleshow/78353536.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Send home institutionalised kids in 100 days, Tamil Nadu told||CHENNAI: All child care institutions in Tamil Nadu must send their children back to their parents within 100 days, said a recent order from the National Commission of Protection of Child Rights. The order is for all states. Due to the pandemic, several institutions in Tamil Nadu had held back children saying their parents were too poor to support them, but this meant taking away the right of the children to be with their families, the commission said. The NCPCR said the officials must instead prepare a child care plan and devise ways to strengthen their families. It also asked all districts and child welfare committees to submit a report in cases where the children could not be sent home, the number of orphans under their care, those with single parents, and those who were admitted due to poverty. “Shortly after the lockdown [triggered by Covid-19] began, we had directed the homes to send children back to their houses. While many agreed, the others kept them back saying their parents didn’t want to take them home due to reasons of poverty. But they were all being taken care of,” said a senior official from the state social defence department. Tamil Nadu alone has more than 87,000 children in 1,647 homes, one of the highest in the country. Most of these children have single parents or were admitted due to poverty, more than 1,500 children were abandoned and at least 5,900 children were orphans. The commission has asked the authorities to arrange for foster care or put the children, who have no parents, up for adoption. The pandemic has, however, currently halted the adoption process in the state, leaving more than 2,500 prospective parents waiting. Official sources said a few of these parents have also expressed second thoughts on adopting children from this state due to the still-raging Covid-19 pandemic and the high number of cases being reported daily. Foster care on the other hand has failed to take off mainly due to lack of awareness. “But since the lockdown has relaxed, we have started to work on these aspects. We have created a proper plan to ensure that maximum children have homes,” said a member from the Chennai child welfare committee. “But unless the authorities have checked the backgrounds of families or have a fall back plan, merely sending children to their families or finding them homes will not help,” said R Vidyasagar, former child protection specialist with Unicef. He said if families were unable to provide for their children or were pushed into abject poverty during the pandemic it is not wise to reunite them, because they might end up becoming a burden. “In the end, the child’s interests must be protected, the authorities must act responsibly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/send-home-institutionalised-kids-in-100-days-tn-told/articleshow/78354722.cms||Aditi R
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Most private bus operators still off roads in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Inter-state travel is limping back to normal after the Centre eased lockdown restrictions, but a majority of private bus operators have preferred to stay off roads largely due to low demand and costs of fuel. Prasanna Patwardhan, president, Bus & Car Operators Confederation of India, said: “Bus services will return to normal only if a vaccine is found and if banks provide relief by restructuring loans. This will enable operators to ply more vehicles. Operators are in serious trouble as banks are demanding EMI payments.” Manoj Padikkal, president of Inter-State Bus Operators Association Kerala, said: “We got some enquiries from passengers after the Kerala government reduced quarantine for people returning from other states from 14 days to seven days. But diesel prices have increased from Rs 68 per litre to Rs 80 now and we also have to pay taxes. Most operators have decided to resume services only from January 2021 because of a financial crunch.” He said pre-Covid, demand was high on Bengaluru to Kochi, Hyderabad and Chennai routes, especially on weekends, but now there are hardly any takers. Patwardhan said less than 20% vehicles are back on roads. “Demand for company contract vehicles for the manufacturing sector is gradually increasing, but there is little or no demand for vehicles serving IT and other service sectors.” Online bus booking site Abhibus said the top-searched routes on their website from Bengaluru are to Chennai, Mumbai, Madurai, Mangaluru, Goa, Mysuru, Hubballi and Ballari. There is also an increase in enquiries for buses from Kalaburagi and Raichur to Bengaluru, which indicates reverse migration from North Karnataka to Bengaluru. Rohit Sharma, chief operating officer, Abhibus, said, “With recommendations from Union home affairs ministry to ease interstate travel, the industry is witnessing a massive demand for travel. However, supply side remains a huge dampener due to shortage of buses on most routes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/six-months-on-most-private-bus-operators-still-off-roads-in-karnataka/articleshow/78352488.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
September 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Law aspirants wait for CET||PUNE: Once again, aspirants of the three-year law degree are left in a lurch as the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell has not declared the date for its entrance exam yet. In Pune, there are nearly 15 private and deemed universities that have already begun the admissions to law courses for both three-year and five-year degree. Sukrut Deshmukh, a law aspirant, said he took admission to a deemed university in the city. “If I depend on the state government procedure, then I really do not think it will be worth the wait. Instead, it made sense to confirm admission to private universities which are providing equally good education.” Another aspirant, Shweta Mahajan from Sangli, has been willing to take admission to the five-year degree course for law and aiming for ILS Law College said she has decided to take a drop this year. Mahajan said, “Half this year has gone by and the state government’s decisions regarding the entrance test and later, the admissions will easily take another month. Instead. I have taken up a foreign language course and wait for admission next year.” An official from a deemed university in Pune said, “The admissions to law courses have been impacted this year as nearly 40 % students in most private and deemed universities in Pune come from outside Maharashtra. This year, these students seem to have decided to take admissions locally as classes are online. Many have also taken a drop year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/law-aspirants-wait-for-cet/articleshow/78353545.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 28, 2020||Pune||SPPU to set up Maratha studies centre||Pune: The management committee of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has given its nod for setting up a ‘Centre for Study in Maratha History’, which will work to promote and create awareness about Maratha history and conduct research in the field. In the management council meeting held on September 24, vice-chancellor of SPPU, Nitin Karmalkar , proposed to establish the centre. “All the members unanimously agreed to the proposal. Accordingly, financial aid has been given to start this centre,” registrar Prafulla Pawar said. The SPPU has also signed an agreement with the Indian Institute of Gems and Jewellery (Mumbai) for collaborating on Bachelor of Arts course. The three-year degree will have an intake of 50 students. For more details log onto SPPU’s website. The council has also agreed to set up a centre for courses in food processing and allied industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-to-set-up-maratha-studies-centre/articleshow/78353535.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Periya double murder case: Govt fails to cooperate with CBI in probe||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While on one hand CPM and state government are claiming not to be scared of the Centre for CBI launching investigation into Life Mission, the government is trying to sabotage the central agency’s probe into the Periya double murder case in Kasaragod. Almost a year after the high court ordered a CBI probe, the state police are yet to hand over the case diary and other documents despite the agency formally requesting five times, and meeting concerned police officials. Special crime branch of CBI that has taken up the case has written to state police chief Loknath Behera thrice, and once each to the SP, Kasaragod, and the SP crimes, who was investigating the case, seeking the case diary and other relevant documents relating to the murder of Sarath Lal and Kripesh. They were murdered in Periya, Kasaragod, on February 17, 2019, by CPM activists. “The investigation officer had met the ADGP and IGP of crime branch that was investigating the case and requested to hand over the documents. But all these efforts proved to be futile,” agency sources said. CBI had registered a case on October 23 last year based on the high court single bench’s verdict. Sources said that presently the agency is probing the case without a single document. “It shows the state government’s disregard for the legal system. Despite this, the agency is set to file an affidavit regarding the progress in the investigation in the apex court, as directed by it, within four weeks,” sources added. In addition to the documents, the state also not heeded to the agency’s request to facilitate setting up of a camp office in Kasaragod. CBI has been awaiting since 10 months for the state government’s reply. Even though the crime branch made some arrests in the double murder, including some local CPM activists, the parents of the deceased approached the high court citing that the real culprits are still at large and a CBI probe is essential to bring out the truth. The single bench of the high court ruled in favour of the plea, and the government appealed against the verdict by roping in senior counsels including from Delhi. After the division bench also refused to order in favour of the government, the government had filed an SLP in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court bench that heard the SLP filed by the state against the division bench order of the high court on August 26, had refused to grant stay on CBI investigation. The apex court had asked CBI to file an affidavit, and if substantial progress had been made, the court would not interfere. It is not the first time that LDF government has hit the agency below the belt, when the agency had taken up cases involving CPM cadres. On July 28, 2016, the public works department had issued an order cancelling free-accommodation facilities to CBI sleuths with effect from August 14, 2014. Interestingly, the agency had taken up cases of Kathiroor Manoj murder in September 2014, Payyoli Manoj murder case in January 2016 and Ramabhadran murder case in Kollam in October 2015, in which CPM activists were the prime accused. The government order had not only cancelled the facility given by the government for CBI in PWD rest houses, but had also decided to seek rent for using facilities since August 14, 2014. The government denied the facilities despite the high court directing the state government to give necessary protection and assistance to CBI in carrying out investigation, while handing over the investigation of Kathiroor Manoj murder case to the agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/periya-double-murder-case-govt-fails-to-cooperate-with-cbi-in-probe/articleshow/78353577.cms||KP Saikiran
September 28, 2020||Pune||Biker seriously hurt in hit-and-run case||Pune: A pharmacy shop owner riding home on his motorcycle sustained serious injuries and was admitted to the ICU of a hospital in Koregaon Park after a speeding car hit him late on Wednesday night at Tingre Nagar. The incident came to light on Saturday after CCTV footage of the accident went viral on social media. “Motorcyclist Sanjay Shahkar’s wife, Bharati, approached us on Sunday and lodged an FIR for offences under sections 279 (rash and negligent driving) and 337 (causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code,” an officer from the Vishrantwadi police said. “We are searching for the car driver,” the officer said. The police had started their investigation even before an official complaint was lodged. Police said Shahkar was returning home to Sanjay Park in Yerawada on his motorcycle after closing his shop at Tingre Nagar when the accident occurred. The car driver sped away instead of halting. Residents in the area shifted him to the hospital. Shahkar is reportedly out of danger but is still in the ICU, police said. The footage clearly shows the Shahkar halting for the car but the car sped and hit him. The car driver ran him over once Shahkar fell down on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-seriously-hurt-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/78353537.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Poaching for meat up, more illegal arms seized: Foresters||CHENNAI: The demand for bush meat, triggered by the Covid-triggered closure of regular meat shops, has led to an increase in incidents of poachers using arms against wildlife outside forest areas in the state, say wildlife officials. Black-napped hares, wild boar, spotted deer, monitor lizard and mongoose, found in good numbers outside protected areas, are among the easy targets for poachers, said Coimbatore district forest officer A Venkatesh. At least seven poaching cases were filed recently in the division against people hunting wildlife using arms, he said. “We also seized country made bombs, or Avuttu Kaai, used for killing smaller mammals such as wild boar.” At Hosur in Krishnagiri district, forest officials probing the poaching of a tusker found a few residents in some villages in possession of illegal weapons with ammunition. Hosur wildlife warden S Prabhu said an accused in the elephant poaching case told officials that many villagers had weapons in their homes. The heads of villages was then warned of action. “Within a month, villagers surrendered 29 weapons with ammunition,” he said. At Perambalur, Orathanadu in Thanjavur district, Rasipuram in Namakkal district and Madurai, where the forest cover is relatively less, small mammals roam freely after dark and are regularly poached, said a senior wildlife official. Illegal weapons, a majority of them country-made, seized by forest department officials are handed over to the jurisdictional police for further investigation, said the official. Whenever there is adequate evidence, a senior police officer said, cases are registered against those holding weapons without licence, invoking the relevant provisions of the Indian Arms Act, 1959, and the Indian Explosives Act of 1884. When a case is registered under the arms and explosive act, the offence will become cognizable and non-bailable, said the official. In some cases, the Q branch police are tipped off about illegal weapons and pass on the information to the district police officers concerned for further investigation, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poaching-for-meat-up-more-illegal-arms-seized-foresters/articleshow/78354777.cms||P Oppili
September 28, 2020||Kanpur||Python swallows blue bull calf in Fatehpur village||KANPUR: An 18-foot-long Indian python swallowed a newborn `nilgai, also known as a blue bull, in Katoghan village in Khaga tehsil in Fatehpur district on Sunday. Scores of villagers gathered after they spotted a huge sized python with a bloated belly trying to devour the newborn of a blue bull. Few among them alerted the forest department for help. They could not believe their eyes when they suddenly found the python swallowing the baby blue bull. The villagers meanwhile shot the video of trapping of blue bull calf by the python and later made it viral on the social media. However, before the forest team could arrive at the spot, the python had sneaked into the nearby forest cover. According to forest officer Sachchidanand, it's a Rock Python. "The 1.28-minute video shows the snake slowly putting the whole blue-bull calf in its mouth. One can see in the video, the python swallowing the calf slowly in its extremely large mouth”, he said. "We have come across videos of snakes swallowing rabbit or mice, but this video of the python engulfing the blue-bull calf is quite rare. The clip shivers down my spine," said Gopal, a local of Kathoghan village. Another senior forest department official, meanwhile, said: "The area is a home to flora and fauna both. The python will be captured and released into the forest cover if villagers lodge a complaint in this regard." The Indian python is classified as lower risk near threatened on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. This listing indicates that it may become threatened with extinction and is in need of frequent reassessment. It can grow to a length of about 20 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/python-swallows-blue-bull-calf-in-fatehpur-village/articleshow/78355214.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 28, 2020||Pune||Monsoon retreat likely to begin in next 24 hours: IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday said the Southwest monsoon will start retreating in the next 24 hours. “Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from West Rajasthan and adjoining areas in the next 24 hours,” a senior official of the weather department said. However, another met official stated that it would be crucial to see the withdrawal progress in other parts of the country during that period to ascertain the remaining withdrawal trend. “According to our extended range prediction, some parts of Central India, including Vidarbha and Odisha, will likely receive rainfall till the first week of October. We can ascertain the withdrawal progress of the monsoon only after that,” the official said. Meanwhile, the met department has predicted thunderstorm associated with lightening over Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Beed, Parbhani, Hingoli and Osmanabad on Tuesday and Wednesday. The officials said Pune will get light rainfall from Monday to Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures on these days will be between 30-31°C and 21-22°C respectively. On Sunday, the city experienced sunny condition along with wind. The state has so far received 17% above normal rainfall this monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monsoon-retreat-likely-to-begin-in-next-24-hours-imd/articleshow/78353572.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 28, 2020||Meerut||Meerut woman gang-raped in ‘moving bus’||MEERUT: A woman in her 30s was allegedly held captive in Meerut, raped in a moving bus headed for Kanpur on Friday night and abandoned on the road. The private bus operator and a friend of his have been arrested. “On Saturday, she was found lying unconscious on Delhi Road. She was taken to a women’s hospital, where her statement was recorded,” SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said. In her complaint, registered at the Brahmapuri police station, the survivor said she was raped by an acquaintance and his friend in a moving bus and abandoned by the road on Saturday morning. An FIR was filed on the basis of her complaint and police arrested Sunil Chaudhary, the bus operator, and Arvind Jatav, his friend, on charges of rape. Police, however, said the survivor’s call detail records suggest she was in a flat in Meerut’s TP Nagar at the time and not a bus. “In her statement, the survivor said she was at Bhaisali station to board a bus to Kanpur. But there are no buses connecting them. When we checked the call detail record, we found she was in touch with one of the accused and accompanied him,” Singh said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-gang-raped-in-moving-bus-abandoned-on-road/articleshow/78354751.cms||Piyush Rai
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Plasma for therapy just a helpline away||BENGALURU: Mercy Mission, a Bengaluru-based NGO, has launched a helpline to meet plasma needs of Covid-19 patients. It has partnered Bangalore Medical Services Trust (BMST TTK blood bank) and Healing Touch, an NGO into blood donation drives. Mercy Mission has been helping Covid patients with plasma since mid-July through WhatsApp groups and social media platforms and the helpline is expected to streamline the process. Explaining how the helpline functions Safeer Mohammed, a core member of Mercy Mission, said: “Requests for plasma are prioritized and middlemen are not entertained. To ensure the request is authentic, we check for the patient’s name, attender’s name and the doctor’s name. After the call-in check, we ask them to fill in a request form and also seek a lab report of the patient.” He said they receive frantic requests in the middle of the night which they cater to immediately. “We cater to patients’ requests 24/7,” he said. “We also do not ask for backfills or replacements from any patient. We have worked with patients in Mangaluru, Hubballi, Mysuru and even Belagavi.” He said 70% of their donors are volunteers and they receive 60-70 requests for plasma every week. Mohammed Ismail, a volunteer, said the Mission has mobilised more than 60 donations in the past two months and each donation touches at least two lives. “We had to reach out to more than 250 people since only some are willing to donate. Also, not everyone passes the anti-body test,” Ismail said. The Covid Plasma Helpline is 080 – 47191133 (Press 2). Individuals can also visit the Mercy Mission’s Twitter page (MercyMission1) or websites - http://healingtouch-society.com and https://covidhelplinebangalore.com/||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngo-launches-plasma-helpline/articleshow/78352381.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 28, 2020||Pune||Search on for gang burgling jewellery shops||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police have launched a search for burglars travelling by a van and targeting jewellery shops on Sundays. On September 27, the gang broke into a jewellery shop in Nigdi and stole silver ornaments worth about Rs10,000. The previous Sunday (on September 20), the same gang had broken into two jewellery shops in Akurdi and Wakad, from where they stole gold and silver ornaments worth Rs9.6 lakh. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch told TOI that the modus of breaking the locks of all the three shops was same. “They ripped off the shutters despite them having central locks,” the officer said. “The suspects blackened the CCTV cameras in the shops. The suspects also stole the DVR from the Wakad store,” officer said. Another officer said many police teams were working on certain clues to establish the suspects’ identities. “The police have checked footage from several CCTV cameras and found that the suspects were travelling by a van and have been operating only on Sundays, early in the morning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/search-on-for-gang-burgling-jewellery-shops/articleshow/78353607.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman goes missing, cops on look out||Hyderabad: Vikarabad police have launched a search operation to trace a 26-year-old housewife, who got into the car of her estranged husband and has been missing since Sunday evening. According to the police, two years ago, the woman from Vikarabad town, married a private employee, Khaleel (27), from the town against the will of her family members. A Vikarabad police official said: “They belong to different religions. A few days after the marriage, the woman went to her parents house and did not return to her husband. After the marriage, he converted to her religion but as her family did not approve, a divorce petition was filed and it is currently in court.” At 6.30pm, the woman along with her family members went for shopping at garments store in Vikarabad town market area.  While the family members were busy, she got into a car waiting nearby and left the place, Vikarabad DSP Sanjeeva Rao said. Eyewitnesses told police that the car in which she left belongs to her husband, Khaleel, and there were two other persons in the car. “We suspect that they did not want a divorce. The family members said that while attending the court, the couple saw each other few times and they broke down,” said a police official. Special teams of Vikarabad police have started a search operation to locate the couple. No case has been registered yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-goes-missing-cops-on-look-out/articleshow/78354757.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kanpur||Dedicated 300-bed Covid-19 hospital to come up at Narayana Medical Institute||KANPUR: A 300-bedded dedicated Covid hospital will be raised at Narayana Medical Institute, said principal secretary, medical and health Alok Kumar who is also nodal officer for Kanpur. Addressing mediapersons on Saturday at the medical college, he said, as the chief minister’s main focus is on the cities where more than 100 positive cases are being reported, he has therefore instructed all nodal officers to camp there and supervise preparations to counter Covid -19. Alok Kumar said that since more than 100 positive cases were surfacing in the city therefore the CM himself had started monitoring cases, He said he would hand over his report to him after Sunday review meeting. Contact tracing and sampling has been geared up in Kanpur. Though the government is taking all necessary measures to control rising infections the people should also pray for dilution of infections. After inspecting the LLR Covid-19 hospital, the principal secretary asked the authorities to increase bed strength up to160 as per the chief minister’s orders .He also asked them to purchase humidifier for ventilators so that high pressure nasal cannula could be installed. Alok Kumar later made a random visit of Narayana Medical Institute and asked the authorities to prepare a 300- bed hospital and ensure all essential facilities as per standard and chalk out a plan for equipment and instruments. Later, at a review meeting at the Covid command control room, he made clear to the district authorities that deaths have to be checked by all means. “The main focus should be on zero deaths due to Covid. Examine all family members of the infected person who are in a high risk zone”, he said. “If they are found negative in an antigen test even then their samples must be examined through RTPCR”, he further said. He also asked the authorities to identify the areas where more positive are surfacing and conduct Google mapping of all infected persons for tracing and collect samples in the entire area. Covid protocol must be strictly enforced in the containment zone, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dedicated-300-bed-covid-19-hospital-to-come-up-at-narayana-medical-institute/articleshow/78355219.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Pune||Over 10k in children’s homes get Covid protection from state||Pune: State woman and child development (WCD) minister Yashomati Thakur has said that all care and precautions had been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus at the 362 childcare protection homes in the state.With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, a detailed plan had been drawn up by the WCD department for taking care of children at these homes.There are currently 10,000 children at shelter homes across the state. Before the pandemic, there were 21,000 children. The Child Welfare Committees had allowed around 10,000 children to return to their families. “These children are our responsibility and we are conducting checks at each institution,” she told TOI.State WCD commissioner Ravi Patil said that out of the 362 homes, 52 were adoption agencies with 883 children. “Online education is on for these children and care has been taken to ensure that all facilities are provided to these homes, with Rs16.50 lakh given under the district women and child welfare fund to all the institutions,” Thakur said.Due process has been carried out for adoption agencies, too, as no adoption had taken place for the last few months due to the lockdown.“Children living in these homes have not been able to step out in the last six months. They are being provided online training with the help of non-governmental organisations,” said a WCD official.Save the Children, an NGO, has been carrying out online training programmes on rapport building, mind healing, positive sharing and anger management activities. Care has been taken to ensure proper management and isolation facilities at each of the homes, if any cases come to light.Health check-ups were being conducted on children admitted to the shelter homes. The WCD has tied up with various medical facilities to ensure that they are taken care off. Masks and sanitisers have been procured at these homes.Thakur said the state government was yet to take a final decision on appointing a chairperson for state women’s commission even after almost 15 meetings and several requests.The former state women’s chairperson had resigned from the post in February. “We have had several meetings with the state government on the issue. However, the government is yet to take a final call on the appointment. So, the post is vacant as of now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-10k-in-childrens-homes-get-covid-protection-from-state/articleshow/78353587.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Cases among young women on the rise||Hyderabad: There has been a 1.5% increase of Covid-19 cases among women in the 21-30 age group, while among men in the same age category, there has been a 1% increase. Overall, the percentage of men affected by the virus has reduced by 3% over the past two months. The overall percentage of men who tested positive for the virus of the total 64,786 positive cases was 65.6% on August 1. This percentage has now come down to 61.8% as the share of women patients in the overall numbers has gone up. “The percentage of women in the age group of 21-30 has seen a jump, while the age group of 31-40 years too is seeing an increase. The primary reason for the rise is opening up of workplaces,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-among-young-women-on-the-rise/articleshow/78354789.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Meerut||Now, police in 3 west UP districts scramble to seize properties of gangsters||Meerut/Muzaffarnagar: Police teams in Baghpat, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar attached illicit properties of three gangsters -- Sunil Rathi, Yogesh Bhadora and Imlakh Baba – on Sunday.This comes a day after TOI reported a disparity in crackdown against gangsters in eastern and western parts of the state. In one of the most coordinated crackdowns against 25 dreaded criminals in the state, properties worth Rs 160 crore have either been attached or demolished in police and administrative action initiated against them. A lion’s share of the crackdown was dedicated against two criminals – Mukhtar Ansari, currently lodged in a jail in Punjab, and Atiq Ahmad, lodged in Ahmedabad jail, with Rs 65 crore each (total 130 crore) worth of properties owned by them or their associates now attached or demolished. Recently, in coordinated raids at 42 places in Lucknow targeting Mukhtar Ansari, Salim Rustam Sohrab, Khan Mubarak and Annu Triapthi gangs, 11 criminals were arrested and over two dozen detained. Arms, ammunition, explosives and satellite phones were among recoveries made during the raids. On the other hand, police in west UP districts were going slow on seizure of properties of the dons in the region. In police records, the action report for Meerut zone gangsters has little information on such properties or it says “information is being gathered about their assets”. However, after the TOI report, police swung into action and conducted multiple raids in many west UP districts.Land and property worth over Rs 27 crore belonging to gangster Imlakh Baba -- infamous for running fake certificates and exam cheating racket -- was seized by the local administration in Muzaffarnagar.Similarly, several properties of jailed gangster Sunil Rathi were seized in Baghpat after teams accompanied by heavy police forces reached his native place in Tikri village in Baghpat.A pond illegally occupied by dreaded gangster Yogesh Bhadora was made free of encroachment by a team of local police and revenue officials in Bhadora village in Meerut. Yogesh Bhadora, a known history-sheeter currently lodged in Siddharthnagar jail, has more than 40 cases against him. In Meerut, action was also taken against Ramesh Pradhan, a known liquor mafia with more than 27 cases against him. Involved in the sale and trafficking of illicit liquor for over 15 years, his property worth over 1 crore was seized in a crackdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-police-in-3-west-up-districts-scramble-to-seize-properties-of-gangsters/articleshow/78354779.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Drug case: Police arrest another person in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: The City Crime Branch (CCB) of Mangaluru city police arrested another person in connection with the drug case related to choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty here on Sunday. The accused is Mohammed Shakeer, 35, a resident of Soorinje in Surathkal. Police have seized drugs valued at Rs 23,000 from his possession. Shakeer has been accused of procuring drugs from Mumbai and supplying the same to Kishore and others in the city. Sources said Shakeer has been produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/drug-case-police-arrest-another-person/articleshow/78352392.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Covid: In-house parties on, Covid protocol not invited||CHENNAI: Covid cases have not deterred party goers in the city who have now opted for indoor house events, ditching safety norms and protocols. This, however, has kept their neighbours and other residents on their toes who are now increasingly concerned about their own safety. “All these months, we have managed to contain the spread of the virus in our gated community, but this careless attitude can make the situation worse. People have to be responsible,” said T Sushma, resident of Nolambur. Sushma said two days ago her neighbour had hosted a party at his house and at least 10 people had arrived. Concerned, she knocked on their door and informed the resident that he should not be inviting random people to the apartment since they wouldn’t know who might be a Covid carrier. “All it takes is one person for everyone to be infected. But when I told him that, he began to argue with me and refused to listen,” she said. Residents said many socialise in houses especially during weekends. Jaikishan Bhagnani, a resident of an apartment complex on LB Road, said people have become complacent and do not wear masks anymore. “They party the whole night. Though we understand that people want to socialise, inviting so many people home at the same time without even knowing their health status and not following safety norms is irresponsible,” he said. However, not all residents have a long list of guests. Some are inviting around four people every day or every alternate day and making them sign in as family members at the entrance gate to avoid conflict with the others. “This happened with a tenant recently. But the neighbours informed us. We immediately went up and reminded them of the rules and that pandemic is not over. After that there has been no such incident,” said S L Denis, secretary of Casagrand Irene Owners Welfare Association, Manapakkam. Denis said they have regular virtual meetings with their members and insist that they be more responsible y. “They are more informed and thankfully we have been able to contain any spread. We have to be disciplined because we cannot compromise on the safety of our people,” he said. While the state has capped the number of people at social gatherings at 100, there is no such rule or directive for the number of people allowed inside a house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-house-parties-on-covid-protocol-not-invited/articleshow/78353620.cms||Aditi R
September 28, 2020||Goa||Tourism body: Goa needs domestic tourists to survive||PANAJI: With international tourism yet to kick-off, Goa’s tourism sector depends on domestic tourists to sustain itself, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Nilesh Shah, said on Sunday. Shah said that the sector expects tourist arrivals to pick up significantly by October as more domestic flights commence operations. “We have to depend on domestic tourism and we want to send a message that Goa is open for business,” Shah said. TTAG released a short video to promote Goa as a safe tourism sector. “The idea is to send a positive message and tell people that all tourists are welcome,” he said. Being a tourism-dependent state, Goa has suffered significant losses due to the pandemic and economic slowdown. Although the state government has lifted all restrictions on entry into the state, foreign tourists have yet to get permission to travel India. “As everyone knows, bookings were at 5% at the start of Unlock 4.0 but now we are 12-15%. From October we expect more hotels to open,” he said. Shah added that Goa has immense potential to explore destination wedding opportunities in the post-Covid scenario. He said that the hospitality sector can also tap opportunities to conduct small events by following all SOPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-body-goa-needs-domestic-tourists-to-survive/articleshow/78354813.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Meerut||Illegal arms factory busted in Bijnor, four arrested||BIJNOR: An illegal arms factory was busted in Bijnor on Sunday wherein four people were arrested and eight countrymade weapons and 202 live cartridges were seized from their possession. Countrymade weapons-making equipment were also recovered. Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said, "Police have launched a crackdown against criminals, particularly those involved in making and selling illegal arms. The cops conducted a raid after a tip off. An illegal arms making unit was being run from a sugarcane field on Bijnor Barrage road. Four people, identified as Satpal Singh from Narayanpur village, Itendra Kumar from Tbadi village, Suhail from Mohalla Kila of Afjalgarh and Atul from Puraina village, were picked up." Singh further said, "Eight illegal weapons, 202 cartridges and equipment used in making illegal arms were seized. A case has been registered and a probe is on. The arrested individuals told the cops that they used to sell illegal weapons between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 per equipment. The demand for such arms has gone up mainly due to the upcoming Panchayat polls."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illegal-arms-factory-busted-in-bijnor-four-arrested/articleshow/78354786.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Mayor walks out of meeting after two SP MLAs enter forcibly||KANPUR: Mayor Pramila Pandey on Sundav left the meeting with private dairy owners of the city when two uninvited Samajwadi Party MLAs went there and tried to forcibly participate in the meeting. In compliance with the orders of the high court and the government, the mayor herself led the campaign to remove private dairies situated inside the city and in this sequence she had visited Chamanganj Ghosiana locality and confiscated some animals. The locals protested violently and pelted stones from their houses and tried to get their animals freed. Police from other police stations reached there to control the situation. A meeting was later held with the dairy owners at Chamanganj police station to sort out the problem. After the meeting started at the scheduled time, SP MLAs Irfan Solanki and Amitabh Bajpai arrived there. Annoyed over their presence, the mayor left the meeting alleging that the issue was being politicized. Solanki tried to calm down the mayor but the mayor said, “When stones were being pelted on Saturday, the legislators were absent, and now they have come in the meeting”. The MLAs said that since they came to the meeting as uninvited guests because the matter belonged to their areas. They told municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi that the dairy owners were being displaced without giving them any notice. The municipal commissioner informed them that the action was being taken against dairy owners in compliance of the order of the high court. He said time could be granted to the dairy owners but the campaign would not stop. After some heated arguments, the two SP MLA also left the meeting. Later, the mayor once again joined the meeting but both the parties failed to reach any solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mayor-walks-out-of-meeting-after-2-sp-mlas-enter-forcibly/articleshow/78355223.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kochi||State won’t reconsider discharge policy: Shailaja||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister K K Shailaja has said the state has been following a scientific approach in the testing and there was no need to reconsider the discharge policy. "The Central directive is to not wait for the negative result and that they can be discharged after ten days. However, the state is continuing with one negative result as we are not ready to take any risk," said Shailaja. "There are several reports that people still have infectivity power even after 10-15 days of becoming positive," said the minister. That is the reason for Kerala's low curing rate as is being said, she added. The minister also said there was no need for uncontrolled testing. "What we need is a scientific approach, which we are following. We have conducted tests on almost all the vulnerable groups. That was how we could trace the positive case in several old age homes. The state is conducting over 50,000 tests a day. We are ready to increase, but it is not necessary at present," she said. The minister also urged Keralites to exercise caution. "The coming days are crucial and any laxity in the approach will lead to a major crisis and more deaths. The people have to strictly follow the protocol to prevent further spreading,’’ she said. Shailaja has reminded that a second wave of the pandemic has hit and that several countries are going back to lockdown. If the people are not ready to follow the Covid protocol we will be forced to bring back the restrictions, she added. "In Kerala, we have been able to bring down the infectivity when compared to other states. The case fatality rate of the state is 0.39% when that in the whole country is 1.6% and it is 3% in the world. When everywhere there was a talk on herd immunity, we have been advocating reverse quarantine to bring down the death rate. It has been a success in Kerala," said the minister. Shailaja also hailed the public health system and added that among the deaths, 72% had comorbidities and 80% were above 60 years. But among the positive cases reported, the majority of the cases are reported between the age group 20 to 40 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-wont-reconsider-discharge-policy-shailaja/articleshow/78353619.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Meerut||Amroha official alleges pressure to allot tenders to 'public representatives'||Bijnor: Amroha executive officer (EO) Deepika Shukla, on Saturday evening, alleged pressure is being put on her to "allot tenders to public representatives of the area". She fainted while describing her ordeal to the district magistrate. A probe has been ordered in the matter and the officer has been given police protection.According to EO Shukla, “Some public representatives and some of my staff are putting pressure on me and mentally harassing me, by making false allegations against me. They want me to allot tenders of development work in my area to them, and are chasing me wherever I go. I am so harassed, I’m unable to sleep. There is danger to my life from them. While I met the district magistrate on Saturday and narrated my ordeal, I even felt giddy. Thankfully, I’ve now been given police protection.”Amroha DM Umesh Mishra said, “The EO approached me on Saturday. While talking to me, she suddenly collapsed and was taken to hospital for treatment. She’s now back to normal. A probe is on. She’s been given police protection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amroha-official-alleges-pressure-to-allot-tenders-to-public-representatives/articleshow/78354797.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Many homemakers in Mangaluru and Pune now addicted to YouTube: Study||MANGALURU: With work-from-home expected to continue, homemakers are burdened with the additional workload. For most housewives, socialising was all about kitty parties, meeting friends regularly and visiting malls, all of which has come almost to a standstill. In a study aimed at understanding the effect the pandemic-induced restrictions has had on homemakers, Dolan Champa Banerjee, HOD, postgraduate department of commerce, St Agnes College (Autonomous), found that 53.4% spent most of their time cooking and had very little time to pursue hobbies. A majority of respondents were parents and relatives of postgraduate students based in Mangaluru and Pune. “About 44.8% women, who during the pre-Covid days enjoyed watching Saas-Bahu serials, are now addicted to YouTube,” she said. Dolan said since telecasts of serials were mostly repeats during the lockdown, many housewives probably shifted to YouTube. Some even launched their own channels. Only 10.3 % of the respondents spent their time on exercise/yoga, 6.9% on reading and 13.8% on listening to music. About 29.3% of respondents said they never stepped out of their homes to buy essentials during the initial days of the lockdown and depended on a family member to do the job. Though 63.8% of women said they were self-motivating, 69% revealed they were worried about the pandemic. Interestingly, 55.2% of the respondents said that they were decision-makers at home. “The lockdown was a blessing for a few women as they learnt to make video calls and even create their own videos and start YouTube channels. The family sat together for breakfast, lunch and dinner and many even watched Mahabharata together, which would not have happened on a regular day,” said Dolan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-drove-many-homemakers-to-youtube-addiction-finds-study/articleshow/78352441.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 28, 2020||Chennai||How a disaster on high seas was doused||CHENNAI: It was a clear day on September 3. Indian Coast Guard ship Shaurya was sailing back to Tuticorin after completing its patrol duty when a message arrived ordering it to divert to 30 nautical mile southeast Sri Lankan coast. "An oil tanker is on fire," said the message. Read entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-a-disaster-on-high-seas-was-doused/articleshow/78358351.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-a-disaster-on-high-seas-was-doused/articleshow/78355463.cms||V Ayyappan
September 28, 2020||Bengaluru||How equal-pay conversation has progressed in companies||BENGALURU: Dharani Karthikeyan, the director of engineering at SAP Labs India, has not had a reason to compare her pay with male colleagues, or argue for a raise, in her 17-year association with the company. Her efforts are fairly rewarded each time. Such progressive organisations with clear policies on equal pay are few, though everyone agrees that it’s vital to ensure parity and give women proper representation. One example of the disconnect between companies’ polished public stance on the issue and internal processes is that most firms don’t share even ballpark figures on male-female compensation levels, falling back on a popular Indian defence: there’s no data. Maggie Inbamuthiah, managing director at Anita Borg India, a nonprofit working for women in technology, explains that pay parity is a layered issue. “Lack of access to opportunity and women choosing to stay in current roles to maintain equilibrium between work and family demands are some of the underlying deterrents in achieving true pay parity. Remuneration policies are not entirely gender neutral. One company realised that its promotion policy called for four consecutive cycles of high performance. This automatically disqualified women who went on a maternity break,” she says. Unequal status at work “feeds inequality” in other areas of women’s lives, the United Nations noted as it marked the first official ‘International Equal Pay Day’ on September 18. “Many women proactively don’t choose roles that pay higher but demand more time. Access to opportunities is a challenge because of less support,” says Maggie. According to the UN assessment, women are paid less than men across regions, with the gender pay gap estimated at 23 per cent globally. “Women workers’ average pay is generally lower than men’s in all countries, across all sectors, for all levels of education, and age groups,” it says. Dharani attaches a lot of importance to performance and says women professionals should demonstrate a hunger to grow. “If a woman believes the role demands higher pay, she should negotiate. She should be able to exhibit her skills too,” she says. Apart from the role of director of engineering, Dharani leads the mobile portfolio for analytics products at SAP, managing teams in India and Canada. Sindhu Gangadharan was appointed as the managing director of SAP Labs India last year. “While pay hikes are a business decision, making sure one gets the right pay for the skills and contribution is a personal one. From my two decades of experience at SAP, I have noticed that the contribution one makes to the organisation’s growth never goes unnoticed. Women should not shy away from taking up a bigger role. They should take control of their careers, voice their views and give feedback without hesitation or doubt,” she says. SAP India is estimated to have around 13,000 employees, and women form 30 per cent of this workforce. Often, women employees find it difficult to initiate or carry forward honest conversations on pay and promotion in companies with overwhelming numbers of men in leadership positions. A senior finance executive at an Indian tech giant says organisations may not actively discriminate, but they miss finer points. They, for instance, fail to acknowledge how women have to work twice harder than men to achieve the same workplace success or status, and sidestep difficult conversations with general statements like “we don’t differentiate between genders”. Asha Subramanian, who was a senior HR director at travel booking platform Goibibo before choosing a new path recently, says pay inequality is now a major point of discussion. “The subject covers compensation as well as roles and responsibilities. A part of the problem is attributed to the multitasking that women are required to do as they forever seek a semblance of work-life balance. Pay penalty for motherhood [women with children tend to face a wider wage gap] and gender gaps in higher ranks of management and leadership are also among the factors,” she says. “But there has been a transformation lately and women have become more vocal.” Some organisations are actively addressing disparities in their sector. Last year, Tata Starbucks became an equal pay company. India is the fourth region in the world where Starbucks has achieved this. The US, China and Canada are the other countries. The milestone coincided with its seventh anniversary in India. The company is also nearing the mark of 30 per cent gender diversity and plans to touch 40 per cent by 2022. “We believe in doing something which is right for our business and right for society. It’s such a staggering statistic: almost half our population is women and half of our customers are women. How can we not have pay parity for such an important constituent?” says Deepa Krishnan, head for marketing (digital, loyalty, PR), Tata Starbucks. The company has adopted a global framework with three pillars: equal footing, accountability and transparency. “When we evaluate any position or any partner, you’re looking purely at their skills, ability and experience, and gender is never a consideration. Internally, we constantly publish the standards for calculating pay and compare that with other companies in the region. The third factor is accountability, where we do compensation analysis of various roles and industry and where we would like to be,” says Deepa. To achieve fairness at the workplace, Tata Starbucks maintains a diverse representation in interview panels. The company has created a programme called ‘Brew of Balance’ to unlock opportunities for women returning to the workforce after having a child. “3Ms — marriage, mobility and motherhood — influence women’s career choices. If you don’t create an ecosystem, it will be a leaky bucket that will not serve any purpose,” she says. While leading Nokia, Rajeev Suri allocated a budget for a pay equity analysis, which was conducted with consulting firm Mercer. The study found a small, unexplained pay gap, which Nokia committed to close last year. In India, women comprise 22 per cent of Nokia’s workforce and 22.7 per cent work in the R&D division. Software firm Adobe achieved gender pay parity in India in 2018, and has started an initiative called opportunity parity, in which the company examines fairness in promotions across demographic groups. Guide: Initiating a salary discussion amid a pandemic Senior HR professional Asha Subramanian shares valuable tips to navigate the tricky subject *Be confident and assertive while negotiating. Instead of relying only on financial details to justify a pay raise, share the right data on the work you’ve accomplished. *Companies generally reward multifaceted resources. People who are eager to upskill and reskill; people who can create profit centres within the organisation; people with diversified ideas and unique methods of execution. *Those looking to join a new place must know prevailing industry standards and trends. If you want a better package than on offer, explain why you deserve it. But it’s important to strike a middle path. Salary is one component. Look at benefits and perks such stock options and a generous leave policy that can add value to your life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-equal-pay-conversation-has-progressed-in-companies/articleshow/78355331.cms||Harsh Vora
September 28, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Rs 6,400 fined for not wearing masks in public in 3 days||PRAYAGRAJ: Over 6,400 residents were fined for not wearing masks in public places over the past three days during a police drive launched to check the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Prayagraj. Over the past three days, police realised Rs 6.65 lakh in fine from those who were found without masks in public places. The department has also constituted a task force to create awareness about the importance of wearing masks and initiate action against those found violating the Covid-19 safety protocol. During the drive, the number of residents who were fined on September 24, 25 and 26 was 2,795, 2,044 and 1,605 respectively. Police realised Rs 1.68 lakh in fine from violators on Saturday and Rs 2.11 lakh and Rs 2.85 lakh on Friday and Thursday respectively. “Awareness can be used a major weapon to defeat the disease. Police is reaching out to every citizen with an appeal to follow Covid-19 safety protocol,” said a senior police official. In August earlier, police took action against over 62,000 persons who were found not wearing masks in public places and realized Rs 77.16 lakh as from them in Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi. During the drive, the highest number of challans (51,697) were issued in Prayagraj district followed by Fatehpur (3,901), Pratapgarh ( 3,815) and Kaushambi (3,578). In Prayagraj district, police realised Rs 62.48 lakh in fine during the drive. The district was followed by Kaushambi (Rs 6.03 lakh), Fatehpur (Rs 4.72 lakh), and Pratapgarh ( Rs 3.92 lakh). By Saturday, Prayagraj had recorded 18,417 Covid-19 and 14,922 of these patients have recovered. The city had clocked 3,238 active Covid-19 cases till Saturday and the health department has claimed to have conducted over 2.35 lakh tests so far. A senior health official said “If Covid-19 cases continue to decline as they have been over the past three days, we can surely winning this battle against the deadly disease, provided residents follow the safety protocol strictly. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/6-4k-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-in-3-days/articleshow/78355232.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||1,515 fresh Covid-19 cases take Haryana tally to 1.23 lakh||CHANDIGARH: Fewer Covid-19 cases were reported in Haryana as compared to the past few days with the state registering 1,515 fresh cases. Haryana has also recorded 16 deaths. With this, the Covid-19 positive case tally has reached 1,23,782 including 81,654 men, 42,115 women and 13 transgender. The total number of deaths in the state reached 1,307, including 906 men and 401 women. A total of 1,05,990 persons have been discharged after treatment and 16,485 cases are currently active. With this, recovery rate has reached 85.96% and doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has reached 29 days. A total of 18,51,457 persons have been tested till date. As many as 306 persons are currently on oxygen support and 52 are on ventilators. On Sunday, the highest number of 274 cases was recorded from Gurgaon, closely followed by 178 in Faridabad and 116 in Hisar. Gurgaon, with 19,928 cases, is the worst hit, followed by Faridabad with 19,301 cases. Sonepat occupies the third position with 7,928 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1515-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-1-23-lakh/articleshow/78354801.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||HC: Haryana private schools can’t take bus fee, over 50% building charges||CHANDIGARH: In some relief for students and parents, the Punjab and Haryana high court restrained unaided private schools in Haryana from charging transport fee or more than 50% annual school maintenance charges from students during the lockdown period. "…in view of the fact that the students are not going to school, the transport fee may not be charged. Besides, annual charges meant for maintenance of the school building to the extent of 50% shall remain stayed," HC has observed. The division bench, comprising Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh of the HC, passed these orders on an appeal filed by Ashish Kumar Garg and others from Faridabad district. The petitioners had challenged the July 27 order passed by a single bench of the HC giving directions on charging fee from the students in Covid-19 situation. The appellants contended that the single bench had passed the order under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016. "Haryana School Education Act, 1995 has been completely ignored while delivering the said judgment. The students are being charged transport charges though the classes are being conducted online. Besides, an annual fee of Rs 34,000 which is meant for maintenance of the building is also being charged though the building is not in use for the last almost seven months," the counsel for the applicant pointed out. The division bench also issued notice to the Haryana government and other respondents to file their replies on the contentions raised by the petitioners. In its July 27 orders, a single bench headed by Justice Ramendra Jain of the HC had made it clear that the private un-aided schools in Haryana would be permitted to collect tuition fee, admission fee and annual charges from the students. It even said that schools not having online classes could take tuition fees from students. The orders were passed by Justice Jain in terms of the order passed by Justice Nirmaljit Kaur of the HC on June 30 while deciding the issue of school fee pertaining to Punjab. In her order dated June 30, the single bench, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur had ordered that the school management of each school shall work out the actual expenditure incurred under the annual charges for the period the school remained closed and to recover only genuine expenditure incurred by them, including actual transport charges and actual building charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-hry-pvt-schools-cant-take-bus-fee-over-50-building-charges/articleshow/78354795.cms||Ajay Sura
September 28, 2020||Chennai||Asked not to wear PPEs by people, say lab technicians||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 threat is more than six months old and the state has recorded 5.8 lakh cases so far, the stigma around the infection must have subsided among people, right? Wrong. And one group that bears the maximum brunt is lab technicians employed in private labs. “Customers insist that we do not wear our PPEs while entering their house or an apartment complex as they are apprehensive about neighbours’ knowing that they are getting tested for Covid-19. Now, we have almost got used to such demands,” according to a 25-year-old lab technician. Technicians say though wearing PPEs while collecting samples is mandatory, sometimes they heed to such requests from regular customers. According to a technician, they get such requests from customers residing in apartment complexes more and that they even ask them to lie to the security of the complex that they have come to perform a regular health check-up. The state government on Friday gave approval to four more labs for Covid-19 testing, taking the number of approved labs for Covid-19 testing in the state to 182, of which 116 are private labs. “Several of the private labs offer to collect samples at your home. While the results can also be negative, when you yourself doubt you could be infected, it is not fair to ask our technicians to come without PPEs,” said the in-charge of a private lab in South Chennai. A sanitary inspector with the civic body said they too face such requests from residents, where they are requested not to paste stickers or put up notice outside their homes notifying that occupant of the house has tested positive. A senior official with the city corporation said they have not received any complaints regarding the issue and would direct zonal officials to create more awareness on the matter. “We have been conducting fever camps regularly in all zones and there has been a tremendous response. We appeal more people to attend the fever camps and clinics and get screened. Not only for Covid, the services have come in handy for other ailments too, particularly when many clinics and dispensaries in private sector remain unopened,” the official said. Sine May 1, 52,257 fever clinics were conducted in Chennai and more than 6.9 lakh people attended them. As many as 1,57,093 symptomatic patients were identified through them and tested for Covid-19, according to the data provided by civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/asked-not-to-wear-ppes-by-people-say-lab-technicians/articleshow/78354799.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Govt vows to finish pending sadar hosp work by this yr||Ranchi: As much as 50% of the remaining construction work of the imposing 500 bed super-specialty wing of Ranchi Sadar hospital is pending even 13 years after its conceptualization, the state government has informed the Jharkhand high court that the work will be completed this year. In an affidavit before the court on September 24, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has stated that the pending works of the building will be completed by December 31. The government’s affidavit came at a hearing of a contempt petition filed by Ranchi resident Jyoti Sharma in February last year. The petition is being heard by a division bench, headed by chief justice Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad. “The next hearing of the petition has been fixed at October 9,” Sharma, the petitioner, told TOI. In its affidavit, the government claimed that the construction of the remaining portion of the building was awarded to Ranchi-based M/S Vijeta Projects Infrastructure Limited on August 1, 2017 at an amount of Rs 179.21 crore. The project was supposed to be completed by February 27l last year. The Jharkhand State Building Construction Corporation Limited had given its administrative approval of Rs 307.93 crore for the project. “As of now, only 50% of the remaining works of the 500-bed hospital has been completed. The contractor has given a work plan that the remaining project will be completed by December 31, 2020,” the affidavit read. A 200-bed mother and childcare hospital was made functional by the state department of health, medical education and family welfare department on August 4, 2017 after the HC passed an order in that regard in July that year. The then chief minister Raghubar Das, who inaugurated the hospital, had announced to make the remaining portion of the hospital within a few months. Envisaged in 2007, the project was taken up at cost of Rs 127.66 crore. But due to the inordinate delay by the then National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited, the project was stopped by the state health department on “as where is” basis in July, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-vows-to-finish-pending-sadar-hosp-work-by-this-yr/articleshow/78354087.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Restaurants staff undergo corona test||JAMSHEDPUR: Nearly a month after restaurants across Jamshedpur reopened for customers, the East Singhbhum district administration began a drive to screen the staff working at the eateries for Covid-19. “The drive, which began on Friday, has covered 459 employees across 25 hotels and restaurants and will continue until everybody is screened,” said civil surgeon Dr R N Jha on Sunday. “The purpose of the drive is to make sure every person working at hotels and restaurants get tested for the virus so we can stop the spread of and ensure timely treatment,” Jha said. Hoteliers and restaurant owners have welcomed the initiative. “Either way we had to get our staff tested for Covid. It is appreciating that the administration launched the drive which in a way is helping us,” said Hotel Kannelite’s director Mithilesh Jha. Bijay Thakur, the manager of Bishtupur-based Novelty restaurant, said, “We are strictly following the guidelines while entertaining customers such as not allowing children below 10 years of age and elders over 65 years old. We are also ensuring proper thermal screening, but at the same time, health check-up of our staff is also a must as several have rejoined after months at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/restaurants-staff-undergo-corona-test/articleshow/78353941.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||After blaze, tanker MT New Diamond to be towed to Gujarat||PANAJI: The stricken crude oil tanker, MT New Diamond, which caught fire off the coast of Sri Lanka, is being towed to Vadinar, Gujarat where the crude oil will be pumped out at the offshore oil terminal of the Kandla Port Trust. The operation to tow the vessel will be closely monitored by the Indian Coast Guard and the state government has also been informed since the ill-fated vessel will pass off the coast of Goa. “The operation of towing the vessel has already commenced,” said a coast guard official. “It will take around 12 days for the vessel to reach Gujarat.” A senior Coast Guard official said that the MT New Diamond, a 333-mt-long very large crude carrier (VLCC) is being towed by two tugs contracted by the salvor of the vessel which was ablaze for seven days off the east coast of Sri Lanka. The vessel has 3 lakh metric tons of crude oil in its hold and was on the way to Paradip Port when she suffered an explosion in the boiler room. “The coast guard is monitoring the operation. Monitoring could be air borne as well as by ship since a coast guard vessel is always out at sea,” said a senior Coast Guard officer. A salvage team been hired by the vessel owner assisted in the fire fighting operation and will tow the vessel to the off-shore oil terminal at Vadinar. Indian Coast Guard vessels along with Sri Lankan armed forces helped battle the blaze preventing a major ecological disaster. Aside from the boiler explosion, fuel tanks also exploded causing ruptures in the deck and hull on the port and starboard side of the vessel. ICGS Shaurya and ICGS Sujay, the two off-shore patrol vessels of the Indian Coast Guard which doused the fire aboard the MT New Diamond, were built at Goa Shipyard Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-blaze-tanker-mt-new-diamond-to-be-towed-to-guj/articleshow/78354816.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Nishikant Dubey dubs raids on businessman ‘tip of iceberg’, ups ante against JMM||DUMKA: Nearly three months after Godda MP Nishikant Dubey wrote to the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) seeking a probe against Ranchi-based businessman Amit Agarwal, Income Tax department officials raided his residence and business establishments in Jharkhand and West Bengal in the last 48 hours. Dubey had earlier alleged an illegal nexus of monetary transactions between chief minister Hemant Soren, his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Agarwal. Speaking about the raids on Sunday, Dubey said, “Evidences collected by IT officials are just the tip of the iceberg. The ambit of investigation must be widened to probe the links between the businessman and top brass of JMM,” he said. A statement issued by the PIB on Saturday claimed IT officials searched 20 different locations of Agarwal’s group of companies, which is into tea estates, real estate and ghee businesses. During the search, hard disks, pen drives and handwritten diaries have been seized, the statement said. Certain hand written diaries found indicate giving and taking of loans in cash and out of books receipt of cash on account of booking of commercial space in the real estate project. The officials unearthed several anomalies in record keeping, dummy transfers and other alleged frauds. “The role of as much as 80% of Jharkhand’s senior officials is under scanner as their names surfaced in the investigations,” Dubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dubey-dubs-raids-on-bizman-tip-of-iceberg-ups-ante-against-jmm/articleshow/78354798.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Nine deaths in 24 hours; 974 new Covid cases take tally near 80,000||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported a surge in the number of Covid-19 infections after a gap of over a month as close to 1,000 new cases were detected, making the cumulative caseload inch closer to 80,000. The state also reported nine deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 679. Among the casualties, East Singhbhum continued to report the highest with four deaths and Bokaro reporting two. Hazaribag, Khunti and Ranchi reported one death each. Though 974 new cases were detected on Sunday, the positivity ratio dipped and stood around 4% as out of the 22,342 samples tested, only the three-digit figure returned positive for the virus. The number of recoveries also continued to be at a par with the fresh infections with 958 patients getting cured on Sunday. Of the total new cases, East Singhbhum and Ranchi contributed 226 and 214 cases respectively followed by Bokaro with 73 and Deoghar with 45 new cases. The cumulative caseload in the state now stands at 79,909; of which 12,433 are active and 66,797 have recovered, including 958 on Sunday. Meanwhile, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad, who was infected and undergoing treatment at Medica hospital here, was discharged on Sunday and advised home isolation. He tested negative for the virus on Saturday. A hospital official said, “Dr Prasad has been discharged from the hospital after his samples tested negative on Saturday night. He has been advised to complete the mandatory 14-day home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/9-deaths-in-24-hours-974-new-covid-cases-take-tally-near-80k/articleshow/78360599.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Home-bound man from MP strays 2,000 km into Chatra||Chatra: When the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, 33-year-old Kamta Prasad Vishwakarma of Madhya Pradesh was visiting his relatives in Satna district. Vishwakarma, a resident o fJamunihatta village in Sidhi district located 160 kilometres away from his relative’s place, left for his home on foot on the morning of March 28. Six months and nearly 2,000 kilometres later, he is far from home and landed in Chatra district of Jharkhand. Vishwakarma, a daily wager, said he lost his way. Walking on foot, he travelled sometimes with batches of migrant workers. Most of the times, he was all by himself. What he thought was a short walk home became an endless quest as he criss-crossed several states. On Saturday morning, a frail-looking Vishwakarma was seen by locals loitering around the Chandia forests of Nawadih area under Pasthalgadda police station limits. Suspecting him to be an operative of the outlawed CPI (Maoist), locals informed the police. The cops then took him to the police station only to stumble upon his story. Police station in-charge Niranjan Kumar Mishra said, “Vishwakarma narrated to us how he set out on foot during the lockdown for his home. On the way, he tagged along with a bunch of migrant workers and entered Chhattisgarh, from where he reached Telangana and went onwards to Andhra Pradesh.” “Realising that I had lost my way, I sought refuge at a farmer’s house in Andhra Pradesh. I worked in his fields and he promised me money. But when the lockdown was extended, he threw me out of his home without a single penny. I started walking again.” In his quest to return home, Vishwakarma lost his way again and ventured into Telangana, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Crossing over into Jharkhand from Odisha, Vishwakarma strayed further inland into Chatra. “We verified Vishwakarma’s story after talking to his parents in Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh. They are worried and have been looking for their son everywhere,” Mishra said. The police then roped in a social worker, Ramchandra Dangi, who provisioned money for Vishwakarma to travel to Gaya in Bihar and board a train to Sidhi. “I had a very different outlook towards policemen. But that has now changed because of the way they helped me reach home,” Vishwakarma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/home-bound-man-from-mp-strays-2000-km-into-chatra/articleshow/78354748.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Nine deaths in 24 hours; 974 new Covid cases take tally near 80,000||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported a surge in the number of Covid-19 infections after a gap of over a month as close to 1,000 new cases were detected, making the cumulative caseload inch closer to 80,000. The state also reported nine deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 679. Among the casualties, East Singhbhum continued to report the highest with four deaths and Bokaro reporting two. Hazaribag, Khunti and Ranchi reported one death each. Though 974 new cases were detected on Sunday, the positivity ratio dipped and stood around 4% as out of the 22,342 samples tested, only the three-digit figure returned positive for the virus. The number of recoveries also continued to be at a par with the fresh infections with 958 patients getting cured on Sunday. Of the total new cases, East Singhbhum and Ranchi contributed 226 and 214 cases respectively followed by Bokaro with 73 and Deoghar with 45 new cases. The cumulative caseload in the state now stands at 79,909; of which 12,433 are active and 66,797 have recovered, including 958 on Sunday. Meanwhile, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad, who was infected and undergoing treatment at Medica hospital here, was discharged on Sunday and advised home isolation. He tested negative for the virus on Saturday. A hospital official said, “Dr Prasad has been discharged from the hospital after his samples tested negative on Saturday night. He has been advised to complete the mandatory 14-day home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-deaths-in-24-hours-974-new-covid-cases-take-tally-near-80k/articleshow/78354700.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||PWD bags CCL contract of bridge over Damodar||RAMGARH: Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) recently awarded the work to construct a bridge over Damodar river in Rajrappa to the Public Works Department of the state government. The bridge, at an estimated cost of Rs 26 crore, will connect Rajrappa with Bokaro district for coal transportation to the Rajrappa coal washery from the proposed block-2 mine expansion project. Once constructed, this will be the fourth such bridge by CCL in the district. Earlier, the coal company had constructed two bridges in Bhurkunda area and one in Rajrappa area. CCL has an ambitious block-2 mine expansion plan in Rajrappa area in Dhawaiya and Simrabera villages under Gomia block of Bokaro district at an estimated cost of Rs 500 crore. The coal produced here will be sent to Rajrappa coal washery which has a coal capacity of 800 metric tonne. “Block-2 has an estimated coal reserve of 72 million tonne which could fulfil raw coal requirement of the Rajrappa coal washery for over three decades,” said a senior CCL official. Rajesh Murmu, executive engineer, public work department (PWD), Ramgarh, said CCL has awarded the construction work through a bid. O P Choubey, project officer, Rajrappa said, “The bridge will initially be used to carry heavy machines to the new coal project which will spread across 585 hectare of land.” The Damodar river basin is rich in coal reserves and most of CCL’s mines are under operation here. “The river is now dotted with bridges in every 5km and Ramgarh alone has seven bridges constructred by CCL and the state government,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pwd-bags-ccl-contract-of-bridge-over-damodar/articleshow/78354821.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Green enthusiasts see red over felling of hundreds of trees for smart city project||Ranchi: The ongoing road-building work of the Ranchi smart city in Dhurwa area hit a roadblock after more than 100 locals assembled on the stretch between Heavy Machine Building Plant (HMBP) gate (of HEC) and the electricity department’s headquarters to protest against the felling of trees. Criticising the Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL), the agitating locals said they do not want a smart city at the cost of destroying the environment. Despite the contractors informing the protesters that they have got permission for felling the trees from the authorities concerned, the locals said they will not allow them to cut down even a single tree. “We have an emotional connect with these trees as we have seen them grow. For the last 30 years, we have been planting trees regularly and we will not allow the felling of these trees in the name of developing a smart city. How can a city be smart if it is being built by destroying the environment,” ward number 39 councillor Ved Prakash Singh said. Kameshwar Singh, who stays in the new ST quarters of HEC, said, “I had spotted the workers with tree cutters late on Thursday near HMBP gate but I didn’t know that they were planning to cut down 300 trees on a single day. On Saturday morning, I went to the site and saw that logs, collected from cutting down more than 300 trees, were being transported on trucks.” RSCCL public relations officer Amit Kumar said, “The trees were cut near HMBP gate after getting prior permission from the forest as well as pollution control board authorities. The smart city project is committed to planting 10 times the amount of trees which are being felled currently and it is being done simultaneously with the infrastructural development in the earmarked area.” Some RSCCL sources said a big chunk of the area acquired for the development of the smart city is covered with trees and if people start protesting every time over the felling of those trees, then the project will never see the light of the day. The Ranchi smart city project is part of the mission initiated by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs in collaboration with the state government. Once complete, the city will have 650 acres of land in the HEC area. The state-of-the-art city can accommodate 1.5 lakh people and will be equipped with world-class amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/green-enthusiasts-see-red-over-felling-of-hundreds-of-trees-for-smart-city-project/articleshow/78353996.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi district hosp conducts laparoscopic op||Ranchi: The Ranchi Sadar hospital on Saturday night became the first district hospital in the state to perform laparoscopic surgery after a team of doctors — which included a Covid warrior named Dr Ajit who recovered only a few days ago — removed the gall bladder of a 30-year-old woman by using the laparoscopic cholecystectomy method. The patient, identified as Sushila Nayak, is now stable and will be discharged within the next few days. Talking to TOI on Sunday, Dr Ajit said, “The patient had come to the OPD on September 22 with severe pain in her abdomen pain, which she had been experiencing for the last two months. Following the initial diagnosis, I suspected it to be a case of gall bladder stone and resultantly, conducted an ultrasound which revealed that her gall bladder stone was filled with mucus.” He added, “The patient’s kin was hesitant to go for the surgery as Sushila had undergone C-section three months ago. However, we could assure them and the operation was successful. The patient is currently stable and is responding well to the treatment.” The surgery was performed free of cost under the Ayushman scheme. Meanwhile, Dr Ajit, who recovered from Covid-19 a week ago after getting infected last month while on duty at sadar hospital, is now looking forward to conducting more such surgeries in the future under the Ayushman scheme in order to benefit the poor. He feels that this will help ease the burden on the only state-run super specialty hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. “Patients have to wait for ages to get their surgeries done at Rims. If we continue with the laparoscopic procedure at sadar hospital, it will ease the load on Rims, besides benefitting the poor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-district-hosp-conducts-laparoscopic-op/articleshow/78354021.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 28, 2020||World||Global Covid-19 count reaches 32,925,668, death toll nearing 1 million||WASHINGTON: The global count of the coronavirus cases has reached 32,925,668, according to the latest situation update from the US-based Johns Hopkins University. The Covid-19 death toll is nearing to 1 million as the total number of positive cases includes 995,414 virus-related deaths. Coronavirus in India: Complete coverageAccording to John Hopkins University, the global count of the coronavirus cases has reached 32,925,668. This includes 995,414 coronavirus-related deaths and 22,771,206 recoveries worldwide, Sputnik reported. The United States continues to be the country with the highest single toll of confirmed cases and deaths, 7,093,285 and 204,606, respectively. Over 45,000 cases have been confirmed in the past day alone. Read Also‘R value’ dip in 5 high-burden states raises hope of slowing Covid spreadThe dip in the national R value – indicating the likely number of people a Covid positive person can infect – to below 1 in the last week in five high burden states helped moderate India’s curve of active infections, but durability of the gains depends on continued progress in these states andMeanwhile, India continues to be the second worst-hit country in the world where the total number of coronavirus cases stands at 59,92,533 including 9,56,402 active cases, 49,41,628 cured, discharged, or migrated cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/global-covid-19-count-reaches-32925668-death-toll-nearing-1-million/articleshow/78355633.cms||---
September 28, 2020||India||Violent protests in Rajasthan, 2 killed in police firing||UDAIPUR: Violent protests by tribal youths continued in Udaipur and Dungarpur districts of Rajasthan for the fourth day on Sunday even after the state government agreed to most of the demands put forward by the protesters after a three-hour marathon peace talk held here. Two of the protesters were killed in police firing late on Saturday while another one died after falling off a bridge as cops chased a mob the day before. For the past 20 days, hundreds of tribal youths have been camping in jungles, demanding that 1,167 vacant seats under Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) be filled with ST candidates only. Their protest turned violent for the first time on Thursday evening after the youths blocked Udaipur-Ahmedabad NH-8, pelted stones and torched some vehicles over their demand. On Sunday evening, stones were pelted on policemen by more than a hundred protesters, who had climbed atop hills near Bilakh village in Rishabhdeo block of Udaipur district. A police officer and four constables reportedly got injured in the violence. Cops fired teargas shells, which were caught by the agitators and thrown back at them. Things had taken a turn for the worse late on Saturday as violence erupted in Kherwada after a mob attacked the toll plaza there. They torched some bikes and a saw mill. Police had to open fire to disperse the unruly mob, leading to the death of the two tribal youths. On Sunday, netas urged the agitators to end their stir and informed them about the result of the peace meeting. However, the mob did not pay heed to the appeals. Saturday-like incidents of mob fury were reported from Jhadol block where agitators ransacked a liquor shop, pelted stones and even attacked the tehsildar’s vehicle. The tehsildar managed to escape but his driver sustained head injuries. Meanwhile, traffic movement on NH-8 was restored by late evening after four days of blockade .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/violent-protests-in-rajasthan-2-killed-in-police-firing/articleshow/78355645.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
September 28, 2020||India||Key crops selling below last year’s rates in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Amid the farmers’ agitation against the Centre's agri marketing reforms, two major kharif crops grown in Punjab — cotton and basmati — are selling below last year’s rates. In the case of cotton, among 23 crops whose MSP has just been hiked by the Centre, the going rate is over Rs 315 lower than the revised regulated price per quintal. According to data recorded by Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board (Punjab Mandi Board) on September 26, raw cotton was sold for Rs 4,515 to Rs 5,198 a quintal while MSP for medium staple fibre crop, which has majority acreage in the state, is Rs 5,515 per quintal. The MSP for cotton (medium staple) in the 2019-20 crop year (September-August) was Rs 5,450 per quintal and total arrivals were recorded at 42.60 lakh quintals. Maximum rate of cotton was Rs 5,245 a quintal while the minimum was Rs 4,500 per quintal in Punjab last season. Since the beginning of the current season (September 1), arrival of cotton in the state has been recorded at 19,256 quintals till September 26, out of which 18,884 quintals has been purchased below MSP. Suresh Kumar Bansal, director, Indian Cotton Association Limited, said raw cotton was selling in the range of about Rs 5,000 per quintal. “Rates may improve a bit if Cotton Corporation of India Limited (CCI) starts procurement,” he said. Punjab Mandi Board officials said CCI was slated to enter the market on October 1. Basmati rates on September 26 in the mandis of Punjab were in the range of Rs 1,560 to Rs 2,140 per quintal. Total purchase in the mandis of the state was 7,414 tonnes. Till September 26, total arrival of basmati including PB 1509 and Pusa 1121 varieties was recorded at 69,366 tonnes in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/key-crops-selling-below-last-years-rates-in-punjab/articleshow/78355649.cms||Ikhhlaq Singh Aujla
September 28, 2020||Delhi||Man kills colleague over affair with niece in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 21-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a colleague for having an affair with his niece. The accused has been identified as Suman, a resident of Tughlaqabad in southeast Delhi. On September 17, police received a PCR call about a man lying in a pool of his blood at his house. Identified as Kamlesh (20), the man was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Police analysed CCTV footage of everyone coming and going out of the house. Kamlesh's colleague Suman, who lived in the same house, told police he wasn't present when the death happened. However, as the CCTV clips contradicted this, he was questioned again, and Suman confessed to the murder. Suman told police that Kamlesh was in a relationship with his neice that he disapproved of. However, despite several warnings, he had spotted Kamlesh talking to her over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-kills-colleague-over-affair-with-niece-in-delhi/articleshow/78355672.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar meets CM Uddhav Thackeray; allies say it’s business as usual||MUMBAI: A day after a meeting between the Sena’s Sanjay Raut and BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis set the grapevine abuzz, NCP president Sharad Pawar met chief minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday. Skill development minister Nawab Malik of the NCP and transport minister Anil Parab of the Shiv Sena both downplayed the meeting between the MVA allies. “Since it’s a three-party government, Pawar has been meeting the CM on a regular basis,’’ said Malik. It is learned that the two discussed the unlocking process, the fight against Covid-19, the new farm laws and Maratha reservation. Cong to meet guv today on new agri lawsRevenue minister Balsaheb Thorat, who is Congress state unit president, also had a meeting with the chief minister. He said he did not attach much importance to the meeting between Raut and Fadnavis. “Raut met Fadnavis in his capacity as a scribe,” he said. Raut had later said the meeting was in connection with an interview of Fadnavis in the Shiv Sena organ Saamna. Stating that the Congress was opposed to the new farm laws, Thorat said a delegation of Congress legislators would meet governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday to press for a repeal of the laws. “We are of the firm opinion that the laws are anti-farmer and they will destroy the agriculture produce market committees across the state,” Thorat said. He was speaking after a high-level meeting of the party. “Our view is that the bills were passed in haste, without taking note of the plight of farmers. The NDA government has completely ignored the aspect of minimum support price,” Thorat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sharad-pawar-meets-cm-uddhav-thackeray-allies-say-its-business-as-usual/articleshow/78355671.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis says no plan to ally with Shiv Sena and form new govt||MUMBAI: A day after he met political rival Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena, leader of the opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP made it clear on Sunday that his party had no plans to form the government with its former ally. “It’s a fact that I had a marathon meeting with Raut, who is keen on my interview for Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna. I agreed to it only on the condition that there will be no cuts and it will be recorded by my team too. During my meeting with Raut, there was no discussion on politics,” Fadnavis said. He said that while the BJP had no plans to topple the government, he was sure it would collapse on its own owing to its dismal performance. He said discontent was brewing against the government. As soon as Raut’s meeting with Fadnavis had become public, speculation became rife in political circles over the formation of a Shiv-Sena-BJP government in the state. After the election results last year, Fadnavis was expecting the Shiv Sena to support him for the chief minister’s chair as the BJP was the single-largest party, but the Shiv Sena demanded the chair for itself. Subsequently, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray formed the government with the NCP and Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/devendra-fadnavis-says-no-plan-to-ally-with-shiv-sena-and-form-new-govt/articleshow/78355687.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Water level rises at Prakasam Barrage, Krishna on high alert||VIJAYAWADA: With continuous rain in the Krishna catchment area, water level at Prakasam Barrage rose on Thursday. The irrigation department issued the first level warning at the barrage and warned the district administration about huge flood likely to come from Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects. The Rayalaseema region received heavy rain on Friday the authorities diverted excess water from Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar projects to Prakasam Barrage. With heavy rain in Khammam district in Telangana, Munneru rivulet also received huge inflow of water. All the 70 gates at Prakasam barrage were lifted and around 5.4 lakh cusecs of water was released in to the Bay of Bengal. The revenue department has shifted people from the villages on the river bund in the downstream of Prakasam Barrage. Police deployed barriers at river bunds to prevent cattle and people from venturing into the river. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz conducted a review meeting with officials and directed them to take necessary flood relief measures. Disaster response forces were deployed at vulnerable areas to handle emergencies. “It is high time for us and we have directed all departments to work collectively. We should ensure that no human and cattle loss should happen. Prakasam Barrage is receiving flood for last 20 days in this season. This time outflows are expected to touch 5 lakh cusecs. We are prepared to handle any kind of situation,” Imtiaz said. On Sunday afternoon, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and parts of Ramalingeswara Nagar were inundated. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) shifted people to flood relief camps and provided them food and other essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/water-level-rises-at-prakasam-barrage-krishna-on-high-alert/articleshow/78352133.cms||Venu Lanka
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Virus curve flattens, but festive rush may bring new challenges||Vijayawada: The upcoming festive season may come with new challenges for the state government in terms of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Dasara celebrations will see a huge influx of people from other parts of the country, according to railway reservation data and projected demand for buses. While there are enough indications that the Covid-19 curve has been flattened in Andhra Pradesh with daily new cases declining every day, officials fear that the trend many get reversed. With no restrictions on inter-state travel, many people from across the country are expected to return to their native places during the festivals. All train tickets have already been sold out. While the number of trains operating now is limited which may explain the rush, but tickets for the Sankranti festival in January have also sold out. The demand clearly shows that many people are set to travel during the festive season. Officials worry that even though testing in the state is extensive, it will be difficult to identify asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Moreover, many people coming in will go directly to their villages and will be even more difficult to track. People who had postponed travel plans in view of the pandemic-related curbs have also decided to travel now. Senior divisional commercial manager of Vijayawada railway station, P Bhaskar Reddy said that only a few trains are operating at the moment which makes demand look high. “We have not planned for the festival rush yet as there is still time for the season to start,” he said. Dr G Gangadhar of the Congress said that the state government should prepare to conduct more tests at the village level and increase isolation facilities. He also appealed to people to maintain social distancing and avoid mass gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/virus-curve-flattens-but-festive-rush-may-bring-new-challenges/articleshow/78352149.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor police launch drive to protect temples||Tirupati: Chittoor district police, led by SP S Senthil Kumar, launched a special drive to protect temples from acts of vandalism. The SP, who took part in a programme organised as part of the special drive at Sri Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy temple at Madanapalli, expressed concerns that some miscreants have been trying to disturb communal harmony in the state through acts of vandalism at temples. Such instances, he said, have been reported frequently in the last few weeks. “The police department will not tolerate any acts aimed at disturbing communal harmony in the state. Miscreants resorting to such activities will be strictly dealt with irrespective of their background or affiliation,” warned Senthil Kumar. The SP added that the police wing has been stepping up vigilance at all prominent temples across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-police-launch-drive-to-protect-temples/articleshow/78352185.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 28, 2020||Goa||701 recoveries, 384 new cases take active count to 5,096||PANAJI: With 10 new Covid-related deaths, the state’s death tally crossed the 400 mark on Sunday. Half of these deaths took place this month alone. As of Sunday, the mortalities for September stood at 208. Of the 10 deceased, seven died at Goa Medical College, Bambolim, two at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, and one was declared brought dead to the South Goa district hospital. Two of the patients passed away within five hours of being admitted to the hospital. One of the deceased was a 53-year-old man from Vasco. The rest were in their 60s and 70s. An 89-year-old man from Agadi-Fatorda was brought dead with Covid infection. The others who succumbed to the virus included a 69-year-old female from Dona Paula, 63-year-old man from Siridao, 65-year-old female from Boma, Ponda, 61-year-old female from Tonca, Panaji, 65 year old from Mandrem-Pernem, a 73-year-old female from Bicholim, 73-year-old male from Navelim, Salcete, and a 78-year-old from Margao. All 10 were reported to have either hypertension or diabetes or both as comorbidities with few suffering from other comorbidities as well. Ironically, while the health services’ mortality bulletin reports of patients being brought dead and reaching late, health minister on multiple occasions has stated that there are a shortage of beds, especially at Goa Medical College. The new South Goa district hospital readied for Covid patients is presently only equipped to treat patients with moderate infection. Margao mourned the death of a well-known doctor Dr Mario Godinho, who passed away at Victor Hospital. He was practising until recently. His patients said he never turned anyone away, even during Covid times. He was laid to rest at the Holy Spirit cemetery and is reported to be the third doctor to have passed away due to Covid. The first was former health minister Dr Suresh Amonkar, who passed away on July 6. Active cases on Sunday rose to 5,096 with 384 new infections reported and 701 recoveries. Porvorim has the highest active positive cases at 399 followed by Sakhali at 389 and Margao at 367. Health minister Rane’s statement that Goa would see the worst phase of the pandemic towards the end of September and in October has health workers appealing to people to wear their masks properly, follow social distancing norms, and take all precautions so as to not strain the health system and health workers any further, besides protecting themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/701-recoveries-384-new-cases-take-active-count-to-5096/articleshow/78354371.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Restrictions imposed on meat shops||Vijayawada: As part of its efforts to prevent crowds from gathering at chicken and meat shops, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has been ensuring the implementation of restricted timings for sale of meat, even as consumers complain of the restriction in timings. The number of Covid-19 cases in the city, which had shown a steep fall, started to rise again over the last 10 days. Gatherings at markets and other public places were identified as the chief reason for the recent increase in case numbers. At chicken and meat shops and Sunday markets, buyers failed to maintain social distancing in spite of repeated instructions from civic authorities. Following the spike in cases, the veterinary wing of the VMC directed chicken shops and meat traders to close their stalls by 11 am on Sundays. Many buyers at meat shops on Sunday expressed unhappiness with the decision. Meat traders too were unhappy with the order passed by the VMC. “Only 35% of sales happen on Sunday before 11 am. Most of the buyers come to us later. We are running into loss with this order. We are ready to implement social distancing at our shops strictly,” said SK Jilani, a meat trader in Bhavanipuram. Meanwhile, VMC authorities said the decision was taken after repeated warnings and similar measures will be taken up till the number of Covid-19 cases comes down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/restrictions-imposed-on-meat-shops/articleshow/78352196.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||21-member interstate dacoity gang busted||TIRUPATI: Kadapa district police arrested 21 members of an interstate dacoity gang wanted for multiple crimes in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Briefing reporters on the arrests, Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan said the modus operandi of the gang was to identify well-off persons, such as moneylenders, realtors, politicians, businessmen and traders and decamp with their valuables. “The key accused in the case has been identified as Usman Ali Khan from Anantapur district who connived with other gangs and would approach cash-rich people on the pretext of performing Kshudra puja,” Anburajan said. The gang had earlier committed similar crimes at Bellary in Karnataka and in Tirupati. They reached Kadapa district recently and confessed they carried out a recce at the residence of Rajampet legislator Meda Mallikarjuna Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/21-member-interstate-dacoity-gang-busted/articleshow/78352205.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur doc ranks 10th in NEET-SS||Guntur: Dr Kapu Venkatesh Chowdary, a young Guntur-based medical professional, has ranked tenth in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Super Speciality Courses), or NEET-SS. The young doctor, who did his graduation from NRI Institute of Medical Sciences and post-graduation from Manipal University, plans to take admission in the prestigious Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. Dr Venkatesh had recently joined Katuri Medical College in Guntur. His father, Veeraiah Chowdary, works as an assistant executive engineer (AEE) in Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL). “My parents (Veeraiah and Sesharathnam) and teachers helped me realise my goals. They stood behind me like a rock. I will work towards helping the poor after completion of my super speciality course in oncology,” the young doctor said. Dr Venkatesh’s wife, Dr Naga Chinmai, is currently pursuing her postgraduate degree in dermatology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-doc-ranks-10th-in-neet-ss/articleshow/78352210.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Historic Kondaveedu Fort, capital of Reddy kings, to soon regain glory||Kondaveedu: The capital of the Reddy kings of the 13th century, Kondaveedu finally looks set to regain its lost glory. With the state government aiming to promote it as a top tourist destination, renovation and developmental works have been put on the fast track and the completion of the ghat road and the surrounding greenery have started to lure nature and history lovers to the historic hilltop. As fears around Covid-19 gradually ease, tourist inflow to the fort has also started to pick up. Negligence by successive governments added to the decay of Kondaveedu Fort, which at one point became a favoured spot for treasure hunters digging out objects and seeking treasure they claimed to be hidden by past rulers. Over time, historical structures of value in the hill fort crumbled and broke down. Matters improved after social activist and historian Kalli Siva Reddy swung into action and formed the Kondaveedu Development Society. A regular visitor to the fort, Siva Reddy worked overtime to convince officials and ministers to preserve the hill fort. Renovation work took off during the YS Rajasekhara Reddy regime and gained pace during the time of the TDP government. “Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, principal advisor to CM Ajeya Kallam are very keen on overall development of Kondaveedu fort as a historical monument. We are expecting it to become a big tourist attraction very shortly,” said Siva Reddy. Hill fortresses, built on rocky terrain, must also account for the scarcity of water. But, “the Reddy kings meticulously utilised all depressions, relatively shallow, wide and flat cavities, deep fissures, fractures, where water could be stored and in flat areas the ground was excavated in the form of reservoirs. It shows the water management skills adopted by kings several centuries ago which can be a lesson to any government of the day,” said SVS Lakshminarayana, district convener of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach). Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita said on Sunday that all development work planned for Kondaveedu Fort renovation will be expedited soon after the Covid-19 situation eases. Speaking at an event organised to mark World Tourism Day where the home minister launched a book scripted by historian Modugula Harikrishna, she said that reaching the top of the fort was a herculean task only a few decades ago. “Kondaveedu is heritage property which we can transfer to the next generation to show the glory of the past. We will take all necessary measures to make the fort the biggest tourist attraction,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/historic-kondaveedu-fort-capital-of-reddy-kings-to-soon-regain-glory/articleshow/78352224.cms||Samdani MN
September 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Six held for stealing from temple donation boxes||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram police have arrested six persons accused of stealing from donation boxes (hundi) in temples in Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. The arrested have been identified as M Nagarjuna, T Veera Babu, M Dhanaraju, Ch Sai, A Chiranjeevi and G Eswar Rao, from Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. The six-member gang stole a collection box (containing cash and valuables) from a temple at Jammu village in Vizianagaram district on September 23 and attempted to steal the collection box of a temple at Dasannapeta in Vizianagaram district the same day. Based on complaints from locals, Vizianagaram police formed a special team to nab the gang. The six were arrested in the early hours of September 26 while travelling in an autorickshaw. Deputy inspector general (Visakha Range), LKV Ranga Rao said during the interrogation, the gang confessed to stealing over Rs 1.3 lakh from collection boxes at temples. Investigation revealed that the gang has stolen from donation boxes of over 10 temples in the two districts in the past few months. All six are habitual offenders and have been involved in property offences in the region, Ranga Rao added. Police have managed to recover Rs 21,000. Explaining their modus operandi, police said the gang would travel in an autorickshaw and scout around for temples. In the mornings, they would visit a temple and at night, they would return, break the locks with iron rods and remove cash and valuables. The DIG said action will be initiated against persons spreading rumours on religious matters on social networking platforms. Patrolling in the region has been intensified to prevent theft, he assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/6-held-for-stealing-from-temple-donation-boxes/articleshow/78352234.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||BEE to help private industries set up energy efficient projects||Vijayawada: Private industries in Andhra Pradesh can now easily avail of bank finance to take up energy efficiency projects in different sectors, including buildings, large industries, and small and medium enterprises. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), a statutory body of the Union Ministry of Power, has come forward to channelize bank finance to the energy efficiency projects in various states under Partial Risk Guarantee Fund for Energy Efficiency (PRGFEE) scheme. The energy efficiency projects will be provided loan facility up to Rs 10 crore through BEE-approved energy service companies (ESCOs) under the scheme. This will help to scale up energy efficiency investments in AP for energy efficiency projects. According to officials, the BEE has formulated a risk sharing mechanism to provide financial institutions with a partial coverage of risk involved in extending loans for energy efficient projects. The BEE has allotted around Rs 312 crore for the PRGFEE at the national level. Under the scheme, the BEE will provide guarantees a maximum 50 per cent of the loan or Rs 10 crore per project, whichever is less, to the financial institutions which offer loans to industries or others to take up energy efficiency projects in Andhra Pradesh. In case of default, the fund will cover the first loss subject to maximum of 10 per cent of the total guaranteed amount and cover the remaining default (outstanding principal) amount on pari-passu (equal footing) basis up to the maximum guaranteed amount. AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) is the nodal agency to implement the PRGFEE scheme in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bee-to-help-private-industries-set-up-energy-efficient-projects/articleshow/78352244.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Contract lecturers to get full salary||Amaravati: The state government has decided to pay contract lecturers salaries for 12 months instead of 10 per year. Contract lecturers in government junior and degree colleges were without pay during summer vacations till the reopening of institutions. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Sunday directed the officials to issue a GO clearing the decks. “When they are working for the institution for the full year, paying remunerations only for the academic year is unjust,” said the CM. About 5,042 lecturers are working on contract basis in government junior colleges, vocational colleges, government polytechnic colleges, degree and private oriental colleges in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/contract-lecturers-to-get-full-salary/articleshow/78352254.cms||Samdani MN
September 28, 2020||---||Bihar NDA to get RLSP in its fold ‘in a day or two’||PATNA: The form and shape of NDA in Bihar is poised for a change soon, even as the notification for the first phase of assembly polls is set to be issued by the Election Commission on October 1. While former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP seems to have decided to join NDA “in a day or two”, LJP, commanded by Chirag Paswan, has little options but either to accept whatever seats it gets or contest on its own and not field candidates against BJP. A reliable source in LJP said the decision can be taken anytime soon “after the parliamentary board submits its report on Sunday”. Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insaan Party too is exploring options and may exit the RJD-led ‘grand alliance’ soon. At its parliamentary party meeting held in Delhi on September 7, Chirag had indicated that LJP will contest 143 of the 243 seats in Bihar. LJP had fielded 42 candidates in the 2015 polls. The party may have the option of replaying the February 2005 state elections in 2020 in the hope of assuming the role of a kingmaker in case of a hung house. Since RLSP has virtually left the grand alliance, its national secretary general Madhav Anand said talks were on to go back to the NDA fold. “RLSP is a natural partner of NDA. A decision will be taken in a day or two,” he told TOI over phone from Delhi where Kushwaha is in constant touch with BJP members. Asked about Kushwaha’s reservations against Nitish, Anand said, “We don’t have anything personal against any individual.” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said RLSP was earlier in NDA and Kushwaha was given due respect and made a central minister by PM Narendra Modi. “He switched his loyalty on his own. If Kushwaha intends to come back to NDA, it will be his decision. The leadership will take a collective decision on him,” he said. BJP will also not like to go to the crucial polls with a partner not on the same page with JD(U). RLSP suits BJP politically, a party insider said, preferring anonymity. He added LJP had a declining trend since the 2005 polls, be it seats or percentage of votes. Nitish has already brought former CM and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi to his side, a move considered to consolidate the Dalit votes and counter Chirag. Given its performance in the past assembly polls, LJP wants to remain BJP’s partner at the Centre, but not in Bihar. In fact, Chirag has said many times that LJP is not a JD(U) partner in the state. Similarly, JD(U) leaders are also on record saying they have never contested the Bihar state assembly election with LJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bihar-nda-to-get-rlsp-in-its-fold-in-a-day-or-two/articleshow/78355666.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 28, 2020||India||Bihar NDA to get RLSP in its fold ‘in a day or two’||PATNA: The form and shape of NDA in Bihar is poised for a change soon, even as the notification for the first phase of assembly polls is set to be issued by the Election Commission on October 1. While former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP seems to have decided to join NDA “in a day or two”, LJP, commanded by Chirag Paswan, has little options but either to accept whatever seats it gets or contest on its own and not field candidates against BJP. A reliable source in LJP said the decision can be taken anytime soon “after the parliamentary board submits its report on Sunday”. Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insaan Party too is exploring options and may exit the RJD-led ‘grand alliance’ soon. At its parliamentary party meeting held in Delhi on September 7, Chirag had indicated that LJP will contest 143 of the 243 seats in Bihar. LJP had fielded 42 candidates in the 2015 polls. The party may have the option of replaying the February 2005 state elections in 2020 in the hope of assuming the role of a kingmaker in case of a hung house. Since RLSP has virtually left the grand alliance, its national secretary general Madhav Anand said talks were on to go back to the NDA fold. “RLSP is a natural partner of NDA. A decision will be taken in a day or two,” he told TOI over phone from Delhi where Kushwaha is in constant touch with BJP members. Asked about Kushwaha’s reservations against Nitish, Anand said, “We don’t have anything personal against any individual.” BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said RLSP was earlier in NDA and Kushwaha was given due respect and made a central minister by PM Narendra Modi. “He switched his loyalty on his own. If Kushwaha intends to come back to NDA, it will be his decision. The leadership will take a collective decision on him,” he said. BJP will also not like to go to the crucial polls with a partner not on the same page with JD(U). RLSP suits BJP politically, a party insider said, preferring anonymity. He added LJP had a declining trend since the 2005 polls, be it seats or percentage of votes. Nitish has already brought former CM and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi to his side, a move considered to consolidate the Dalit votes and counter Chirag. Given its performance in the past assembly polls, LJP wants to remain BJP’s partner at the Centre, but not in Bihar. In fact, Chirag has said many times that LJP is not a JD(U) partner in the state. Similarly, JD(U) leaders are also on record saying they have never contested the Bihar state assembly election with LJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-nda-to-get-rlsp-in-its-fold-in-a-day-or-two/articleshow/78355716.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 11 crore cow dung lamps to light up this Diwali||AHMEDABAD: Diyas (lamps) are an integral element of Diwali celebrations, with people lighting up their houses and offices with earthen lamps. This year though, Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog intends to ensure that over 11 crore diyas made with cow dung are sold ahead of Diwali. The aayog has got in touch with institutions, voluntary organizations, gaushalas (cow shelters) and bodies working with women’s co-operatives across the country, asking them to take up the project. “Women from across the country will get employment and financial help for being involved in the Gau Maya Diya project,” the aayog’s chairman, Vallabh Kathiria, said. “We will get women entrepreneurs, gaushalas, and selfhelp groups to work together. These women will then market the diyas in their respective areas.” Kathiria added that there have been isolated instances of diyas being made with cow dung, but this will be the first large-scale, nationwide initiative. “The aayog will promote this across the country by using our network of affiliate organizations and those involved in cow protection,” Kathiria said. Pureesh Kumar, who heads the implementation of the Gau Maya Diya project, said that the target of 11 crore diyas will be exceeded by some distance this year. “We have lined up volunteers in every state. One household will purchase several such diyas,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-11-crore-cow-dung-lamps-to-light-up-this-diwali/articleshow/78355739.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 35% of Mumbai beds vacant, but only 10% in ICUs||MUMBAI: Despite the 2,000-odd cases being diagnosed in the city every day, 35% of the beds reserved for Covid-19 patients remain vacant. Yet, if one were to look for ICU beds, only about 10% were available. The BMC daily dashboard of Covid-19 beds — both in the public sector and private showed 5,150 of the total 14,859 beds were vacant on Sunday morning. Of the vacant beds, 4,157 are in public hospitals, including BMC’s jumbo or field hospitals. Even BMC’s best-known super-specialty hub, KEM Hospital, has vacant beds in its Covid-19 section. A senior doctor said that 20% of the beds were vacant. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said the hospital had 200 Covid-19 patients at any given time while it used to have 500 cases on average in the May-June period. TimesViewIf ICU beds are in short supply while regular ones are easily available, it may also point to the late admission of patients with Covid. Six months into the pandemic, the public probably still needs to be made more aware of the dangers of self-medication and the reluctance to seek treatment in the early stages of the disease. On the healthcare front, ICU bed capacity has not been ramped up as much as promised.Opposition leader in BMC Ravi Raja said he was not convinced with BMC’s claim about there being adequate beds for Covid-19 patients. Ravi Raja said: “The BMC is providing misleading information. We called up the BMC helpline, civic and private hospitals for an ICU bed for one of my Covidpositive associates (on Tuesday), but everywhere I was told that the bed was unavailable. We got the bed only the next day.” On Sunday morning, about 65%, or 9,709 (6,521 in public hospitals and 3,188 in the private hospitals), of the total beds were occupied, according to the BMC. BMC officials said there were two reasons for such an experience. Firstly, the limited number of ICU beds available in the city. While 90% of the 906 ICU beds available for Covid-19 patients in the private sector were occupied, 87% of the 1,011 ICU beds in the public hospitals were taken. Secondly, demand is more for private beds than for public ones because of the patient profile at the moment. Municipal commissioner I S Chahal recently said at a CII conference said that in the previous 45 days, 80% of the cases were coming from nonslum areas. These residents with financial means would not like to get admitted to BMC’s jumbo facilities as they prefer private hospitals, causing a high demand. Another reason for the bed crunch is that many asymptomatic patients seek beds out of fear, said municipal officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/35-of-beds-in-mumbai-vacant-but-only-10-in-icus/articleshow/78355725.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 28, 2020||India||‘Angel on bicycle’ saves four lives, vanishes sans trace||RAJKOT: It was a providential escape for the Shamja family from Virpur who found their second chance at life truly an act of God. If it wasn’t for the ‘angel on a bicycle’ who arrived at the scene on time after their car plunged into a natural drain near Gondal on Saturday night, four more lives would have been lost along with that of their three-year-old daughter, who couldn’t be rescued. Risking his own life, the rescuer plunged into the waters till he saved one person after the other, except for the little girl. Like his appearance, this saviour’s disappearance too was mired in mystery as he soon vanished into the night without a trace, bicycle and all. Vipul Shamja, who owns a water park in Babra, was travelling along with his wife and three kids to Virpur when the accident took place. As the vehicle was at high speed, Shamja couldn’t control it while negotiating a sharp turn, and the car veered off the road and fell into the 17ft-deep drain. Supposedly a farm labourer, a tribal man witnessed the accident and jumped into the water without wasting time. He first rescued Shamja’s 18-month-old son and then his five-year-old daughter. By this time, a local resident — who owns a petrol pump nearby — had arrived at the scene. The rescuer handed over the children to the local and again jumped into the drain, this time saving the couple one by one. After being rescued, Shamja realized that his three-year-old daughter Mitashi was still missing. On hearing this, the saviour dived again, but could not find Mitashi. While the traumatized family was trying to gather themselves, he quietly left the spot, disappearing into the night. Later, the car was fished out using a crane and Mitashi’s body was also found by local divers around 1am on Sunday. Police are now searching for the unidentified saviour to reward him for his bravery. “The petrol pump owner gave his description but said that in the rush of things he failed to ask his name. We are looking for him in nearby farms and orchards based on the description,” said assistant sub-inspector J V Vala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/angel-on-bicycle-saves-four-lives-vanishes-sans-trace/articleshow/78355718.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: SAD tries to get back in farmers’ good books||BATHINDA: After cutting off ties with BJP over agri bills, SAD has coined new slogans on farmers and Punjabiyat, besides publishing a pamphlet. The party is trying to project its “sacrifice” by resigning from the Union cabinet and breaking the alliance with BJP for the sake of farmers. It has come up with the slogan, “Kisan sadda maan, kisan saddi shaan” (farmer is our pride and farmer is our dignity), “Ikko naara, kisan pyara” (only one slogan, the farmer is dear). The pamphlet, which sports a picture of Sukhbir, says, Punjab Punjabiat ate kisana lei vajirian te gathjod kurban (sacrifice of ministries and alliance are for Punjab, Punjabiyat and farmers). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-tries-to-get-back-in-farmers-good-books/articleshow/78355735.cms||---
September 28, 2020||World||US Judge temporarily blocks Trump administration ban on new TikTok downloads from app stores||WASHINGTON: A US judge in Washington late on Sunday temporarily blocked a Trump administration order that was set to bar Apple Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google from offering Chinese-owned short video-sharing app TikTok for download at 11:59 p.m. on Sunday. US District Judge Carl Nichols, a nominee of President Donald Trump, who joined the court last year, said in a brief order he was issuing a preliminary injunction to prevent the TikTok app store ban from taking effect. Nichols declined "at this time" to block other Commerce Department restrictions set to take effect on Nov. 12 that TikTok has warned would have the impact of making the app unusable in the United States. Nichols' detailed written opinion is expected to be released as soon as Monday. John E. Hall, a lawyer for TikTok, had argued during a 90-minute Sunday morning hearing that the ban was "unprecedented" and "irrational." "How does it make sense to impose this app store ban tonight when there are negotiations under way that might make it unnecessary?" Hall asked during the hearing. "This is just punitive. This is just a blunt way to whack the company. ... There is simply no urgency here." US officials have expressed national security concerns that personal data collected on 100 million Americans who use the app could be obtained by China’s Communist Party government. ByteDance said on Sept. 20 it made a preliminary deal for Walmart Inc and Oracle Corp to take stakes in a new company, TikTok Global, that would oversee US operations. Negotiations continue over the terms of the agreement and to resolve concerns from Washington and Beijing. The deal is still to be reviewed by the US government's Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS). The Justice Department said a preliminary injunction allowing Americans to continue downloading the TikTok app would be "interfering with a formal national security judgment of the president; altering the landscape with respect to ongoing CFIUS negotiations; and continuing to allow sensitive and valuable user information to flow to ByteDance with respect to all new users." On Sept. 19, the Commerce Department delayed the ban to give the companies an additional week to finalize a deal. TikTok argues the restrictions, amid rising U.S.-China tensions under the Trump administration, "were not motivated by a genuine national security concern, but rather by political considerations relating to the upcoming general election." Another US judge, in Pennsylvania, on Saturday rejected a bid by three TikTok content creators to block the ban, while a judge in California has blocked a similar order from taking effect on Tencent Holdings' WeChat app. Watch US judge suspends Trump ban on TikTok downloads||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-judge-temporarily-blocks-trump-administration-ban-on-new-tiktok-downloads-from-app-stores/articleshow/78355722.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Goa||SEC prepares pandemic election guidelines, sends it for forum’s nod||PANAJI: The state election commission (SEC) has prepared guidelines on how to hold elections during the pandemic, and once these are approved by the SEC forum, local body polls will be held in the state in consultation with the government. State  commissioner R K Srivastava told TOI that no state has taken any decision to hold local body elections. “I have drafted the guidelines for the SEC, and they have been sent to the forum chairperson,” he said. “The meeting will be held shortly via video conferencing, and we will come up with a common set of guidelines to hold local body elections in the country.” He said that it’s a welcome move for the ECI to decide to hold the Bihar elections. “They have also issued guidelines on how to hold elections during Covid times, and these are to be followed by everyone — stakeholders, the public, political parties, candidates, etc.” He also said that all SECs are deliberating on those guidelines, and that shortly, SEC forums will come out with their own guidelines. “We are waiting for that, and we are looking at the Bihar elections too,” he said. “After we develop our own guidelines, we will definitely consult with the state government to hold elections to local bodies.” When asked whether SEC will consult with the state government to hold zilla panchayat and municipal elections, Srivastava said that those elections were cancelled because of the rise in Covid cases, and there’s still a rise. “When Covid cases start declining, the state will consider the health of the public and voters, and decide,” he said. “Right now, I don’t think the state will hold elections because the situation continues as it is.” In August, with Covid-19 cases increasing in Goa, the SEC postponed polls for 11 municipal bodies, scheduled for October 18, by three months. The zilla panchayat election was initially scheduled for March 15, after which the state government postponed it to March 22. But on March 20, after PM Narendra Modi advised social distancing due to the pandemic, chief minister Pramod Sawant indefinitely postponed the election. Modi then called for a ‘janata curfew’ on March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sec-prepares-pandemic-election-guidelines-sends-it-for-forums-nod/articleshow/78354791.cms||Murari Shetye
September 28, 2020||Goa||Oppn wants House to be convened||Panaji: The opposition parties want the Goa government to convene an assembly session to discuss key issues affecting the state, particularly the pandemic and diversion of the Mhadei. While Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte called for a five-day session, Congress sought a 21-day sessionso that all issues could be discussed threadbare. Khaunte said that the state government can do away with the question hour, but should take up discussion on crucial issues like Covid-19, economic revival and the Mhadei.  GP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar had said that a five-day session is required to let the state know what has been done to tackle the pandemic. Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro said that a virtual assembly session could be held.“It is necessary for us to discuss the issues of the state, particularly the projects coming up in Mollem,” Faleiro said. Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said a 21-day session is required to discuss the state’s finances and Covid strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-wants-house-to-be-convened/articleshow/78354800.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal universities to start year from Dec 1, not UGC-proposed Nov 2||KOLKATA: The academic calendar in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at Bengal’s state-run universities will begin on December 1, a month after UGC’s proposed November 2 timeline, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Sunday. “We shall start the new academic session on December 1 in either offline, online or blended mode,” Chatterjee said after a meeting with vice-chancellors. “Considering the Covid situation and month-long festivities, all VCs have decided upon the date. The colleges shall also require a few days to sanitise campuses.” Classes will be held six days a week. The mode of education to be used — including the option of starting on-campus classes — will be taken by the government, based on the prevailing Covid situation then, said sources. Senior officials in the higher education department pointed out that the VCs were first informed about starting the session on November 2. “Nabanna sought a delay because of festivals in November,” said a source. Another significant decision taken at Sunday’s meeting was changing the PG admissions formula to the ‘80-20 model’ (in which universities will offer 80% seats to their own students, keeping the rest for students from other universities), instead of the ‘60-40 model’ that’s currently followed. “This has been done because there is very limited mobility this year. A huge section of students who are interested in pursuing higher studies are staying back in Bengal,” Chatterjee said, adding he had instructed all colleges to begin online classes for intermediate semester students. Officials said the academic session would have to be concluded by July 2021, followed by semester examinations; the new academic session (third semester) for this batch should start from August 30, 2021. Postponing the re-opening timelines beyond what UGC has proposed has its own set of challenges. “UGC has not yet indicated at any syllabus cut. We were supposed to complete the curriculum within 10 months if we followed the proposed UGC calendar,” said a senior teacher. “Now, with the Bengal government deciding to allow the fresh academic session for first-year UG students only from December, the syllabus has to be crunched into nine months.” Also, Bengal is heading for assembly elections next year, where hundreds of institutes will be overtaken and requisitioned as polling stations and for housing security personnel. “Physical classes may not be possible during April and May (the usual voting months), but classes could be held online,” said one of the participating VCs in the virtual meeting. Another VC pointed out that teachers were often put on poll duty, hence running online classes may not be possible during the elections. “The universities will decide on the modalities,” said the education minister. Some senior officials in Bikash Bhavan argued that it was not possible for thousands of students living in villages and remote locations to access online classes. “Teachers have been occasionally sending across study materials, which, when accessible, can be studied. How long will this continue? Many students are failing to cope with the online format,” added a CU teacher. He added that the litmus test would be the conduct of the online examinations for the terminal semester and final-year students starting October 1. “We shall get to understand how far the online medium could penetrate the villages, where internet facilities are scarce,” he said. Some VCs pointed out that universities like Jadavpur University or Presidency University — where students’ migration is high — may have several seats vacant in PG departments if 80% seats were reserved. “Yet, this year there is no option but to follow the 80-20 formula for uniformity,” said a source in the higher education department. Initially, a 100% reservation for own universities was demanded by a few VCs in North Bengal districts, said the source. “Only after others pointed out that the NIRF rankings would will be bad if all seats were reserved for own university students, not to mention scores in other international rankings, was the 80-20 formula adopted,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-univs-to-start-year-from-dec-1-not-ugc-proposed-nov-2/articleshow/78355147.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Flak for BJP neta’s tasteless comment on CM and Covid||KOLKATA: Anupam Hazra, BJP’s newly appointed national secretary, on Sunday said that he was ready to hug chief minister Mamata Banerjee if he tested Covid-positive. His tasteless remark prompted a scathing attack from Trinamool Congress, while Hazra’s party colleagues quickly distanced themselves from it. Hazra, in his first party assignment as national secretary, was attending a meeting of district functionaries at Baruipur, South 24 Parganas. “If, some day, I am found Covid-positive, I will go to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and hug her. She will understand the pain of those who suffered the disease and have lost their near and dear ones during the pandemic,” he said. Trinamool reacted sharply. “It’s a sign of immaturity and craziness,” said spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. “If this is a statement from a national secretary, imagine how the rest of the party members would speak.” Hazra, a former Trinamool Lok Sabha MP from Bolpur, was expelled from the party for “anti-party activities”. He defected to BJP in March 2019. He contested — and lost — the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Jadavpur. Hazra’s party colleagues distanced themselves from his comment. “I pray that both Anupam Hazra and the chief minister remain healthy and not get infected. I can only pray that they live a healthy life in the years to come,” said Bengal BJP’s general secretary, Sayantan Basu. The state BJP’s vice-president, Raju Banerjee, reserved comment. “I do not know exactly what he has said,” he said, while BJP state president Dilip Ghosh could not be reached for comment. Earlier, Hazra told the media: “Our workers here are fighting against an enemy even more powerful than Covid. When they see that they can fight that bigger battle without a mask, they have overcome every fear of the coronavirus... They have also seen how bodies of those who died of Covid were sprayed with kerosene and set on fire.” He, too, could not be contacted for a comment. He later posted on Facebook that he would speak to reporters on Monday. After Hazra spoke to the media and left the party office, a group of BJP supporters clashed with another group there. “A group led by Swarup Datta (organizational secretary of Baruipur east) and Debopam Chakraborty (mandal Sabhapati) came to the party office and started venting grievances. Suddenly, they started shoving workers in the party office. This resulted in a clash in which 11 party workers were injured. I will not be surprised if they are instigated by Trinamool,” said Harikrishna Datta, president Baruipur (east) organizational district of BJP. Hazra, who replaced BJP leader Rahul Sinha as a national secretary, said that the misgivings, if any, with Sinha could be sorted over a cup of tea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flak-for-bjp-netas-tasteless-comment-on-cm-and-covid/articleshow/78355140.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Ranchi||Residents of LWE-hit hamlet in Palamu build road to enable movement of tractors||Daltonganj: Done with waiting for development to arrive, residents of Kundeelpur hamlet under Manatu police station in Palamu district took to being ‘atmanirbhar’ and built a road to at least pave way for tractors to bring in raw materials to make toilets and pucca houses. The hamlet falls in a Maoist zone and until sometime ago, making roads would invite severe backlash from the rebels. “We cannot bring in sand, cement or iron bars because of lack of roads. It was decided to construct a road on which at least tractors can move,” said a resident of the village Neyamat Khan. The village barely has 500 people living in it. Officer in-charge of the Manatu police station Santosh Kumar Singh said, “The residents have done a good job by making a road for themselves. Villagers building roads in an Left-wing extremists-hit area is a happy news.” The hamlet is barely a kilometre away from Bihar and CPI Maoists of Chakarbandha use this hamlet to crossover to the neighbouring state. Sub divisional police officer Anup Kumar Baraik said, “Pressure from extremists has considerably gone down. We are happy that the villagers took the initiative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/residents-of-lwe-hit-hamlet-in-palamu-build-road-to-enable-movement-of-tractors/articleshow/78354345.cms||M F AHMED
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Help panel on Ponzi cases to resume work: HC to Bengal government||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the West Bengal government to provide all support to the HC-appointed and Justice S P Talukdar-led committee on Ponzi cases to make it fully functional at the earliest and asked the home secretary to submit a report on October 9. The committee is hearing cases of 50 chit funds and has started online disbursal of payments to depositors of Alchemist group and is preparing a list of depositors of MPS group. A week ago, the HC formed a special bench, comprising justices Joymalya Bagchi and Jay Sengupta, to hear only chit fund matters every Friday. Observing that the state was in unlock mode, the HC said: “We direct the state government in consultation with the committee to take adequate steps to ensure the resumption of activities of the committee in such a manner as it is appropriate. The state shall provide necessary infrastructural support — human resources and ICT facilities to the committee.” The court wanted Covid safety norms followed. The HC division bench was approached by Srijib Chakraborty, an advocate of Vibgyor group, a chit fund, with a scheme to repay duped depositors in an ascending manner up to Rs 5,000. They placed a list of depositors before the Justice Talukdar-led committee along with the scheme. The court wanted payments to duped depositors to start before Pujas. A committee official said it had been operating with skeletal staff and held regular video conferences to make payments to Alchemist group’s depositors. “ Duped depositors can enrol through our website to claim payments,” the offical said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/help-panel-on-ponzi-cases-to-resume-work-hc-to-bengal-govt/articleshow/78355182.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata nightclubs set to rock, not shake off C fears||KOLKATA: The city is set to get back its dose of nocturnal entertainment after a six-month lull as upscale restobars and nightclubs get ready to revive live music and throw open dance floors. But don’t expect packed houses just yet. A day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s tweet announcing the reopening of cinemas and resumption of entertainment programmes from October 1, several city restaurants started getting in touch with their musicians, while nightclubs got busy chalking out a revival strategy to let the party crowd shake a leg. The return of entertainment, however, is set to be a cautious one, with sparser bands and fewer people on the dance floors. Trincas on Park Street, known for its live music since the 50s, is ready to get back into the groove. “We will be starting our live bands with the minimum number of musicians possible, keeping in mind safety protocols. Footfall will definitely be helped, but we will adhere to the restrictions of (lower) allowable capacity,” said Anand Puri of Trincas, adding the restaurant “will be going along with whatever guidelines are issued by the authorities”. “We will also open up other areas of the restaurant which were kept closed to accommodate any increase in footfall and maintain safety,” Puri said. Someplace Else, a popular venue at The Park, has resumed live music in a restricted way this weekend. “We are yet to decide on opening the dance floor, since guests may not be comfortable,” said a spokesperson. What’s Up Café on Southern Avenue plans to resume live music in a restricted way once it has a meeting with the local police later this week. “We had been waiting for this, and the announcement couldn’t have come at a better time, with the Pujas less than a month away. This will help push up footfall,” said owner Anirban Sengupta. He added that the café planned to have individual singers or a couple performing on stage, instead of full bands. “We have a seating capacity of less than 50 in the performance section, which is further reduced now due to the Covid-ceiling. We will take care to prevent crowding and ensure distance during performances,” said Sengupta. Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis, a popular bar-cum-restaurant known for live music, said: “Music will help calm frayed nerves in these times.” The return of live music is great news for guests, said Samim Sk, head of operations at Sector V nightclub Refinery 091. “We were getting a lot of requests, so it would be a refreshing change,” he said. Opening up dance floors remains a challenge, since guests can come in close contact, he added. “It will be wait-and-watch, depending on guests’ comfort levels. Dancing with masks on and maintaining distance is not easy,” he added. Bakstage, another Sector V nightclub, plans to celebrate the resumption of live music with dhak and baul music. “We play the dhak every year and, this time, our DJ will be jamming with baul singers,” said owner Sudhir Ahuja. He added that a series of measures were already in place to stick to the new norms. “We have started serving food and drinks on trolleys. Also, more room has been created around tables and we will encourage people to swing and dance around them, instead of crowding the dance floor. For live bands, we always have sit-down drinks and table service that will continue. Customers will be advised to enjoy and stick to their own groups rather than mingling with the crowd on the dance floor, which will have restricted entry,” added Ahuja. The restrictions could be a turn-off for many, feared a restobar owner. “It remains to be seen if people continue to patronize us with so many curbs,” he said. But Ahuja felt things should change. “Eventually, we have got to accept the new normal and move on with food and beverages and revive entertainment to cover the losses of the last six months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nightclubs-set-to-rock-not-shake-off-c-fears/articleshow/78355199.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Over 35% of Mumbai’s active cases in 5 wards alone||MUMBAI: More than a third of Mumbai’s 26,020 active Covid-19 cases come from five of the city’s 24 wards. The belt from Andheri to Borivli —where these five wards are located—also account for 30% of the total discharged patients and 25% of the total reported deaths. An analysis of BMC’s Covid updates shows that the civic wards containing Borivli, both Andheri East and Andheri West, Kandivli and Malad, have over 10,000 cases each. Worse, the number of active cases here has been rising steadily in the last couple of weeks. While the R Central ward with Borivli has 2,287 active cases, K West with Andheri West has 1,965, R South with Kandivli has 1,787 and K East with Andheri East has 1,541. P North ward, where Malad is located, has witnessed over 424 deaths and has 1,472 active cases. Experts said these wards saw few cases in the May-June period. R Central (Borivli) had the lowest number of cases till May 26. At present, it has the largest number of total Covid-19 cases (12,518).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-over-35-of-mumbais-active-cases-in-5-wards-alone/articleshow/78355786.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 28, 2020||India||Congress dares BJP allies to oppose govt over farm legislations||NEW DELHI: Intensifying their protests against the three farm laws, Congress on Sunday dared BJP allies JD(U), LJP and JJP to oppose the government over legislations they said are “cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and farming”. Even as it ran a SpeakUpForFarmers campaign on social media platforms, Congress’ Kumari Selja and Sunil Jakhar said parties must come together to oppose laws that seek to enslave farmers when they deal with big businessmen. Selja and Jakhar also said NDA allies should support the opposition in the same way they had extended support to the protests against the Land Acquisition Bill, forcing the BJP-led Union government to withdraw the legislation. Jakhar also accused former NDA ally Akali Dal of doing “drama” by quitting the NDA and added that farmer leader Chaudhary Devi Lal’s soul “must be churning in heaven on seeing his descendants – Dushyant Chautala’s JJP -- support the “anti-farmer” BJP. Congress’ organisation general secretary KC Venugopal said the party had decided to extend its support to over 250 farmer organisations that had hit the streets against the farm legislations and its state units would orchestrate protests on Monday, followed by a Kisan Mazdoor Bachao Divas on October 2. The party’s online campaign trended during the afternoon with over 5 lakh impressions through the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-dares-bjp-allies-to-oppose-govt-over-farm-legislations/articleshow/78355762.cms||---
September 28, 2020||India||Grassroots fury sparks farm fire in Punjab||JALANDHAR: The way SAD-Badal has been forced to take a U-turn — from defending agri-marketing related ordinances till over a fortnight ago to now severing ties with BJP over the same laws — and the September 25 protests have made it clear that what is happening in Punjab is a grassroots movement. Most of the protests on Friday were not controlled by politicians. In fact, the spontaneity and response to the protests on September 25 has been so big that it went beyond the control and grasp of even farmers’ unions in Punjab. One of the biggest protests took place at Shambhu border and it was not called by any party or an organisation, but largely organised through social media by a few Punjabi activists. The protest attracted most of the attention on social media and appeared to be setting the tone. It now appears that political parties are trying to keep pace with the public sentiment. Even Punjabi singers — who are considered to be big trendsetters — appeared to be following the trend. While a few of them took a stand from the very beginning, most joined on September 25. In the last seven years or so, Punjab has been setting its own socio-political narrative, mostly with the aid of social media. From the hunger strike by Gurbax Singh Khalsa towards the end of 2013 for release of Sikh prisoners, pardon to Sirsa Dera chief, Bargari sacrilege and Behbal Kalan firing in 2015 to Bargari morcha in 2018, which was initially ignored and played down by mainstream political parties, the tone was set at the grassroots level. The groundswell of support made the political parties fall in line. The same thing is happening with the farmers’ issue now. This phenomena is also indicative of political vacuum to an extent, especially in the opposi-tion space in the state. It was this vacuum that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) filled in 2014, but the party bosses took things for granted. Major blunders did the party in during the 2017 assembly election and the subsequent follies further reduced its base in 2019, when its vote share was reduced to under 7.5%. In all, AAP could sway Punjabi social media space for a couple of years — now no party can claim control on it even as they try to influence through their IT cells. Most of the times they face the heat. Ironically, in the past, it was SAD that anchored agitations by Sikhs and farmers and capitalised on those. However, in the last five years or so, the Akali Dal has been at the receiving end of Sikhs’ and farmers’ ire. Now, after facing the heat from farmers, it is desperately trying to catch up with the agenda set by the people. In the religious field, too, despite having complete control of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Akali Dal is unable to push its agenda among Sikhs. In the case of missing Birs of Guru Granth Sahib, the party continues to face heat with even small Sikh groups putting the Akalis and the SGPC on the defensive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/grassroots-fury-sparks-farm-fire-in-punjab/articleshow/78355812.cms||IP Singh
September 28, 2020||Business||Beriwal new IIF prez||Kolkata: Vijay Beriwal has took over as national president of The Institute of Indian Foundrymen (IIF). It is an apex National industry body representing the foundry industry with over 3000 members drawn from foundries, foundry equipment, and foundry material & service providers besides leading academicians & Institutes. IIF is also actively associated with the World Foundry Organization (WFO), and was founded in 1950 to promote education, training and competitiveness of foundry industry in India & also to promote business promotional activities. India is the 2nd largest producer of Castings in the world with 15% share where China enjoys 1st position with 35% share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/beriwal-new-iif-prez/articleshow/78354851.cms||---
September 28, 2020||Mumbai||From today, two new ‘women only’ locals among 6 Western Railway specials||MUMBAI: Two new ‘ladies special’ trains will be launched along with four more special services on Western Railway from Monday. These six new services will accommodate over 2,000 more office-goers from this week. The total number of daily special suburban services on WR will increase to 506. The six new services will be along the Virar-Churchgate corridor, said WR chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur. Three services will be from Virar on the slow line and three be towards Virar on slow corridor. The two ladies special trains will be run during peak hours between Virar and Churchgatein both directions. The timings are: from Virar at 7.35am to reach Churchgate at 9.22 am, while in return direction the train will be from Churchgate at 6.10pm to reach Virar at 7.55 pm. “Considering the scenario of pandemic, special suburban trains and stations over WR are regularly sanitised and cleaned for proper hygiene. All commuters as permitted by state government are allowed to travel and they are requested to follow social distancing norms and wear masks,” said Thakur. A few days back, during the heavy downpour, a video of suburban train being packed with passengers without any social distancing at Borivli went viral on social media. The rush was due to train cancellations. A few days back, Central Railway added 68 trips which can accommodate nearly 50,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-today-two-new-women-only-locals-among-6-western-railway-specials/articleshow/78355827.cms||Somit Sen
