September 29, 2020||Business||ArcelorMittal to sell its US ops to Cleveland-Cliffs for $1.4 bn||NEW DELHI: ArcelorMittal has signed a definitive agreement to sell 100 per cent stake in ArcelorMittal USA to Cleveland-Cliffs Inc for around $1.4 billion in both cash and stock. ArcelorMittal, in a statement on Monday, said that around one third of the consideration is in upfront cash -- $505 million and the remaining two-third of the consideration is in the form of equity. Further, Cleveland-Cliffs will assume the liabilities of ArcelorMittal USA, including net liabilities of approximately $0.5 billion and pensions and other post-employment benefit liabilities which Cleveland-Cliffs values at $1.5 billion. Cleveland-Cliffs said in a statement that it will acquire ArcelorMittal USA on a cash-free and debt-free basis, with a combination of 78.2 million shares of Cleveland-Cliffs common stock, non-voting preferred stock with an approximate aggregate value of $373 million, and $505 million in cash. With the transaction, ArcelorMittal USA has achieved "favourable" valuation due to the high synergistic potential of the combined company, the ArcelorMittal statement said. Lakshmi Mittal, Chairman and CEO of ArcelorMittal, said: "This transaction is a unique opportunity for ArcelorMittal to unlock significant value for shareholders while retaining exposure to the North American economy through our high-quality NAFTA assets alongside a participation in what will be a stronger, better integrated, US business." "I would like to thank all employees of ArcelorMittal USA for their hard work in ensuring the business maintained its reputation as a trusted, quality supplier of steels for American manufacturing. I am confident you will have a bright future with Cleveland-Cliffs," he said. Aditya Mittal, President and CFO, ArcelorMittal, said that the transaction also completes the steel major's $2 billion asset portfolio optimisation target and enables it to return cash to the shareholders. Lourenco Goncalves, President and CEO of Cleveland-Cliffs, said: "Steel-making is a business where production volume, operational diversification, dilution of fixed costs, and technical expertise matter above all else, and this transaction achieves all of these. ArcelorMittal is a world class organisation that we have long admired as our customer and our partner, and we know for a fact that they have taken good care of their US assets."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/arcelormittal-to-sell-its-us-ops-to-cleveland-cliffs-for-1-4-bn/articleshow/78372471.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||Coal India invites global bids for coal-to-methanol plant||NEW DELHI: State-owned Coal India Ltd (CIL) on Monday said that it has invited global bids for setting up a coal to methanol plant. Dankuni Coal Complex (DCC) in West Bengal, currently run by its subsidiary South Eastern Coalfields Ltd, is identified as the project site for the proposed plant. "Coal India Limited (CIL) on Friday last floated an open global tender inviting bids for setting up a, first of its kind in India, coal to methanol (C2M) plant through surface coal gasification route on Build-Own-Operate (BOO) model," the PSU said in a statement. Based on the outcome of pre-feasibility studies, CIL has floated this tender to select the BOO operator for the life span of the plant which is expected to be 25 years. "This is a part of implementing the methanol economy programme of the government aimed at reducing the country's oil import bill," a senior executive of the company said. The capital outlay of the entire plant is pegged at around Rs 6,000 crore though the cost would not be borne out of CIL's coffers. BOO operators would own and lease the plant, apart from designing, building, maintaining, producing and storing the product. However, CIL shall allocate the land, power, water to the operator for the proposed plant. Land is available. Approximately 6.76 lakh tonnes of methanol per annum is targeted to be produced from the plant to be used for blending with petrol up to 15 per cent. At this capacity the plant will cater to the methanol requirement of four eastern states of the country - West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. The company is in dialogue with IOCL and other government owned oil companies for a long term tie-up for assured marketing of methanol. CIL would also supply low-ash high calorific coal of Ranigunj coalfields, having an ash content of around 24 per cent, as basic raw material for the production of 2,050 metric tonnes of methanol per day. The PSU would meet around 1.5 million tonnes of coal requirement annually. CIL has aligned itself with the national objective of reducing dependence on imported crude and the plan to set up the plant is a step in that direction. Project Developments India Limited (PDIL) the government owned consultancy and engineering CPSE has been retained as the consultant for the selection of the BOO operator. Prospective bidder should be an established BOO operator having successfully built plants on BOO basis in coal to liquid, coal gasification, coal to chemical, fertilizer and methanol and the like. While the mechanical setup of the plant is expected to be completed in 36 months, the actual commissioning of the plant is envisaged to be in 41 months. The last date for the submission of bids is December 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-india-invites-global-bids-for-coal-to-methanol-plant/articleshow/78372584.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||Volkswagen to pump $17.5 billion into China's electric cars||FRANKFURT: German car giant Volkswagen on Monday announced a fresh 15 billion euro ($17.5 billion) splurge on China's vast electric vehicle potential. Global car makers are pegging hopes on an increasingly electric future with China at the forefront as a customer base and manufacturing hub. Beijing has targeted a 25 percent adoption of energy-saving vehicles by 2025. Volkswagon's committment -- made with its three Chinese joint ventures -- see the firm double down on EV car manufacturing and the linked infrastructure between 2020 and 2024 and takes its total investment in the sector to nearly 40 billion euros. China accounts for around 40 percent of the Wolfsburg-based automaker's sales and has become the world's largest car market in recent years. The group's stable of 12 brands includes names such as Porsche and Audi. Fifteen "models across the group's brands will be produced locally in China" by 2025 Volkswagen said in a statement and "35 percent of its product portfolio in the country will be electrified models." Earlier this month, Chinese President Xi Jinping vowed the country would go carbon neutral by 2060, pledging to reach peak emissions in 2030. Production at two new dedicated "MEB" facilities in China -- a battery-powered platform forming the basis for a whole range of vehicles -- will begin next month. Locally-produced new energy vehicles in China will be equipped with batteries from Chinese supplier CATL from this year. But questions hang over the viability of expensive EVs in a vast country which will require huge investment in charging points to turn buyers from gas cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/volkswagen-to-pump-17-5-billion-into-chinas-electric-cars/articleshow/78372702.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Another ‘Spanish’ addition for FC Goa as Ishan Pandita completes move||PANAJI: FC Goa have added more Spanish flavour to its team for this season with the signing of Ishan Pandita, a striker who has been playing in the lower-tiers of Spanish football for four years now. Five of the six foreign players at the club are from Spain and they will now be joined by the 22-year-old who arrives here after a spell with Lorca FC in the Tercera or the fourth tier of Spanish football. The 22-year-old striker joined the under-19 team of UD Almeria in 2016, the top tier of youth football in Spain, and has since then had spells at Leganes U-19, Pobla de Mafumet CF and more-recently Lorca FC. “Ishan is a surprise addition to the squad. Goa were offered the chance to sign him and couldn’t let this chance go. The technical team believes he will be a good addition to the team,” a source who has tracked the development told TOI on Monday. Ishan has been talked about for a while now but not many know what he can turn out to be. FC Goa are understood to have held talks with one of their former players who provided an encouraging report. Coach Juan Ferrando also made his own inquiries and was convinced that he has a role to play this season. “Ishan chose Goa over at least three other teams because of the Spanish influence. They have five Spanish players, the coach is Spanish while the support staff also has Spaniards. “Having been in Spain for four years now, Ishan understands the Spanish philosophy and mindset. He knows the language and it will be much smoother for him to make the transition,” said the source. Ferrando is understood to have spoken to Ishan twice and will meet him personally on Tuesday. Sources said the striker has signed a one-year contract with FC Goa. The club has the option of extending the contract, depending on his performance in the Indian Super League (ISL). In Spain, the Bengaluru-based striker was coached by Espanyol and Deportivo La Coruna legend Walter Pandiani. According to available reports, Ishan has played 25 of the 27 games in Tercera and scored six goals, the highest for his team. It will not be easy, though, for Ishan to break into the starting 11. FC Goa have rich quality in attack with Igor Angulo and Jorge Ortiz the first-two choices in attack. The club is also expected to promote Aaren D’Silva from the reserves, while Devendra Murgaonkar will also provide a formidable challenge upfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-spanish-addition-for-fc-goa-as-ishan-pandita-completes-move/articleshow/78371161.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 29, 2020||Business||Labour ministry allays fears about Labour Codes||NEW DELHI: The ministry of labour and employment on Monday allayed apprehensions about the Labour Codes passed last week by Parliament, saying the "criticisms being aired are misfounded". The ministry in a statement termed the bills as historical game changer reform bills. "The criticisms being aired are misfounded", it asserted. In a pointed clarification on raising employee limit of smaller units for closure to 300, the ministry has underlined that the department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee had also recommended increase in threshold from 100 workers to 300 workers for seeking prior permission for retrenchment, lay-off and closure. It is only the aspect of prior permission of the appropriate Government which has been removed and other benefits and workers' rights have been kept intact, it added. The workers' rights such as notice before retrenchment, compensation at the rate of 15 days wages per completed year of service and pay in lieu of notice period has not been compromised. Further, the IR (industrial relations) Code envisages an additional monetary benefit equivalent to 15 days of wages under newly created Reskilling Fund. There has been no empirical evidence to suggest that higher threshold promotes hire and fire, it pointed out. The ministry also said that the Economic Survey, 2019 has analysed about the pain of dwarfism prevalent in Indian firms. Dwarfism refers to firms which are surviving for more than 10 years but their growth in terms of employment is stunted. One of the inhibiting factors in creation of employment was observed to be the threshold of 100 workers under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It was observed that threshold under labour legislation creates perverse incentive to remain small, it added. Rajasthan in 2014 had increased the threshold from 100 to 300 workers and done away with the requirement of prior permission before retrenchment etc., in case of firms having less than 300 workers. The impact of increase in threshold in Rajasthan, showed that average number of factories in Rajasthan having more than 100 workers increased significantly as compared to the rest of India. As many as 15 more states have already enhanced threshold to 300 workers. ?The ministry explained that fixed term employment has already been notified by Central Government and 14 other states. ?Non-availability of fixed-term employment implied that an employer had options to either employ on regular basis or through contractual basis. There have been allegations that the contractors charge full amount in terms of minimum wage and other entitled benefits like EPF, ESIC but do not pass on the same to the contract labour. The ministry said that a fixed term employee (FTE) has been made statutorily entitled for all benefits and service conditions equivalent to that of a regular employee. In fact the code on Industrial Relations also extends benefit of gratuity even for an FTE contract on Pro-rata basis which is five years in case of regular employee, it added. Talking about definition of Inter-State Migrant worker, the Inter-State Migrant Worker Act, 1979 has been subsumed in OSH (occupational safety health) Code. The various provisions of the erstwhile Act have been further strengthened in the OSH Code. The OSH Code expands the definition of migrant worker to include those workers who would be directly employed by the employer besides by contractor. Further, it has also been made possible that a migrant, who comes on his own, in the destination state, can declare himself a migrant worker by registering on an electronic portal on the basis of self-declaration seeded with Aaadhar. The registration on portal has been made simple and there is no requirement of any other document except Aaadhar. The ministry in this regard has also taken steps to develop a national data base to enrol unorganised workers including migrants, which will inter-alia help migrant workers get jobs, map their skills and provide other social security benefits. It will also help in better policy formulation for unorganised sector workers, in general. A statutory provision for helpline for migrant workers has also been made. The migrant workers will also be able to enjoy the benefits of portability in respect of ration and avail benefits from building and other construction cess. They will also get all other benefits of ESIC, EPFO and annual medical check-up etc. It also said that for working journalists provisions have been strengthened. These include expansion of definition Working Journalist to include Journalists working in electronic and digital media and allowing Earned Leave for “working journalist” on full wages equivalent to not less than one eleventh of the period of service. The ministry has also said that the position of Trade Unions has been strengthened by introducing decentralised registration process. The ministry has dubbed apprehensions regarding 14 day notice period (for strike) as totally misfounded. It has said that it only adds an opportunity for resolving the labour grievance before going on strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/labour-ministry-allays-fears-about-labour-codes/articleshow/78372721.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||Ideal weight now 5kg more: 65kg for men, 55 for women||HYDERABAD: The National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) has added another 5kg to the ideal weight of Indians. While the weight of an ideal or reference Indian man was 60kg in 2010, it has now increased to 65kg. In case of women, it has gone up to 55kg from 50kg a decade ago. Along with this, the earlier height for a reference Indian man was 5.6 feet (171cm) and a woman was 5 feet (152cm). It is now revised to 5.8 feet (177cm) for a man and 5.3 feet (162cm) for a woman. This will now be taken for normal body mass index (BMI). The scientists said this was because nutritional food intake had gone up. Also, data from rural and urban areas was taken into account this time as against only urban data 10 years ago. A premier nutrition research body of the Indian Council of Medical Research, NIN has also revised its recommended dietary allowance (RDA) and estimated average requirement (EAR) of nutrition for Indians in its 2020 report, released on Monday. The definition for reference Indian adult man and woman with regard to age was changed to 19-39 years instead of 20-39 years, which was fixed in 2010.   The scientists added that a previous expert committee in 1989 had taken the body weight and height of only well-to-do Indian children and adolescents. Another expert panel in 2010 had taken nutrition profiles from only 10 states for computing reference body weights. Both committees had arrived at the reference weights for men and women at 60kg and 50kg. Now, the 2020 panel took data from all over India, taking into account National Family Health Survey 4 (2015-16), National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau (2015-16), World Health Organisation (2006-07) and the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (2015) to derive the reference body weight values. For the first time, the ICMR expert committee on nutrition considered recommendations for fibre based on energy intake. About 40grams per 2,000 kilo calories of food consumption has been considered as safe. The visible fat intake for individuals with sedentary, moderate and heavy activity has been set at 25, 30 and 40 grams per day, respectively, for an adult man and 20, 25 and 30 grams per day, respectively, for an adult woman. It was common for men and women in the 2010 recommendations. Also for the first time, recommendations have been made for dietary intakes of carbohydrates setting the estimated energy requirement at 100 grams per day for ages one year and above with a recommended dietary allowance of 130 grams per day. Nutrient requirements, for the first time, include estimated average requirement and also the tolerable upper limit of nutrients along with recommended dietary allowance. The calcium requirement proposed as RDA for an adult man and an adult woman is 1,000mg per day. It was 600mg per day in 2010. For a lactating woman, an additional amount of 200mg is added. For post-menopausal woman, the recommendation is 1,200mg per day. Common salt intake remains at 5 grams per day with the sodium intake limited to 2 grams. An intake of 3,510mg potassium is recommended per day. Watch Now, this is new ideal weight for men and women in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ideal-weight-now-5kg-more-65kg-for-men-55-for-women/articleshow/78372061.cms||Syed Akbar
September 29, 2020||Business||Niti Aayog to hire consultants to prepare development plan for Great Nicobar||NEW DELHI: Government think-tank Niti Aayog is in process of hiring consultants to prepare a master plan for the holistic development of Great Nicobar Island through public-private partnership model. The Aayog in its Request for Proposal (RFP) said the technical consultant shall prepare a master plan, preliminary engineering design report, financial feasibility and project structuring report in accordance with the terms of reference. The last date for submission of application is October 6. Great Nicobar, with an area of around 1,000 square kilometres, is one of the largest islands of the archipelago. According to the RFP posted on Niti Aayog's website, in consultation with the concerned UT administration and concerned central ministries, it has been decided to undertake the holistic development of Great Nicobar Island. "India has a total of nearly 1,382 off-shore identified islands consisting of 1,093 shapes (islands) and 289 points (rocks/rocky islets). They are an integral part of our rich unexplored resources with rich biodiversity. "The potential of these islands is still largely unexplored and untapped. The Government of India intends to set a model in place for holistic development of a few identified islands while preserving and maintaining the natural ecosystem and rich biodiversity that each of them possess," the document noted. The Aayog refused to accept the requests of potential investors to extend the deadline by two weeks due to ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Island Development Agency (IDA), an apex body, was constituted in June 2017 under the chairmanship of the then Home Minister Rajnath Singh to undertake a holistic approach in developing the islands of Andaman and Nicobar. The Aayog has been mandated to steer the Holistic Development of Islands programme, along with the respective UT administration/state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/niti-aayog-to-hire-consultants-to-prepare-development-plan-for-great-nicobar/articleshow/78372843.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||Sebi comes out with guidelines for investment advisers in IFSC||NEW DELHI: Markets regulator Sebi on Monday came out with a new framework for investment advisers operating in international financial services centre (IFSC). Under the framework, any entity, being a company or a limited liability partnership (LLP) or any other similar structure recognised under the laws of its parent jurisdiction, desirous of operating in IFSC as an investment adviser (IA), may form a company or LLP to provide investment advisory services, Sebi said in a circular. It further said the formation of a separate company or LLP will not be applicable in case the applicant is already a company or LLP in IFSC. According to Sebi, an IA or parent entity will fulfil the networth requirement, separately and independently, for each activity undertaken by it. An IA will ensure to conduct annual audit in respect of compliance with investment adviser regulations and these guidelines from a chartered accountant from a company secretary. Sebi said persons seeking registration under the investment adviser norms would provide the services only to those persons mentioned in the IFSC guidelines. "Further, IAs shall ensure to comply with the applicable guidelines issued by the relevant overseas regulator/ authority, while dealing with persons resident outside India and non-resident Indians seeking investment advisory services from them," Sebi noted. Earlier in January, Sebi had put in place guidelines for entities for operating as investment advisers in IFSC, under which such advisers need to have a net worth of at least USD 1.5 million. Now, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has amended its operating guidelines in this regard. The country's only IFSC is in GIFT-City near Ahmedabad in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-comes-out-with-guidelines-for-investment-advisers-in-ifsc/articleshow/78372826.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Flood situation in Krishna district grim||VIJAYAWADA: Several areas along Krishna river have been inundated following incessant rains over the last few days. All 70 gates at Prakasam barrage were lifted and 7.25 lakh cusecs of water was released into the sea on Monday. With water level rising, irrigation department officials issued a second-level warning at Praksam barrage on Sunday night. Flood watchers have been deployed at multiple locations, while all river ghats across the districts have been shut down. Residents of island villages have been warned not to cross the river due to the intensity of the flood. Houses on the banks of Krishna got inundated due to huge outflows from Prakasam barrage. Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Ramalingeswara Nagar, Krishna Lanka Katta and some other areas in the city were the worst affected. Around 4,500 flood victims were provided shelter at various relief camps. Many families faced problems in shifting electronic items and other valuables to safe locations, while some families stayed put in their flooded homes due to theft fears. Officials said the water level is likely to come down by Wednesday, though rising trends continue in Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichinatala projects.  Floods have damaged crops in around 800 acres of land in Nandigama, Kanchikacherla and Jaggiahpet regions. Commercial crops such as cotton and chilly have been damaged. Elsewhere, the Kondaveeti Vagu rivulet in Amaravati region was flooded with officials putting the lift irrigation project constructed by the earlier government to good use. Water was lifted using five motors. Major crop losses were averted in the region because of the move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-situation-in-krishna-dist-grim/articleshow/78373317.cms||Venu Lanka
September 29, 2020||India||Override Centre’s farm laws, Sonia asks Congress-ruled states||NEW DELHI: In an attempt to lend a sharper edge to its opposition to the new farm laws, Congress has directed states where the party is in office to override the legislations by resorting to a key constitutional provision that allows states to frame their own laws on subjects on the concurrent list under certain circumstances. Party president Sonia Gandhi on Monday asked states to explore passing laws that will negate the provisions of the central farm laws, under Article 254(2) of the Constitution, party general secretary K C Venugopal said. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said there was a precedent to states resorting to the said constitutional provision to overrule central laws. “As FM, Arun Jaitley got states to resort to Article 254(2) of the Constitution to override provisions of the 2013 land acquisition law, a law he had fully supported as LoP in RS,” Ramesh tweeted. There were, however, differences within Congress with some party strategists saying approaching the Supreme Court against the farm laws may not be useful. Their fear is that if the laws are upheld by the apex court, it could take the sting out of the controversy about jurisdictional issue of the Centre encroaching on states’ turf. But a growing number of petitions are being filed in the SC with some represented by Congress lawyers. Ramesh’s reference was to the late BJP leader’s view that state governments could decide on exemptions from the consent and social impact clauses of the UPA-era land acquisition law in areas like national security, rural infrastructure, affordable housing, industrial corridors and infrastructure projects. This came about after Narendra Modi government’s attempts to dilute the law after it assumed office in 2014 ran into strong political opposition. At the time, the Modi government had said easing “impractical” land acquisition had been the demand of most CMs but Congress opposed the move. With the majority the opposition then enjoyed in Rajya Sabha, the bill was stuck. There is, however, a key provision in states being able to pass a law that negates a central Act on a concurrent list subject — it must receive the assent of the President, something Jaitley had pointed out. Congress discussed the legality of the move with in-house lawyer Abhishek Singhvi before issuing the direction to chief ministers. Senior Congressmen, however, also pointed to the presidential assent rider, saying this was a crucial proviso in states framing their laws under Article 254(2). They said any state law overruling the central farm laws was bound to be rejected by the home ministry in its advice to the President. Sources said despite the inevitability of any laws passed by Congress-ruled states being blocked by the Centre, the party strategy was sound. They said the idea behind the direction to chief ministers was more to make a political point by further stressing the opposition to central farm laws recently passed by Parliament, thereby aligning the party further closely with farmers. According to a senior leader, the row is striking a chord with the farming community across the country and measures are required to keep hammering home the point about the “negative provisions” of the central laws. The land bill controversy in 2014-15 saw the UPA legislation being criticised for poor drafting and conditions that made land acquisition very difficult. Watch Pass laws to negate Centre's agri legislations, Sonia Gandhi asks Congress-ruled states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/override-centres-farm-laws-sonia-asks-congress-ruled-states/articleshow/78373256.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||Armed forces raise alert over old Cheetah/Chetak helicopters||NEW DELHI: The armed forces have once again sounded the alarm over their ageing and virtually obsolete Cheetah and Chetak helicopters, stressing that the 'total technical life' of these light utility choppers will begin ending from 2023 onwards. They have urged the government to fast-track two long-pending 'Make in India' projects to build such light utility helicopters as well as ensure defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics (HAL) delivers its own under-development choppers in requisite numbers within the required timeframes. “The defence ministry has been told that a critical operational void is fast emerging due to the vintage single-engine Cheetah and Chetak fleets. The bulk of them are over 40 years old,” said a senior officer on Sunday. The armed forces have been demanding new light choppers for well over 15 years now. The renewed push comes amidst the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh, which is already into its fifth month and is likely to stretch through the winter.  Army, IAF and Navy currently have 187 Chetak and 205 Cheetah helicopters, which are used to even service high-altitude areas like the Siachen Glacier region. But they are plagued by a high crash rate and huge serviceability problems. Overall, the three Services together need 483 new light utility helicopters. But the three-pronged approach to acquire them is still stuck in the doldrums. The first is a joint venture between India and Russia, under an inter-governmental agreement inked way back in 2015, to manufacture 200 twin-engine Kamov-226T helicopters (135 for Army, 65 for IAF) for over Rs 20,000 crore. “But five years later, it’s still in the technical evaluation stage. The final contract is far away. There are some problems with the indigenisation levels being offered by Russia. But HAL also needs to get going as the JV partner,” said another officer. HAL, of course, is also developing its own light utility helicopters. The initial requirement was pegged at 111 for Army and 61 for IAF. With the basic IAF variant getting the initial operational clearance (IOC) in February this year, the Army one is now also ready for it, says HAL chief R Madhavan. But given the large numbers required and the production capacity available, military officers contend both the Kamov and HAL projects need to be pushed to avoid a huge operational void over the next few years. The third proposed project is the “strategic partnership” one to produce 111 armed, twin-engine naval utility choppers at a cost of over Rs 21,000 crore. Under it, an Indian private sector company was to tie-up with a foreign manufacturer. Four Indian firms (Tata, Adani, Mahindra Defence and Bharat Forge) and three foreign ones (Airbus, Kamov and Lockheed Martin-Sikorsky) were earlier shortlisted. But with HAL now insisting it should also be considered, the project is nowhere near taking off. Watch Armed forces sound alarm over ageing, obsolete Cheetah and Chetak helicopters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/armed-forces-raise-alert-over-old-cheetah/chetak-helicopters/articleshow/78374055.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 29, 2020||India||With eye on China, MEA brings Indo-Pacific, Asean policies under one unit||NEW DELHI: Keeping China in focus, India is bringing together its Indo-Pacific and Asean policies under a single unit, with the ministry of external affairs creating a new vertical, which includes a new Oceania territorial division with Australia at its centre, as well as including the Indo-Pacific and Asean divisions within it. Essentially, the move is intended to align policies in the region stretching from western Pacific (with the Pacific islands) to the Andaman Sea and the very area China regards as its strategic backyard and is jostling for influence with its smaller neighbours and the US. By focusing administrative and diplomatic attention, India wants to signal its own focus on the region. Reenat Sandhu, additional secretary and formerly India’s ambassador to Italy, will head the new vertical, assisted by two senior directors, Geetika Srivastava and Paulomi Tripathi. The geopolitical sweep and messaging is important as it indicates India's priorities over a longer timescape even as the timing of the decision in the current context of heightened military tensions with China in Ladakh is significant. It signals a meshing of Indian interests with key blocs and nations in the Indo-Pacific. The Oceania division will include Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific islands and sources said this gives Australia greater prominence within MEA. Australia has been growing in importance in India’s foreign policy, but within the MEA structure, it was part of the ‘South’ division. With the rejig, Australia gets bumped up to be handled by an additional secretary, rather than a joint secretary. This was felt to be necessary with Australia playing a larger role in India’s outreach to this region and because of the Quad. Including the Pacific islands in the division, sources said, acknowledge them as also being within Australia’s sphere of influence. These islands are now a major destination for Indian diplomatic interest and development assistance. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has continued to sharpen MEA’s approach to this crucial region in Indian foreign policy. In 2019, former foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale created the Indo-Pacific division to include Asean, Quad and Indian Ocean Rim Association. Earlier, the MEA had created the Indian Ocean division, bringing together Sri Lanka, Maldives, Mauritius and Seychelles. In late 2019, MEA included Madagascar, Comoros and Reunion Islands into the IOR division, expanding its ambit. Watch Keeping China in focus, MEA brings Indo-Pacific, Asean policies under one unit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-eye-on-china-mea-brings-indo-pacific-asean-policies-under-one-unit/articleshow/78374295.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||BSSS college organises an online inter college panel discussion||The department of humanities of the Bhopal School of Social Sciences (BSSS), organized an online inter college panel discussion on the topic ‘does a new era of development awaits Jammu and Kashmir?’ Nine students from different colleges across the country expressed their views with IAS Sudhir Kochar being the expert speaker on the topic. Moderating the session Dr. Shriji Seth found that some participants emphasized on the need to talk to take a sunny side up approach while others were highly critical of the way things have been functioning. Gautami Nair, a student of Gargi College, University of Delhi expressed her opinion by defining what development is in actual terms for the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and stressed upon the quest to find the right path of development. While Sambal Jha, a student of MIT Pune, reminded everyone that it’s still early times to take a call on how effectively the administration is working in J&K, when even after 73 years of Independence, some states in our country are still searching for the right approach towards development. On the other hand student Shiasta Khan representing The Bhopal School of Social Sciences, took an interesting approach when she broke down the word “development” and pointed out that if not done in the right way, there sits a “devil” in development. The interesting session culminated with the views of the keynote speaker IAS Sudhir Kochar. After listening to all the students he said that what has happened has happened and rather than discussing the past of the state it is the time when we look out for solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bsss-college-organises-an-online-inter-college-panel-discussion/articleshow/78399734.cms||---
September 29, 2020||World||Trump, pressured over pandemic, says states to receive 150 million tests||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump, under pressure over his handling of the coronavirus outbreak, announced on Monday the federal government would ship 150 million rapid tests to U.S. states for opening schools and ensuring safety at centers for senior citizens. "This will be more than double the number of tests already performed," he said, announcing the plan in the White House Rose Garden. Trump said 50 million tests will go to "most vulnerable communities" including nursing homes, assisted living facilities, home health and hospice care. Nearly 1 million will be sent to historically black colleges and universities and tribal nation colleges. He said 100 million tests would be given to states and territories to "support efforts to reopen their economies and schools immediately and (as) fast as they can." "The support my administration is providing would allow every state on a very regular basis test every teacher who needs it," he said. Trump said 6.5 million tests will go out this week and the rest in coming weeks. Trump is trying to show progress in the battle against the pandemic as he campaigns for re-election on Nov. 3 against Democrat Joe Biden. The first presidential debate will be held on Tuesday night in Cleveland, Ohio. The rapid tests announced by Trump were purchased from Abbott Laboratories in August for sending to governors of states and territories to support school reopenings and other critical tasks. Abbott has said it would scale production capacity to 50 million tests per month by October and that it could currently produce "tens of millions" of the tests, indicating it will take at least a few months for the tests to be fully distributed to states and territories. At the Rose Garden event leader of the Trump coronavirus task force, Admiral Brett Giroir, demonstrated how to conduct the Abbott rapid test, swabbing his nasal passages and dipping the swab into a test solution that will provide a result in about 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-pressured-over-pandemic-says-states-to-receive-150-million-tests/articleshow/78374567.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||Rs 6,000 crore CIL plan to make methanol from coal for blending petrol||NEW DELHI: State-run Coal India is foraying into the production of methanol, or methyl alcohol, used for lacing petro and industrial solvent, from coal with a first-of-its-kind project estimated to cost Rs 6,000 crore. The move is in line with the Niti Ayog’s push for developing a methanol economy as one of the options to reduce India’s carbon footprint in line with the Paris climate commitment and the oil import bill. Coal India has invited bids for selecting the company which will set up the coal-to-methanol (C2M) plant based on surface coal gassification technology on BOO (build-own-operate) model. The C2M project will be built at the company’s Dankuni coal complex, about 15 kms from Kolkata in West Bengal. The complex is run by Coal India subsidiary South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. The unit will have the capacity to produce about seven lakh tonnes of methanol per annum for up to 15% blending with petrol. The plant will cater to methanol requirement of West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. CIL is discussing long-term supply deals with state-run fuel retailers.  The selected BOO operator would fund, own and lease the plant as well as store the product. CIL will provide land, power and water. CIL would supply low-ash high calorific coal from the Ranigunj mines in the state as basic raw material for the production of 2,050 tonne of methanol per day. CIL would meet about 1.5 million tonne of coal requirement annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-6000-crore-cil-plan-to-make-methanol-from-coal-for-blending-petrol/articleshow/78374690.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 29, 2020||India||Congress MP challenges farm bills in SC, Punjab likely to follow suit||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH: Amid protests against the new farm laws, especially in Punjab and Haryana, Congress MP from Kerala T N Prathapan moved the Supreme Court on Monday seeking to declare the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and related notifications as unconstitutional and illegal. The 58-year-old MP from Thrissur said the new law providing to monetise agricultural produce of farmers would render nearly 15 crore people engaged in farming defenceless against big agricultural corporations. Advocating resurrection and strengthening of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees under the 2003 Act, he said it would ensure no farmer was exploited by intermediaries and that all food produce was brought to a common market to be sold through auction. “Without the APMCs, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies who are profit-oriented and have no care for the conditions of poverty-stricken farmers,” he said. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said his government will also fight the Centre’s “malicious and anti-national” agri-marketing laws constitutionally and legally. Read AlsoOverride Centre’s farm laws, Sonia asks Congress-ruled statesIn an attempt to lend a sharper edge to its opposition to the new farm laws, Congress has directed states where the party is in office to override the legislations by resorting to a key constitutional provision that allows states to frame their own laws on subjects on the concurrent list underHe said he will be consulting lawyers to challenge the laws in the Supreme Court. He also said that the laws could endanger the border state’s security as Pakistan’s ISI was always on the lookout for opportunities to foment trouble. The CM asserted that he does not want Punjab’s youth and farmers to take to arms to fight for their right to live. “We will do whatever it takes to protect the farmers from the nefarious designs of the Centre,” he added. Earlier, speaking on the issue in Khatkar Kalan, where he sat on dharna, the CM said: “Punjab has lost 35,000 lives to terrorism in senseless violence in the past and with the unrest among the farmers spreading to other states, the entire nation would be exposed to the ISI threat.” Pakistan-backed forces will try to feed on the angst in India, he said and added that he will not let anyone disturb the state’s peaceful atmosphere, which the new laws had the potential to do. Criticising the “step-motherly treatment” meted out to Punjabis and Punjab’s farmers “to make big corporates like the Adanis happy”, Amarinder said, “Will the Adanis subsidise food for poor Indians?” He added that the new laws will spell the death-knell for the PDS system, apart from ruining Punjab and its farmers. Amarinder said the Centre’s verbal assurances on MSP could not be trusted. “When they can break constitutional guarantees, who can trust their verbal assurances?” he said, questioning why MSP had not been made a constitutional right in the new laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mp-challenges-farm-bills-in-sc-punjab-likely-to-follow-suit/articleshow/78374875.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||Census may have to wait until next year or even 2022 if Covid-19 situation does not improve||NEW DELHI: With the home ministry’s notifications outlining September 30, 2020 as end-date for the first phase of Census as well as National Population Register (NPR) updation exercise to be allowed to lapse, indications are emerging that the onset of Census exercise may have to wait until next year or even 2022 if the Covid-19 situation continues to be concern. Sources in the government said the January 2020 notification indicating April 1 to September 30, 2020 as the timeline for Census Housing and Houselisting operations, will simply be allowed to lapse on Wednesday, with informal discussions with the law ministry indicating that there is no requirement to issue a fresh notification with the new intended timeline. Even the July 31, 2019, notification declaring the government’s intent to update NPR between April 1 and September 30, 2020, in all states/UTs except Assam, will lapse simultaneously. Read AlsoFresh cases drop sharply as Covid testing lowest in 5 weeksNEW DELHI: Daily Covid-19 cases recorded across the country on Monday dropped below 70,000 for the first time in September, as testing numbers fell sharply to the lowest in five weeks. Deaths from the pandemic too dropped below 800, the lowest daily toll since August 2. Less than 7.1 lakh tests wereIn March 2020, days after imposition of lockdown on account of Covid-19, the home ministry had announced postponement of first phase of Census 2021 and NPR updation “until further orders”. “The Covid-19 situation in the coming months cannot be predicted at this juncture. Given that the Centre and states’ priority right now is tackling the pandemic and its impact, the states are in no mood for even discussions on the way forward on Census/NPR. In any case, Census is not an essential exercise and can wait,” said an official. As per sources, unlike many countries where the law specifically dictates the timing and frequency of Census, the law in India does not mandate repeating the Census exercise every 10 years. “Holding it on a decennial basis is a convention and not a requirement under the law. So there is no legal impediment to postponement of the census exercise,” said a government functionary. While the Census reference date as notified on March 26, 2019 still remains March 1, 2021, the Centre, in an indication that this may no longer be possible, has already written to states a couple of months back, allowing them to make jurisdictional changes till December 31, 2020 — something usually frozen a year in advance. States were earlier asked to freeze jurisdictional changes – such as creation of new districts – on December 31, 2019, but in view of deferring of Census houselisting operations due to Covid-19, some states had requested RGI office to allow them to make these changes. RGI Office wrote to the states 1-2 months ago, extending the timeline to December 31, 2020. As per the home ministry notification dated March 28, 2019 declaring the government’s intent to conduct Census 2021, the houselisting phase was to take place from April 1 to September 30, 2020, with the reference date being March 1, 2021. Population enumeration was to be done from February 9 to 28, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/census-may-have-to-wait-until-next-year-or-even-2022-if-covid-19-situation-does-not-improve/articleshow/78374925.cms||Bharti Jain
September 29, 2020||India||Supreme Court lens on land acquisition case again||NEW DELHI: Six months after a five-judge bench settled vexed issues relating to land acquisition, the Supreme Court on Monday sought to reopen the matter relating to time period for payment of compensation to land owners, saying the bench had not settled this. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said the larger bench had held that land acquisition would lapse if the government had neither taken possession of the land nor paid compensation. But the three-judge bench had an issue with the ruling that if the government had taken possession of the acquired land, but not paid compensation, then the land acquisition would not lapse. “For how long can the government not pay compensation after acquiring land without rendering the acquisition null and void?” asked the bench. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who had argued for the government before the five-judge bench, said the government would be liable to pay penal interest on the compensation amount if payments were delayed. The bench said the law provided that land acquisition was to be completed within five years of initiating the process. “So if the government did not pay compensation for five years after acquiring the land, should the acquisition be termed null and void? These are larger questions which the five-judge bench has not addressed,” the bench said, indicating that it might explore the appropriateness of certain conditionalities. The bench asked the SG to take instructions from the government. “We will also discuss among ourselves whether government could be permitted to defer making payments indefinitely,” the CJI said. The SC posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. On March 6, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M R Shah and S Ravindra Bhat had cleared the air over validity of land acquisition that was initiated but could not complete it in the stipulated five-year period. The court ruled that the process would be deemed to have lapsed only if possession of land was not complete and no compensation had been paid. The five-judge bench further clarified that delay caused due to interim orders passed by courts had to be excluded from the computation of five years. The matter was referred to a five-judge bench because of conflicting verdicts of two benches of the apex court on interpretation of Section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. When the matter was taken up by the three-judge bench headed by the CJI, the SG suggested that either petitioners in land acquisition matters give details of the date of land acquisition and date of payment for the three-judge bench to decide whether the acquisition was valid or lapsed, or, the matters could be sent to different high courts for adjudication as per the ratio laid down by the five-judge bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-lens-on-land-acquisition-case-again/articleshow/78374982.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 29, 2020||World||26 more Armenian rebels killed in Karabakh fighting||YEREVAN: Twenty-six separatist fighters died in clashes with Azerbaijani troops late on Monday in Azerbaijan's breakaway Nagorny Karabakh region, the rebels' defence ministry said, bringing their military death toll to 84. World leaders have urged a halt in fighting after the worst escalation since 2016 raised the spectre of a fresh war between the ex-Soviet rivals Armenia and Azerbaijan. Fierce clashes continued throughout the day on Monday, officials in Baku and Yerevan said. On Monday evening, Azerbaijani forces launched a "massive offensive at the Karabakh frontline's southern and north-eastern sectors," said Armenia's defence ministry spokesman Artsrun Hovhannisyan. "Twenty-six servicemen of Karabakh's Defence Army died" in action, the Karabakh's defence ministry said in a statement late on Monday. Armenia and Azerbaijan have been locked in a territorial dispute since the 1990s when Karabakh declared independence after a war that claimed 30,000 lives. No country recognises Karabakh's independence -- not even Armenia -- and it is still considered part of Azerbaijan by the international community. The total death toll rose to 95 including 11 civilian deaths: nine in Azerbaijan and two on the Armenian side. Azerbaijan has not yet released information on military casualties since the latest fighting broke out. Fighting between Muslim Azerbaijan and majority-Christian Armenia could embroil regional players, Russia and Turkey. Russia, which has a military alliance with Armenia, sells sophisticated weapons worth billions of dollars to both Baku and Yerevan. Armenia has accused Turkey -- which backs Turkic-speaking Azerbaijan -- of meddling in the conflict. Talks to resolve one of the worst conflicts to emerge from the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union largely stalled in 1994 when a ceasefire was agreed. France, Russia and the United States have mediated peace efforts as the "Minsk Group" but the last big push for a peace deal collapsed in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/26-more-armenian-rebels-killed-in-karabakh-fighting/articleshow/78374986.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||Kerala IS jihadi who went to Iraq gets life in jail, fined 2.1 lakh||KOCHI: The NIA special court in Kochi on Monday awarded life imprisonment and Rs 2.1 lakh fine to Subahani Haja Moideen, a Thodupuzha native, who went to Iraq in 2015 to fight a war for Islamic State (IS) and returned to India. Judge P Krishna Kumar in his 140-page order observed that the act of the convict was a blot on the cultural conscience of this nation. “It is a painful realization that youthful people are indoctrinated by such extremist ideologies and they are even prepared to renounce the eternal tie with their mother country, seemingly on their wishful thought that they could embrace their own paradise in that attempt. Let us hope that Shri Subahani Haja, once duly reformed, will tell them that the best rule of paradise must be the rule of law preserved by the Constitution of India,” the court observed. The case pertains to the arrest of Subahani in 2016 after the NIA busted a group, Ansar-ul-Khilafah Kerala, from Kanakamala in Kannur. It was found that he travelled to IS-controlled territory in 2015 via Turkey and was trained by the outfit at Mosul in Iraq in combat and warfare and deployed by the terrorist organization in the warfront at Iraq. In a rare incident, Subahani was sentenced under IPC Section 125 as well for waging war against an Asiatic power in alliance with India. This is one of the first cases wherein a person has been sentenced under this section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-is-jihadi-who-went-to-iraq-gets-life-in-jail-fined-2-1-lakh/articleshow/78375000.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||Fresh cases drop sharply as Covid testing lowest in 5 weeks||NEW DELHI: Daily Covid-19 cases recorded across the country on Monday dropped below 70,000 for the first time in September, as testing numbers fell sharply to the lowest in five weeks. Deaths from the pandemic too dropped below 800, the lowest daily toll since August 2. Less than 7.1 lakh tests were done across India on Sunday, the lowest since August 23, as per the covid19india.org website that tracks official data on the pandemic. Sunday’s tests were less than half the numbers achieved just three days earlier (Thursday), when nearly 15 lakh tests were conducted, as per government data. Testing fell on Friday (13.4 lakh tests) and Saturday (9.9 lakh). The number of tests falls every Sunday, leading to a drop in cases on Mondays, but this time it was lower than the previous three Sundays. Read AlsoCensus may have to wait until next year or even 2022 if Covid-19 situation does not improveWith the home ministry’s notifications outlining September 30, 2020 as end-date for the first phase of Census as well as National Population Register (NPR) updation exercise to be allowed to lapse, indications are emerging that the onset of Census exercise may have to wait until next year or evenFresh cases recorded on Monday fell to 66,251, the lowest daily since August 31, when 65,968 new infections were reported. The fall in the death toll was just as sharp, though these have no link with testing numbers. On Monday, 783 fatalities were reported, the lowest since 758 deaths were reported on August 2. That was also the last time when the toll had fallen below 800. Nearly 80,000 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, many more than the new cases reported. This meant that active cases fell sharply by nearly 17,000 to a little over 9.5 lakh. Maharashtra reported 11,921 new cases on Monday, the lowest since August 31 and nearly 35% lower than Sunday’s addition. The state reported 180 deaths, the lowest in 70 days (since July 21) and over 50% lower than the fatalities reported on Sunday. With this, total cases in the state stood at 13,51,153, and the total fatalities were 35,751. However, Mumbai continued to report over 2,000 cases on Monday, breaching the 2 lakh caseload. Mumbai is the second district in the state after Pune to have over 2 lakh cases. However, the health department that compiles Covid data faces a manpower crunch on Saturday and Sunday, resulting in “anomalies” and “delays” in updating the figures, a state official said. Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of fresh cases at 5,589 after Maharashtra and Karnataka (6,892). Telangana on Monday recorded 1,378 new Covid-19 positive cases and seven deaths. Watch Covid-19: Fresh cases drop sharply, testing lowest in 5 weeks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fresh-cases-drop-sharply-as-covid-testing-lowest-in-5-weeks/articleshow/78375024.cms||---
September 29, 2020||World||Cindy McCain joins Biden's transition advisory board||PHOENIX: Cindy McCain, the widow of Republican Sen. John McCain, will advise Democrat Joe Biden's presidential transition team as it prepares for him to take office if he wins in November, the team announced Monday. McCain is the second Republican on the 16-member transition advisory board, joining Bob McDonald, the former Procter & Gamble Co. chief executive who headed the Department of Veterans Affairs under President Barack Obama. Biden has reached out extensively to Republicans disaffected with President Donald Trump. McCain, whose husband was the 2008 GOP presidential nominee, last week endorsed Biden and urged other conservative women to follow suit, saying, ``Biden is by far the best candidate in the race.'' As required by law, Biden's transition team is preparing for a smooth transfer of power should Biden win the presidency. The teams typically line up candidates for key appointments and prepare to implement policies early in the new president's administration. Biden's team says it is focused especially on the pandemic and its economic fallout. Ted Kaufman, one of five co-chairs of Biden's transition team, cited McCain's experience in business and philanthropy and her advocacy for women and children. ``This transition is like no other, preparing amid the backdrop of a global health crisis and struggling economy,`` Kaufman, a longtime Biden aide who was appointed to fill his Senate seat when he was elected vice president, said in a statement. Biden's transition team this month signed a lease for office space with Trump's General Services Administration. Formal federal support for presidential transition teams was first put into practice in 2012 in an effort to ensure presidential candidates are prepared to assume the White House should they win the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/cindy-mccain-joins-bidens-transition-advisory-board/articleshow/78375070.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||MP cop removed from duty after ‘wife-beating’ video goes viral||BHOPAL: Purshottam Sharma, a DG-rank officer in Madhya Pradesh, was removed from his post after a shocking video of him allegedly hitting his wife went viral. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said, “He (Sharma) has been relieved of his duty. If anyone in an important position commits any unlawful act or takes the law in his hands, action will be taken, irrespective of who the person is. Action would be taken.” The video of Sharma punching his wife and pinning her on the floor, saying he was attacked with scissors, surfaced on social media around midnight on Sunday. On Monday, another video surfaced showing Sharma’s wife apparently finding him in the house of another woman, which is said to be the trigger for the violence that followed at the IPS officer’s home. The wife has not filed a complaint and the administration said it can take action only when someone does. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra told reporters that he has watched the video. “If a complaint is filed, we will see,” he said on Monday morning. Later in the day, Sharma was removed as public prosecution director, and asked to explain why action shouldn’t be taken against him. “Your unlawful activity and domestic violence against your wife are, prima facie, seen in the two viral videos concerning you. Explain why disciplinary action shouldn’t be taken against you,” says the notice issued to Sharma. The first video is said to have been posted on social media by the couple’s son, an income tax deputy commissioner, who also reportedly filed a complaint with Mishra. Sharma has not denied the authenticity of the video, but says it was a ‘scuffle in self-defence’. The 4.47 minute-long clip shows the couple’s pet dogs running around the room and barking furiously while two other men try repeatedly to intervene. Sharma, a 1986-batch IPS officer, said it was his personal matter. “I have done everything that I could to keep my family united and I am still trying to sort out issues. But, if my wife and son think I have done something wrong, they can file a complaint,” he told TOI. Bhopal ADG Upendra Jain said: “We have not received any complaint from anyone on the matter.” In 2008, Sharma’s wife had filed a complaint, accusing him of atrocities. Sharma retorted on Monday: “If at all she had a problem, why was she silent for 12 years?” Taking suo motu cognisance, state women’s commission chairperson Shobha Oza urged the government to take strict action and register a case against the IPS officer. “If those tasked with ensuring law and order violate it, and a video of such an incident goes viral, the government need not wait for a complaint to take action,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-cop-removed-from-duty-after-wife-beating-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78375123.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||SBI cuts auto loan rates, offers deals on others||MUMBAI: Ahead of the festival season, State Bank of India (SBI) has announced rate cuts and fee waivers on various consumer loans. Interest rates on car and personal loans have been reduced to a new low of 7.5% and 9.6% respectively. Also, in a bid to push its digital platform Yono, the bank is offering special rates for loans using the bank’s all-in-one mobile app which has seen 5.8 crore downloads till date. The special deals being offered by the bank include a waiver of processing fee on car, gold, personal and home loans in approved projects. SBI earlier offered auto loans at 7.75% and personal loans were mostly in double digits. “With the economy recovering gradually, we hope to see a boost in consumer spends and at the same time ensure SBI’s helping hand to all those in addressing their financial needs to have a pleasant festive season,” said SBI MD (retail & digital banking) C S Setty. The bank already accounts for one out of every three auto loans and home loans in the country. For those availing home loans above Rs 30 lakh, the bank is offering credit score-based concessions of up to 10 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). Home buyers can avail a 5bps interest concession if they make their application through the Yono app. This provides the additional advantage of providing instant approval based on borrower eligibility, reducing the need for branch visits. The bank is offering a flexible repayment facility on gold loans, which are available at 7.5%. Those who already have a home loan can take a top-up loan using the mobile app. Besides cutting the rate on auto loans, the bank is offering 100% finance on select models. To pre-approved customers, SBI is using its analytics software which scans transactions in savings account. Any customer of the bank can check their eligibility by sending a text message. As of June 30, 2020, the bank has a deposit base of over Rs 34 lakh crore and advances of nearly Rs 24 lakh crore. SBI has a 34% market share in home loans and nearly 33% in the auto loans segment. The bank has the largest network of over 22,100 branches in India with an ATM network of over 58,500 and total business correspondent outlets of more than 62,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-cuts-auto-loan-rates-offers-deals-on-others/articleshow/78375125.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Poll process to elect 8 MLCs begins||PATNA: The biennial election process for the eight legislative Council seats from Graduates and Teachers’ constituencies started on Monday. However, no one filed nomination papers on the first day. The Graduates’ constituencies are Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Kosi. The four Teachers’ constituencies are Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Saran. The last date of filing nomination is October 5. The election for the eight Council seats will be held on October 22. The results will be announced on November 12. There are 40,553 voters for teachers’ constituencies and 4,05,683 for graduates’ constituencies. Patna divisional commissioner-cum-electoral officer for teachers’ and graduates’ constituencies in Patna, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, said the officials concerned were instructed to take safety measures during the filing of nomination papers in view of Covid-19. Agarwal said 91,598 men, 28,488 women and four transgenders are enrolled to vote in graduates’constituency. Similarly, there are 6,746 male, 2,808 female and one transgender voters for teachers’ constituencies. “Voting would be held at 80 polling booths in Patna, Nalanda and Nawada for teachers’. In Patna, there are 113 booths for graduates and 46 for teacher voters, he said. IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar and Nawal Kishore Yadav are likely to be fielded as NDA candidates from Patna graduates’ constituency and Patna teachers’ constituency respectively. Neeraj said all the outgoing MLCs are likely to contest from their respective seats. “The official announcement would be made in a few days,” he told this newspaper. JD(U) sources said the NDA candidates would be officially announced within two days. The outgoing MLC Dilip Kumar Choudhary would be the NDA candidate from Darbhanga Graduates’ constituency and Suresh Rai from Darbhanga Teachers’ constituency. Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra said state party president Madan Mohan Jha would be the party candidate from Darbhanga Teachers’ constituency. “For Tirhut and Patna seats, decision would be taken with the consent of all the party members,” he said. Altogether 10,403 electorates are in Saran Teachers’ constituency consisting Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, East Champaran and West Champaran districts. Kedar Nath Pandey, the CPM candidate, is expected to face challenge from Chandrama Singh of BJP. Chandrama had represented this constituency as a Congress candidate before Pandey. Some new players like Lala Babu Yadav (RJD), Ashok Kumar Yadav, Yogendra Prasad Yadav, Ranjit Kumar and Anuja Singh are also expected to file their papers. Sanjay, deputy electoral officer in Tirhut division, said there were 94,775 voters for Graduates’ constituency and 8,684 for Teachers’ constituency.  (With inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-process-to-elect-8-mlcs-begins/articleshow/78371265.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 29, 2020||Business||RBI puts off monetary meet in absence of new members||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday said that the three-day monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting scheduled to commence from September 29 to review the central bank’s benchmark repo rate has been postponed. Without attributing any reason for the rescheduling, the RBI said that the new dates will be announced soon. The decision is seen as a fallout of the government’s inability to name three external members who will replace Indian Statistical Institute professor Chetan Ghate, Delhi School of Economics former director Pami Dua, and Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad former professor Ravindra H Dholakia, who completed their four-year term as MPC members in August this year. While the central bank advanced an earlier MPC meet scheduled for April 2020 because of the pandemic, it has never postponed the meeting in the past. Bankers say that the delay will not have any major impact in banking as most forecasters expect that the MPC policy would maintain a status quo on the repo rate. However, given the surplus liquidity in the banking system, many lenders are expected to cut rates to boost lending during the festival season, with SBI already taking the lead. In its Monday edition, TOI had reported that, if the external members are not appointed, the MPC meeting may be deferred. The government had adopted a 4% inflation target under the monetary policy framework in 2016. The finance ministry had notified the target for the RBI until March 31, 2021 with an upper tolerance level of 6% and a lower tolerance limit of 2%. In February, before the pandemic, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said that the central bank has commenced an internal review of the working of the framework. While the MPC framework has worked well most of the four years, the pandemic has thrown fresh challenges. First, data collection took a big hit during the lockdown period. Second, while the MPC has been tasked with keeping inflation at 4%, the lockdown created supply disruption which pushed up prices despite a complete collapse of demand. This, economists say, calls for an increase in tolerance for inflation. Third, there is still no clarity on how the government is going to fund the oversized fiscal deficit for the current fiscal, which has thrown up liquidity management challenges. In terms of the monetary policy framework notified by the government, if the average inflation is more than the upper tolerance level of 4% + 2%, that is, 6%, or less than the lower tolerance level of 4% – 2%, that is 2%, for any three consecutive quarters, it would mean a failure to achieve the inflation target. Where the central bank fails to meet the inflation target, in terms of the provisions of the RBI Act, it shall set out a report to the government stating the reasons for failure. Meanwhile, the RBI extended a facility for banks that allowed them to borrow from the central bank, an additional 1% of their deposits against the bank’s government bond holding. This facility, introduced during the lockdown, was to end on September 30, 2020, and has now been extended to March 2021. TIMES VIEW: The lack of clarity on the members of the Monetary Policy Committee is surprising given that the panel has the legal mandate to decide on interest rates, which has become even more crucial in the current economic situation. There has been a series of flip-flops on financial sector appointments and this appears to be the latest instance. It is high time that the government ensures that such crucial appointments are made in time to ensure that investors and markets get the right signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-puts-off-monetary-meet-in-absence-of-new-members/articleshow/78372941.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||IIT Roorkee, TSW launch online PG programme in data science, ML||NEW DELHI: The Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee (IIT-R) together with TSW, the Executive Education Division of Times Professional Learning (a part of The Times of India group), launched a postgraduate certificate programme in data science and machine learning (ML) on Monday. The 11-month programme will be covered in 10 modules and include three specialisations and a 40-hour campus immersion session at the IIT. The scholars on successful completion will be certified by IIT-R. PGCPDSML is going to be one of the many programmes that IIT-R and TSW will collaborate on. The programme was launched at a virtual event, which also marks the commencement of the application process. Speaking at the event, professor Ajit K Chaturvedi, director, IIT-R, said that data science and machine learning have crossed the threshold of traditional domains and are now applicable across sectors. “The situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic has given us hope that many such programmes can be effectively delivered online provided the programme is for a longer duration. Our partnership with TSW seeks to achieve this with the 11-month certificate programme,” said Chaturvedi. This course would be conducted over more than 450 hours of learning, which will include more than 136 hours of live virtual sessions to be relayed by IIT-R faculty as well as industry experts and has around 200 hours of self-learning content, besides 40 hours of campus immersion at IIT Roorkee. With the option of three specialisations — computer vision and image recognition, speech recognition and data engineering — which comes as the 10th module, this PG certificate course prepares the learner for a career in data science and machine learning. No prior knowledge of coding is required to apply for the programme, though a bachelor’s degree in science or engineering is required with minimum 50% aggregate, along with minimum two years of experience preferably in the software domain. There is a provision of a special 15% discount on the course fee for alumni of IIT-R. While the academic inputs come from the IIT, industry input comes from TSW. Anish Srikrishna, CEO, Times Professional Learning, said: “AI is predicted to increase national GDP growth by an average of 1.7% across 16 industries by 2035. A recent report goes on to say that, by 2035, AI technologies could increase labour productivity by 40% or more, thereby doubling economic growth in 12 developed nations that continue to draw talented and experienced professionals to work in this domain. We have partnered with IIT Roorkee in bringing a programme in Data Sciences and Machine Learning that has specific modules on Deep Learning and AI, backed with a specialisation that is promising and rewarding.” With a total of 10 projects and real datasets, students would benefit from hands-on learning on diverse topics such as a recommendation system based on the dataset from Amazon, auto-tagging photos uploaded by Yelp users on a review website, classify the audio based on Google Audio set, sentiment analysis on the live Twitter feed, lung cancer detection, satellite image classification, Covid-19 dataset analysis and chatbot using Google Dialogflow. Industry mentorship and career support would also be provided to learners upon the completion of the course. Times Professional Learning has collaborated with over 250 leading organisations across sectors and more than 11,000 learners have been successfully placed in reputed organisations in the past few years. Aspirants can visit https://timestsw.com/tech/courses/post-graduate-certificate-program-data-science-machine-learning/ to apply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iit-roorkee-tsw-launch-online-pg-programme-in-data-science-ml/articleshow/78372679.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Patna||Schools in Patna record low attendance||PATNA: Government and private schools in the city, which reopened partially after a gap of nearly seven months, registered low attendance of students on Monday. The state education department has allowed students of classes IX to XII to attend school only twice a week for doubt clearance. Only 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff are allowed to go to school. Schools have been asked to ensure safety of students, teachers and non-teaching staff in view of Covid pandemic. Students attended classes wearing face mask on Monday. They were sanitised and screened at the entrance gate of the schools. Ashfaque Iqubal, principal of Bishop Scott Boys’ School, said 25% of students of classes IX and X came to the school on Monday. “We are expecting increase in attendance in the coming days. Students who attended classes as well as their parents were satisfied with the Covid safety arrangements made at the school,” he said. Meenakshi Jha, principal of Bapu Smarak Mahila Ucch Vidyalaya, Rajendra Nagar, said since it was the first class for Class IX students, they could not even identify their teachers. “We conducted an interactive session for them,” she added. Many private schools, which are conducting compartmental examinations, would start partial classes for students of classes IX to XI within the next few days. O P Singh, vice-principal of Patna Central School, said classes would start at the school in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-record-low-attendance/articleshow/78371170.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Patna||Patna: Kidnappers kill 9-year-old boy||PATNA: In a shocking incident, a nine-year-old boy was murdered after being abducted along with his three-year-old younger brother from a village in Vaishali district, police said on Monday. The victims—Satyam Kumar and his brother Vicky Kumar—were allegedly sold for Rs.2.5 lakh to a gang involved in human trafficking after being picked up in a car from Mustafapur village under Bidupur police station on September 21. The victim’s mother, Seema Devi, reported the incident to the police on September 24, apprehending the involvement of a close relative Sujeet Kumar and his two associates—Sonu Kumar alias Chhotu and Vikas Kumar. Vaishali SP Maneesh said Vicky was rescued from a house located at Chakosan on Monday and subsequently handed over to his mother Seema Devi. However, his elder brother Satyam was killed by the abductors. Satyam’s mutilated body was recovered from a deserted place filled with rainwater near NTPC under Kanti police station in neighbouring Muzaffarpur district. The SP said altogether seven people, including two women, have been arrested in connection with the incident. During interrogation, Sujeet, the victim’s cousin, confessed to the crime and revealed that he had sold the two kids to Mukul, a resident of Chakosan village in Vaishali district, for Rs.2.5 lakh. Mukul’s mother-in-law Chandrakala Devi, a resident of Jadhua near Hajipur in Vaishali, had approached him for the children. Police said Mukul’s wife Puja Kumari and her mother Chandrakala admitted to having struck a deal with Sujeet for purchasing the two kids. A sum of Rs 40,000 was given to Sujeet as advance and the rest was to be paid in instalments. The SP said the car used in the crime was recovered and its driver Avinash Kumar arrested. A sum of Rs15,000, a part of the first instalment paid to Sujeet was also seized by the police, he told this newspaper over the phone. Preliminary investigation revealed that Satyam was killed by the abductors as he had identified Sujeet, who had kidnapped him along with his brother in a car while playing outside their house at Mustafapur. The arrested persons were identified as Sujeet Kumar, Vikas Kumar, Sonu Kumar alias Chhotu, Mukul Kumar, Puja Kumari, Chandrakala Devi and Avinash Kumar. They were produced in a court at Hajipur, which remanded them in 14-day judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnappers-kill-9-year-old-boy/articleshow/78371188.cms||Ramashankar
September 29, 2020||Meerut||Meerut DM conducts inspection at Subharti Medical College||MEERUT: The Meerut district magistrate, who is also the nodal officer, conducted an inspection at Subharti Medical College on Monday and called up the Covid patients to know about any lapses. Instructions were also given to complete the new 25-bedded ICU building as soon as possible to be able to cater to more patients. "During the inspection the patients gave a positive feedback," said Meerut district magistrate K Balaji. Currently, 108 patients are admitted at Subharti Medical College and health staff there revealed that advice from specialists of PGI Chandigarh and KGMU Lucknow is also taken in case of critical patients. "Stress has been given to complete the construction of the 25-bedded new ICU building. This will increase the capacity of the hospital and its ability to cater to more Covid patients," said Balaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-dm-conducts-inspection-at-subharti-medical-college/articleshow/78371072.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Gold chain, phone worth Rs 95k stolen||Nashik: Two cases of snatching were reported in the city on Sunday where bike-borne suspects managed to get away with a gold chain and mobile phone, both worth Rs 95,000. The gold chain was snatched from a 32-year-old woman, who is a resident of Shibaji Chowk in Cidco. The woman was standing near her house in the night when the bike-borne suspects came to her on the pretext of asking an address and snatched the chain. The chain was worth Rs 85,000 and by the time woman could call for help the suspect duo had fled. In the second case, a mobile phone worth Rs 10000 was stolen by two motorcycle-borne suspects from Mumbai Naka area. The complainant, a 24-year-old woman, was on her way home when the suspects targeted her. The spot were the crime took place is just 150 metre away from Mumbai Naka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gold-chain-phone-worth-rs-95k-stolen/articleshow/78370089.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||SBI cuts auto loan rates, offers deals on others||TNN Mumbai: Ahead of the festival season, State Bank of India (SBI) has announced rate cuts and fee waivers on various consumer loans. Interest rates on car and personal loans have been reduced to a new low of 7.5% and 9.6% respectively. Also, in a bid to push its digital platform Yono, the bank is offering special rates for loans using the bank’s all-in-one mobile app which has seen 5.8 crore downloads till date. The special deals being offered by the bank include a waiver of processing fee on car, gold, personal and home loans in approved projects. SBI earlier offered auto loans at 7.75% and personal loans were mostly in double digits. “With the economy recovering gradually, we hope to see a boost in consumer spends and at the same time ensure SBI’s helping hand to all those in addressing their financial needs to have a pleasant festive season,” said SBI MD (retail & digital banking) C S Setty. The bank already accounts for one out of every three auto loans and home loans in the country. For those availing home loans above Rs 30 lakh, the bank is offering credit score-based concessions of up to 10 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). Home buyers can avail a 5bps interest concession if they make their application through the Yono app. This provides the additional advantage of providing instant approval based on borrower eligibility, reducing the need for branch visits. The bank is offering a flexible repayment facility on gold loans, which are available at 7.5%. Those who already have a home loan can take a top-up loan using the mobile app. Besides cutting the rate on auto loans, the bank is offering 100% finance on select models. To pre-approved customers, SBI is using its analytics software which scans transactions in savings account. Any customer of the bank can check their eligibility by sending a text message. As of June 30, 2020, the bank has a deposit base of over Rs 34 lakh crore and advances of nearly Rs 24 lakh crore. SBI has a 34% market share in home loans and nearly 33% in the auto loans segment. The bank has the largest network of over 22,100 branches in India with an ATM network of over 58,500 and total business correspondent outlets of more than 62,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-cuts-auto-loan-rates-offers-deals-on-others/articleshow/78372811.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Tug-of-war over creation of new Sirsi district||Karwar: The demand for the new Sirsi district by locals and organisations has run into rough weather with organisations from other taluks in the upghat areas of Uttara Kannada district opposing it. For the last several months, some organisations in Sirsi have been demanding for the new Sirsi district by dividing Uttara Kannada. According to them, Karwar, the district headquarter of Uttara Kannada, is far away — about 120km — and so are Mundgod and Siddapur taluks — 150km. People from the upghat taluks of the district are facing difficulty to reach Karwar for official work, and doing so takes their entire day. The other argument is that Karwar is a Konkani-dominated area and culturally different from taluks in the upghat area. “If two districts are created, then more development funds will be given to these district, which in turn helps in the development of both coastal and the upghat (malnad) areas of the district,” they say. The new Sirsi district is the brainchild of Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, Sirsi MLA and Speaker. Being the district minister in 2008, he had created Sirsi educational district by separating it from Karwar. He had also shifted many district offices from Karwar to Sirsi, which were again brought back to Karwar after R V Deshpande became the district minister. Though some organisations in Sirsi are batting for the new district, none of the politicians, except Kageri, has supported it openly. Shivaram Hebbar, the current district minister, hails from Yellapur, while MP Anant Kumar Hegde is from Sirsi, former minister R V Deshpande (Congress) and MLC Shrikant Ghotnekar (Congress) are from Haliyal. They all, being from the upghat areas, are keeping mum. In the past, Deshpande had openly opposed the demand. People’s representatives are wary of being damned (public backlash) if they openly support or oppose the division of Uttara Kannada district. Now, organisations from Haliyal, Joida, Yellapur and Dandeli taluks have openly opposed the formation of the new district. Some activists and organisations in Yellapur want Uttara Kannada intact. For them, Yellapur — and not Sirsi — be made the district HQ if it ever is divided. Politicians and organisations in Haliyal, Dandeli and Joida have warned of agitation if their taluks are made part of the new Sirsi district. Their concern: Karwar is culturally and geographically close to these taluks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tug-of-war-over-creation-of-new-sirsi-district/articleshow/78372804.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada can soon extract sand from 13 CRZ blocks||Mangaluru: Soon, sand will be extracted from Coastal Regulation Zones (CRZ) of Dakshina Kannada district. Karnataka State Coastal Zone Management Authority (KSCZMA) has given its nod to extract sand from 13 blocks identified in the district’s CRZs as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. This is in addition to the 15 blocks in non-CRZs, where sand mining has already begun. The district administration has already made provisions for people to buy sand directly from contractors, who have been extracting sand from the 15 blocks in non-CRZs. The department of mines and geology has received clearance from KSCZMA to remove sand from 13 blocks that are causing inconvenience for fishing boats in the district. At a meeting on September 23, it was decided to clear sand blocks as per the guidelines in the notification of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Only those eligible traditional sand extractors, who have a license to extract sand traditionally, will be given permits. They may submit applications with documents before October 7, officials said. The district administration had fixed the price at which the contractors should sell it in non-CRZ blocks. The price varies from Rs 600 to Rs 1,100 per metric ton depending on areas. However, details of the quantity of sand available in the 13 blocks of CRZs and the price are yet to be communicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-can-soon-extract-sand-from-13-crz-blocks/articleshow/78372328.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heart on Covid-19 crosshairs||Ahmedabad: A middle-aged man with history of angioplasty got infected with Covid-19 recently. The severity of the viral infection led to his hospitalization when the doctors diagnosed his complication as cardiomyopathy – a condition that reduces pumping of the heart and can lead to heart failure. In another instance, a young doctor showed signs of heart attack – but he was found to be Covid-19 positive and his symptoms were caused by a blood clot.“International studies have shown that in about 10-20% of the Covid-19 patients, we observe transient cardiac implications,” said Dr Tejas Patel, a city-based interventional cardiologist. “The impact such as myocarditis, pulmonary embolism or thrombosis are based on severity of the disease and immunity of the patient.”Dr Sameer Dani, a city-based interventional cardiologist, said that pre-existing conditions surely aggravate the Covid-19 impact, but the recovery rate is also good. “Post recovery complications are a reality and one must consult doctors to maintain the heart function. I would advise the existing patients to keep blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol and pulse in check. If it’s maintained properly, Covid-19 can be maintained easily,” he said.“Covid-19 is a relatively new condition and we are yet to understand its implications fully, but we do know how it aggravates the existing condition and can increase risk if other markers are not in check,” said Dr Sunil Thanvi, a city-based interventional cardiologist. “We also request the patients to seek medical help – in the past few months, we had seen instances where the patients were afraid of infection and it could aggravate their condition. Among some of the the recovered patients, we are observing chronic issues.”Dr Jay Shah, a city-based interventional cardiologist, said that several of the Covid-19 patients are on anti-coagulation (clotting) medicines as one of the fallouts of the viral infection is blood clotting which could harm the heart and lungs. “Cases are also observed where there is increase in pressure among arteries of right side of the heart, identified as pulmonary hypertension. Timely intervention can surely reduce mortality,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heart-on-covid-19-crosshairs/articleshow/78373689.cms||Parth Shastri
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman files FIR against husband for earlier marriage||Ahmedabad: A 22-year-old woman from Bapunagar, Ruksanabanu Saiyed, lodged a complaint on Sunday stating that her husband, Wasim Amir Hasan Saiyed, 22 , married her even through he was already married and when she questioned him, he beat her up.Bapunagar police has registered a case under Sections 498(A) and 294(B) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. According to the FIR, the complainant married Saiyed in October 2018. She stated that when she went to Uttar Pradesh to meet Saiyed’s parents, she learned that he had been married earlier and had a daughter from that marriage. He separated from his first wife and pays her alimony. According to police sources when she raised this with Saiyed, he told her that she has nothing to do with that and beat her up. She also alleged that Saiyed demanded Rs 10,000 from her mother for a business which he never returned. The complaint adds that in June, Saiyed left the complainant at her mother’s house and although he said he would return for her, never did. Bapunagar police official said that they are probing the case and after gathering evidence will summon the accused for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-fir-against-husband-for-earlier-marriage/articleshow/78373426.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||LVB share price up 5.2%||Chennai: Share price of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) ended higher by 5.2% at Rs 20.2 apiece on Monday, after the bank assured shareholders, that its liquidity position was comfortable, with liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) being in excess of 250%, about 262% against minimum 100% required by RBI. On September 25, seven directors and auditors of LVB were ousted by unhappy shareholders at the 93rd Annual General Meeting, where their reappointment was not approved. LVB’s share price, which fell 5.72% to hit a low of Rs 18.1 in early trade, erased losses and recovered to end higher by 5.2% at Rs 20.2 apiece. The bank in a press statement said it continues to enforce cost reduction measures both of direct and indirect costs. Provision coverage ratio remains healthy at 72.6%, against the minimum of 70% prescribed under PCA. Further, besides existing business, the Bank will continue its focus on capital-light loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-share-price-up-5-2/articleshow/78372435.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Daylight robbery at doctor’s home||AHMEDABAD: Law and order is at stake in the city’s tony Thaltej area. This time, a robber barged into a doctor’s house in a residential society behind Zydus Hospital, tied his son — an MBBS student, robbed valuables worth Rs 52,000 and fled on his motorcycle on Monday afternoon. The incident happened at a time when the area had routine traffic movement and police were deployed at almost all the crossroads on SG Road from where the accused fled from the crime scene. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said the robbery took place at the house in Somvilla Society owned by Dr Prakash Darji, a nephrologist with a private hospital. “Dr Prakash’s son Bhavya, a final year MBBS student in GCS Medical College in Naroda, was alone at home when the robber, who wore a helmet, tied his hands with a laptop cable and his legs with cellotape, robbed his bracelet and other valuables worth Rs 52,000 from the house and fled,” said Jadeja. He said that the accused was captured in CCTV cameras installed in the residential society and attempts are on to nab him. Bhavya told police that he was sleeping on the sofa at around 2.15pm on Monday. At that time, he woke up and went to close the main door of the house and found an unknown person on the first floor of his house. Before Bhavya could respond, the man, who was around 5 feet 7 inches tall and wearing denim jeans and black Tshirt, pushed him and put a knife to his neck. He robbed him of his bracelet and told him to give other valuables. Bhavya told cops that the robber took him to a room on first floor where he tied Bhavya’s hands with a laptop cable and his legs with cellotape which the robber had brought with himself. He sought keys of a cupboard for money but as Bhavya said that he did not have the keys, he tried to break the cupboard. When he was unable to break it, he picked up some silver utensils and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daylight-robbery-at-doctors-home-in-thaltej/articleshow/78372860.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Few new issues make situation tricky for electorate and leaders||PATNA: Amid the vast range of issues that the ruling JD(U) and BJP combine have been invoking to flatten the rival RJD-led grand alliance (GA) and vice versa, it is seemingly difficult for a voter to sieve through the cacophony and chaos of rhetoric to reach at dominant issues and make up their mind, so as to vote for a candidate of the particular combine, or other than that. For, the rank and file of the rival political combines hark on the proverbial wisdom of the voters: that they have already made up their mind which CM face (Nitish Kumar or Tejashwi Prasad Yadav) to vote for! The issues brought forth into the electoral arena are as old as 30 years — 15-year rule of NDA under Nitish versus the 15-year rule of Lalu (Prasad)-Rabri (Devi). Added to it are the new issues called imponderables, like the agriculture reform bills passed by Parliament that has also become a new topic catching the people’s imagination. For Nitish, who is leading the NDA charge against the GA led by RJD’s CM face, the campaign style this time is different. During the 2005 assembly elections, he used to merely explain to people as to what his government would do if he came to power and deliberately avoided mentioning the RJD or Lalu. During the 2010 assembly elections, he sought votes on the work done — rather what came to be called the Bihar turnaround story with high growth rates in the gross state domestic product (GSDP), and visible improvement in the law and order situation. In 2015, he, Lalu and Congress formed GA and took on the seemingly invincible NDA led by PM Narendra Modi to emerge victorious. However, Nitish quit the GA in July 2017 and formed a government with BJP, again. This time, the situation has been made tricky, as the traditional style and flourishes of campaigning by the leaders would be absent. They would be communicating to the people through the digital medium and, secondarily, through their reporting by the print, electronic and news portals as well as their (mis)representation in social media. This has made the 2020 assembly elections neither easy to contest nor forecast by the pundits as to what the voters’ choice would be, because of the plethora of poll issues. 1 CM Face: The NDA’s CM face is Nitish, who has almost 15-year experience of running the state. RJD has thrown up Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is dismissed as a greenhorn by his rivals. 2 Collective coalition leadership: The NDA is happy to have PM Narendra Modi and Nitish on its side, with other parties in the alliance largely on the same page. Tejashwi has to shoulder the campaign responsibility alone, as his father Lalu Prasad is in jail in fodder scam cases. 3 Legacy Factor: The NDA has pitched itself on the 15-year rule of Nitish versus 15 years of Lalu-Rabri, calling the latter as ‘jungle raj’ due to uncontrolled law and order and fodder scam. Tejashwi has called the NDA rule as ‘rakshas raj’ (rule of demons) due to the incidents like rape of minor girls at Muzaffarpur shelter home and unchecked crime. 4 Family Rule: The NDA leaders describe RJD as “a family party” of Lalu and its tenure in government as the “family rule” of his children. Tejashwi has not reacted to it, but the NDA’s charge might not cut much ice, as the “dynasty factor” is common to all parties, even to a large number of MLAs across political parties. 5 Political Morality: The NDA is largely silent on it, even while it is either wooing or trying to induct smaller political parties into its camp. Tejashwi and GA partners have been harping on the insult meted out to the 2015 mandate when Nitish switched side to form government with BJP. 6 Corona Factor: The NDA leaders have been pointing to the state government’s timely intervention and increasing the number of per day testing facility. They also refer to quarantine centres, dedicated hospitals for treatment, central and state assistance given to the poor, ration card holders and also to the returning migrant workers both in terms of foodgrain and cash. The GA partners point out the mismanagement at the quarantine centres and lack of work opportunities for the poor and migrant workers. 7 Development: The NDA preens its feathers by insisting that Nitish wrote the Bihar turnaround story underlined by double digit annual growth by dint of infrastructure development — like in roads and bridges (national highway, state highway, major district roads, rural roads, and others) and power sector, and also through service sector — besides making new strides in fishery, power, poultry, dairy and goat rearing. Further, the NDA also refers to bringing in new institutions — universities, IIT, NIT, IIIT, besides technical and medical colleges. It insists on the growth made in the agriculture sector — like increased crop, vegetables and fruit production and compensation paid to farmers against damages caused by natural disasters and floods, fund transfer to farmers through DBT method. Tejashwi, along with the GA partners, has been pointing to increasing poverty and unchecked unemployment and also harping on scams which surfaced, but were put under the heavy lid, besides on pervasive large-scale corruption and bureaucratic dominance in all walks of life. 8 New Poll Promise: The NDA, along with PM Modi and CM Nitish, has maintained that it would transform ‘developing Bihar’ into a developed state. To start with, Tejashwi has promised to decide employment to 10 lakh youths at the first cabinet meeting, if voted to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/few-new-issues-make-situation-tricky-for-electorate-leaders/articleshow/78370964.cms||Abhay Singh
September 29, 2020||Patna||Former Vaishali MP Lovely Anand and son join RJD||PATNA: Former Vaishali MP Lovely Anand, wife of incarcerated don-turned-politician, Anand Mohan, along with her son Chetan joined the RJD at the 10 Circular Road residence of former chief minister (CM) Rabri Devi on Monday. RJD’s state chief Jagadanand Singh handed over the party’s membership slips to the duo in the presence of leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Lovely said she would leave no stone unturned to ensure the defeat of CM Nitish Kumar-led NDA in the state assembly polls. “Tejashwi Yadav ko Bihar ka agla CM banane ke liye ek saath dhan-bal se taiyyar hain (we are wholeheartedly ready to work together to make Tejashwi the next CM of Bihar),” she added. Accusing Nitish of deceiving her family, Lovely claimed that she had hoped her husband would be released from jail after his (Nitish) statement on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Maharana Pratap Singh in Patna last year. “Not only me, but the entire Rajput community is now feeling cheated by Nitish,” Lovely said, adding that the people would uproot the ‘julmi’ (atrocious) government in the ensuing election. She also alleged that all ‘purusharthi’ people like Lalu and Anand were put behind bars by the Nitish government due to fear from them as they enjoyed support of the masses. Speaking on the occasion, Jagadanand said the party had lots of expectations from Lovely and Chetan, who “will put their sincere efforts to strengthen the RJD”. Talking to mediapersons, Chetan said the CM did not concede their demand of releasing his jailed father even after giving assurances at the Maharana Pratap rally in the state capital. Anand, former MP from Sheohar, is serving life term in the then Gopalganj DM G Krishnaiyyah’s murder case. His rivalry with Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav in the early 90s in the Kosi region had hogged the national limelight. Anand plunged into politics when he was first elected as an MLA from Saharsa in the 1990 assembly election. In 1996, he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Sheohar from jail. “Anand Mohan was trying to make a new political combination in north Bihar, which did not suit the then political heavyweights,” claimed Pramod Kumar, a social activist and keen observer of political developments in the state. Reacting to Lovely’s joining, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Lovely Anand has committed a political blunder. She has boarded a sinking ship. She will realise her mistake after the outcome of the assembly polls. She is unable to feel the undercurrent wave in favour of the NDA in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lovely-anand-son-join-rjd/articleshow/78370979.cms||Ramashankar
September 29, 2020||Patna||Patna: Two left allies side with Tejahswi Prasad Yadav, one uncertain||PATNA: Two Left parties – CPI and CPI (M) – on Monday announced their alliance with RJD and accepted leader of opposition in state assembly Tejahswi Prasad Yadav as the CM face of the Grand Alliance (GA). However, CPI (ML), another Left ally, is yet to clear its stand on the issue. Representatives of CPI and CPI (M) held a meeting with Tejashwi and RJD state president Jagdanand Singh at the 10, Circular Road residence of former CM Rabri Devi. “We will contest the election together and our CM face will be Tejashwi,” CPI (M) state secretary Awadhesh Kumar said after the meeting, adding the aim is to oust the NDA government in the state and form a secular government. Asked about the number of seats on which the two parties will contest, Singh said, “Seat-sharing talks are at a final stage. We will make an announcement in this regard soon.” CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey too said ousting the NDA from power in the state and at Centre was the priority of the alliance. However, none of the CPI (ML) representative was present at the meeting. Party’s state spokesperson Kumar Parvez said the talks were on at national level. “We held talks with RJD two days back and demanded 20 seats. However, we are being offered just 13 seats. If the talks fail to materialise, we will contest 20 seats in the state and support GA on the rest of the seats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-left-allies-side-with-tejashwi-one-uncertain/articleshow/78371004.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JAP floats new alliance with three parties||PATNA: The JAP (Loktantrik), led by former Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, forged a poll alliance with three other political outfits on Monday to contest the upcoming assembly election. The new front, christened Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA), will take on the NDA, the Grand Alliance and the United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA) of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owasi-led AIMIM. “Apart from the JAP (Democratic), the PDA includes the Azad Samaj Party of Chandrasekhar Azad, the Social Democratic Party of M K Faizi and the Bahujan Mukti Party led by BPL Matang,” JAP national president Pappu Yadav told media persons here on Monday. Yadav said the PDA would end the misrule of 30 years in the state. “We are also in touch with RLSP chief and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha. More parties will join the alliance in the days to come. We have also invited the LJP and the Congress to join the alliance,” he added. Slamming chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, the JAP national president said the former had initially refused to bring back home the Bihari migrant workers stranded in different states, including Gujarat and Delhi. Referring to the reported rift between the JD (U) and the LJP, the two constituents of the NDA in Bihar, Yadav blamed the BJP for the mess. “The BJP wants to lead in the state and the recent attack on the CM by LJP chief Chirag Paswan is part of the political strategy,” he claimed. Azad said the PDA would take on the communal forces in the coming election and defeat them at the hustings. “Some leaders in the state are arrogant and they don’t want to come out of their AC rooms,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jap-floats-new-alliance-with-three-parties/articleshow/78371247.cms||Ramashankar
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM lays foundation of underground sewerage project in Aravalli||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani laid the foundation stone of an underground sewerage project worth Rs 70 crore in Aravalli district through video conferencing from Gandhinagar. He said the state government is committed to providing underground sewerage, sewage treatment plants and piped water connections to all municipalities of the state. In this context, he said that with more than 45% of the population living in urban areas in the state, our cities have become modern and basic facilities like electricity, water, sewerage and roads have also been developed to make Gujarat’s towns and cities robust.The CM also participated in dedication and foundation laying ceremonies of projects worth Rs 92.8 crore which includes a 124km-long underground sewerage line project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-lays-foundation-of-underground-sewerage-project-in-aravalli/articleshow/78373618.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Bonedi barir pujas make changes for Covid year||Kolkata: The baroari or neighbourhood pujas are not the only concern for Kolkata Police this year. For several years now, several ‘bonedi bari’ or traditional household pujas across the city have developed loyalists who go on tours to visit them and soak in the rituals. On Monday, cops began contacting the organizers of some of these famous traditional pujas to know their plans regarding the entry of outsiders. The move, cops said, was aimed at ensuring all precautions were being taken. Going by some early decisions taken by the patrons of these pujas, it is likely that the guest list at most of them will be limited to family. A two-page letter, a copy of which is with TOI, drafted on behalf of Sovabazar Rajbari (Chhoto Taraf-Gopinath Bari) to state minister Sashi Panja and DC (north) Joyeeta Basu said the family will not allow entry of outsiders this year. “This is the first time in 231 years of the ‘Chhoto Taraf’ Durga Puja that such a decision has been taken,” said Alok Krishna Deb, president of the Durga Puja committee. The immersion process may also be changed. The family in the older Sovabazar Rajbari that hosts the ‘Boro Taraf’ Durga Puja, which started in 1757, is yet to come out with their plans. Other families, like Burrabazar Mallick Bari, Bhowanipore Girish Bhawan and Bagbazar Haldar Bari, have hinted at curtailing celebrations too. Almost all will restrict entry of visitors and one has decided to not have an idol but have a ‘ghot puja’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bonedi-barir-pujas-make-changes-for-covid-year/articleshow/78372650.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||New Town library to tie up with British Council||Kolkata: The New Town Library set up by Hidco is coming up with an operational agreement with the British Council on October 1 to go into a partnership for seminars, digital workshops, counselling sessions, film screenings and a space to display over 300 British Council books. “We are going into a collaboration with British Council,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. After the partnership, the Kindles at the New Town library will be integrated with the British Council digital resources and members will have access to British Council’s digital database of books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-library-to-tie-up-with-british-council/articleshow/78372705.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 29, 2020||Patna||Haven’t met Nitish Kumar, BJP’s Bhupendra: RLSP chief||PATNA: Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha on Monday denied that he had either met CM Nitish Kumar or BJP national general secretary and Bihar incharge in the last three days after walking out of the RJD-led grand alliance (GA). Kushwaha, who returned from Delhi on Monday, said everything said about my meeting with CM Nitish or Bhupender Yadav has no basis. Kushwaha, however, said he would take the decision “soon, very soon” with regard to the next course of action for the RLSP. Till now, there have been indications that he could join the Bihar NDA. However, RLSP sources said even as Kushwaha was in Delhi on Saturday and Sunday, no meeting could be held with BJP’s Yadav. The sources were not sure if Kushwaha had discussions with LJP chief Chirag Paswan in Delhi. “Whatever decision I take will be to protect the interests and future of the people of the state and also of the party workers,” Kushwaha said. Observers feel that Kushwaha, by saying “future of the people and party workers”, was indicating the formation of a Third Front that would comprise RLSP, Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) led by Pappu Yadav and other like-minded parties. For, he, in the situation the RLSP is caught, has begun to see no future for either himself or for the party and its workers if he aligned with BJP and Nitish and managed to win “four to five assembly seats” by remaining a part of the NDA, observers felt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-havent-met-nitish-bjps-bhupendra/articleshow/78371068.cms||Abhay Singh
September 29, 2020||Patna||Work hard to ensure NDA’s victory in Bihar: RCP Singh||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Monday said Bihar was the only state where neither any farmer committed suicide nor anyone starved to death during the lockdown period. Addressing a meeting of the JD(U)’s district presidents and organisational incharges at the party office here, Singh said people should be informed about all the good works done by the state and central governments during the lockdown period. “The Centre also provided financial assistance to the poor during the lockdown,” he said. Singh, who is also the JD(U) leader in the Rajya Sabha, asked the party workers to work hard to ensure victory of the NDA candidates in the assembly polls. “People should give CM Nitish Kumar one more term in the state,” he said. Singh thanked the party’s district-level functionaries for strengthening the organisation. “The JD(U) has become number 1 party in the state because of its organisational strength,” he said. y. Singh asked the party’s district-level functionaries to launch booth-centric campaign while making the gram panchayats an operational unit. JD(U) state working president and building construction minister Ashok Choudhary said, “We (NDA) must win more than 200 seats. To achieve this target, we will have to improve our strike rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-hard-to-ensure-ndas-victory-rcp/articleshow/78371204.cms||Madan Kumar
September 29, 2020||Patna||All eyes on Gaya, Belaganj seats in first phase of polls||GAYA: With just two days left for the nomination process to begin for the first phase of assembly polls, major political parties are yet to finalize their candidates. There are 10 assembly segments in Gaya district, which will go to the polls in the first phase. Gaya Town and Belaganj seats, which have returned the same persons for 7 consecutive terms, will be watched keenly. NDA and the Grand Alliance (GA) had won five seats each in Gaya in 2015 assembly elections -- two each by JD(U) and BJP, four by RJD and one each by Congress and HAM(S). Then, JD(U) was a partner of RJD and Congress. This time JD(U) is in NDA. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) was part of NDA in 2015. In the 2015 polls, BJP had won Gaya Town and Gurua seats. Prem Kumar has represented Gaya Town for the last seven consecutive terms. “Apart from the two incumbent seats, BJP workers here are enthusiastic of having three more assembly segments – Bodh Gaya, Imamganj and Wazirganj,” said party’s Gaya media incharge Yugesh Kumar. Manjhi won from Imamganj in 2015. “Grassroots workers want party candidates from Imamganj, Barachatti, Atri, Wazirganj and Sherghati segments,” JD(U) district president Alexander Khan said. The only seat Congress had won in 2015 in Gaya district was Wazirganj, while it had finished second in Gaya Town. This time Congress wants Gaya and three other seats in the district. All India Congress Committee (AICC) member and Magadh zone’s spokesman Vijay Kumar Mithu said Congress wants Tekari, Gurua and Sherghati seats to contest. “The list of candidates is likely to be finalised soon,” he said. On the other hand, RJD district president Khursheed Alam alias Nezam said the party workers want to contest all the 10 seats in the district, but a final decision will be taken by the top leadership. “The list of candidates will be finalized soon,” he said. Currently, Sherghati and Tekari are represented by JD(U), while RJD has its MLAs from Belaganj, Sherghati, Bodh Gaya and Atri. Surendra Prasad Yadav has been wining from Belaganj for the last seven consecutive terms. Bodh Gaya, Barachatti and Imamganj are reserve constituencies. As per the poll schedule, October 8 will be the last date for filing of nomination papers for the first phase. Scrutiny will be done on October 9, while nominations can be withdrawn by October 12. Voting will be held in Gaya on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-eyes-on-gaya-belaganj-seats-in-first-phase-of-polls/articleshow/78371311.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: LJP firm on 143 seats, uncle, bro back Chirag Paswan||PATNA: Chirag Paswan-led LJP remains firm on its stand of fielding 143 candidates in the ensuing assembly elections even amid fierce attacks on the party through rumours of split. Even as only two days are left for commencement of nomination process for the first phase of assembly polls, LJP continues to weigh its options in the NDA amid showing resilience against JD(U) and proximity to major ally BJP. “Our party president and my elder cousin had told us initially to make preparations on all seats. Gradually, the state unit of the party shortlisted candidates for 143 seats and it has been approved by state as well as national parliamentary board of the party. As things stand now, we are prepared to contest 143 seats, whether as a constituent of NDA or on our own,” LJP’s state president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj told TOI on Monday, adding that the final decision will be taken by Chirag. All eyes are set on Chirag who is looking after his ailing father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan in New Delhi. LJP insiders said Chirag has also writen a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah on seat-sharing issue. Meanwhile, after rumours of spilt on Sunday, LJP MP and Ram Vilas’s younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras clarified that stands firmly by his nephew Chirag. “The rumours about any split in LJP, in which my name has also been dragged, is completely baseless. I am 72-year-old now. I will remain in this party only for rest of my life as well. There is no question at all about going to another party. All LJP MPs and functionaries stand firmly with Chirag’s decision,” Paras said. Echoing similar views, Prince said ‘dirty politics’ is being played by some people at this ‘challenging’ time faced by the LJP’s first family. “Uncle is in hospital. Fortunately, his condition has become a bit stable now. But still I and Chirag bhaiya remain in the hospital. It is commendable of bhaiya to be looking into the party affairs as well. Knowing that we are going through emotional times right now, some nuisance elements have tried to spread rumours to damage the party, but in vain,” he said. “I have told Chirag bhaiya to take decision without any hesitation and we will support him and deliver results in the elections accordingly,” he added. Price also said no talks have been held on seat- sharing with either BJP or JD(U). LJP spokesperson Sanjay Saraf, on the other hand, said a final decision regarding LJP’s stand on the Bihar elections will come out in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-firm-on-143-seats-uncle-bro-back-chirag/articleshow/78371027.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 29, 2020||Patna||Devendra Fadnavis, Tejasvi Surya woo Bihar youth||PATNA: Former Maharashtra CM and BJP’s election incharge Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said Bihar's youths would give a new direction to the country and the state with their participation in the October-November assembly election as they account for 58% of the population here. Fadnavis said the proportion of youths in the country’s population is 50%, but in Bihar, they constitute 58% of the population, which means they would have a decisive say in giving a new direction to the state. Fadnavis, along with the newly appointed Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, was here at the state BJP headquarters to address the 'Yuva Samvad' and also take questions from various districts for a reply through the digital medium. Fadnavis said the policies announced by PM Narendra Modi would help create work and job opportunities for youths in the country, including Bihar. He also said the policies framed by the PM would come to full fruition in the next 15 years, while its foundation would be laid in the next five years. He ridiculed the 10 lakh jobs promised to the youths by the RJD CM aspirant Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “Will his job promise lead to a revival of the kidnapping and loot as the new job in the state?” Fadnavis asked. Fadnavis added that Bihar is well set on the path of development under the NDA government and its new flowering would be visible in the next 15 years, while the 15-year RJD rule in the state had taken the state to its nadir. He also said the youths would move towards self-reliance under the NDA government. Surya said BJYM would work to serve the interests of the youths, and also recalled Bihar as the land of Buddha, Guru Gobind Singh. He said the ancient Lichchhavi republican state had given the idea of democracy. Earlier, Fadnavis had also addressed a small meeting of the members of the party’s IT and media cells. Calling the IT cell functionaries and members as IT warriors, he asked them to reach out to every citizen in the state down to the booth level, as the social media would play a very important role during the Bihar assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fadnavis-tejasvi-surya-woo-bihar-youths/articleshow/78371015.cms||Abhay Singh
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Congress members protest farm bills||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda, leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani and some 100 party workers were detained in Gandhinagar on Monday after they staged a protest against the farm bills passed in Parliament. They were all released shortly afterwards. A delegation of Congress leaders also met Governor Acharya Devvrat and registered the party’s protest against the amendments to farm laws. Chavda, Dhanani, Congress MLAs Baldevji Thakor and C J Chavda and other party workers gathered at the Ambedkar statue near the assembly complex and raised slogans against the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in Gujarat. They said the farm bills recently passed in Parliament were “anti-farmer and will destroy APMCs”. Police later detained Amit Chavda, Paresh Dhanani, Baldevhi Thakor and C J Chavda, besides other party workers. Some 100 protesters were detained as soon as they started marching towards Raj Bhavan, deputy superintendent of police, M K Rana said. “As Congress workers had not taken permission for the rally, we detained them,” Gandhinagar SP Mayur Chavda said. Speaking to reporters before he was detained, Amit Chavda said, “Not only Congress workers, farmers are also demonstrating across the country against these farm bills, which will destroy APMCs and give wide powers to corporates in deciding prices of agricultural produce. The government will now escape from giving MSP to farmers through these bills.” Dhanani alleged that the central government wants to hand over the agriculture sector to select companies. “Where will small farmers go to sell their produce in the absence of APMCs? The BJP government is anti-farmer and these bills will turn farmers into farm labourers,” he said. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to the three contentious farm bills which have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-protests-farm-bills/articleshow/78373749.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Airlines forced to operate on load penalty at Doon airport||DEHRADUN: The aviation companies continue to operate at Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport with a load penalty as the state government is yet to transfer the proposed 243 acre land to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for extension of runway. The current length of runway at Jolly Grant Airport is 2,140 metres and it is proposed to be expanded to 2,765 meters with the construction of an additional 625 metres stretch for the runway. Due to the short runway, airlines are currently operating the flights on load penalty, which means they run at least 10-15% less than their full capacity of passengers, fuel, and cargo. DK Gautam, director of Jolly Grant Airport, said, “The airlines continue to operate with flight load penalty from Dehradun airport. There is a proposal to extend the runway. The proposal of 243 acre of land has already been taken up by the state cabinet and we are expected to get the land by next year.” The official further said that the current runway at Jolly Grant Airport can be extended by not more than 625 metres due to geographical restrictions, adding, “There is Song river on one side towards Rishikesh and Dehradun-Haridwar national highway on the other end, making it difficult to expand the highway beyond 625 metres.” Once the expansion of the runway is done, the airlines will no longer operate with load penalty resulting in increased flying endurance (maximum length of time that an aircraft can spend in cruising flight). “Airlines will be able to operate non-stop flights for up to 7-8 hours from Dehradun airport once the runway is expanded to proposed length. Destinations in the middle east and south east asia can also be covered in case international operations start in future,” according to director of Jolly Grant Airport. Meanwhile, along with the ongoing construction of a new terminal building, which is expected to be commissioned next year, there is an ambitious plan to build a cargo complex and more parking bays for aircrafts and airport officials, the official informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/airlines-forced-to-operate-on-load-penalty-at-doon-airport-as-aai-awaits-land-transfer-for-runway-extension/articleshow/78371056.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Banker kidnaps son; ransom: divorce, Rs 38 lakh||AHMEDABAD: A 34-year-old woman, a resident of Sector-22 in Gandhinagar, on Sunday filed a complaint stating that her husband has kidnapped her son, 5, and has demanded a ransom of Rs 38 lakh and divorce. The complaint was filed at the Sector-21 police station in the state capital. The complainant, who works as a supervisor instructor at Chanasma ITI, had married a man from Vavol in Gandhinagar in December 2013. Her husband is a clerk at a public sector bank in Ghatlodia, Ahmedabad. The woman said that her husband did not want a child. So when she gave birth to a son in October 2015, he began cursing her and their son for spending money. She said that he did not even bear the costs of their son’s medicines and thrashed her whenever she sought any financial help from him. She alleged that she had to take her son to her workplace in Chanasma as neither her husband nor her in-laws were ready to mind the child. “He crossed all limits on October 10, 2019,” the woman told police. “He took away my son and hid him. He demands a ransom of Rs 38 lakh with which he wants to renovate his house. He also wants divorce because he wants to marry someone else.” At the time, woman took help from 181 Abhayam women’s helpline but did not pursue the case. She said that he has been sending her notices seeking divorce and even threatened to burn her and her son alive if she did not heed his demands. The woman has now approached police and has filed a complaint against her husband over domestic violence, kidnapping, causing hurt, and criminal intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/banker-kidnaps-son-ransom-divorce-rs-38l/articleshow/78373581.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||Paytm tweaks its cricket cashbacks||BENGALURU: Paytm on Monday evening said its cricket league cashbacks through the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) is now back on its app after it made changes to the programme. In the current version, a user will have to submit all his stickers to claim a cashback. In the earlier version, the user had the option to choose a select number of stickers from the total number for the cashback. Paytm said it still “firmly” disagrees with Google’s stand on its cricket league cashback, which kicked up a storm after the search engine giant took the mobile payments app off the Play Store for several hours. After Paytm made changes, the app was restored the same day on September 18. “Our users can be assured that Paytm has never been involved in anything that can be considered betting or gambling. We believe that such arbitrary actions and accusatory labelling go against the laws of our country and acceptable norms of fair competition by arbitrarily depriving our users of innovative services,” the company added in its post. On September 20, it said Google has a different set of rules of its own payments app Google Pay, which its US-based parent firm denied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-tweaks-its-cricket-cashbacks/articleshow/78372717.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||61 inmates test Covid positive in Haridwar jail, isolated||HARIDWAR: As many as 61 inmates tested positive for novel coronavirus in Haridwar Jail in a span of just three days. To contain the spread of the virus, the jail administration has now isolated these infected inmates. According to the jail administration, there are more than 1,150 jail inmates in the Haridwar district jail currently. Among these, 600 inmates have already tested Covid-19 positive so far. However, the condition of all the coronavirus-positive prisoners is told to be stable and their health is being monitored in the jail. Jailor SM Singh told TOI, “A total of 26 prisoners were found Covid-19 positive two days ago and 35 more prisoners tested positive on Monday. We have isolated all of them inside the jail in separate barracks and are testing the other prisoners. The staff members are also undergoing Covid-19 test. So far, none of the infected inmates have shown any severe symptoms and are kept under observation by the medical team. Serious patients will be shifted to higher centres immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/61-inmates-test-covid-ve-in-haridwar-jail-isolated/articleshow/78371061.cms||MS Nawaz
September 29, 2020||Hubballi||HSI-India launches mobile animal clinic||Dharwad: Humane Society International-India has launched a first of its kind mobile animal clinic to provide veterinary services in Hubli-Dharwad Municipal Corporation limits. It is an initiative to aid community animals especially companion animals such as dogs and cats in need of emergency medical care. The mobile clinic is equipped with basic medicines and equipment to handle cases of community dogs. The clinic, operational from Monday to Friday between 10am and 4pm will have a veterinarian and a veterinary assistant. It will allow for animals to be provided free, on-site treatment in coordination with the community and responsible caregivers. Communities that border wilderness will also be encouraged to vaccinate their livestock against diseases that can spread to wild animals. Dr Parameshwar Naik, deputy director AH&VS said HSI-India, a non-profit organization, is providing the service without any monetary gains. People who are for animal welfare should utilize this facility for the above said purpose, he added Hemanth Byatroy, programme manager, HSI-India said, the motive behind this initiative is to ensure the well-being of community animals while getting citizens to play an active role in helping animals avail veterinary services along with vaccination and animal birth control. “This is not a rescue vehicle but an initiative to promote harmonious coexistence between street dogs and people. In the long run, we also envision interventions that will aid mitigate the conflict between feral animals and wildlife in the region. The principle idea is to develop the district of Dharwad as a model for animal welfare which can be replicated in other districts, not only in Karnataka but also in the country” he said. For any emergency with an animal contact 8095531313||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hsi-india-launches-mobile-animal-clinic/articleshow/78372461.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Medical & dental students to return to campuses in October||Mangaluru: Private universities in coastal Karnataka, which have remained closed for almost six months now, are mulling for a staggered reopening. Students from medical and dental courses are all set to return to their campuses from the first week of October. Most of the varsities in the region offer medical, allied health and technical education and they feel it’s high time to start academic sessions. At Nitte (Deemed to be university), MBBS/BDS students from first to final year, have been asked to come back to campus starting from October first week. Dr Satheesh Kumar Bhandary, vice-chancellor, Nitte (Deemed to be University) said there will be a week-gap between arrivals of students of each batch. After arrival, medical/dental will not be posted to hospital duty, instead university will concentrate on hands-on experience classes. “Theory classes will be reduced to 20% and rest will be practical. Examinations of some of the medical/dental batches will be held as per academic calendar plans,” he said. Yenepoya (Deemed to be university) too has asked their medical/BDS students to arrive on campus mid-October. Dr M Vijayakumar, vice-chancellor said that all returning students will undergo mandatory RT-PCR test. “It will be done upon their arrival. They will be then sent to hostels based on their test report. This will give relief to parents who are apprehensive about their children travelling back to college,” he said adding that varsity will stress upon two months practical exposure to first year MBBS students. However, Manipal Academy of Higher Education hasn’t taken any decision so far on reopening the academic session. Private universities will kick-start regular academics for medical and dental students with a new normal from mid-October or latest by November. However, they are still not sure about other paramedical/pharmacy and allied health courses. Officials from the universities said the decision will be taken only after the government gives a green signal. “So far there is no consistency in any of the government orders. We cannot take risk,” said a private university’s senior management head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/medical-dental-students-to-return-to-campuses-in-october/articleshow/78371625.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Activist plants 3,000 saplings to make Pacchanady dump yard green||Mangaluru: An environmental activist, with his son and friends, has successfully planted ,3074 saplings at Pacchanady, the waste dump yard of Mangaluru City Corporation. Jeeth Milan Roche, who has already planted thousands of saplings at a crematorium in the city and other public places, wants to commence the next phase of his drive at Pacchanady in June 2021. He told TOI that he could cover only 25% of the buffer area of the cty’s dumping yard that gets an average of 330 – 350 tons of waste every day. “We started our greenery project at the dumping yard with the support of forest department and Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) in June. We planted rows of eight saplings on the buffer area adjacent to the road. The second phase of our greenery project will commence in June next year,” Roche told TOI. In fact, Roche has already planted over 1,000 saplings inside the graveyard in Nandigudda in the city with the help of his wife, son and well-wishers. He said, “my work does not end in planting saplings, but it continues by watering them every day.” On the Pacchanady project, Roche said, “Pacchanady was the most challenging site for us. We have not planted saplings of any commercial species. Instead, we have chosen only medicinal plants and fruit-bearing trees that will help people as well as birds. My next challenge is to maintain the plants, manuring and watering regularly.” GREEN THUMBS: Environment-activist Jeeth Milan Roche, with the help of his wife, son and friends, has successfully planted 3,074 saplings at Pachanady, the waste dump yard of Mangaluru City Corporation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/activist-plants-3000-saplings-to-make-pacchanady-dump-yard-green/articleshow/78372216.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Cong picks party veterans’ kin for 2 bypoll seats in UP||Lucknow: Congress has declared candidates for two of the eight bypoll seats in UP. The party has announced the candidature of Aarti Vajpayee for Bangarmau seat in Unnao and Haider Ali Khan for Suar seat of Rampur. Both hail from the families of Congress veterans. Aarti Vajpayee hails from the family of late Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit. Dikshir’s father-in-law Uma Shankar Dikshit was a contemporary of Jawaharlal Nehru during the freedom struggle and later served as cabinet minister in Indira Gandhi’s government. Uma Shankar Dikshit’s nephew and Aarti’s father Gopinath was a five-term MLA from Bangarmau. Sources said the Congress took into consideration factors like the presence of Brahmins, popularity of the Dikshit family and the party’s recent campaigns in Unnao demanding justice for the rape survivor while nominating Vajpayee. Bangarmau seat fell vacant following the disqualification of then BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar, who was convicted in a rape case last year. The candidate from Suar seat, Haider Ali Khan, is the third generation of five-term Congress MP from Rampur, Nawab Zulfikar Ali Khan. The legacy was kept intact by Nawab’s wife Begum Noor Bano. Haider’s father Nawab Kazim Ali Khan has been the MLA from Suar seat for four consecutive terms. Suar seat fell vacant after sitting SP MLA Abdullah Azam was disqualified for quoting wrong date of birth in his poll affidavit. Abdullah Azam along with his father Azam Khan and his mother, who is Rajya Sabha member of the SP, is languishing in jail. “Both our candidates are strong in their own ways. They enjoy the immense trust of the locals and have enough proof to show their commitment to public service,” said a UP Congress media team member. Congress is the first party to announce the candidates for bypolls where voting will be held in October. The candidates for the remaining six seats will be released in a day or two, sources said. Meanwhile, the BJP accused the Congress of patronising nepotism. “Congress is about one family and several small loyal families. It’s eveident from the names of the candidates announced,” said a BJP media team member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-picks-party-veterans-kin-for-2-bypoll-seats-in-up/articleshow/78374647.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Operation Saurashtra: 41 absconders nabbed||Ahmedabad: In an unexpected move, Ahmedabad’s super cop, 2007-batch IPS officer Deepan Bhadran who used to head the city crime branch was transferred as Jamnagar SP on September 18 replacing Shweta Shrimali. Very few knew that Bhadran was handpicked to put straight the law and order situation in the coastal town with a hard hand, especially to curb depredations of the land mafia. DGP Asish Bhatia said Bhadran was sent to Jamnagar as part of their Operation Saurashtra which is going on in the region for past one and a half months. Bhatia said, “They have caught about 41 accused who either had been on the run, or jumped parole or furlough or had escaped police custody. Among 9 absconders caught after jumping parole-furlough, six are accused of murder, one accused of rape and the other two are involved in kidnapping of minor girls.” Similarly, 16 of the 17 accused caught after jumping interim bail are murder accused, and with one also accused of rape. One accused had escaped from police custody, said Bhatia. According to the figures, Surendranagar has till now arrested 13 such accused while Rajkot Range came next with 11. “Before the posting of Bhadran, Jamnagar police had arrested 4 such accused,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/operation-saurashtra-41-absconders-nabbed/articleshow/78373415.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL objects to Jain derasar in residential society||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has taken exception to the construction of a Jain derasar in Paldi’s Vasantkunj Society and demanded its removal claiming that it has been built in violation of laws. The PIL was filed by Jagat Parikh and two others and they have alleged that the permission for construction of the Jain religious structure on a residential plot was granted in violation of laws. The petitioners have claimed that the issue was twice dragged to the high court in the past after Ratnatrayi Aradhana Bhavan Trust purchased the residential plot in the residential society and started putting up a religious structure on it without any permission from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The petitioners claimed that it was only in 2010 that the civic body granted them permission, but the issue of the height of the building and lack of parking facility again stalled construction for a few years. The PIL specifically alleged that the private trust requested chief minister Vijay Rupani, and the urban development department granted special permission in July 2019 for construction with 17.5 metre height and with inadequate parking space. The state government even told the civic body to grant necessary permissions, the litigants have alleged in their petition. The PIL has urged the HC to direct the authorities to remove the derasar’s building because the plot was a residential one and the religious structure has been put up in violation of all laws. The division bench has asked the government lawyer to take instructions from concerned authority in this regard and posted further hearing next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-objects-to-jain-derasar-in-residential-society/articleshow/78374005.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held for Vastrapur armed robberies||Ahmedabad: Vastrapur police on Sunday evening detained a man accused of carrying out two robberies at gunpoint on September 25 in the Thaltej and Vastrapur areas. However, two accused persons are still on run.Inspector V M Desai of Vastrapur police said Nimesh Namha, a driver by profession and a resident of Ghatlodia, had given his scooter to the two prime accused, Nilesh Prajapati and Suresh Patel, who carried out two robberies at gunpoint in the wee hours on September 25. Desai said the cops learned that Namha would pass Jeevandeep Circle in Vastrapur and a police team kept watch and nabbed him when he came there on a motorcycle. He said Namha had provided logistic support to Prajapati and Patel. The duo robbed a man from the Gurukul and another from Gota while brandishing a country-made pistol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-for-vastrapur-armed-robberies/articleshow/78373365.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medicos to be assessed on Covid duty||Ahmedabad: Medical students in Gujarat University-affiliated colleges will not be graded in internal exams based on their performance in written test. In fact, this year there will be no written test, as per the decision taken by the varsity authorities at a meeting on Monday. Medicos will be assessed for the internal exams based on their performance in Covid-19 duty. Former dean of medical faculty, Gujarat University, Dr Mahesh Patel, said a meeting of college principals was held on Monday where this decision was taken. The move is seen as a token of appreciation by the university authorities for the medical college students who are on Covid-19 duty. The move is likely to be replicated by other medical colleges in the state in the near future, said sources. Presently, a large number of medical students have joined as Covid warriors and are entrusted with the task of treatment of Covid-19 patients. “To conduct written exams, the university will have to call back the students from their duties. This could lead to chaos and risk the treatment of patients,” said GU sources. As a result, GU has decided not to conduct written test this year, they added. Earlier this month, the state government had issued a circular calling all medical and paramedical students in Gujarat to join Covid-19 duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medicos-to-be-assessed-on-covid-duty/articleshow/78374001.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six flights cancelled||Ahmedabad: Six flights from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad were cancelled on Monday. These included flights to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad and were cancelled due to ‘operational constraints’ sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-flights-cancelled/articleshow/78373782.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Business||Temasek to back Bigbasket in $400 million round||BENGALURU: Singapore state investor Temasek, hedge fund Tybourne Capital and former US vice-president Al Gore’s Generation Investment Management are among the potential new backers for Bigbasket. The online grocer is looking to mop up $350-400 million in a new round of funding, said two sources familiar with the development. The deal will include a primary infusion of $250-300 million for the business, besides a secondary sale of shares by existing holders, said the sources. The move comes as Bigbasket is also considering a potential public market offering by next year. “The valuation of the company is expected to hit a little over $2 billion post-money once this round closes,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier. Bigbasket has been working with investment banks Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley for the raise, TOI had reported in June, as the Covid-19 pandemic results in rising adoption of e-commerce services.  The valuation will see a bump after Bigbasket raised $60 million from existing backers, Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, along with others like South Korea’s Mirae Asset Ventures and UK’s development finance institution CDC Group at a valuation of $1.2-1.3 billion earlier this year. The new round of funding will help the company diversify its shareholder base from Alibaba, as the Indian government has added additional screening for investments from China. Bigbasket CEO Hari Menon declined to comment when contacted by TOI. “Temasek does not comment on market speculation and rumours,” said a spokesperson, while queries sent to Generation and Tybourne did not elicit a response till the time of going to the press. Temasek has emerged as one of the most active growth stage investors in Indian internet companies recently, backing online medicine seller PharmEasy and healthcare platform CureFit. Additionally, it has holdings in food delivery firm Zomato, online financial services provider PolicyBazaar, ride-hailing major Ola and payments firm Pine Labs. Tybourne has backed startups like CarDekho in 2015, though it has not been very active recently. Generation, co-founded by Gore, had raised a $1-billion fund last year, targeting “sustainable startups” and counts UK-based online grocer Ocado as one of its investments. The new round of capital-raising for the company comes at a time when competition in the online grocery space is picking up with the entry of Reliance’s JioMart, which has tied up with messaging app WhatsApp to drive customer orders. At the same time, online retailers like Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart have also been pushing into the category aggressively. Bigbasket’s annualised gross sale run-rate crossed $1 billion for the first time in May, when it recorded Rs 650 crore, or almost $90 million, of sales. The monthly sales number has now reached about Rs 750 crore, or about $102 million, said sources. They peg the annualised run-rate at over $1.2 billion. The company is also targeting operating profitability soon. Bigbasket’s new round also comes as the company has been consolidating its position in the space, especially the morning milk delivery market where it acquired DailyNinja earlier this year. Watch Singapore state investor Temasek to back Bigbasket in $400 million round||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/temasek-to-back-bigbasket-in-400mn-round/articleshow/78372845.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal issues new-normal guidelines for Durga Puja||KOLKATA: An 11-point guideline laying down the ‘new-normal’ rules for Durga Puja was issued by the state on Monday, specifying that the festival will be spaced out over eight days beginning Tritiya to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms through staggered pandal-hopping. It also made masks and hand sanitizer compulsory for all revellers and sought more volunteers to prevent crowd build-up at venues and during rituals. While cultural programmes have been barred, inaugurations and immersions, according to the guideline, must be low-key affairs and there won’t be a Red Road carnival. There will be no fairs around pandals either. While the rules were announced by the chief minister at Nabanna last week, they were made official on Monday. “Puja committees should make necessary planning that facilitates visit to pandals from Tritiya,” the guideline said. Pandals must be open on both sides and in case these are blocked, the roof will have to be open. Entry and exit will be separate and floor markings have been advised to ensure compliance with distancing norms. Rituals like anjali, prasad distribution and sindoor khela “should be organized by puja committees in a planned manner and in smaller groups”. “Priests should use microphones and devotees may be encouraged to bring flowers from home,” the guideline said. Not more than two cars carrying judges for various Puja awards will be permitted at one place. “Ideally, all such visits should be virtual,” the guide-lines advised. Puja organizers welcomed the formal guidelines that have put to rest all speculations of further changes in rules. “After the CM announced the guidelines on September 24, most Puja committees started work on pandals. But some were waiting for the formal notification in case there were changes. Now work will begin in earnest everywhere as there is just over a fortnight left,” said Forum for Durgotsav founder Partho Ghosh. Kajal Sarkar, the president of the forum, said a formal notification will ensure proper implementation of the guidelines, reducing the scope of ambiguity. “It is now the responsibility of each organizer to ensure safety at the venues,” said Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-issues-new-normal-guidelines-for-durga-puja/articleshow/78372591.cms||Debasis Konar
September 29, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav unveils his ‘Lal-10’ promises in Bihar||PATNA: A day after promising 10 lakh government jobs, if given a chance to form a government, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav came up with a “Lal-10” formula — 10 poll promises of making “corrections” across sectors starting with agriculture to information technology. Slamming the Nitish Kumar government and BJP for making Bihar a “centre of unemployment”, Tejashwi uploaded a video on his twitter handle on Monday in which he promised a ‘new’ and ‘developed’ Bihar with the help of the people of the state. The video covered ten sectors—agriculture, industries, health, education, sports, technology, infrastructure, electrification, law and order and transportation. Asked if RJD has a blueprint ready for the promises made by Tejashwi, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh said, “It is not empty talk. We have a blueprint. Ten lakh jobs which Tejashwi talked about is just in government sectors. RJD will also be working on creating 50-60 lakh jobs beyond this.” He then cited the example of rice mills and added, “There were 5,000 rice mills started by us and nearly 15-20 lakh people were associated with them, some directly and some indirectly. There were godowns to keep grains and people were employed to look after these godowns, run the mills and transport the produce. But now all these mills have been closed. Even though we can produce 80-90 lakh tonne rice, we procure 35 lakh tonne from Punjab and Haryana. People from Bihar have migrated and are working in these states as labourers there.” The RJD state president said the party will be working on agro-based industries and taking government funds to villages and added, “Pumping money in rural areas will also create more consumers there.” He lashed out at the CM and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi. “They are not the double engine, they are the trouble engine. Their development wheel moves backwards and the present situation of the state is because of them. Mills which we had started during our regime are shut now.” RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the party was working with experts on all parameters, including on job creation. “There is a huge vacancy in all the government sectors, be it a shortage of doctors, engineers or cops. Our party will fulfil them,” added Gagan. Hitting back at the RJD, JD (U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad said, “Let me tell you that in our 15 years regime, 9.96 lakh youth were given jobs, while in 15 years of their rule, the figure was only 96,000. And he (Tejashwi) should tell us about the road map. With no experience of governance and without any skill himself, how will he provide jobs in the first cabinet? He is trying to fool people, but he should know that Janta (masses) are aware of facts and will not get trapped by his baseless promises.” He further said the correction which Tejashwi was talking about, was of his parent’s era and added, “He has publicly apologized for the wrongs done during his parents’ tenure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-unveils-his-lal-10-promises/articleshow/78371284.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally goes past 1.80 lakh, toll reaches 892||PATNA: With 1,150 more people testing positive on Monday, the state’s Covid tally has touched 1,80,032. The state health department has confirmed five fresh deaths, all from Patna district. The state’s Covid toll has mounted to 892 with Patna district alone accounting for 207 casualties. However, with 1,66,188 people recuperating from the virus, active cases in the state stand at 12,950. A 67-year-old man from Parsa in Patna died of Covid at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Two fresh deaths were recorded at AIIMS-Patna. The deceased were a 64-year-old man from Agamkuan in Patna and a 62-year-old man from Jitwarpur village in Saran district. AIIMS-P Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 16 new patients were admitted on Monday and eight discharged from the hospital. The new patients were from different localities of Patna, including Mitra Mandal Colony, Patliputra Colony, Rajeev Nagar, Rupaspur and Patrakar Nagar. Of 1,150 new cases recorded on Monday, 198 were from Patna, With this, the district’s Covid tally has jumped to 27,457. However, with 25,172 people beating the virus and 207 succumbing to it, active cases in the district stand at 2,078. Among other districts, Purnia recorded 101 cases, Muzaffarpur 65 and Supaul 58 on Monday. The remaining districts in the state reported less than 20 cases. The state has so far tested 69,90,232 samples, including 1,20,464 on Monday. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,651 people recuperated from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate has touched 92.31%. On Monday, 12 districts in the state recorded less than 10 active cases. Sheohar reported just one, Gopalganj two and Sheikhpura five active cases on Monday. The largest number of active cases is in Patna, followed by Muzaffarour (766), Purnia (690), Supaul (591), Araria (474) and Nalanda (460).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-tally-goes-past-1-80-lakh-toll-reaches-892/articleshow/78371097.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust to launch heritage vessel, revamp jetties||KOLKATA: The Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) plans to launch the heritage vessel PS Bhopal to attract tourism on the Hooghly as soon as it is fixed. Jetties, some of them with a lot of significance, will also be revamped as the situation improves. The PS Bhopal, a paddle steamer that used to ply the river nearly 70 years ago, will run on motors in its new avatar. But the paddles will remain intact to give tourists a feel of how river navigation used to take place in the past. “We have handed over PS Bhopal for repairs and refurbishment. We had expected to get it back around November but there has been some delay due to the pandemic. We will launch the vessel as the situation improves. We also have plans to revive the historic Outram Ghat Jetty and repair the Indenture Memorial jetty,” SPMPT chairman Vinit Kumar said. On Sunday, which happened to be World Tourism Day, Gautam Chakraborti, honorary heritage adviser and co-ordinator, SPMPT, spoke to members of the Tourist Guides’ Association (TGA). While Ajay Singh, president, Tourist Guides’ Federation of India, rued how barely 5% of foreign tourists actually visit Bengal, Chakraborti said efforts by the port management will help improve the situation to some extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tourism-boost-port-to-launch-heritage-vessel-revamp-jetties/articleshow/78372684.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 29, 2020||Meerut||UP's woman PCS officer who took on BJP MLA transferred 17th time||MEERUT: A woman PCS (lower) officer posted in UP’s Meerut was transferred in “public interest” after over a year-long tenure, which was marked with several run-ins with controversial Sardhana MLA Sangeet Som. It was the 17th transfer of Amita Varun, who had joined as executive officer (EO) of Meerut’s Sardhana municipal corporation in September last year. And, in the last three years, she was shifted at least 10 times due to her working style, which most of the times pitted the 2007 batch PCS officer against local politicians. On Sunday night, she was shifted to Jahangirabad in Bulandshahr. Troubled by the frequent transfers, the PCS officer had moved Allahabad high court in 2018. A two-judge bench of the court had then set aside her transfer after observing, “Such an exercise is nothing but an exercise of power founded on malice in law.” The court had also said, “We do not find anything from record that at any point the petitioner (Varun) has been found indulged in any act of corruption.” Varun’s tenure in Sardhana culminated in a bitter row surrounding the death of a contractual employee due to heart attack on September 22. The supporters of the BJP MLA, who were later joined by the family members of deceased Ajay Chabra, alleged that he died due to harassment by EO Varun. She had trashed the charges as "politically motivated". Meanwhile, a purported video of Som talking of a “befitting punishment to EO” at a gathering surfaced on social media. MLA Som later told TOI that the EO “used to misbehave with staffers and had been caught taking a bribe." He added, "She had a tainted past and has been transferred 17 or 18 times.” On her part, Varun alleged the MLA was “meddling” with the administrative work and pressuring her to act according to his directions. She said, “In September last year, MLA Sangeet Som called me at his camp office. I went there with my accountant. He told me that he runs police stations and tehsil. And will also run the municipal corporation. I politely told him he is an ex-officio member of the corporation and all his pleas will be addressed according to the set norms.” EO Varun had filed a complaint against Som soon after joining. Meerut district magistrate K Balaji said, “She had moved a complaint to higher authorities. Its copy was also sent to my office. That is an old complaint. She recently came to my office and told me about what happened in the corporation. Police are probing the complaint made against her regarding the death of the worker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ups-woman-pcs-officer-who-took-on-controversial-bjp-mla-transferred-17th-time-since-2007/articleshow/78371089.cms||Piyush Rai
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Parents protest govterment’s ‘inaction’ against private schools||DEHRADUN: Disappointed with the ‘inaction’ of block education officers, parents of several students studying in private schools held a protest in Ramnagar on Monday. The parents say that the officials are not conducting a probe in the cases of violation of rules by schools. The agitating parents even accused the education department of ‘overlooking’ the alleged malpractices of private schools like levying additional charges other than the tuition fees in violation of the state government order. Meanwhile, the National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) also held a peaceful protest in Dehradun in order to direct the government’s attention towards their demands. The parents body claim that the government hasn’t paid heed to their demands which include — reducing tuition fees as classes are being conducted online, not opening schools for students of any Class until a Covid-19 vaccine is developed, restricting schools from holding unnecessary WhatsApp sessions for lower primary classes, and asking schools to strictly ensure that no student is barred from accessing online classes for non-payment of school fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-protest-govts-inaction-against-pvt-schools/articleshow/78371092.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s Covid recovery rate surges to 76% as cured outnumber new cases||Nagpur: In some good news as far as Vidarbha’s Covid-19 scenario is concerned, total 3,100 patients recovered in the region on Monday against 2,259 new patients reported in a day. This different of 841 between new and recovered patients is the highest ever since the outbreak of pandemic. With 1,09,257 patients out of total 1,43,767 recovering from Covid-19 till date, the region’s recovery rate surged to 76% . The only cause of concern that remains is the high number of deaths due to Covid-19. The region reported 84 deaths, including 55 in Nagpur (38 in a day, and 17 reconciled). Gondia, Chandrapur and Amravati reported five deaths each, Yavatmal (4), Wardha (3), Bhandara (2), Buldhana (2), Washim (2), and Akola (1), taking Vidarbha’s toll to 3,855. Region’s case fatality rate is still around 2.7%. New cases came from Nagpur (994), Chandrapur (230), Gondia (229), Amravati (204), Bhandara (157), Akola (109), Yavatmal (88), Buldhana (84), Wardha (63), Washim (52), and Gadchiroli (49). Highest 1,431 recoveries were reported from Nagpur followed by Bhandara (453), Amravati (275), Gondia (220), Buldhana (195), Chandrapur (179), Yavatmal (128), Washim (79), Akola (65), Wardha (38), and Gadchiroli (37). Interestingly, 70% of total recoveries of region have been reported in just 28 days of September. The month also recorded 58% of total Covid-19 cases till date. Amravati: For the fourth successive day, the graph of new cases reported a downward trend as against that of recovered cases. Though it is not immediately clear whether this is happening due to an alleged fall in number of tests or due to fall in number of positive cases, it has given hope to residents of the district. The district reported 204 new cases as against 275 recoveries on Monday. The caseload reached 12,887 while 10,308 have been discharged, for a recovery rate of 80%. The doubling rate of the district is 38.3 days, according to a report released by civil surgeon office here. The report also said that five persons including a woman died during treatment on Monday, taking the toll to 279. The report put the case fatality rate of the district at 2. There are 2,300 active cases, including 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 1,030 in home isolation. Chandrapur: The district witnessed a spike of 230 cases, taking the Covid-19 total to 9,812. Five deaths were added to the tally on Monday, raising the toll to 148. The day also registered the discharge of 179 patients, escalating the recoveries to a total of 5,690. There are now 3,974 patients under treatment in the district. The deceased include a 60-year old woman from Sham Nagar in Chandrapur city, a 65-year-old from Banwahi (Nagbhid), a 70-year-old from Bramhapuri, a 74-year-old from Rajura and a 46-year-old woman from Lakhandur in Bhandara district. Wardha: An 80-year-old man and 60-year-old woman from Wardha, and a 55-year-old woman from Hinganghat died due to coronavirus on Monday, taking the district’s death toll to 118. 63 more persons tested positive out of 326 test reports, while 38 recovered from Covid-19. A total of 342 swab samples were sent for testing and 57 test reports are pending, while 1,281 persons were asked to isolate as they came in contact with Covid patients or have mild symptoms. The total cases in the district reached 4,321. In all, 1,965 patients are undergoing treatment and 2,238 have recovered from the virus. The new cases were reported from Wardha (40), Deoli (7), Hinganghat (6), Selu and Arvi (4 each), Samudrapur and Ashti (1 each). Among the 63 positive, 40 are men and 23 are women. Yavatmal: The district recorded four more deaths on Monday. There were 85 new Covid-19 cases, of whom 48 are men and 37 are women. According to sources, there are 556 active positive patients — 500 are in home isolation and 271 are in the isolation wards. On Monday, 128 patients have been discharged. Yavatmal now has 8,276 total Covid cases, of whom 6,988 patients have been discharged. The deceased comprise 49 and 77-year-old women from Digras, an 89-year-old man from Ralegaon and 61-year-old man from Ghatanji, respectively. Bhandara: The district reported highest 453 recoveries in a day on Monday, taking total number of recovered patients to 3,412, against total 5,107 cases. Bhandara’s recovery rate is around 67%. Two deaths in a day took the toll to 105 while 1,590 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported five fatalities and increase of 229 cases on Monday. Now, 2,087 patients under treatment, of which 778 patients are under home isolation. While 220 patients recovered in a day, reports of 943 samples are awaited. Gondia has reported total 6,659 cases, including 4,479 recoveries and 93 deaths. Gadchiroli: Total 49 new cases were reported in a day, taking the caseload of district to 2,563. The day also saw 37 patients recovering on Monday, taking total recoveries to 1,889. No death was reported from on Monday. Now, Gadchiroli has 654 patients under treatment. Recovery rate is around 74%. Akola: District reported 105 new cases in last 24 hours. With this, the caseload reached 7,297. Total 65 patients recovered in a day while a 72-year-old-man admitted to GMCH Akola since September 19 died during treatment, taking the toll to 226. With more than 75% recovery rate, Akola still has 1,574 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The district saw spike of 84 new cases while 195 patients recovered and were discharged in a day. Two patients, including a 65-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman, died during treatment, taking toll to 86. Buldhana now total 6,854 cases, 5,667 recoveries, 86 deaths and 1,101 patients under treatment. Recovery rate is more than 82%. Washim: With 52 cases in a day, Washim’s caseload reached 4,174 while 79 patients recovered in a day, taking their number to 3,414. Washim’s recovery rate is 82%. The district reported two deaths, taking the toll to 86. Now, 674 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-covid-recovery-rate-surges-to-76-as-cured-outnumber-new-cases/articleshow/78374011.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||457 Covid-19 cases, six deaths surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 457 fresh infections of novel coronavirus on Monday, taking the state's case tally to 47,502. Notably, the state has reported below 500 cases after more than a month. Among those found positive for the virus on the day were 38 inmates of Haridwar jail. Dr SK Jha, chief medical officer of Haridwar, said, “All the inmates were put in isolation in the jail only and their health is being monitored by a designated health team.” “On Monday, Haridwar reported the maximum of 129 cases, followed by 113 cases from Dehradun, 76 from Udham Singh Nagar, 27 from Tehri, 25 from Uttarkashi, 21 from Champawat, 19 from Almora, 16 from Nainital, 15 from Pauri, seven from Chamoli, five from Rudraprayag, and two cases each from Bageshwar and Pithoragarh,” informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. He added that six more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 580 in the state. Meanwhile, 1,184 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on the day. With this, the recovery rate crossed 77% and total cured cases shot up to 36,646 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/457-covid-19-cases-six-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/78371078.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||Anti-farmer laws must be repealed, Congress tells Maharashtra governor||MUMBAI: A high-level Congress delegation led by former chief ministers Sudhilkumar Shinde and Prithviraj Chavan on Monday called on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan to press for repeal of anti-farmer laws enacted by the Narendra Modi-led NDA government. “Legislations passed in Parliament and later assented by President Ramnath Kovind are anti-farmer. We have launched a nationwide agitation against the laws as they were brought in haste without consulting political parties and stake-holders,’’ Chavan said after the meeting. AICC general secretary K H Patil and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat were to lead the delegation, but as Patil tested positive for Covid-19, they were dropped and Shinde, Chavan and former MP Bhalchandra Mungekar went. Congress leaders garlanded Mahatma Gandhi’s statue near Mantralaya before the meeting. Chavan said it was high time the unorganized sector wakes up against the government’s anti-farmer and anti-labour policies. “Corporate friends of the Prime Minister will be main beneficiaries. When the bills were taken up in Lok Sabha, we demanded that they be referred to a joint select committee. It was not discussed by the cabinet and shockingly BJP did not consult its ally, Shiromani Akali Dal,’’ Chavan said. He said the laws were silent on minimum support price for agriculture produce. “The state cabinet will discuss the bills and decide whether to implement them or not,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anti-farmer-laws-must-be-repealed-cong-tells-guv/articleshow/78372686.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||Fitness trainer held in Delhi for posting abusive video clips||MUMBAI: BKC cyber police arrested a fitness trainer from Delhi and brought him here on Monday for posting a video abusing and using filthy language to malign women for four months. Pradeep Chaudhari alias Sohil (33), who claims he is a journalist, used to post the content on his YouTube channel . A woman from Mumbai after noticing the content on Chaudhari’s channel approached the cyber police and a case was registered in August. “Chaudhari, a fake journalist, was tracked from his Faridabad residence with the help of the internet protocol (IP) address,” said a police officer. Chaudhari was produced before Esplanade court here on Monday and it remanded him to police custody till October 1. “The case was registered against two persons in August. During the probe, we got confirmed details of Chaudhari as a suspect who posted the offensive and vulgar content about women that has gone viral on social media. He does not have any qualification in journalism,” police said. They said Chaudhari had confessed to committing the offence and apologised for his act. He has been booked under sections of IPC for common intention, defamation, printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory, insult, mischief, word gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman and under the IT Act for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form. The news made rounds on Monday that cyber police arrested Chaudhari for doing a private investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The cyber police have denied it and said they arrested him for posting offensive content insulting women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fitness-trainer-held-in-delhi-for-posting-abusive-video-clips/articleshow/78372688.cms||V Narayan
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Landslides block Yamunotri NH for 2nd consecutive day||UTTARKASHI: The Yamunotri national highway remained closed for the second consecutive day on Monday due to landslides at Chatangadhar region of Uttarkashi on Saturday late night as the workers of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the all-weather road construction company are facing difficulties in restoring the route due to continuous rock fall. Thus, the authorities have diverted traffic to the other route and are planning to prepare a temporary walking path over Yamuna river for the convenience of local villagers. According to TOI sources, Yamunotri highway got blocked on Saturday late night due to massive landslide at Chatangadhar region, triggered from the all-weather road cutting work. Soon after, concerning teams started restoration work but failed to do so due to continuous rock fall. However on Monday morning, they succeeded to open the highway, but within half-an-hour it got closed once again, causing difficulties for the locals of more than five dozen villages. Meanwhile, Chatar Singh Chauhan, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Barkot, ordered concerned departments to close the highway for traffic movements and to restore the route at the earliest. He also directed to divert the vehicles from the Pounti-Rajgadi route and to construct a temporary walking path over Yamuna river for the convenience of villagers. Navneet Pandey, executive engineer at NHAI, said, “Nearly a 300-metre-long patch of highway has become dangerous due to landslides. Therefore, the all-weather road construction company has asked for a 15-day time period to restore the highway so that vehicles can cross safely. We are doing all possible efforts to ease the difficulties of affected villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslides-block-yamunotri-nh-for-2nd-consecutive-day/articleshow/78371105.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s ‘dastango’ set to regale Harvard||LUCKNOW: From the serpentine lanes of Raja Bazar area, city’s first modern dastango (storyteller), Himanshu Bajpai, is set to fly to the US to represent India in a special event being organised by the Harvard University. During the event on October 8, ‘24 Hours of Harvard (24hH)’, the 33-year-old storyteller will participate in a one-and-a-half hour long session ‘Khusrau’s River of Love: Cosmopolitanism and Inclusion in South Asian Traditions’. The programme will showcase melody of words and music with ‘dastangoi’ by Himanshu and rendition of Khusrau’s poetic works by Ali Sethi, an international artist of Pakistani origin. ‘Dastangoi’ is a medieval period art form of oral storytelling. The performances will be interspersed with analysis and commentary by Professor of Middle Eastern Studies Murray A Albertson and professor of Indo-Muslim and Islamic Religion and Cultures at Harvard University Ali Asani. “Prof Asani will also moderate a live interactive session with us where we will take questions from the audience across the world. It is an honour to be a part of this unique event which will be viewed across the globe. Our segment will definitely bring forth the vibrance of South Asian syncrecity,” said Himanshu, who is preparing for the event where he will showcase Lucknow’s art, culture, language and etiquette. Himanshu gave his first public performance of the medieval oral storytelling art form in 2014. He has a number of national and international events to his credit, including the ones in Dubai and Turkey. He also received the President’s award in February 2020 at the Rashtrapati Bhawan where he also gave a performance. “In its recent history, South Asia has witnessed a deep polarization of society fuelled by nationalism that seeks to exclude “the others” through the lens of caste, religion, ethnicity, language, gender and race. This has largely overshadowed the region’s rich inclusive legacy exemplified by poet and mystic Amir Khusrau,” said Sanjay Kumar, India Country Director of The Lakshmi Mittal and Family South Asia Institute of Harvard University. “Through Himanshu’s dastangoi and Ali Sethi’s rendition of qawwali, the presentation will offer an alternative lens to appreciate diversity,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknows-dastango-set-to-regale-harvard/articleshow/78374660.cms||Yusra Husain
September 29, 2020||Goa||Shack licences will be issued by mid October: Tourism director||CALANGUTE: The process of issuing beach shack licences, which is normally completed by the end of September following the new shack policy a couple of years ago, has been delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and will now be completed by mid-October. The general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS), John Lobo, said they had been expecting the licensing process to be completed by World Tourism Day, September 27, but it has been delayed. When contacted, tourism director Menino D’Souza said the licences are likely to be issued by the middle of October. Referring to the record-breaking monsoon, D’Souza said, “It is still raining and the process of beaches recovering after the monsoon erosion is yet to start. Once the beaches recover, then we can allot the shack plots. Also many shack owners want to delay opening of their shacks.” According to the SOWS, a large number of shack owners in the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt are not keen on starting their shacks as there are no foreign tourists or charters are expected in the near future. The tourism director said many shack owners want to wait before renewing their licences because of the prevailing situation. D’Souza also said the state government has “in-principle” approved the reduction of the beach shack license fee by 50% as requested by beach shack owners whose last season had been truncated suddenly in March due to the pandemic, causing them losses. Shack owners have also asked the tourism department to waive off the clause wherein shack owners who do not want to erect their shacks in this season will have their licences cancelled. The state government is yet to take a decision on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shack-licences-will-be-issued-by-mid-oct-tourism-director/articleshow/78374037.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid spurt continues in state secretariat; 3 new Covid-19 cases take tally to 59||BHOPAL: The number of Covid positives in the state secretariat reached 59 on Monday when three employees were found corona positive. The employees were of the home, technical education and planning, economics & statistics departments. Among the three, one is a woman employee. Officials said their contacts are being traced and advised to stay in quarantine. Of the total corona positives found in Vallabh Bhavan I, II and III, two employees have lost lives due to Covid so far. Vallabh Bhavan II building has witnessed more than half of the total corona positive cases in the secretariat. The same building houses offices of the chief minister and chief secretary. The departments affected include commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department and law department among others. Bureaucrats too have been equally infected. At least ten IAS officers from principal secretary to deputy secretary rank have been found Covid positive. From the health director to principal secretary, health, and from the health minister to medical education minister, all have contracted coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-spurt-continues-in-secretariat-tally-up-at-59-as-3-more-test-ve/articleshow/78372505.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: A week after reopening, attendance dismal at 25%||BHOPAL: Despite low attendance, the schools have been receiving ‘back-to-school’ queries from students and parents. Even the schools, which are closed, have asked parents about opening their campus from October 1. Parents said they do want to send their kids, but the fear of coronavirus is a big concern for them. As of now, attendance at schools has been around 25%-30%. Schools were allowed to open with only consulting classes since September 21. However, the turnout of the students was very poor. Several schools had announced that their campuses would be closed till September 30. The state government had declared all government schools as open. “Our staff is coming regularly to schools. Except two-three schools, all our campuses are open,” said DEO, Bhopal, Nitin Saxena. He added that Model School and Berkhera Nathu School have been closed for two days after coronavirus cases were detected there. About private schools, Saxena said that the attendance of students is low. “It is true that attendance is still very low. Schools are trying their best to convince parents and students to attend the campus. Infact, I have noticed that even parents and students are ready to come, but the corona fear is restricting them,” said Saxena. He claimed that around 70% private schools are open in Bhopal. Citing the example of Bairagarh, Saxena said, “Students in this locality are coming regularly and meeting teachers to resolve their queries.” He added, “I am hoping that the schools which are closed will open from October 1.” Association of Unaided Private Schools have already opened their campuses. “We have around 50 schools in our group. Our schools are taking every measure for the safety of our students.Students also understand the importance of physical classes in learning,” said principal Gyan Ganga International, D Ashok Kumar. Citing an example, Kumar said, “Seats has been allotted to students travelling by bus. Children use the same seat daily for attending school and going back home. This is the level of safety we have assured to the students in schools associated with our group.” Secretary, Sahodaya Group, have instructed schools to ask parents about opening of campuses from October 1. “Our schools will ask the parents and teachers whether we should open the campus. If they agree to come, schools will be opened. As of now, schools are closed till September 30. Parents said that schools have assured them that the will be children safe. “It is true that schools have made good preparations, but the fear of corona is still there. Cases have been on the rise which has made us skeptical. Nevertheless, there is no harm in sending children to schools when they have assured safety for them,” said Umesh Malviya, father of a student. Several parents, however, maintained that sending kids to the schools is out of question for them. “I am not sending my daughter to school in any situation,” said Meeta Sharma, mother of a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-week-after-schools-reopen-attendance-dismal-at-25/articleshow/78372489.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Eva Srivastava made DM Tehri, Ashish Chauhan new MD GMVN||DEHRADUN: IAS officer Eva Srivastava has been given charge of district magistrate of Tehri Garhwal. A letter in this regard was issued by the department of personnel and training to chief secretary Uttarakhand on September 12. Srivastava, till now, was holding charge of additional secretary administration. This comes after Mangesh Ghildiyal, who was serving as DM Tehri Garhwal, was named the new under secretary in the Prime Minister’s office for a period of four years. Meanwhile, Ashish Kumar Chauhan, additional secretary of civil aviation, has been made the MD of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/eva-srivastava-made-dm-tehri-ashish-chauhan-new-md-gmvn/articleshow/78371150.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government gets three more weeks to come up with suggestions||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday gave the state government three more weeks to come up with suggestions on the formation of a committee to look into the problems faced by the Van Gujjar community and to protect their rights. As reported by TOI last month, the HC had given the state government six weeks to come up with suggestions on constitution of a committee. The direction from the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe came while hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by an NGO "Think Act Rise Foundation" (TARF). “The counsel appearing for the state government informed the bench that they need one more week to come up with the suggestions. However, I informed the court that since I have my exams, the court should hear the case after three weeks. The bench, therefore, listed the case for hearing after three weeks,” said Arjun Kasana, secretary TARF. The Van Gujjars are a forest-dwelling community living mainly in and around the Rajaji Tiger Reserve. The Van Gujjars are believed to have migrated from Jammu and Kashmir over 100 years ago. In 1983, the state of Uttar Pradesh (UP) – Uttarakhand was part of UP then – decided to rehabilitate many of the Van Gujjars. And even though around 1,400 families were rehabilitated, they do not have any land rights while many of their kin still stay in the forests. The petitioners have argued that the Van Gujjars lack even basic documents like the Aadhaar Cards. Further, there are no schools for their children nor do they have permanent houses or electricity. The community depends on the forests for their survival and the only way they can earn a living is by selling milk of the buffaloes they own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-gets-three-more-weeks-to-come-up-with-suggestions-on-committee-to-look-into-problems-of-van-gujjars/articleshow/78371110.cms||Prashant Jha
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||Lata Mangeshkar birthday gift: Music college||MUMBAI: The state government said a world class music college will be set up here named after the Mangeshkar family, Master Dinanath Mangeshkar Government Music College, the first of its kind in the country. This came as state cultural affairs department announced the ‘Gaan Samradni Lata Mangeshkar award’ to veteran singer Usha Mangeshkar, on melody queen Lata Mangeshkar’s 91st birthday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lata-birthday-gift-music-college/articleshow/78372689.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||Central Vigilance Commission advice sought three years after businessman’s complaint||MUMBAi: Nearly three years after a businessman lodged a complaint against then SEEPZ development commissioner Baldev Singh, the commerce ministry has sought Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) advice on it. “The complaints have been examined and with approval of the competent authority in the department, the case has been referred to CVC for first-stage advice,’’ commerce ministry under-secretary N P Mathur told complainant Binod Agarwal on September 21. Baldev was SEEPZ commissioner from July 19, 2017, to June12, 2019 and he took over as chief electoral officer on July 12, 2019. Responding to the ministry of commerce letter to Agarwal, Baldev said there was no communication to him from the ministry or CVC. “I need to see the communication before commenting,’’ Baldev said in a text message. In the past too these issues were raised, but he had said that most of the decisions were his predecessor’s. On November 30, 2017, Agarwal had complained to CBI, CVC and CAG against Baldev, an IAS officer of 1989 batch about gross abuse of power. Agarwal alleged that the official bungalow of the development commissioner was repaired at heavy cost and beyond permissible limits, and documents were not made available for audit. On termination of services of IT personnel, no records were made available for audit despite reminders. There were also complaints of seized and confiscated goods, and there was no register for monitoring seized goods. Auditors had objected to irregularity in awarding work to National Co-operative Construction & Development Federation too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-years-after-complaint-cvc-advice-sought-on-seepz-ex-official/articleshow/78372690.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Jhulaghat traders start protest, demanding India-Nepal border to be opened||Pithoragarh: Traders of Jhulaghat in Pithoragarh on Monday announced to stage a sit-in, where protestors will take turns to fast until their demand of opening the suspension bridge connecting India and Nepal is opened. Cross-border trade is crucial for traders of Jhulaghat and other border areas. India and Nepal are connected by four suspension bridges in Uttarakhand at Dharchula, Baluaokot, Jauljibi and Jhulaghat. With the borders closed since the lockdown started in March, the livelihood of traders has come to a grinding halt. The bridges are occasionally opened for ex-Indian Army personnel or their kin from Nepal to cross over to India and collect their pension. But traders want them opened permanently so they can be back in business. “Several businessmen here have taken loans from banks but are unable to pay installments, as business is far from regaining pace. If the bridges don’t open and cross-border movement of people doesn’t start, we are set to lose everything,” said Girish Joshi, a local trader. Speaking to TOI, Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, “The traders of Jhulaghat have submitted a memorandum to the district administration but since it involves two nations, the decision has to come from the Central government. For our part, we have forwarded the traders’ request to the state government.” To recall, traders of Banbasa in July had written to Nepal’s envoy to India Nilambar Acharya, requesting the border between the countries to be opened, so they can collect dues to the tune of lakhs from Nepalese shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jhulaghat-traders-start-protest-demanding-india-nepal-border-to-be-opened-so-cross-border-business-can-resume/articleshow/78371173.cms||Prem Punetha
September 29, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra bars, restaurants likely to reopen from October first week||MUMBAI: In a major move to revive the state’s economy, CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday assured the four lakh restaurants and bars in the state that they would be allowed to resume operations from the first week of October, ahead of the Navratri festival starting October 17. The decision is in line with the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 strategy, and came after a meeting between industry associations and the CM. It will breathe life into a sector which is one of the biggest employment generators but has been struggling to recover since phase-wise unlocking began in June. The CM has also agreed to consider a waiver of excise licence fees for the last six months. Thackeray has advised hoteliers to ensure all health and safety measures are followed. “Just like you are responsible for your family, you have a responsibility towards employees and customers,” he said. Sources said the state will allow 50% capacity initially. TimesViewThis is one of those big bang moves to unlock, which will spur the economy during the festival season. However, both restaurant owners and their clientele need to exercise caution and ensure that it does not create a situation that is conducive to the spread of the virus. There is a lot at stake here, mainly the livelihood of millions.Do’s and don’ts for restaurants ready; now govt seeks feedbackMonday’s meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and representatives from the hospitality sector ended with the government circulating the draft of a Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) for restaurants to resume functioning. Plans are to insist on a one-metre distance between tables, use contactless menus, insist on masks and gloves for all staff, avoid serving raw or buffets and stick to bottled water (see graphic). "Government is finalising the SoPs. Once they are cleared we will formally announce a date of resumption of these services,” said a senior state official. Shivanand Shetty of industry association AHAR said opening up dining-in services for less than 50% was not practical as many restaurants in the city have less than 10 tables and such an operation would not cover basic costs. There are about 15,000 restaurants in city, including vegetarian outlets, permit rooms, fine dine places. An estimated 30-40% of restaurants in the state are currently operational, running home deliveries and takeaways. Many others though have shut down, either permanently due to high rentals or because of a labour crunch brought on by exodus of staff to their home towns and villages. The revival is expected to benefit up to 60 lakh direct employees and 1.8 crore indirect employees who cultivate or supply agro, dairy, hatchery products and other commodities to these establishments. Top industry forums—HRAWI and AHAR—welcomed the decision to reopen, which they said will help regenerate employment that has been stagnant since the last six months of the lockdown. They said it would also generate revenue for the government. The industry generates around Rs 18,000 crore revenue, the bulk of it in excise and other local body licences and fees. “We thank the chief minister, who today assured us that restaurants and bars will be allowed to reopen in the first week of October 2020. The CM has also agreed to favourably consider HRAWI’s petition for waiver of excise license fees for six months, the duration for which establishments were required to be kept shut. Also, the deadline for deferment of payments towards the first installment of the Excise Licence fee has been extended to September 30 which will bring big relief,” said Sherry Bhatia, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI). Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR, said, “On SOPs, government has listed them and asked for our suggestions. Safety of customers is of prime importance for us and we will ensure SOPs are followed.” Watch Maharashtra: Bars, restaurants may reopen from October first week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maha-bars-restaurants-likely-to-reopen-from-oct-first-week/articleshow/78376776.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Defence minister Rajnath Singh lays foundation stones for two underpasses at IMA||NAINITAL: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday laid the foundation stones for two underpasses to be constructed at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun. The underpasses will link IMA’s North, Central and South campuses, enabling cadets and officials to move from one campus to another without halting traffic on National Highway 72, which passes through the campuses. The ceremony was carried out virtually and was attended by Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General M M Naravane, GOC-in-C (Army Training Command) Lt General Raj Shukla, Commandant (IMA) Lt General Jaiveer Singh Negi and other Army officers, as well as Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and his chief secretary Om Prakash. The project has been a long-standing demand of the people of IMA and was first conceived in 1978, but could never be initiated due to several reasons. When Rajnath Singh visited the Academy to review the Passing out Parade (PoP) in 2019, he announced the project would commence soon. According to Academy officials, the underpasses are necessary both for ending traffic jams in the area, as well as for enhancing the Academy’s security set-up. At present, cadets and officials have to cross the NH to move from one campus to another, forcing soldiers stationed at the gates to halt traffic. Traffic movement, which is already affected all year round, gets further affected during PoPs — which are held twice a year — and during other major events, as the road gets completely blocked due to security reasons. “The project, which was originally conceived in 1978, fulfills the dual aim of reducing traffic jams on NH-72 (Chakrata Road) and enhancing IMA’s security set-up. The underpasses are will be constructed by the PWD of NHAI within two years at an approximate cost of Rs 45 crore,” read a statement released by IMA after the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-lays-foundation-stones-for-two-underpasses-at-ima/articleshow/78371164.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP tops in construction of toilets under GKRY||LUCKNOW: Having constructed more than 10,000 community toilets in 31 districts over the past three months, UP has ranked first among the states in the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana (GKRY), a scheme launched by the Centre during the lockdown to provide employment to migrant workers. The state has also won seven more awards in the district categories. UP has also ranked second in the implementation of the Gandagi Mukt Bharat Scheme, a week-long programme launched on August 8 this year to create awareness about sanitation. In the GKRY, state government constructed 10,079 community toilets in three months, followed by Rajasthan (2,182 toilets), Bihar (2,153), Maharashtra (1,050) and Gujarat (605). The awards, to be given by the department of drinking water and sanitation under the Union Jal Shakti ministry, will be distributed virtually on Gandhi Jayanti. Kinjal Singh, director, panchayati raj, said GKRY was launched in 116 districts across the country of which 31 were in UP. Subsequently the scheme was extended to other districts as well. “The initial districts were selected based on where the most migrant labour was present in an attempt to ensure that they work. It was decided to give them employment building community toilets, one in each gram panchayat. In five years, UP is targeting 98,000 community toilets and 50,000 by the end of this year,” she said. In the GKRY category, Prayagraj (1,125 community toilets), Hardoi (745) and Fatehpur (688) bagged the first, second and third ranks, respectively, while in non-GKRA category, Bareilly (1,009 community toilets) and Aligarh (888) secured the first and second ranks, respectively. Aligarh has also been given a Special Recognition award. Aligarh was also the first district to ensure one community toilet in each gram panchayat. All community toilets constructed in Prayagraj district are women friendly, or pink toilets while the Khair block of Aligarh district is the first block in the state to ensure toilet in each gram panchayat. Kinjal Singh said that once the toilets were completed, the next challenge was their maintenance. The government has, therefore, issued an order, allowing each gram panchayat to employ a self-help group at Rs 6,000 per month to clean each toilet complex twice a day. The Centre had launched the Samudayik Shauchalaya Abhiyan from June 15-September 15 this year for mobilising districts and villages to construct and maintain community toilets. On June 20, the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan initiative was launched as a rural public works scheme with an initial funding of Rs 50,000 crore to ensure that labourers and workers had employment during the Covid lockdown. The two schemes were eventually linked. Under Gandagi Mukt Bharat Abhiyan, the Centre had set seven tasks for all states which included social initiatives like shramdan, to free India of garbage. The state has ranked second in the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tops-in-construction-of-toilets-under-gkry/articleshow/78374678.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||83.5% polling in panchayat elections, 95% in Dhorimanna||JAIPUR: About 83.5% polling was reported in the panchayat elections held on Monday. The highest polling was reported at Dhorimanna panchayat samiti in Barmer district at 94.66%, while the lowest was reported at Sayla in Jalore district at 66.18%. The polling for the first phase of election for the posts of sarpanch and panchs in 947 gram panchayats in 25 districts in the state began on Monday morning. “The polling began at 7.30am and went on till 5pm amid security arrangements. Polling was held as per the guidelines on Covid-19,” said state election commission secretary Shyam Singh Rajpurohit. But at a few places, there were reports of violation of social distancing norms, he said. He said elections in 55 village panchayats of the Sarada and the Gogunda panchayat samitis of Udaipur had been postponed in view of the law and order situation in Dungarpur. Violence erupted last Thursday in Dungarpur district, where candidates of a recruitment exam blocked the highway. The situation remained tense till Sunday. The commissioner said wearing a mask was mandatory during the election, while arrangements for ensuring compliance of social distancing norms had also been made at polling booths. The second phase of the election will take place on October 3, the third on October 6 and the fourth phase on October 10. In total, 3,848 gram panchayats will go to polls in the state in the four phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/83-5-polling-in-panchayat-elections-95-in-dhorimanna/articleshow/78372518.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Woman killed in accident on h’way||Nashik: A woman was killed after a heavy the vehicle allegedly ran over her on Mumbai Agra National Highway on Sunday. According to Ambad Police where the case has been registered, the woman could not be identified as her body was completely disfigured The woman allegedly crossed over the road from Vivekananda Nagar to the other side despite barricades being put there to prohibit any crossing from that spot. While she was crossing, a heavy vehicle coming from Mumbai side ran over her. The woman died on spot.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-killed-in-accident-on-hway/articleshow/78370144.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra bars, restaurants likely to reopen from October first week||MUMBAI: In a major move to revive the state’s economy, CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday assured the four lakh restaurants and bars in the state that they would be allowed to resume operations from the first week of October, ahead of the Navratri festival starting October 17. The decision is in line with the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 strategy, and came after a meeting between industry associations and the CM. It will breathe life into a sector which is one of the biggest employment generators but has been struggling to recover since phase-wise unlocking began in June. The CM has also agreed to consider a waiver of excise licence fees for the last six months. Thackeray has advised hoteliers to ensure all health and safety measures are followed. “Just like you are responsible for your family, you have a responsibility towards employees and customers,” he said. Sources said the state will allow 50% capacity initially. TimesViewThis is one of those big bang moves to unlock, which will spur the economy during the festival season. However, both restaurant owners and their clientele need to exercise caution and ensure that it does not create a situation that is conducive to the spread of the virus. There is a lot at stake here, mainly the livelihood of millions.Do’s and don’ts for restaurants ready; now govt seeks feedbackMonday’s meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and representatives from the hospitality sector ended with the government circulating the draft of a Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) for restaurants to resume functioning. Plans are to insist on a one-metre distance between tables, use contactless menus, insist on masks and gloves for all staff, avoid serving raw or buffets and stick to bottled water (see graphic). "Government is finalising the SoPs. Once they are cleared we will formally announce a date of resumption of these services,” said a senior state official. Shivanand Shetty of industry association AHAR said opening up dining-in services for less than 50% was not practical as many restaurants in the city have less than 10 tables and such an operation would not cover basic costs. There are about 15,000 restaurants in city, including vegetarian outlets, permit rooms, fine dine places. An estimated 30-40% of restaurants in the state are currently operational, running home deliveries and takeaways. Many others though have shut down, either permanently due to high rentals or because of a labour crunch brought on by exodus of staff to their home towns and villages. The revival is expected to benefit up to 60 lakh direct employees and 1.8 crore indirect employees who cultivate or supply agro, dairy, hatchery products and other commodities to these establishments. Top industry forums—HRAWI and AHAR—welcomed the decision to reopen, which they said will help regenerate employment that has been stagnant since the last six months of the lockdown. They said it would also generate revenue for the government. The industry generates around Rs 18,000 crore revenue, the bulk of it in excise and other local body licences and fees. “We thank the chief minister, who today assured us that restaurants and bars will be allowed to reopen in the first week of October 2020. The CM has also agreed to favourably consider HRAWI’s petition for waiver of excise license fees for six months, the duration for which establishments were required to be kept shut. Also, the deadline for deferment of payments towards the first installment of the Excise Licence fee has been extended to September 30 which will bring big relief,” said Sherry Bhatia, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI). Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR, said, “On SOPs, government has listed them and asked for our suggestions. Safety of customers is of prime importance for us and we will ensure SOPs are followed.” Watch Maharashtra: Bars, restaurants may reopen from October first week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-bars-restaurants-likely-to-reopen-from-oct-first-week/articleshow/78374679.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
September 29, 2020||Goa||Prepare SOPs for using parks: Goacan||Vasco: The Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) has called on the directorate of municipal administration (DMA) to monitor the maintenance and use of gardens and parks in the jurisdiction of municipal councils, keeping in mind the safety of citizens living in the area. In a letter to DMA director Tariq Thomas, Goacan has pointed out the need to prepare a set of guidelines and appropriate SOPs in consultation with allied departments such as forests, police, social welfare, etc. The NGO has asked the government to at least start the process to set up guidelines by October 1 — the International Day of Older Persons — and complete it by November 14, Children’s Day. Goacan’s coordinator Roland Martins said that they attached a news report published by TOI on August 26, ‘Baina’s neglected children’s garden favourite hunting ground for anti-socials’, which highlighted how dangerous the garden has become for children and senior citizens. It has asked the DMA to direct all municipal councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji to submit a list of gardens and parks in their jurisdiction, details of visit timings, security arrangements, facilities available, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prepare-sops-for-using-parks-goacan/articleshow/78374077.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Raj accounts for 98% of 30k tonnes of silver reserves in India: Niti||Jaipur: As per estimates of Niti Aayog, India accounts for 30,000 tonnes of silver reserves in the country, 98% of which is in Rajasthan. Niti Aayong CEO Amitabh Kant said that this huge unutilised reserve has a potential to take India to the leadership position among the silver producing nations. “We at Niti Aayog are committed to partner the state government to achieve this dream,” said Kant at a webinar organized by Vedanta Resources and Hindustan Zinc where Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also participated. Sharing his vision, Gehlot said, “Rajasthan is focused to partner and empower industries as well as companies towards progress and value creation. We believe that the development of silver economy in the state will lead to creation of large-scale employment, not only at the sites but also in the key user industries.” The chief minister said Rajasthan is committed to improve the mining ecosystem in the state through the recently formed Rajasthan State Mineral Exploration Trust. “This Trust will manage and initiate key programs around research and technology, while facilitating access to user industries and improve revenue generation. This step will take us closer to our goal of being a world leader in the silver industry and I look forward to partnering with Niti Aayog for the same,” he added. The webinar was attended by people from more than 10 countries like Peru, Mexico, USA, UAE, Turkey comprising of delegates and representatives from government, industry, academia, policy, MSMEs and traders. Anil Agarwal, chairman, Vedanta Resources said, “Rajasthan has an inherent capability of craftmanship, artisans and entrepreneurship which is deep rooted in its culture. I sincerely believe that silver can contribute immensely to the state’s development through liberal exploration policies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-accounts-for-98-of-30k-tonnes-of-silver-reserves-in-india-niti/articleshow/78372531.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||Drugs case: More Bollywood celebrities now under NCB lens||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau probing the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case claims to have stumbled upon the names of some Bollywood celebrities who were in contact with arrested suspect Kshitij Prasad. Sources said that the NCB is certain that Kshitij was in touch with a few Bollywood celebrities and was part of illicit drug trafficking. The NCB would examine in detail the involvement of these celebrities before summoning them for questioning, sources said. The NCB had recovered some documents, WhatsApp chats and a weed joint from Kshitij’s Versova home, leading to his arrest. Kshitij briefly worked with Karan Johar as an executive producer. NCB officials are also in the process of recovering deleted data from Khsitij’s mobile phone that may throw up additional information about drug prevalence in Bollywood. The NCB on Monday had called experts as part of the process to retrieve deleted data from his mobile phone, including chats. A similar exercise was carried out by the Enforcement Directorate to recover deleted information from actor Rhea Chakraborty’s cell phone, which indicated alleged procurement of drugs for her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. The information was passed on to the NCB, and she was arrested for illicit drug trafficking. Officials said Kshitij is an important conduit in the drug syndicate involving Karamjeet Anand alias KJ, Anuj Keshwani and Ankush Arenja. Officials said Kshitij was not cooperating and was trying to derail the probe by making baseless allegations of the NCB forcing him to frame celebrities. In a press release issued by the NCB, it denied allegations made by Kshitij’s lawyer Satish Manshinde that his client was being forced to name Karan Johar. “This is baseless and devoid of any truth,” the release said. “When the involvement of Kshitij in offences under the NDPS Act was revealed, he was placed under arrest after following due process of law. His lawyer and his family (mother) were informed as per procedure. He was also allowed to meet his father-in-law and his wife at the MZU office,” it said. Officials said they would extract information based on his call detail records, his WhatsApp messages and other data found on his mobile. “We would then confront him,” sources said. According to Kshitij’s remand application, he purchased hashish/ganja from Arneja, Keshwani and hence is part of a conspiracy for drug procurement with Arneja and other drug peddlers. Officials said the link extends further to drug peddler Kaizan Ibrahim, who was in contact with Sushant’s cook Deepesh Sawant. NCB officials said they have also called for Kshitiji’s bank details, including his digital wallet platform, to trace the number of people who were buying drugs from him. “We need to ascertain the extent of his network, who his suppliers were, who all purchased from him, whether there are others who were part of this network and the mode of payment. This is important under the NDPS Act,” an official said. Want to know what CBI has found: Home ministerMaharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said the state is eagerly waiting to know the findings of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. “The Sushant Singh Rajput case was being probed in a professional manner by Mumbai police before it was suddenly handed over to the CBI. We too are eagerly waiting to see what their findings are. People ask ‘did he die by suicide or was he murdered.’ We are awaiting to know the probe’s result,” Deshmukh told the media. Meanwhile, the spokesperson of CBI released a statement on Monday saying “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting a professional investigation related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date. Investigation is continuing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-bollywood-celebs-now-under-ncb-lens/articleshow/78374688.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Inter state movement of buses to start from today||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s chief secretary Om Prakash on Monday issued the SOP for movement of public transport vehicles, including interstate and intrastate plying of buses. No public vehicle would be allowed to ply without proper sanitisation. Consumption of pan, tobacco, and cigarettes has been completely banned and all the passengers, conductor and driver would have to wear masks throughout the journey. Besides, they would also be required to register themselves with the Aarogya Setu app. All public transport would be allowed to carry only the permissible number of passengers, while maintaining social distancing norms. No passenger would be permitted to stand and travel in a bus. The state transport corporation has been directed to approach counterparts in other states and after mutual consent start 100 trips of buses per day. For passengers moving from one district to another or going to another state, the district magistrates have been told to arrange for their thermal scanning at the source station itself. For passengers coming to Uttarakhand, the district magistrates concerned have been directed to make thermal scanning arrangements at the entry point. Uttarakhand Transport Corporation had stalled its operations since the lockdown was enforced in the state. The intra-state operations were started by the corporation in the last week of June. According to UTC officials, in the first phase, bus services between Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will be resumed. Incidentally, UTC has incurred a loss of Rs 25 crore per month since the lockdown and even after resuming the intra-state operations, almost 900 buses are still off the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inter-state-movement-of-buses-to-start-from-today/articleshow/78371180.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Mines dept contributes Rs 605 crore to fight Covid||Jaipur: In a bid to help the state government fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the mines department has given Rs 605 crore from its District Mineral Fund. Mines minister Pramod Jain Bhaya said that 30% of the total funds collected from mining companies for the fund will be diverted to fight the pandemic. Over Rs 3,000 crore has been collected from mining companies for the fund and the corpus is being spent for the welfare of the mining workers and areas affected by mining activities. Additional chief secretary mines Subodh Agarwal said that as of now, Rs 2,018 crore is available with the fund which is collected from various districts. He said the district collectors have been asked to assess the requirement of the funds and send proposals after passing them by the district advisory committees. As per estimates, maximum DMF money will be available for Bhilwara district at Rs 205 crore, followed by Rajsamand (Rs 132 crore), Udaipur (Rs 57 crore) and Chittorgarh (Rs 37 crore).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mines-dept-contributes-rs-605-crore-to-fight-covid/articleshow/78372539.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Active Covid-19 cases in UP down by 20% in 10 days||LUCKNOW: A decline of over 20.5% has been recorded in the number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh in the past 10 days. Against 67,825 active cases on September 18, the number of active infections on Monday was 53,953 – a drop of 13,872 cases. “This is a positive sign and an outcome of a steady decline in the number of new cases along with an increase in the number of recovered persons,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Officials said that 3,838 fresh cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours against 5,382 recoveries. Prasad added that the drop in the number of active infections also reflected on the state's recovery rate which climbed to 84.7% on Monday. “For more than a week now, the number of persons discharged has been more than the number of new cases reported. As a result, our recovery rate reached 84.7% and is poised to improve further,” Prasad added. Meanwhile, among new cases, over 52% of the cases were reported from Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad,Bareilly, Meerut, Farrukhabad and Muzaffarnagar. Besides the fresh cases, 60 persons succumbed to the pandemic infection which took the overall toll to 5,652. Decline an opportunity to overpower the pandemic: Health officials underscored that the decline in numbers was surely good news, but it did not mean that the risk of infection, its spread and complications had ended. “The numbers indicate that our strategy is working in the right direction. This has given us an opportunity to overpower the pandemic infection. But that requires sustained efforts both from our end and also from the community. In fact, the people have a bigger role to play at the moment,” said ACS, health, Amit Mohan Prasad, reiterating that the Covid-19 pandemic spread through human hosts. “Unlike many diseases, coronavirus pandemic is spreading from one human to another. With economic and business activity resuming faster than expected, the risk of spread is bigger than before, while prevention was the only tool in hand to weaken the chain of spread,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-covid-19-cases-in-up-down-by-20-in-10-days/articleshow/78374699.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s waste management to go hi-tech||CHENNAI: Several residents have all these years had to complain to get streets swept, sometimes paying money. Others have found diligently segregated waste dumped with other garbage in landfills. Come October, the corporation has promised, these woes will disappear when Urbaser-Sumeet takes over solid waste management in Alandur, Adayar, Valasaravakkam, Perungudi, Sholinganallur, Teynampet and Kodambakkam zones in October. Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami will inaugurate the project on Wednesday. Residents may be penalised for not handing over segregated waste, but penalties are yet to be finalised. There will be more accountability, mechanization and technology based monitoring, the corporation has said, following complaints on overflowing bins, fake bills, fudged accounts of manpower rolls and improper waste management. Moreover, unlike Ramky Enterprises, the new contractor won’t be paid based on the quantity of waste collected. The corporation has introduced 36 key performance indicators such as regular sweeping of streets, clearing garbage bins on time, 100% door-to-door collection and creating awareness on segregation that will be audited by a team headed by an independent engineer and corporation officials before the payment is cleared. A toll-free number will help residents post complaints to the call centre through the day. “We will set up a control room in Alandur that will have separate teams to attend to complaints for each zone and monitor route maps of battery-operated vehicles, trucks and compactor bins. Everything will be geotagged and monitored by a GPS system. We will know even if the worker stops for having tea,” said Mahmood Sait, CEO of Urbeser-Sumeet. All pushcarts will be replaced by battery-operated vehicles, streets will have colour-coded bins to dump dry, wet and hazardous waste. Roadside eateries, bakeries and commercial establishments have been advised to store waste in a separate bin to be collected by the contractor. “We have already hired significant manpower for Adyar zone and will hire 11,000 people for the entire process. All our vehicles are BS-VI norm compatible ensuring they won’t pollute. We will focus more on awareness to segregate waste by conducting road shows and various campaigns…,” said Mehmood Sait. Residents, however, have some concerns. “Similar promises were made when Ramky took over,” said V Rama Rao of Nanganallur. Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam said the major concern was lack of infrastructure for disposal of wet waste and setting up material recovery centres. “Even if segregated waste is collected 100%, wet waste will be 50% and 35% recyclable waste. To dispose this, the civic body hasn’t created enough facilities proportionate to waste generated. So it will end up in dump yards. What will actually change?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-waste-management-to-go-hi-tech/articleshow/78372558.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||BMC gets 1k vials of remdesivir||Mumbai: Amid reports of a shortage of remdesivir, the antiviral drug that helps stabilise moderately ill Covid-19 patients, BMC on Monday got 1,000 vials for distribution at some of its hospitals. “We had placed an order for 8,000 remdesivir vials but got 1,000 for immediate use,’’ said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. He said the remaining will be delivered in few days. BMC’s SevenHills Hospital, which had few vials left, got 300 late on Monday. A doctor working at a private hospital said the shortage was artificially created with distributors hoarding remdesivir. Meanwhile, BMC is working on buying RT-PCR test kits on its own after Indian Council of Medical Research, which was providing the kits for free to states, discontinued the practice. “Our stock of kits will last till October 31. In the meantime, we are deciding whether to buy kits from the same agency that the state procures from or float a new tender,’’ Kakani added. As per the state tender, a kit costs around Rs150. BMC conducts 12,000 tests on an average everyday. About 80% of these tests are RT-PCR, and the remaining are antigen tests. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-gets-1k-vials-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78372692.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘Panel on contract workers will submit report shortly’||Jaipur. Chairman of the cabinet sub-committee on the issues of contract workers Dr B D Kalla said the committee will submit its report shortly. After a meeting of the committee on Monday, he said the committee has had about eight meetings so far and after two more meetings, the committee will finalise its report and submit to the cabinet. He said that the sub-committee has been continuously working with sensitivity and seriousness on various issues related to contract workers. He said even during the pandemic, the committee meetings were held regularly. The meeting on Monday was attended by minister of state for education Govind Singh Dotasra, minister of state for youth and sports Ashok Chandna and minister of state for women and child development Mamta Bhupesh and principal secretary of personnel department, Roli Singh, besides officers of the concerned departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-on-contract-workers-will-submit-report-shortly/articleshow/78372561.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Raipur-Balawala Road riddled with potholes for months, say residents||DEHRADUN: Raipur-Balawala road, the main stretch used for commute by Balawala residents, remains riddled with multiple potholes for several months now as the road was never repaired after it was dug up for a pipeline project in the area in January, 2020. The locals say that officials have turned a blind eye towards the civic necessity as the pipeline project was under the authority of Jal Sansthan Board and the road works come under the Public Works Department (PWD) and consequently, no department is officially taking the responsibility for the repair of the road. The residents of the area allege that the craters were just filled with gravel and left in that state after the pipelines were installed. Subsequently, the already existing potholes started accumulating rainwater when monsoon began. Locals complain that even a light rain shower makes it difficult for them to walk on the road, let alone drive on it. Shivam Semwal, a resident of Balawala told TOI, “We can’t drive on the road once it rains because the road gets flooded with muddy water and we can’t see the pits properly to avoid them. This has also caused a few minor accidents in the area.” With time, the dilapidated road is further eroding and the potholes are becoming deeper. Additionally, dysfunctional drains in the area aggravate the issue of waterlogging and the absence of streetlights makes it difficult to commute during nighttime. “Due to the lack of basic infrastructure, garbage disposal doesn’t take place properly. This creates unhygienic living conditions for the residents. rly awaiting restoration of the main road,” said Ayushi Bijalwan, another resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/raipur-balawala-road-riddled-with-potholes-for-months-say-residents/articleshow/78371197.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid playing games with the mind||For Rajendra Minz, the sub-divisional magistrate of Bhanjanagar in Ganjam district, who was found Covid positive and has fully recovered now, little has changed. “The symptoms were similar to that of viral fever. I knew I would be infected someday as I was receiving migrant workers who were returning to the district since the beginning,” said Minz, who did not let Covid disturb his strong mental make-up. Unlike Minz, for Bhubaneswar resident Himanshu (45), who showed mild symptoms in mid-August and was in home isolation for five days, there is not a moment of peace. He makes 10 calls a day to his psychiatrist even now and is on medication for anxiety. “Being in home quarantine with nothing to do the whole day and all kinds of negative news related to Covid coming from everywhere, I felt utterly confused and lost. This only added to my anxiety,” he said. The virus has spared none, neither the living nor the dead. With cremations not being performed and rituals for the dead not being followed under the current circumstances, many families are yet to come to terms with the departed soul not getting a proper closure. Dr Amrit Pattojoshi, chief coordinator of Indian Psychiatry Society-WHO-Unicef, an initiative to provide psychiatric telemedicine facility during Covid-19, said, “Families are scared to cremate the dead. They expect the doctors to do the cremation as well. Doctors are overburdened. They have been arranging everything – from ambulances, hospital beds, oxygen cylinders to even cremations. Every other doctor is infected. They have been doing their best for the patients, but it is taking a toll on them. They too need care.” He added that among the cases he has seen so far, elderly couples are the worst-hit, both mentally and physically. “If one gets infected, the other feels helpless and purposeless. The youngsters feel that nothing is going to happen to them, but what they don’t realise is that they may be bringing the virus home owing to their recklessness,” Pattojoshi warned. “Surprisingly, children have shown maturity in accepting and adapting to the situation,” he said. Explaining the games that Covid is playing with the mind, Professor Namita Mohanty, former head of department (psychology), Utkal University, said people are reacting to it in different ways. “Many elderly couples are preparing their wills, disclosing all information about their movable and immovable assets to their children. Uncertain of their own future, they are trying to secure the future of their children. The youngsters, on the other hand, feel that they are largely immune from the virus and have no qualms about breaking the Covid rules. They suffer from what is now being called an ‘optimism bias’. Given that most youngsters do not have co-morbidities, they are taking things lightly,” Mohanty, who was also a member of the Odisha Public Service Commission, added. Being Covid-positive almost sounds like a shield now. With every alternate household having at least one infected patient, who has also recovered from the disease, is the battle over? What about the ones who have not been infected so far? Prem Chand Chaudhary, the commissioner of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, said, “With chances of re-infection less likely in cured patients who showed no or mild symptoms, the battle is half won. Since such patients develop antibodies, there is lesser chance of a repeat infection. Hence, they are more confident of life than the ones who have not been infected yet.” Though he did not rule out the possibility of a second and more severe wave of infection, he added that Odisha has not reported any case of Covid relapse so far. “What Covid-19 has unleashed is the highest kind of psychological disorder. Mental health is dependent on the bio-pyschosocial well-being. But the virus, the lockdown to prevent that and the explosion of news related to Covid has dealt a blow to the bio-psychosocial make-up of people. At this juncture, it’s very important for them to ventilate their sorrows and share their joys. The lockdown had robbed them off this basic need. They must go out taking all the necessary precautions and meet their near and dear ones,” professor Sarada Prasanna Swain, director of Mental Health Institute at SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-playing-games-with-the-mind/articleshow/78383762.cms||Rajani Yadav
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||Dead tiger wasn’t from PTR, confirms WII report||Pilibhit: An adult tiger whose carcass was recovered from Hardoi feeder canal on September 23 was not from any of the forest regions of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), confirms a report sent by Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to the PTR field director. The report, however, does not inform as to which forest division the dead tiger belonged to. According to PTR field director H Rajamohan, the carcass’ photos were sent to WII for matching its stripes with the central database of tigers to ascertain the forest region the dead tiger belonged to. A detailed autopsy report of the tiger, which would ascertain the exact reason for its death, would take some time due to several clinical examinations, said Rajamohan. Notably, the tiger had a fractured and injured foreleg in addition to injuries in the abdominal region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dead-tiger-wasnt-from-ptr-confirms-wii-report/articleshow/78368195.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||23-year-old jawan from Bengal hangs self in Bikaner cantonment||JAIPUR: An army jawan posted in Bikaner committed suicide in the cantonment on Monday. The jawan from West Bengal was found hanging from a tree by another soldier though no suicide note was found. The jawan was from an infantry battalion and currently police have no leads about the possible reason for the suicide . The deceased was identified as 23-year-old Subrato Manna who hailed from Kharagpur village in Midnapore district of West Bengal. Sadar SHO Mahaveer Prasad said, “The army officials informed us about the suicide of the soldier. They said that they did not know the reason.” According to sources, the jawan used a curtain to hang himself from a tree behind the garage where army vehicles are parked. “The army will conduct their own parallel inquiry to ascertain the reason as no suicide note was found. Being a working day, there would have been movement in the cantonment but the jawan apparently chose a place which was somewhat secluded”, added the official. The jawan had been in the defence forces for last four years and was unmarried. His post-mortem was conducted and the body handed over to the army officials. Cops claimed that it was difficult to establish the motive behind the suicide as they still did not have many details about the deceased’s personal or professional life. In June, a 23-year-old army man from Maharashtra posted in Kota allegedly hanged himself from a tree here after the woman he loved got engaged to someone else. The deceased left a suicide note in which he expressed his respect for his parents and love for the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/23-yr-old-jawan-from-bengal-hangs-self-in-bikaner-cantonment/articleshow/78372575.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Wheels set in motion for Gurugram’s first cycling track, launch likely on October 2||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started developing the city’s first cycling track, days after a TOI report highlighted how the agency had lost an opportunity to rebuild its mobility infrastructure during the lockdown months, when traffic was thin. The 9.5km track is being developed between Huda City Centre and Subhash Chowk. It will be built on the service lanes on either side of Netaji Subhash Marg and will be 5m wide. Senior GMDA officials said that work on developing the service lanes had already been initiated. Officials are hopeful of launching the track on October 2, if all goes according to the plan. “We will first upgrade the service lanes and then develop the track on them. This way, the footpaths will also be repaired,” a GMDA official said. The track, which GMDA is building along with Hero Cycles, will cost Rs 30 lakh. The development agency will spend Rs 10 lakh on the project while the remaining amount will be borne by the cycle maker. However, this is not the first time that a government agency has embarked on a project to develop cycle tracks in the city. Most projects have failed to see the light of day and the incomplete tracks have only given way to unauthorised parking by auto-rickshaws and cars. Officials ruled out such concerns, insisting that the project would not meet the same fate this time. Cyclist Sarika Panda, who is also involved with the project, said the track would have entry and exit points at regular intervals to allow cyclists to get onto the main road if needed. “The stretch under consideration has traffic signals on all major intersections. So, crossing the road will not be an issue for the cyclists anymore,” she added. According to Panda, the intersections will also be redesigned to facilitate easy movement. This will be done for all junctions between Huda City Centre and Subhash Chowk, except Bakhtawar Chowk, which will be taken up later. GMDA will put up signboards at regular intervals, listing the dos and don’ts. Anyone found breaking the norms will be issued fines. “Any vehicle other than a cycle that enters the track will be liable for a fine,” the official said. If the project is a success, it would be implemented along other important roads of the city, he added. The need for cycling tracks was felt all the more in the aftermath of the pandemic, which has drastically changed the way people travel to work. City residents wary of public transport are increasingly choosing the cycle to travel, which has increased sales of the two-wheeler. GMDA chief VS Kundu had earlier agreed that the development agency had missed a chance to build cycle tracks during the lockdown, attributing it to lack of labourers. Meanwhile, Gurugram has also expressed interest in taking up public cycling projects. A total of 95 cities have registered themselves to compete with each other for Cycles4Change, an annual competition by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/wheels-set-in-motion-for-gurgaons-first-cycling-track-launch-likely-on-october-2/articleshow/78373424.cms||Shubhra Pant
September 29, 2020||Chennai||2nd phase of Covid vaccine human trial begins in Tamil Nadu||Chennai: The phase-2 human clinical trials of Covishield, developed by Oxford University, commenced in the state on Monday even as the health department invited volunteers to enroll and participate in the trials. The safety and immunogenicity or the immune response of the vaccine candidate will be studied upon administering shots to healthy volunteers. Two centres in the city are among the 17 sites chosen for the trials initiated in the country by Serum Institute of India, which has an agreement with AstraZeneca that has collaborated with Oxford University. A state health department official confirmed that volunteers were given shots of the vaccine candidate on Monday. However, officials did not reveal details on the number of volunteers who were administered the shots. The state health department started calling for volunteers on September 9 through social media. Earlier Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of public health and principal investigator of the project, had said, “This phase requires 110 to 150 volunteers. Screening of volunteers to see if they are fit enough for the trials is going on.” In Tamil Nadu, trials will take place at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Porur. According to the Clinical Trials Registry India, 1,600 volunteers of more than or equal to 18 years will be enrolled in the study across 17 sites in the country. Of them, 400 participants will be part of the immunogenicity cohort. They will be randomly assigned on a 3:1 ratio to receive either Covishield or Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. The rest of the 1,200 volunteers from the safety cohort, also randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio, will receive either Covishield or placebo. Covishield was made from ChAdOx1 virus, a weakened version of a common cold virus that causes infections in chimpanzees that has been genetically changed. Genetic material has been added which is used to make proteins from the SARS-CoV-2 virus called spike glycoprotein. By vaccinating, researchers hope the body will recognise and develop an immune response to the spike protein that will help stop the coronavirus from entering human cells and prevent infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2nd-phase-of-covid-vaccine-human-trial-begins-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78372607.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Mumbai||FIRs to be filed against passengers with fake ID cards: CR||Mumbai: FIRs will be filed against passengers with fake identity cards to qualify as essential service workers to board locals to control overcrowding, Central Railway (CR) said on Monday. Last week, videos of overcrowded trains had gone viral, with many blaming railways for running few services, while others pointed out that non-essential passengers were also travelling. CR’s chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said, “We have caught 30 persons with fake ID cards. We registered two cases but to ensure deterrence against unauthorized travel FIRs will be filed more often.” CR runs 423 services and WR 506, including two ladies specials, daily. A senior CR official said, “People are showing fake ID cards. Some have prepared ID cards with the help of local corporators, while others have misused logos of MCGM, WR and CR.” Another official said ID cards were being sold for Rs600 in connivance with civic staff. Railway has insisted that the state government provide QR codes to eligible passengers. But codes are being issued slowly, so people are being allowed to travel on the basis of ID cards issues by firms. Meanwhile, CR will install flap gates for automatic entry into CSMT( non-suburban) by using QR-coded tickets in October. Long-distance train passengers will have to place the code on the scanner at the gate for validation of ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/firs-to-be-filed-against-passengers-with-fake-id-cards-cr/articleshow/78372696.cms||Manthank Mehta
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Low balance in current a/c: Penalties worrying bizmen||Ludhiana: Already reeling under losses due to the lockdown, businessmen have been saddled with another problem. Penalties have been slapped on them for not being able to maintain average balance in their current accounts. According to businessmen, the charges being imposed are from Rs 700 per month to even double in some cases. They said the banks must roll these back at the earliest and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should issue orders that for at least two years such penalties should not be charged.Deepak Sehgal, a lubricants’ trader, said, “We have our current account in a private bank located on Gill Road. Due to lockdown, there was no business activity. The business has started picking up now. We were not able to maintain the average monthly balance in our bank account. Ever since May we have been penalised by banks that are charging Rs 700 per month as penalty. Despite our repeated requests, the charges have not been waived. It’s our request to the RBI to step in.” Kuplreet Malhotra, a bicycle parts’ manufacturer, said, “It is really sad that on one hand the businessmen are facing such huge difficulties, and on the other banks are fleecing them. As far as services are concerned, private banks offer nothing significant. Therefore, we urge RBI to take notice of this problem and immediately ask banks to stop charging penalties for non-maintenance of average balance for at least the next two years.” Navdeep Sharma, a travel agent, said there should be a check on extortion by private banks. “When a pandemic strikes, a person struggles to earn a day’s meal, how can a bank expect him to maintain the average balance. If a customer has opted for an account in which he is required to maintain an average monthly balance of Rs 5,00,000, he is in deep trouble in the time of pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/low-balance-in-current-a/c-penalties-worrying-bizmen/articleshow/78371221.cms||Mohit Behl
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||2 days on, 20-yr-old’s body found in canal||Times News Network Ludhiana: The body of a 20-year-old man, who went missing on Friday night, was fished out of Sidhwan Canal, near Barewal, on Monday morning. The kin of Sonu have accused the family of a girl of abetment to suicide.Sonu, a resident of Krishna Nagar, near Aarti Chowk, worked at the office of a property dealer. Sonu’s mother Maalti said, “On Friday night, Sonu’s friend Hans Raj, a resident of Kochar Market, came home and the two left, saying they will return in a while. However, Sonu did not return. We tried to contact Hans Raj, but he did not respond to our calls.”On Saturday night, the family received a call from Raghunath Enclave police post that Sonu’s scooter was recovered from near the canal and that he had committed suicide by jumping into the water body.  “Sonu had an affair with a girl, but her family was against it. A few days ago, the girl’s family had warned Sonu to stay away from her. Due to the threats, Sonu has committed suicide,” Maalti added.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Sameer Verma said, “After Sonu committed suicide, Hans Raj approached the police and apprised them of the incident. Since then, the divers were searching for the body. On Monday, the body was fished out of the canal. As far as the matter of the girl is concerned, two months ago, she had given a written complaint to the police, saying Sonu was harassing her. However, that complaint ended in a compromise.”His body has been sent for autopsy. Statements of the families of Sonu and the girl’s will be recorded, Verma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-days-on-20-yr-olds-body-found-in-canal/articleshow/78371237.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Testing for rabies through skin is a breakthrough in controlling virus’||Ludhiana: This World Rabies Day, as the world acknowledges the strides made in medical research to control rabies, the deadly virus that spreads to humans from secretions and excretions of infected animals, Dr Charan Kamal Singh, an expert on rabies from Gadvasu, pointed out to further advancement in science. According to him, it is now possible to detect rabies from skin — earlier, the infected animal had to be dead to explore its brain for infection, thus delaying the ‘identify and isolate’ process to stem the spread of infection. Dr Singh, who has pioneered the antemortem diagnosis in rabies in animals, told TOI that it is possible to test for rabies in a living animal from the skin. “This is focussed research. Over the year, we have tested almost 100 cases of suspected animals for rabies, including cattle, dogs and mongoose, this way.” He adds, “Emphasis has to be put on antemortem diagnosis rather than postmortem diagnosis to effectively control the spread of rabies in dogs and consequently in animals since it is known that more than 95% of cases in human happen to be the result of a bite by stray dogs. With prioritisation of action plan and judicious implementation of precious resources, the control of rabies is feasible in a phased manner. Indian condition needs localised strategy. Therefore we need to focus on things to be done as per our ground reality instead of taking dictates from international bodies and experts.” Dr Singh, who has written four books and published about 100 research articles in national and international research journals has stated that the survey around the world reveals that rabies has been controlled only in those countries where stray dog population has been brought under control. “Taking a clue from this chronology, the government needs to put an effort in controlling the unwanted reproduction in stray dogs. Therefore, the present resources need to be diverted to completely stop whelping by stray bitches. Once the further multiplication of the stray dog population controlled effectively, we can humanely see the present generation off in a matter of no more than 10 years — since the life span of a dog is about 10 years. What we do now, wasting precious resources on free vaccination camps without bothering to continue with the booster dozes to the same stray dogs, which negates the efforts made initially.” According to him, the policymakers need to keep this in mind for the elimination of rabies. “For ABC programme, a new strategy has to be redrawn and mandate should be on focus on bitches. A single area can be marked in a programme. Corporation should do it responsibly with the help of advisors and volunteers, which would eventually save the cost and time.” MC commissioner Pradeep Sabarwal said, “We will be having a meeting with the experts of Gadvasu and any recommendation is welcome.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/testing-for-rabies-through-skin-is-a-breakthrough-in-controlling-virus/articleshow/78374091.cms||Mehak Jain
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Exam row: 2 varsities, same question paper||Jaipur: The ongoing final exams in the state universities have fallen into a controversy as the MSC final year question paper of Rajasthan University, Jaipur, is reportedly a verbatim copy of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Shekhawati University, Sikar. The question paper is of Nuclear Physics (annual scheme) whose examination was conducted on September 18 at Shekhawati University, whereas the RU exam was conducted on September 25. This has sparked off a heated debate in the university due to which the administration has been thinking of investigating the matter. RU vice-chancellor Rajeev Jain said, “We are looking into the matter. This shouldn’t have happened and we will take required action.” Professor of Physics department at RU, Sudhir Raniwala, said, “If such a thing has happened, this is a matter of serious concern for the university administration. It should be looked into by the university as it violates the sanctity of the examination system.” Another professor of the university said this shows the examination paper of RU was available in public domain a week before the exam. “This shouldn’t have happened. This is a question about the future of thousands of students studying here and they deserve fair and transparent examination. There have been incidences in the past where question paper was leaked. This is equally disastrous for the university as it shows that there is someone in the university who has made it available to someone else or we can say that there is no system of secrecy in the administration at all,” said another professor on condition of anonymity. Around 160 centres have been allotted for the examinations which started from September 18. The examination was supposed to end by April, but due to lockdown and pandemic, they were postponed. For a long time, the administration was in a dilemma whether to conduct the examination, but dates were released after the Supreme Court’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/exam-row-2-varsities-same-question-paper/articleshow/78372630.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||No puja pandals this Navaratra in UP; Ram Lilas may be allowed||Lucknow: The Covid-19 pandemic will play a spoiler for Durga Puja this year. There will be no community and roadside pandals in UP this time after chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that people should celebrate the festival at home. However, citing that Ram Lilas are cultural events and not religious functions, the state government is likely to allow them to be staged after following proper Covid-19 protocols. The CM made the announcement before a delegation of traders in Gorakhpur recently. An official in the chief minister’s office confirmed that guidelines for the coming festival season will be released soon. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been saying for a while now that people should celebrate festivals in their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” the official said. In light of that, there will be no pandals this year as people will be asked to celebrate the festival in their homes,” the official said. He added that Ram Lilas, however, would not qualify as a religious programme as there is no puja performed during it. “The Ram Lila is a cultural programme and it will be held on stage with a limited number of people allowed to see it. All Covid protocols will be followed, including social distancing and wearing of masks,” he said. A government spokesperson said that a detailed advisory, including whether immersion would be permitted and how, would be released in the next two to three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-puja-pandals-this-navaratra-in-up-ram-lilas-may-be-allowed/articleshow/78374731.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Aurangabad||42-year-old Covid-19 patient commits suicide at GMCH||AURANGABAD: A 42-year-old man, undergoing treatment for Covid-19, committed suicide by jumping from the fourth floor of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Sunday morning. According to the GMCH officials, the man had tested positive for the contagion and was undergoing treatment at the super-specialty building, where Covid-19 positive patients with comorbidities and critically ill patients are being treated. Begumpura police inspector Sachin Sanap, “We have registered a case of accidental death and have performed inquest panchanama. Statements are being recorded to ascertain facts in this case.” During the preliminary probe, it was found that the man plunged to death from the window of ward number 34 — on the fourth floor of the building. He was admitted to GMCH on September 21. However, after his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to ICU on September 25. Following the incident, GMCH dean Kananbala Yelikar issued a statement satying that the man hailed from Dhangaon in Paithan tehsil of the district. On Sunday morning, during the doctor’s round around 7 am, he had asked for water and requested for a bedpan. When the on duty ward boy provided him with the bedpan, he asked the ward boy to pull the curtains around the bed. “Around 10 minutes after pulling the curtains around the man’s bed, the ward boy heard a loud sound from the ground floor. He immediately checked on the patient and found him missing. When he checked through the window he found the patient’s body lying on the ground below,” Yelikar said. Soon, medical authorities as well as police were alerted about the incident, following which the a team of doctors reached the spot and declared the man dead. So far, police have not found any suicide note from the person and the process of ascertaining the reason that prompted him to take the extreme step is being probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/42-yr-old-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-at-gmch/articleshow/78352562.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Use social media to create awareness about rabies and treatment’||World Rabies Day is observed on September 28 every year so that people understand the gravity of the deadly virus and to highlight the progress that humankind made to defeat it. Sukhpreet Singh spoke to city residents on what they know about rabies... Vinayaka Sharma | student, Samrala Road Rabies awareness is very important. It is caused by the biting of mammals and if the treatment is not given at the right time, it may cause serious damage. Those who have dogs and cats, they should keep them vaccinated in order to curb the spread of the disease, one should be careful while walking on the road as stray animals are more prone to cause infection. Vivek Nayyar | businessman, Dugri World rabies day is to acknowledge the impact of rabies in people. Pets should be vaccinated on time and the awareness should be spread through campaigns and events. This day is important to make people aware of the vaccination and the precautions and information about this disease. Priyanka Sharma | student, Janta Nagar It’s important to create awareness among the individuals regarding the infection that could happen even with the scratch of the tooth by a pet infected with Iyssavirus. People should be aware of the disease because there is no booster to rehabilitate the infected person. These aspects are important to know because we can rescue someone's life or if the other person is not aware of it we can tell them about the disease. Drishti Vashishta | student, Pakhowal Road Rabies is an animal transmitted disease which affects the human body. The virus is transmitted through saliva from a rabid animal to human wounds or any scratches. The death rate across the world have decreased because now one-third of the population is aware of the impact caused by the rabies. It is also our duty to vaccinate our pets on time and spread awareness. Dr Pankaj Bajpai | Former associate professor, (occupational therapy), Pakhowal Road. Rabies is a deadly viral disease. The virus lives in the saliva of animals. This disease commonly spreads through the bite of those dogs who are not vaccinated. A person who is bitten by a dog must take anti-rabies vaccination immediately. Usually, four to five doses of vaccination are given. The vaccine prevents the spread of viruses and its reach to the brain. If a person is infected by the rabies virus, he develops fever, pain in the body, headache and confusion, etc. The affected person may also develop fear of water. Pets must be vaccinated against rabies. Ashok Kumar | Businessman, New Janta Nagar. Most people do not know what to do if an animal bites them. Rabies is one of the deadliest diseases and therefore it is essential that people are told what to expect and what should be done in case of an animal bite.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/use-social-media-to-create-awareness-about-rabies-and-treatment/articleshow/78374133.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||MSMEs do not need NOC for drawing groundwater||Ludhiana: The Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) has exempted micro and small enterprises from the requirement of obtaining a no objection certificate (NOC) for drawing groundwater. The rider here is the daily requirement of drawing water by that unit should be less than 10 cubic metre (CUM) per day. The September 24 notification comes as a big relief for the industry that has been constantly taking up the issue with the CGWA and the state and the central governments as well. As the usage of water in micro and small industries is not much and is mostly for drinking purposes, they had been demanding NOC exemption.Speaking to the TOI, Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries’ Association, said, “This decision will help the industry, especially MSMEs, significantly. They had been facing problems in fulfilling requirements for obtaining NOC for drawing groundwater even if it was for drinking purposes only. The situation was such that business associations had to hire services of various professionals and organise camps to complete the formalities and apply for NOC. We are thankful to the CGWA for the relief that will help thousands of micro and small units.”Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “For almost a year now, business associations had been taking up this matter with the state government, the Centre and CGWA. This is the result of our joint efforts. Now businessmen will not worry about facing legal action for not obtaining NOC. The exemption is given to units with drawing need of 10CUM, which works out to be 10 kilolitre or 10,000 litres daily. This is a huge amount and almost all micro and small units can be exempted now.” Welcoming the move, Baldev Singh Amar, vice-president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation, said, “Our industrial associations will plead with the government that the permission should be mandatory for those businesses that use water as raw material or in production of certain products. But for industry that is using water only for their basic amenities, exemption was a must. The pumps were being installed by industries as the government had failed to provide regular supply of drinking water. If the government provides water, the industry will not need pumps for drawing it from the ground.”Exempted categories Following categories of consumers will be exempted from seeking NOC for groundwater extraction:(i) Individual domestic consumers in both rural and urban areas using water for drinking and other amenities(ii) Rural drinking water supply schemes(iii) Armed forces establishments and Central armed police forces establishments in both rural and urban areas(iv) Agricultural activities(v) MSMEs drawing groundwater less than 10 CUM per day Box Need for NOCsThe CGWA has been regulating groundwater management by way of issuing NOCs to industries, infrastructure projects, mining projects, among others. Last year when the guidelines for getting NOC for industries came into effect, there was a lot of hue and cry as the procedure was not only very complex, but costly as well. Industrialists and several business associations had to organise camps and hire consultants to apply for NOCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/msmes-do-not-need-noc-for-drawing-groundwater/articleshow/78371251.cms||Mohit Behl
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Keep your heart ticking: Make smart health choices||During their winter vacations last year my grandchildren, who were visiting us, were enthralled by the models, particularly the heart model, during our visit to Science City in Kapurthala Yet how many of us take care of our heart, a vital organ that beats non stop throughout our lives? According to the World Health Organization, heart disease is No.1 killer disease in the world. About 17.9 million die prematurely globally because of heart ailments. Though the elderly are more at risk, over the years the younger generation and even children have been suffering from heart diseases. Faulty lifestyle, a genetic predisposition, tobacco use, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol, high blood pressure and stress, particularly among Indians, puts us at an increased risk. Due to Covid-19, we all, especially the elderly, should not ignore the early warning signs of a tightness or pain in the chest or shortness of breath and those with a heart disease or with a risk factor should be extra careful and continue with their regular check ups. Every year, World Heart Day is celebrated on September 29 to raise awareness around cardiovascular diseases and how they can be prevented. World Heart Day is a reminder for the people to assess lifestyle choices for them and their family and take strict steps to ensure the safety of their health against the morbid disease. Therefore, on World Heart Day let us all resolve to make positive changes in our lifestyle that would keep our heart ticking and healthy and help us to live longer and healthier (Dr. Ashwani K Malhotra, former senior medical officer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/keep-your-heart-ticking-make-smart-health-choices/articleshow/78374138.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Count of cases per lakh population further up in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Even as the pandemic situation in Ludhiana seems to have improved on several parameters, the count of Covid-19 cases per lakh population in the district has crossed its previous high to almost hit the 500-mark.As per the Covid-19 media bulletin released on Sunday, Ludhiana recorded 499.5 cases per lakh population on the day. This is the highest value for the district since August 13, when the health department started including such data in the bulletin.On August 13, the number of cases per lakh population was 246.8, which increased to 358.6 by August 22. It rose to 454.1 by September 3 and reached 469.8 cases per lakh on September 5 before recording a sudden fall to 339.1 cases per lakh population the next day.Thereafter, the data suggests, the cases started rising again and reached 405.2 on September 15. The count stood at 458.1 on September 20 before increasing further to the present value.With 499.5 cases per lakh population recorded on Sunday evening, Ludhiana district stood at number five spot on this parameter in the state, while SAS Nagar with 603.4 cases per lakh was at number one position, followed by Patiala and Jalandhar at second and third places with 597.4 and 576.3 cases, respectively. Tarn Taran was at the bottom of the list with only 141.3 cases per lakh.Health department officials, however, said the high count of cases per lakh is due to the large population of the district. “One of the main reasons for the high number of cases per lakh is that Ludhiana’s population is about 25% of the population of the state,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.The health officials felt that the cases per lakh would come down significantly after more people are tested and positive patients are isolated in early stages. The contact tracing of positive patients would also help further improve the Covid-19 scenario, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/count-of-cases-per-lakh-population-further-up-in-ludhiana/articleshow/78371249.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Drive-in, virtual kutcheris to mark this Margazhi||CHENNAI: All roads head to Chennai during December when the city celebrates the annual Margazhi festival. But, probably for the first time, with the pandemic and social distancing, the music and dance extravaganza will feature drive-in kutcheris as well as recorded kutcheris shot for a virtual audience. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, a cultural organisation, plans to conduct an open-air Margazhi from November 28 to December 19. “We will put up a stage at the Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram complex, Kilpauk. For the audience, we will arrange chairs with physical distancing. We will screen everyone – check temperature, give sanitisers, masks and caps to shield them from the evening dew,” says K N Ramaswamy, director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, adding that entry is free. There will also be a drive-in facility where rasikas can watch the kutcheri from the safety of their vehicles. “We will be putting up big screens, so everyone gets to watch the performance,” says Ramaswamy. While other organisations and sabhas are yet to finalise their plans for Margazhi, the Federation of City Sabhas -- which consists of Brahma Gana Sabha, Hamsadhwani, Karthik Fine Arts, Narada Gana Sabha, Rasika Ranjani Sabha, Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha, Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha, Indian Fine Arts Society, Nada Sudha, and Bharath Kalachar – has decided to jointly organise the December music and dance festival on a digital platform. Unlike previous years, there will be no live performances. So sabhas and artists are gearing up to do the recordings while adhering to the mandatory Covid-19 safety protocols. “We will be doing the recordings in November at Narada Gana Sabha, Vani Mahal and Sri Krishna Gana Sabha,” says K Harishankar, secretary of the Federation of City Sabhas. “The festival will be held from December 18 to January 1, 2021, so the videos will be premiered on Vimeo for sabha members and on YouTube, where the general public can see the recordings after paying a subscription.” There will be 30 concerts and performances. “We will have Carnatic music concerts, a few solo Bharatanatyam performances, some dramas and namasankeerthanams,” says Harishankar, adding that the videos will be available for viewing only until the first week of January 2021. “There will be performances by vocalists such as Sudha Ragunathan, Ranjani-Gayatri, Sanjay Subrahmanyam, and dancers Urmila Satyanarayana, Priyadarsini Govind, Malavika Sarukkai, Shobana and Srinidhi Chidambaram.” With the pandemic raging, the season will not feature outstation artists. MadRasana, a boutique classical music production house, will be recording kutcheris for a global audience. “We will be shooting it at an outdoor venue and putting it up at a separate portal,” says Mahesh Venkateswaran, founder, MadRasana. For the musicians, there is the challenge of performing to a virtual audience. “The audience, who plays a pivotal role in an artist’s life, will be missing. The number of people who come for your concert decides where you are headed, no matter how senior you are. As your audience grows in number, your stature also goes up,” says Sudha. “But I am used to it as I do recordings for radio and TV. The only difference is that usually you can see your audience’s reaction and change a song if you want, but now you have to hope that your audience will enjoy what you are doing,” says Sudha. Carnatic duo Ranjani–Gayathri also say they will feel the lack of a live audience. “It looks like we are singing and the rasikas are receiving but there is a beautiful circle involved as they also inspire us,” says Ranjani, adding that the presence of a camera crew can prove to be a distraction for the performer. “We now have to exercise our imagination and visualise a crowd in front of us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drive-in-virtual-kutcheris-to-mark-this-margazhi/articleshow/78372648.cms||Priya Menon
September 29, 2020||Varanasi||Kidnapped boy rescued within 12 hours, 5 held||Varanasi: A 11-year-old boy was rescued within 12 hours after being kidnapped by motorcycle-borne miscreants from Khutahan area in Jaunpur district on Sunday night. Police have arrested five kidnappers . Producing the kidnappers before reporters on Monday, SP Jaunpur Raj Karan Nayyar said, “The kidnapper had kept the abducted boy at the residence of one Suresh Gautam in Jagbandanpur village, and were finalizing the amount of ransom to demand from his family when police teams raided the place. The kidnappers tried to escape after opening fire on police team but the cops caught them and also rescued the boy safely.” The kidnappers were identified as Deepak Gupta and Rohit Gupta of Tighra village, Khichdau Bind of Saraikhwaja, Aman Yadav of Khetasarai and Suresh Gautam. Apart from three country-made revolvers and live cartridges, three motorcycles, three mobile phones and several bundles of plastic tapes were recovered from their possession. On Sunday late afternoon, son of Pravesh Agrahari, a trader and native of Tighra village under Khutahan police station, was playing on road outside his residence when the motorcycle-borne miscreants kidnapped him and fled the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kidnapped-boy-rescued-within-12-hours-5-held/articleshow/78374142.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nashik||2 pvt hosps to have Remdesivir||Nashik: The district administration has made Remdesivir injections available in two private hospitals, besides three government and civic body run hospitals that will keep the stock to be given to people if required.There were many complaints about the unavailability of Remdesivir injection and it being sold at higher prices in grey markets, following which Bhujbal asked the district administration to ensure availability of the injection The administration decided to provide a stock of Remdesivir injections at five places. As much as 50% of the entire stock in Nashik city will be kept at the civil hospital’s pharmacy, while the rest would be distributed among Zakir Hussain hospital and Bytco Hospital government run by the Nashik Municipal Corporation and two private hospitals—Wockhardt and Apollo.Offical said all the pharmacies must mention the price of the injection and mention the stock available on a display board.Similarly, the stock of the injection will be available at 10 medical pharmacies—Dwarkamani Medico, Brahmagiri Enterprises, Saraswati Medical and General Stores Shrinathji Agencies, Lotus Medical and General Stores, Six Sigma Medical Stores, Sahyadri Medical and General Stores, Ashoka Medical and General Stores, Soham Medical and Trimurti Medical Stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-pvt-hosps-to-have-remdesivir/articleshow/78370215.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Fake oximeter apps can steal your data, warn cops||Ludhiana: The police are warning city residents of fake oximeter apps that may steal personal data from their phones. Police stated that clicking on any URL offering digital oximeter or downloading applications seeking access to your phone and information can lead to cyber frauds. Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said though no such crime has been executed in the city so far, they were making people aware. He said, “Two such cases have come to my notice in which people received a notification about downloading a mobile application that works as an oximeter. While downloading the apps or clicking on such URLs, people are asked to submit personal details. These apps can access your mobile and its data and fraudsters can use it in executing cybercrimes.” Agarwal added, “Checking oxygen levels due to Covid-19 is important, so people can become a target of cyber criminals. I would suggest to buy oximeters from medical stores and not believe in anything being offered on online platforms in the name of Covid-19.”Earlier, the TOI had reported how fraudsters were creating fake profiles of people and contacting their friends on Facebook, asking to transfer money in their e-wallets after citing financial problems due to the coronavirus outbreak. Don’tsDon’t click on random linksDon’t download a mobile application from any linkDon’t given access of your contacts and other information to every applicationDon’t fall prey to luring prizes or cash rewardsDo’sDownload mobile application from app store / Google store Keep your information private and e-wallets secure with passwords||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fake-oximeter-apps-can-steal-your-data-warn-cops/articleshow/78371255.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Uliburu mining scam accused gets three-month interim bail||Cuttack: The Orissa high court on Monday refused to grant regular bail to Deepak Gupta, a key accused in the alleged Rs 1,500-crore Uliburu mining scam involving iron ore mines in the Keonjhar region. However, the high court granted Gupta interim bail for three months on the condition that he shall furnish cash security of Rs 1 crore and bail bond of Rs 2 crore. This is the sixth time the high court rejected his bail application. His bail was rejected last on August 7, 2019. Gupta has been in jail custody since September 5, 2013. While rejecting his bail application Justice S K Sahoo said, “In the absence of any substantial change in circumstances after the rejection of the last bail application on merit and particularly since there is strong prima facie case against the petitioner relating to his involvement in the commission of grave economic offence, I am not inclined to reconsider his prayer for bail on merit and release him on bail pending disposal of trial”. Gupta is facing charges of dishonestly and fraudulently misappropriating Rs 1,523.59 crore from 2004 to 2009 through illegal mining of iron ore in Uliburu reserve forest by entering into criminal conspiracy with the public servants of mining, forest department and revenue departments and obtaining pecuniary advantage to himself and causing equivalent loss to the government exchequer. Justice Sahoo felt Gupta was entitled to interim bail in view of the period of detention of the petitioner for seven years in judicial custody and the snail’s pace at which the trial of the case has proceeded so far even after three years of framing of charge. The prosecution is likely to examine 147 witnesses and only 25 witnesses have been examined so far. He observed that the petitioner is no way responsible for the delayed trial and the fact that no effective steps have been taken either by the prosecution or by the trial court to expedite the trial in spite of repeated directions of this court in the earlier bail applications. He said as the orders of this court in that respect have been flouted and normal functioning of the trial court has not been restored on account of situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic as per the status report submitted by the trial court and further taking into account the conduct of the petitioner in not flouting the terms and conditions of the interim bail order, I am of the humble view that the petitioner is entitled for grant of interim bail, Justice Sahoo observed. The interim bail period of the petitioner shall commence from October 1, 2020 and he shall surrender before the trial court on January 2, 2020, the HC order said. Earlier, the high court granted Gupta interim bail for one month on June 26, 2020 and after availing the interim bail period, he had surrendered before the trial court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/uliburu-mining-scam-accused-gets-three-month-interim-bail/articleshow/78383793.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Online MBBS classes are not valid, says Medical Council of India||CHENNAI: In a big setback for medical students attending college through online classes for the past six months in view of the pandemic, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has informed them that such classes are not recognised by the council. The MCI has made the statement in reply to a representation made by students of SRM College and Hospital, Kattankulathur. Informing the Madras high court about MCI’s stand, senior advocate R Vaigai said, “The MCI has informed the students that it does not recognise online teaching for medical courses. Students are worried about their future now.” Vaigai made the submission on the batch of pleas moved by parents of the medical students challenging the college’s demand to pay full fees even for the lockdown period. When the pleas came up for hearing, senior advocates T Ramanujam and A R L Sundresan, representing the college, submitted that the management has considered the representations of the parents and has decided to permit them to pay the fees in three instalments. “The first instalment of 40% of the total fee shall be paid by October 10 followed by two instalments of 30% each,” they said. To this, Vaigai said that the MCI through a reply dated August 13 has informed the students that online classes are not recognised by it. The reply has put a question mark over the validity of the classes conducted by the college so far, she added. Recording the same, Justice N Anand Venkatesh said if the MCI is not going to recognise online classes, then the whole point in conducting such classes becomes null and void. Vaigai added that of Rs 22.5 lakh fee to be paid for the current academic year about Rs 3 lakh goes towards development charges and co-curricular activities. Since there is no scope for such activities Rs 3 lakh has to be waived and that the college can only claim the tuition fee of Rs 19.5 lakh. “We are ready to pay 40% of the Rs 19.5 lakh with the extension of last date to pay such fee from October 10 to 30. The court must also consider fixing 75% of the last annual fee as a fee for the current year as done in the cases of private schools by the court,” Vaigai said. However, noting that all such issues can be discussed and decided in the due course, the judge said it would be appropriate to start by paying 40% of the actual fee on or before October 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-mbbs-classes-are-not-valid-says-mci/articleshow/78372677.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus snuffs out 6 lives, infects 133||TNNLudhiana: Six persons from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 133 tested positive on Monday.As per the local media bulletin, of the 10 deaths reported on the day, one each was from Jalandhar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, besides the six from Ludhiana.The district casualties included a 56-year-old man of Ramgarh Samrala, who had hypertension and diabetes; a 45-year-old man of Payal with hypertension and diabetes; a 55-year-old diabetic woman of Jagraon; a 75-year-old man of Dugri with hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease; a 34-year-old man of Shimlapuri; and an 82-year-old man of Model Town with chronic kidney disease.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally now stood at 723 and that of outsiders at 233.To date, 2,64,791 suspects have been tested.Of the 133 positive cases, 65 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), seven positive cases’ contacts, 38 from OPD, one cop, one health-care worker, one pregnant woman, 17 through tracing process, two severe acute respiratory infection cases and one pre-operative case.The day also saw 30 outsiders testing positive here.With this, the Ludhiana case count has mounted to 17,615, including 1,104 active cases, and that of outsiders to 2,143. With 15,785 patients cured, the recovery rate is 89.61%.At present, 4,051 persons were home quarantined. On Monday, 224 persons were sent for home isolation.As many as 3,729 samples were sent for testing on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-snuffs-out-6-lives-infects-133/articleshow/78371260.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||State govt to provide free wheat, pulses to 4L families||Jaipur: The state government has decided to provide 10kg of wheat per person and 1 kg of pulses per family free of cost to 4.14 lakh needy families facing economic stress due to the pandemic. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved Rs 37.74 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for this purpose, an official release stated. Gehlot has directed officials to ensure food security for those facing livelihood crisis, as well as for those who were deprived of the same in a previous survey for any reasons, it said. Following the chief minister’s instructions, 15.36 lakh persons from 4.14 lakh families were registered in the re-survey conducted between July 22 and August 15 by the Food and Civil Supplies Department, the statement said. CM Lays foundation stone for Rs 1037.96 crore Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday laid foundation stone for 47 projects worth Rs 1037.96 crore while inaugurated 21 projects worth 294.44 crore on Monday. The projects include Smart city projects in Jaipur, Ajmer and Udaipur division, AMRUT, RUIDP and UIT projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-to-provide-free-wheat-pulses-to-4l-families/articleshow/78372691.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang selling cars financed on fake ID proofs busted||tnnLudhiana: The police have arrested two members of an inter-state gang that sold cars financed on fake ID proofs.The arrested have been identified as Gunwantveer Singh, 35, of Lakkar Bazaar and Tarun Kumar, 49, of Phagwara Road. Their three accomplices who are on the run are: Monu Chauhan of Haryana, Avtar Singh and Ateeq Hussain of Kharar.Deputy commissioner of police (detective) SPS Dhindsa said, “It is an inter-state gang, which got cars financed on fake documents. Using fake registration numbers and other documents, they sold these cars. Monu, the kingpin of the gang, got cars financed and Avtar and Ateeq prepared all the forged documents. Gunwantveer and Tarun found customers to sell the vehicles.” Gunwantveer and Tarun were arrested from Feroze Gandhi market on Sunday evening, when they were travelling in a grey car (PB 91 B 9696). The accused had forged the car documents. After their questioning, police recovered nine more cars, five fake registration certificates (RCs) and 10 pairs of fake registration number plates from their possession. “The gang had sold these nine cars since January. The police traced their customers and recovered the cars. We suspect the involvement of a bank employee as the accused got all cars financed on forged documents. Usually, the bank verifies everything before financing a car. Moreover, no one was paying the installments, so the banks should have approached the police. The forged documents recovered from the accused look exactly like the original ones. We are on the lookout for the other three accused,” Dhindsa added. The official said a case under Section 420 (cheating) was registered against Tarun in Kapurthala, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-selling-cars-financed-on-fake-id-proofs-busted/articleshow/78371266.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: To declare results early, JNTUH goes for digital assessment||HYDERABAD: In view of Covid-19 pandemic, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) has decided to evaluate close to 17 lakh answer scripts digitally for the ensuing semester exams. Last year, JNTUH had experimented with online evaluation for MTech exams. All the answer sheets were digitally evaluated wherein they were scanned and uploaded for online evaluation. The same process will be implemented for pharmacy, engineering and management semester exams, which are scheduled to commence from mid-October. Officials said that the idea to implement digital evaluation is to declare results faster as students have already lost several academic days due to the pandemic induced lockdown. “Scanned papers will be uploaded on the central server. Faculty members will have to login with their credentials and evaluate the allotted answer scripts that are displayed on the screen. There are provisions to allocate marks and correct the answer scripts in a decentralized mode,” Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH, told TOI. To facilitate digital evaluation, JNTUH has asked college managements to identify 30 computers or more and have internet facility for the spot valuation work. All faculty members, who are working at the colleges with more than five years of teaching experience and more than three times teaching experience in the specified subject, are eligible for valuation of the subject. “The eligible faculty members shall be invited and given access to do valuation from their respective colleges. Participation in the spot valuation duty is mandatory for all the eligible faculty members including professors and other senior faculty,” reads a notice issued by JNTUH to all the constituent and affiliated colleges. The university exam branch has obtained faculty details from the academic audit cell of the university and faculty members from this list shall be invited to do spot valuation work at their respective colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-declare-results-early-jntuh-goes-for-digital-assessment/articleshow/78372707.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 1.5 cr demonetised notes depositedin RBI chest in Lucknow, FIR lodged||Lucknow: An FIR was lodged by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in Lucknow stating that Rs 1.5 crore in demonetised currency was found in the bank chest deposited by various city banks between October 2017 and March 2018. The seized notes have been sent to Nashik to check whether they are counterfeit as well. Over 9,000 notes of Rs 500 denomination and 6,000 notes of Rs 1000 denomination in the chest have been found to be demonetised. The FIR was registered at the Mahanagar police station of Lucknow. The old 500 and 1000 notes were demonetised in November 2016. The demonetised notes were to be collected by banks and submitted to RBI. The FIR was lodged by Assistant manager of RBI Ranjana Maravi has claimed that a total of 15,436 demonetised notes were deposited in the currency chest of the Reserve Bank of India between October 2017 and March 2018. “During an internal audit 9,753 notes each of Rs 500 and 5,783 each of Rs 1,000 were found to be in demonetised currency. The value of total fake notes recovered is close to Rs 1.05 crore,” she added in her FIR. The RBI officials have handed over the fake currency notes to the police and requested a forensic investigation of the same. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Rajesh Kumar Srivastav said that an FIR regarding the incident has been lodged against the unidentified persons. A police team has been constituted to investigate the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-1-5-cr-demonetised-notes-depositedin-rbi-chest-in-lucknow-fir-lodged/articleshow/78374758.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC woman conductor, son end lives||Nashik: A woman conductor with the MSRTC at the Yeola depot and her son (26) allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train in the Kotamgaon area of Niphad taluka around 2.15 am on Monday The Lasalgaon police have identified the deceased as Anjali Rajesh Bhusnale (47) and Utkarsh (26), both residents of Yeola town. The woman and her son are believed to have travelled 32km between the spot of the incident and Yeola to take the extreme step, said police. According to police, the locomotive pilot of the train that was moving towards Bhusawal from Nashik noticed the two jumping on the track and immediately informed the station manager of Lasalgaon railway station, who in turn informed the Lasalgaon police station. Police said they have registered a case of accidental death for now and launched an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-woman-conductor-son-end-lives/articleshow/78370239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Varanasi||Director of Chunar factory shot dead in Mirzapur||Varanasi: Technical director of a factory in the industrial area of Chunar in Mirzapur district was shot dead while his colleague suffered bullet injuries when some miscreants opened fire on them when they were returning from the local market on Sunday night. An FIR has been lodged in the case. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan also reached the incident site after midnight. However, police were clueless about killers as well as the motive behind the attack till Monday evening. The ADG said on Monday, “An FIR has been filed against three unnamed persons by Sumit Mohanti, a colleague of the deceased. Several police teams have been engaged to solve the case.” Police said, “Jivanendu Rath (37), a native of Bhubaneshwar in Odisha, who was working as technical director in a factory at the industrial area of Dhauha under Chunar police station for the past two years, had gone to the local market along with his colleagues Kishore Chand Das (41) and Sumit Mohanti of Odisha in car.” On reaching Chunar, their driver Chandan parked the vehicle near Kabir Mutt and stayed there while the trio went to the market for shopping. They were returning to Kabir Mutt, some miscreants opened indiscriminate fire on them from close range. Rath and Das suffered bullet injuries while Mohanti managed to enter the Mutt building safely and alerted the police. However, before the police could reach there, the shooters fled the scene. Cops immediately rushed Rath and Das to a local hospital where doctors declared Rath as brought dead while Das was referred to Varanasi.  ADG and IG Mirzapur range Piyush Srivastava also reached the incident site. Police have recovered five shells and one live cartridge from the site. The ADG said, “We are trying to find out if Rath had any dispute with anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/director-of-chunar-factory-shot-dead-in-mirzapur/articleshow/78374149.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth Akali Dal celebrate birthday anniversary of Bhagat Singh||Ludhiana: The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) workers on Monday celebrated the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and paid tributes to the martyr at Jagraon Bridge. A large number of workers led by district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha garlanded the statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Addressing the workers, Gosha said, “Youngsters should follow the footsteps of great martyrs like Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev who gave their lives for the country. However, it is very disappointing that in today’s time some politicians use the name of martyrs in elections just to win elections. The people should boycott politicians who use the name of martyrs during elections.” According to Gosha, though Bhagat Singh does not need any certificate from government, the Centre should announce martyr status immediately. Reacting on the latest development of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) breaking alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Gosha said, “SAD and YAD have now got new direction and they will do whatsoever it takes to protect the rights of farmers and common persons. The sacrifice of our party and leaders is evident from the fact that we not only gave up the post in the cabinet, but also broke alliance with the BJP after our demand for roll back anti farmer bills was not accepted.” On this occasion other YAD members including Sanjeev Chaudhary, Gagandeep Singh Giasoura, Varun Malhotra, Jaspal Singh Bunty, Ishan Sharma, Karanbir Singh Dugri, Sandeep Singh Bains, Sunil Bhatti, Lovely Sharma, Manwinder Singh, Gurdev Singh Gagan, Dimple Sharma, Dimple Sharma were also present who paid tribute to the martyrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-akali-dal-celebrate-birthday-anniversary-of-bhagat-singh/articleshow/78374150.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Chennai||TNEA rank list 2020: Coimbatore girl tops in Tamil Nadu engineering rank list||CHENNAI: Sasmitha M S of Coimbatore got the highest cut-off marks in the state at 199.67 in the engineering rank list released on Monday, with centums in maths, physics and near-perfect marks in chemistry. R Navaneetha Krishnan of Tiruvannamalai, with the same cut-off, was placed second rank, while R Kavya, C Aditya and Praveen Kumar R with 199.5 were ranked third, fourth and fifth. Higher education minister K P Anbalagan released the list. Sasmitha said she planned to take up BE computer science at College of Engineering, Guindy. “I then want to get placed in a dream company such as Facebook or Amazon, experience the work ambience for a few years, come back and take up civil services.” The native of Namakkal, allotted the cut-off by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) based on the 989/1000 marks in the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education at Hyderabad, now stays in Coimbatore with her uncle, a forest official. She wanted to join an IIT, but unsure of the scores in JEE (Advanced), decided on Anna University. Praveen Kumar wants to join either electrical engineering or computer science at Anna University. The TNEA committee awarded ranks to 1,12,406 eligible candidates, using a 10-digit random number for breaking ties for 791 candidates. Anbalagan said online counseling will be held from October 1 to 30 — for special category from October 1 to 5 and for general category from October 8 to 27. There are 1,63,154 seats available in 461 colleges, a reduction of just 9,786 seats over last year despite the number of participating colleges coming down to 461 from 479 in 2019-20. Colleges surrendered 27,466 seats, increasing total seats to 1.63 lakh from 1.35 lakh. On the proposal to change the name of Anna University, the minister said it was made after keeping the interests of all students and colleges in mind. He further said the state government would discuss any implication of name change before the bifurcation. On reopening of colleges, the minister said the state government would take a call only after assessing the number of colleges needed for Covid-19 care centres. “Still, many colleges are functioning as such centres. We will assess the situation and take a decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coimbatore-girl-tops-tn-engg-rank-list/articleshow/78376554.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Students: Roll back decision to hold exams||HYDERABAD: Irked by the JNTUH decision to hold previous semester exams, many students have started boycotting classes that are being held for the next semester. Students launched a digital protest against the semester exams scheduled from mid-October. Many students demand JNTUH to scrap its decision to hold semester exams and promote students based on internal exams/performance in previous semesters. “How can students write previous semester exams when new semester online classes are started? please help us,” tweeted Bhanu Madhav. An online petition, started by a section of JNTUH students seeking cancellation of exams, has garnered over 48,000 signatures. Members of the National Students Union of India (Telangana unit) too held a protest in front of the State Board of Technical Education and Training in Nampally on Monday seeking cancellation of polytechnic and BTech exams. Protestors were detained by the Goshamahal police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-roll-back-decision-to-hold-exams/articleshow/78372711.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||5 deaths, 230 new Covid cases in Chanda||Chandrapur: The district witnessed a spike of 230 cases, taking the Covid-19 total to 9,812. Five deaths were added to the tally on Monday, raising the toll to 148. The day also registered the discharge of 179 patients, escalating the recoveries to a total of 5,690. There are now 3,974 patients under treatment in the district. The deceased include a 60-year old woman from Sham Nagar in Chandrapur city, a 65-year-old from Banwahi (Nagbhid), a 70-year-old from Bramhapuri, a 74-year-old from Rajura and a 46-year-old woman from Lakhandur in Bhandara district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-deaths-230-new-covid-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/78369311.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Former SHO involved in stripping case accused of producing wrong HC order||Ludhiana: A day after a former station house officer (SHO), accused of stripping and beating three persons, including a father-son duo, was sent to jail by a local court, the counsel for the complainants has filed fresh plea in the court seeking action against the accused persons for allegedly producing wrong order of high court to stop the SHO from going to jail. On September 5, Khanna city-1 police station, had arrested the accused after it had registered a case against inspector Baljinder and a constable Varun Kumar on July 5 under the sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342(wrongful confinement), 295A (deliberate act outraging religious feelings) of IPC and other of SC/ST Act and the Information Technology (IT) Act. On April 16, taking “serious note” of a viral video of SHO Sadar Khanna Inspector Baljinder Singh allegedly assaulting and making three persons stand nude at a police station in Khanna, Punjab director general of police, Dinkar Gupta had directed then inspector general of police (Ludhiana Range) Jaskaran Singh to carry out a fact-finding inquiry into the matter and submit a report at the earliest. Guninder Singh, advocate for complainants, said after they had filed a plea requesting the court to send accused Baljinder to jail, on court’s order he was sent to Central Jail on Patiala on Sunday. The counsel for complainant said he filed application before the court on Sunday that the accused hatched a conspiracy to mislead it and produced the orders of Punjab and Haryana high court of some other case and mislead the court to stop accused Baljinder from going to the jail in Patiala despite orders of the court. He added that when the court issued notice to him and sent the copy of orders dated September 24, Guninder submitted before the court that thereafter when he checked the same on the Punjab and Haryana high court website, the same was the case of some other person. He added that being an officer of the court, he brought the same into the notice of the court and the court revoked its order passed on ASI Jagtar showing wrong orders and misleading the court. The counsel of the complainant pleaded that a criminal case under relevant provision of law be ordered to be registered against the accused person for hatching a conspiracy for misleading the court and the matter should be investigated by senior superintendent of police, Khanna. Superintendent of police Tejinder Singh, member of special investigation team (SIT) formed into the matter, said the ASI Jagtar did not lie in the court and he had told the court that SMO has given a report to him to send the accused to jail on September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-sho-involved-in-stripping-case-accused-of-producing-wrong-hc-order/articleshow/78374156.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||HC slaps Rs 50k fine on LIC for frivolous appeals||Hyderabad: Finding fault with the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) for filing three frivolous appeals against a single judge order, the Telangana high court on Monday slapped costs of Rs 50,000 on LIC and warned that any failure to pay the fine would result in a fresh contempt case against the corporation. The issue pertains to 50 unfilled vacancies of class IV jobs. LIC filled nearly 400 such posts in 2012 through two notifications. However, 50 posts remained not filled because some successful candidates preferred not to join the service and had foregone the offer. Those next to them in the merit list were asking the authorities to grant them these jobs as they are eligible to get them in the selection process. When that was not happening, ‘the next in line 50 candidates’ approached the high court seeking direction to the LIC to appoint them in those unfilled posts. They came in three batches and filed three petitions. Even before the single judge could adjudicate, the LIC itself had made an offer assuring the court that it would consider employment to all the aspirants if they make a fresh representation to the authorities. Recording this assurance, the single judge closed the plea asking the corporation to consider the cases of the petitioners. However, LIC ignored the representation and went back on its promise. The aggrieved aspirants filed a contempt case against the corporation officers. Sensing trouble, the LIC has preferred an appeal against the order of the single judge and filed three appeals. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told the LIC counsel that the corporation filed these appeals only to escape from the contempt case filed by the aggrieved aspirants whose dream of an LIC job remained unfulfilled even after an order from the single judge. The LIC itself had assured them before a single judge that it would consider their cases if they make fresh representation. Despite making the fresh representation, the corporation had failed to keep its promise. The LIC counsel argued before the CJ bench that none of the 50 candidates was in the zone of consideration and hence they cannot be hired. The panel’s term expired in 2014 itself because it had a limited shelf life of two years. “The LIC realised the gravity of its folly and just to escape from the clutches of the contempt case, it preferred an appeal against the single judge order,” the bench said. The bench reminded the LIC that the order of the single judge merely recorded the assurance given by the LIC and hence it suffers from no legal infirmities. The bench also brushed aside the shelf life theories of LIC because they were never raised before the single judge and hence cannot raise such fresh grounds in an appeal. “This is misuse of court process,” the bench told LIC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-slaps-rs-50k-fine-on-lic-for-frivolous-appeals/articleshow/78372725.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Varanasi||KVT-Gyanvapi mosque dispute case next hearing on Oct 3||Varanasi: The Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi mosque dispute case came up for hearing on Monday in the district court which fixed October 3 as the next date for hearing. The Sunni Central Waqf Board had on September 18 filed a revision petition in the court which had fixed hearing on September 28. The petitioner had pleaded that as the case is related to waqf tribunal, it should be heard in Lucknow Waqf court. District judge Umesh Chandra Sharma on Monday fixed the next hearing on October 3. In December, 2019, Advocate Vijay Shankar Rastogi had filed an application on behalf of Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar in the court of civil judge, requesting for survey of the entire Gyanvapi compound by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). He had filed the petition as the ‘next friend’ of Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar. Later in January, Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee had filed an objection against the petition seeking survey of the entire Gyanvapi compound by ASI. The first petition was filed in Varanasi civil court in 1991 on behalf of Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar seeking permission for worship in Gyanvapi. The petitioner had contended that the Kashi Vishwanath Temple was built by Maharaja Vikramaditya about 2,050 years ago, but Mughal emperor Aurangzeb destroyed the temple in 1664 and used its remains to construct a mosque, which is known as Gyanvapi masjid, on a portion of the temple land. The petitioner had requested the court to issue directions for removal of the mosque from temple land and give back its possession to the temple trust. The petition contended that the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act was not applicable on the suit as the mosque was constructed over a partly demolished temple and many parts of the temple exist even today. In 1998, Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee moved the high court contending that the mandir-masjid dispute could not be adjudicated by a civil court as it was barred by the law. The high court stayed the proceedings in lower court which continued for the past 22 years. In February this year, the petitioners approached the lower court again with a plea to resume the hearing as the HC had not extended the stay in past six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvt-gyanvapi-mosque-dispute-case-next-hearing-on-oct-3/articleshow/78374164.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||5 held for for accepting bets for IPL matches||Ludhiana: Moti Nagar police have arrested five accused for accepting bets on a cricket match between Rajasthan Royals and Kings Eleven Punjab in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) on Sunday night. The accused were operating from a flat in Housing Board Colony, Moti Nagar. The police have also recovered three mobile phones, two keyboards and Rs. 6,500 in cash from their possession. The accused have been identified as Sahil Kumar and Mintu of Shivaji Nagar, Yuvraj Sharma of Tajganj, Sajan Sharma of Bhamiyan Kalan and Naresh Kumar of Jassiyan road. Investigating officer, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjit Singh said the accused have their own circle of bookies. They accept bets only within their circle and keep all the records in the mobiles in form of recording of calls. Next day after the match, the accused used to collect and distribute payments according to the result of the match. The ASI added that the police have found voice recordings of people setting bets on the match in their phones. The police have also found that the mobile phone which the accused have been using for accepting bets, were purchased with fake ID proofs. A case has been registered against the accused under gambling act, at police station Moti Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-held-for-for-accepting-bets-for-ipl-matches/articleshow/78374160.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||With 300 blackbucks in Budaun, forest dept seeks for a ‘conservation reserve’||Bareilly: After recording the presence of over 300 blackbucks in Budaun, the forest department has decided to send a proposal to the state government to declare its foliage area as 'Blackbuck Conservation Reserve'. A recent census of blackbucks in four forest ranges - Budaun, Sahaswan, Bisauli and Dataganj - shows the Indian antelope has nearly doubled. The initial sighting was recorded at 490. In 2018, in the last census, the count was between 150 and 180. A large number of these antelopes were spotted in the grasslands near Ganga. Budaun’s divisional forest officer (DFO) Isha Tiwari told TOI, “Multiple teams were formed to work with the locals for the census. Results were very encouraging. There were a total 490 sightings and after removing the repeats, we believe that the total count is somewhere between 300 and 320.” Blackbucks - primarily grazers and mostly found near grasslands where there is easy availability of water - are protected in India under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. They can run at a speed of 80km per hour. Frequent use of insecticides and deforestation are the main reasons for their decline in the country. The DFO further said, “We are sending a proposal to notify the area as a protected reserve for blackbucks. This will ensure their conservation. Once approved, we would have a dedicated mobile rescue team to ensure timely treatment of the injured blackbucks." According to her, conservation efforts would be improved by conducting regular meetings by experts with the locals. "Signboards would be installed on roads to ensure people drive slowly and it will reduce accidents,” the DFO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-300-blackbucks-in-budaun-forest-dept-seeks-for-a-conservation-reserve/articleshow/78370249.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||DC bans paddy harvesting without straw mgmt system||Ludhiana: To effectively curb stubble burning menace, deputy commissioner (DC) Ludhiana Varinder Kumar Sharma ordered a ban on paddy harvesting combines equipped without functional super straw management system (SMS), by exercising powers vested under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). SMS is attached with the combine harvester machine, which cuts the standing paddy straw into small pieces and spread it uniformly in the field after which the farmers are not required to burn paddy straw before sowing the wheat crop. The DC has also prohibited the harvesting of paddy using combines from 7pm to 10am. He stated that it had come to his notice that farmers usually harvest the paddy crop in the night when the moisture content was high from the Punjab government’s admissible specification. DC Sharma once again appealed to farmers to refrain from burning paddy stubble citing that it might aggravate the Covid-19 situation. He said besides causing damage to the environment, livestock and trees, the smoke emitting from farm fires could create serious problems for Covid-19 patients, as they can face trouble breathing. The ban will remain in force from October 1 to November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dc-bans-paddy-harvesting-without-straw-mgmt-system/articleshow/78374178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC slaps Rs 50,000 fine on LIC for frivolous appeals||HYDERABAD: Finding fault with the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) for filing three frivolous appeals against a single judge order, the Telangana high court on Monday slapped costs of Rs 50,000 on LIC and warned that any failure to pay the fine would result in a fresh contempt case against the corporation. The issue pertains to 50 unfilled vacancies of class IV jobs. LIC filled nearly 400 such posts in 2012 through two notifications. However, 50 posts remained not filled because some successful candidates preferred not to join the service and had foregone the offer. Those next to them in the merit list were asking the authorities to grant them these jobs as they are eligible to get them in the selection process. When that was not happening, ‘the next in line 50 candidates’ approached the high court seeking direction to the LIC to appoint them in those unfilled posts. They came in three batches and filed three petitions. Even before the single judge could adjudicate, the LIC itself had made an offer assuring the court that it would consider employment to all the aspirants if they make a fresh representation to the authorities. Recording this assurance, the single judge closed the plea asking the corporation to consider the cases of the petitioners. However, LIC ignored the representation and went back on its promise. The aggrieved aspirants filed a contempt case against the corporation officers. Sensing trouble, the LIC has preferred an appeal against the order of the single judge and filed three appeals. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told the LIC counsel that the corporation filed these appeals only to escape from the contempt case filed by the aggrieved aspirants whose dream of an LIC job remained unfulfilled even after an order from the single judge. The LIC itself had assured them before a single judge that it would consider their cases if they make fresh representation. Despite making the fresh representation, the corporation had failed to keep its promise. The LIC counsel argued before the CJ bench that none of the 50 candidates was in the zone of consideration and hence they cannot be hired. The panel’s term expired in 2014 itself because it had a limited shelf life of two years. “The LIC realised the gravity of its folly and just to escape from the clutches of the contempt case, it preferred an appeal against the single judge order,” the bench said. The bench reminded the LIC that the order of the single judge merely recorded the assurance given by the LIC and hence it suffers from no legal infirmities. The bench also brushed aside the shelf life theories of LIC because they were never raised before the single judge and hence cannot raise such fresh grounds in an appeal. “This is misuse of court process,” the bench told LIC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-slaps-rs-50k-fine-on-lic-for-frivolous-appeals/articleshow/78372745.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||‘Please don’t shoot me,’ pleads wanted criminal with bounty of Rs 15k as he surrenders to police||Bareilly: With the UP Police on an encounter spree, especially after the Bikru (Kanpur) incident that claimed eight policemen’s lives, the fear of being shot dead in an encounter drove a wanted criminal — booked under the Gangster Act and carrying a bounty of Rs 15,000 — out of his den with a placard on his chest pleading with policemen “don’t shoot me, I am surrendering”. Naeem, alias, Bada, 46, a wanted in several cases of cow slaughtering, surrendered to police at Nakhasa police station in UP’s Sambhal district on Sunday. “I made a mistake. I am scared of Sambhal police. I am a criminal and I am surrendering, please don’t shoot me,” reads the placard. According to police sources, Naeem walked to the police station on Sunday with the placard on his chest and started pleading with the policemen present at the station house “not to kill me in an encounter as I have left all criminal activities”. The accused knelt down with both his hands folded, pleading for policemen’s mercy — a video of the incident swamped social media. Speaking to TOI, Sambhal superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said, “Fearing an encounter, a criminal has surrendered. He was wanted in several cases of cow slaughtering and had been booked under the Gangster Act. The accused was produced before a court on Monday and then he was arrested.” Nakhasa police station SHO Dharam Pal Singh told TOI, “This is the first incident in Sambhal, but similar incidents have been reported from Kanpur and Amroha districts, where wanted criminals similarly surrendered to police. They also seek the help of local mediapersons to ensure their safety. With police taking tough measures against criminals, they are resorting to the placard-media tactics to garner sympathy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/please-dont-shoot-me-pleads-wanted-criminal-with-bounty-of-rs-15k-as-he-surrenders-to-police/articleshow/78370274.cms||Maria Khan
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Cut-off for top colleges may drop by 0.5||Chennai: Experts forecast that the cut-off for top colleges is likely to be reduced by .5 marks. The number of students who have got cut-off above 195 marks out of 200 has dipped because of poor performance by TN state board students in Class XII exam. “Last year, 490 students scored cut-off above 195. This year, 397 students have scored above 195. Likewise, 1,075 students have scored 192.5 and above last year, this year only around 980 students have scored 192.5 and above,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. However, the number of students who have scored between 181 and 191 has increased. As 1,578 students scored 190, random numbers were used to rank more candidates. The ten-digit number was used for 791 students to break a tie. Gandhi said the cut-off would vary based on courses as there was high demand for computer science and IT. P Swaminathan, secretary of SRV Schools in Trichy and Namakkal, said the state board students faced a tough physics paper whereas CBSE students had a relatively easier one.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cut-off-for-top-colleges-may-drop-by-0-5/articleshow/78372814.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Three held for abetting man’s suicide||HYDERABAD: Three persons, including a suspended assistant sub-inspector, were arrested by Nacharam police on Monday for abetting a man’s suicide. The accused were identified as Bobbala Mohan Reddy, the suspended ASI from One Town Police Station of Karimnagar district, Chittimalla Srinivas and Kodityala Naga Bhushnam, both businessmen from Karimnagar district. Two other accused, R Karunakar and M Sanjeeva Rao, are absconding. According to the police, the deceased, Nagamalla Venkata Narsaiah from Kattarampur, along with the accused, Srinivas, Bhushnam, Karunakar and Sanjeeva started a cotton business as partners. “After the victim incurred losses, the accused pressured him to pay back the money they had lent for the business. They started threatening him to sell his plot and clear the debts,” police said. Mohan had lured Narsaiah into transferring his land document on his wife’s name. “He conspired with the other accused and sold the property to get the money,” said a police officer. Mohan was suspended in 2018 for corruption . “Unable to bear the financial crisis, Narsaiah committed suicide by consuming poison at a lodge in Habsiguda,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-abetting-mans-suicide/articleshow/78372806.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad police to file chargesheet against 4 in gambling racket||HYDERABAD: After busting the alleged online gambling racket run by China-based companies over a month ago, the city police is soon set to file a chargesheet against the four accused, including the Chinese national Yah Hao, in Nampally court. Police sources said that they have frozen more than 200 bank accounts across the country, which have nearly Rs 80 crore. The first chargesheet will be filed only for the alleged illegal online gambling against Yah Hao, who is the south-east Asia operations head of Beijing T Power Company, which is based out of China, and his two Indian associates Dheeraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor. “We have gathered evidence by sourcing the contents of the websites, which were involved in online gambling, to prove that the gambling racket was organised. We are in the process of preparing the chargesheet,” sources associated with the investigation told TOI. Apart from the arrested Hao, officials say nearly eight other Chinese nationals based in China are accused in the racket. During the investigation, police found that among the frozen 200 accounts, different Chinese firms in India had deposited Rs 500 crore in a few of the accounts. One of the accounts, which was credited with Rs 500 crore, is in Mumbai. However, most of the money in these accounts was transferred to different foreign accounts. The money, which was earlier credited into these accounts, was made through gambling, promotion of dating, pornography, cheating bank customers, etc. Except for a few persons, so far, none of the persons associated with the 200 bank accounts have approached the central crime station (CCS) to find out why their accounts were frozen, and the persons who approached the CCS admitted to gambling. “With regard to payment gateways, we found that there was negligence on their part in verifying the nature of business being done by the companies, which were doing business of hundreds of crores of rupees. Similarly, the KYC verification too was not done properly,” officials said. As of now, Hao is in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). There are about 30 lakh bank accounts into which money was transferred from different China-based companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-police-to-file-chargesheet-against-4-in-gambling-racket/articleshow/78372815.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Who cares? Not Delhi, if you believe this data||NEW DELHI: Despite the raging coronavirus pandemic, people have been turning a blind eye to the health risk that Covid-19 poses. While the authorities were keeping penalties to a minimum in the past three months and emphasising more on awareness, they have now started cracking the whip on violators. This is evident from the number of prosecutions. While around 25,000 individuals were fined for not wearing masks, violating social distancing norms and spitting in public from mid-June to September 17, in the past one week since enforcement was intensified, not only did officials fine 23,922 people from September 20 to 27, but also lodged FIRs in five cases on September 27. The amount of fines collected during this week was Rs 1,19,57,900. The crackdown was the result of a meeting held on September 18 in which lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed all district magistrates and officials to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. The violations had been occurring despite repeated appeals made by Kejriwal, awareness campaigns launched by the district authorities, and mobile ringing being replaced with Covid-19 awareness caller tune. The state government report pertaining to the past three months showed that more than 5,000 people had been caught moving around in public without covering their face with masks or cloth in West district. Divided into three subdivisions — Patel Nagar, Punjabi Bagh and Rajouri Garden — West district has a population of over 25 lakh. The reckless behaviour was not found confined to West district. In Central district, over 3,000 people were found not covering their faces. This district includes congested areas like Chandni Chowk, Sadar Bazar and Kashmere Gate within the Walled City. People living in such close proximity are more vulnerable to the viral infection. There were 2,423 violations for not wearing masks reported from South West district, followed by 2,398 from Shahdara, 2,301 from North West, 2,254 from South, 1,994 from New Delhi, 1,945 from North, 1,775 from East and 1,168 from North East. In the South East district, 1,120 individuals were fined for not wearing a face cover. Though violations were being checked since the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced, imposition of fines started in the middle of June. Many people were seen flouting the Covid-19 guidelines in markets and elsewhere after the lockdown relaxations were permitted in June. In mid-June, lieutenant governor Baijal had asked district authorities, police and other departments concerned to penalise violators after approving new rules, which empowered them to collect Rs 500 for not wearing a face cover, violating social distancing norms, spitting and chewing tobacco and gutka in public places. Sub-divisional magistrate Kotwali Dilkhush Meena said that enforcement teams were focusing on all the violations. North West district magistrate Sandeep Mishra said enforcement was the key in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. Currently, the capital has nearly 200 enforcement teams consisting of revenue officials and civil defence volunteers. Their vehicles are fitted with loudspeakers to urge people to follow Covid-19 guidelines. They mostly go to places that draw crowds, like markets. “Wearing of masks and following social distancing norms have been scientifically proven to be 95% effective in protecting people from the coronavirus. The high number of violations is directly connected to the higher infection rate. People should understand this and follow all the guidelines strictly,” said additional district magistrate (South) Arun Gupta. Watch Beware Delhi! Covid-19 is still around||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/who-cares-not-delhi-if-you-believe-this-data/articleshow/78374192.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 29, 2020||Varanasi||No celebration on Durga Puja, Diwali; Ramleela allowed under strict Covid guidelines||GORAKHPUR: In the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak in the country, no public program or celebration on Durga Puja and Diwali will be held this year, Vice President, Vyapari Kalyan Board , Pushpdant Jain told TOI on Monday. However, Ramleela will be allowed to be held after following the social distancing and Covid-19 protocols, he added. The festival of Durga Puja is celebrated with great enthusiasm every year after the first Durga Puja pandal was installed in the city in 1897. The festival was not celebrated after 1903 due to an epidemic in the region but resumed in 1907 and since then it is celebrated in the city every year. “I met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday to discuss the protocol during Durga Puja and Diwali and keeping in view the ongoing pandemic, he clearly said there will be no public celebration during the festive season however people could celebrate inside their homes,” Jain said. “Ramleela will be allowed with social distancing. The CM said that a maximum of 100 people will be allowed in the Ramleela and they will have to strictly follow all the Covid protocols,” he added. “As Ramleela is organised on big grounds, so social distancing norms can be easily followed there. There will be restrictions on pandals and big idols. However, small idols that can be carried in cars, autorickshaws are allowed,” Jain said. The oldest Durga Puja celebration at Durgabadi in Gorakhpur is organized by Bengali Samiti and the samiti is holding meetings regarding Durga Puja celebration in Covid times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-celebration-on-durga-puja-diwali-ramleela-allowed-under-strict-covid-guidelines/articleshow/78374212.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hemanth case: Cyberabad cops hunt for two killers||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad police are still on the lookout for the two missing hired killers, E Krishna and Pasha, for their alleged involvement in the murder of Hemanth, who was killed by his in-laws over inter-caste marriage. Another assailant, Bichu Yadav, who has been arrested, is currently in hospital undergoing treatment for Covid-19. In the last two days, several persons have been called to Gachibowli police station for questioning and investigation. “The hired killers had done it only for money, which was assured to them by Yugender Reddy, uncle of Avanthi, after killing Hemanth. As per our record, we found no previous criminal history of the assailants. Once we nab the two missing killers and also question Bichu Yadav after he recovers from Covid-19, we will know their history and their motive behind the murder. On Monday, a rally was taken out against honour killing under the banner #Justice for Hemanth and Avanthi. The rally was taken out amid police bandobust. Large number of locals participated in the rally and raised slogans in support of Hemanth and demanded punishment for the accused. Police personnel were deployed at the residence of Avanthi’s parents. On Tuesday, a local court is expected to hear the custody petition moved by the Gachibowli police, who wanted to take the accused into police custody for questioning them further to unearth full details behind the conspiracy to kill Hemanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hemanth-case-cops-hunt-for-2-killers/articleshow/78372820.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Man gets 7-year jail for trespass, sexual assault on medical student||Mangaluru: The sixth additional district and sessions court judge Sayeedunnisa on Friday sentenced Nagesha, aka Naga, 33, from KR Nagar, to seven years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and slapped a fine of Rs 30,000 for threatening and robbing a medical student during 2017-end. The convict had sneaked into the hostel room of a 22-year-old girl, a fourth-year MBBS student, attached to a private medical college. Public prosecutor Jayarama Shetty said the incident was reported on December 5, 2017. The accused worked as a helper at a hotel in Mangaluru and a canteen located close to the campus. After having dinner in a small joint the precious night, he saw students heading towards the hostel. After the hostel lights were turned off, he climbed the wall with the support of pipes and entered a room (No. 221) through a window that did not have grills at 4.30am. “The victim (the girl is from Kerala) had not locked the door that night and her roommate had gone home. He covered the victim’s mouth, tied her hands and legs and threatened her with an iron rod and demanded Rs 5 lakh. He also took Rs 3,000 from the purse kept on the table. On spotting her ATM card, Nagesha asked her for the PIN, which she gave through gestures. Before leaving the building, he stole a cellphone from a room on the third floor and got down the building using a rope,” Shetty said, adding the hostelmates, in the meanwhile, rushed to help the girl after hearing her screams. A complaint was filed at the Ullal police station. The accused went to SBI and Canara Bank ATMs in Kankanady and withdrew Rs 7,500. The next day, he withdrew Rs 500 from an ATM in KR Nagar. He was arrested five days later. “The CCTV footage retrieved from the ATMs (that he had visited) and the fingerprints collected from the wall and pipes proved a crucial evidence against him,” Shetty added. The court examined 25 witnesses, 45 documents and 13 items that were seized. While inspector Gopalakrishna conducted the preliminary inquiry, the case was taken over by then DCP (crime) Uma Prashanth, who filed the chargesheet. Nagesh was convicted to seven-year RI and a fine of Rs 10,000 under IPC Section 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night to commit offence ), five-year RI and Rs 5,000 fine under IPC Section 380 (theft in dwelling house), seven-year RI and Rs 10,000 fine under IPC Section 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and five-year RI and Rs 5,000 fine under IPC Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-gets-7-year-jail-for-trespass-sexual-assault-on-medical-student/articleshow/78372185.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||On the run, Delhi cop kills dad-in-law in Rohtak||NEW DELHI/ROHTAK: Delhi Police sub-inspector Sandeep Dahiya, who had shot at and critically injured his presumed girlfriend, a 34-year-old woman, in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Sunday evening, went to Bainsi village in Rohtak district of Haryana and allegedly shot dead his father-in-law, Ranbir Singh (68), on Monday morning. Teams from Delhi and Haryana police are hunting for Dahiya, who fled in his SUV after committing the crime. An initial probe suggests that he used his service revolver to fire the shots. He had been issued a 9mm pistol with 10 rounds. The woman whom he shot at on Monday following an argument while they were out for a drive in his car, was in a relationship with him for the past year. Her condition is stable, but her statement is yet to be recorded. It is learnt that Dahiya had gone to Bainsi village with the intent of killing his estranged wife, who was residing with her parents. On reaching there, he apparently had an altercation with Singh and shot him in the forehead at point-black range around 7.30am. “Singh was standing outside his house getting his drain cleaned when he was shot by Dahiya, who fled in a white Duster SUV bearing a Delhi number. His wife, two children and other family members were present in the house when the incident took place. Hearing the gunshot, the family members rushed outside, but Dahiya had fled by then,” said Rajendra Singh, SHO, Lakhan Majra. Villagers, who rushed to the spot on hearing the gunshot, told police that Dahiya and his friends had killed Singh. The body was later sent for an autopsy. ASI Rajinder Singh said a case was registered against Dahiya and another person under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Earlier, Dahiya’s wife had lodged a case under IPC 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) against him in Rohtak. The case is pending in court. Superintendent of Police (Rohtak) Rahul Sharma said, “We are working in coordination with Delhi Police and efforts are being made to locate the absconding policeman. We have recovered CCTV footage in which Dahiya can be seen leaving in his car in civil clothes. While no one else was visible in the front seat, the rear portion was not clear. An alert has been sounded and police forces of other states have been informed.” When Dahiya had shot at his presumed girlfriend, a 30-year-old man, Satbeer, was also injured by a stray bullet. Satbeer was riding pillion on a motorcycle passing by. He was taken to a hospital and discharged after treatment. “Satbeer was on his way to Sonipat and didn’t realise that he had been hit till he reached home. Dahiya’s mobile phone is switched off since the incident. Several teams are carrying out raids and he will be nabbed soon,” said DCP (Outer-North) Gaurav Sharma. A day before Dahiya shot at the woman, he had been put on patrolling duty from 9pm to 1am. However, he didn’t report on duty and was marked absent. Earlier, he had taken two days off on medical grounds and had resumed duty on Friday, said police sources. Dahiya, a native of Sisana village in Sonipat, was posted at Lahori Gate police station. He had joined Delhi Police in 2006 as a constable and was appointed sub-inspector in 2010 after qualifying the exam. He was residing in a government accommodation at Shalimar Bagh Police Colony. “He had faced a departmental inquiry following a complaint by his wife. After being found guilty, a part of his service had been forfeited,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-the-run-cop-kills-dad-in-law-in-rohtak/articleshow/78374203.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Haryana to explain replacing open irrigation with piped network||Chandigarh: The Haryana government’s decision to substitute open canal with a piped canal in Bhiwani district has come under the scanner of Punjab and Haryana high court, which has asked it to explain the reasons behind such move. “What measures would be available for de-silting a closed pipe line carrying canal water; and if any chemicals are to be used for such de-silting, whether the effect of those chemicals on crops and on human beings and cattle have been taken into consideration or not,” HC has asked the state to explain. The court has also asked the state to produce documents and file an affidavit to support any decision taken in that regard. The Union government through secretary, ministry of water resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, has also been asked to submit its reply on the issue. The matter has been fixed for November 29 for further hearing. Justice Amol Rattan Singh passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Naresh Kumar and several other residents of Bhiwani district. The petitioners have sought directions not to remodel Kairu open minor (canal distribution network) to piped minor (piped irrigation network) from tail of Gujrani minor to Kairu minor in Bhiwani district and continue to supply water as it is (open minor) since remodelling of minor is in-violation of the Guidelines for Planning and Design of Piped Irrigation Network 2017 issued by the Union ministry. The petitioners’ counsel Rajesh Sheoran submitted that the essential grievance of his clients in this case is that the open canal in the specific area concerned is being substituted by a piped canal, which would be difficult to de-silt, with the problem of silting up of the open canal also already existent. He submitted that the open canal itself was blocked to a large extent because of silting problems, on account of which eventually a representation was made to the chief minister, after which de-silting was done. “Once the closed canal---the piped canal, is substituted, it would again be blocked by silt over a short passage of time, thereby denying the petitioners full supply/any supply of water,” Sheoran had argued. It was also argued that there is no advantage of piped irrigation network since in the area of petitioners is neither a flood prone area nor present minor in any way to obstacles in the way of free drainage of water during rainy season and thus result in submerging standing crops/villages. Even though the whole area is sandy, there is no advantage of the piped irrigation network, petitioners have argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-asks-haryana-to-explain-replacing-open-irrigation-with-piped-network/articleshow/78374199.cms||Ajay Sura
September 29, 2020||Ludhiana||SIT names Saini, Umranangal in Behbal Kalan firing case||BATHINDA: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases of October 14, 2015, in which two protesters died, on Monday nominated then Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, who was then Ludhiana commissioner of police, as accused in the FIR. SIT member and IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, while appearing in court on September 10, had named Saini as the main accused behind the police firing on protesters at Behbal Kalan. According to the chargesheet filed in Kotkapura case, Umranangal was specially called to diffuse the situation at Kotkapura and was continuously in touch with Saini through the night of October 13 till the early hours of October 14, when police began firing on protesters. Umranangal was already facing charges in the Kotkapura case and has now been nominated in the Behbal Kalan firing case. The SIT informed the Faridkot court about nominating both police officers as accused. Bajakhana Police Station SHO Iqbal Hussain confirmed nominating both Saini and Umranangal in the case as accused of murder and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sit-names-saini-umranangal-in-behbal-kalan-firing-case/articleshow/78379101.cms||Neel Kamal
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||Father-son duo booked for attempt to kill money lender||Pilibhit: A father-son duo was booked on Sunday evening for allegedly making a bid on the life of one Kanhai Sarkar — president of Vidya Sagar self-help group — of Puraina Talluke Maharajpur over the repayment of Rs 3 lakh that they had borrowed from the group for investing in agriculture eight years ago. Madhotanda police station SHO Ram Sevak said the father and son — Mangal Singh and Sonu Singh — were booked under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 307 (attempt to kill), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The SHO said Mangal had been retracting from his promise of the repayment for many years. The police action came following a court order, said the victim, adding that he was badly abused and assaulted by the duo with a sword as he demanded the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-son-duo-booked-for-attempt-to-kill-money-lender/articleshow/78370292.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||SIT names Saini, Umranangal in Behbal Kalan firing case||BATHINDA: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases of October 14, 2015, in which two protesters died, on Monday nominated then Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, who was then Ludhiana commissioner of police, as accused in the FIR. SIT member and IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, while appearing in court on September 10, had named Saini as the main accused behind the police firing on protesters at Behbal Kalan. According to the chargesheet filed in Kotkapura case, Umranangal was specially called to diffuse the situation at Kotkapura and was continuously in touch with Saini through the night of October 13 till the early hours of October 14, when police began firing on protesters. Umranangal was already facing charges in the Kotkapura case and has now been nominated in the Behbal Kalan firing case. The SIT informed the Faridkot court about nominating both police officers as accused. Bajakhana Police Station SHO Iqbal Hussain confirmed nominating both Saini and Umranangal in the case as accused of murder and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-names-saini-umranangal-in-behbal-kalan-firing-case/articleshow/78374207.cms||Neel Kamal
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||‘Take more load, reduce pressure on Kolkata hospitals’||KOLKATA: The government is ramping up Covid-care facilities further in the districts. Even as hospital bed crisis in Kolkata has eased, health department officials apprehend increasing demand for Covid treatment facilities in the districts. Administrators of nine medical colleges and health officials of these districts have been asked to strengthen its Covid care services. Kolkata was the first to be hit by the virus — the infection spread to districts later. Even as its neighbouring districts — North 24 parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — have higher number of active Covid-positive cases, some districts, both in south and north Bengal, are seeing a rise number in cases. “We are replicating some of the measures that worked effectively in Kolkata so that these districts have a more-well organised system to deal with patient care. Even as the situation is not alarming we need to have these systems in place beforehand,” said a health department official. North Bengal Medical College, Cooch Behar Medical College, Uttar Dinajpur Medical College, Malda Medical College, Murshidabad Medical College, Diamond Harbour Medical College, Burdwan Medical College, Rampurhat Medical College and College of Medicine & JNM Hospital Kalyani have been told to deploy adequate number of doctors — specialists, medical officers, senior residents and critical care doctors. These doctors will stay close to the Covid hospitals and the district officials will arrange for their food and lodgings. All these hospitals have been told to set up rapid response teams like the one at Medical College Hospital Kolkata that works round-the-clock to deal with serious emergency patients. Such a team should have an anaesthesiologist and medicine specialist. “Principals of all these medical colleges will set up a mentoring team with senior faculty from all departments to render hand-holding support to the Covid hospitals in their respective districts,” said a circular issued on Monday. “Though South 24 Parganas was the least affected among the neighbouring Kolkata districts, there is a slight increase in number of cases there now. And with various services opening up gradually there could be a surge in number in the coming weeks. So we have to stay prepared,” said a district health official. South 24 Parganas had only 1,465 active cases in September beginning which on Monday was 1812. The hospitals have also been advised to deploy rapid antigen tests on patients in their SARI wards for quick detection so that such patients can be admitted to a Covid hospital without delay. Doctors and other healthcare workers will also be trained regularly on Covid patient care management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/take-more-load-reduce-pressure-on-kol-hospitals/articleshow/78372819.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Covid effect: Craft fair ends with a whimper||NEW DELHI: More than 60 artisans from over 15 states participated in the annual 10-day Nature Bazaar of NGO Dastkar, which concluded on Monday. The Covid fear, however, left them grumbling about low sales, with most saying they only earned 20% of what they did every year. Even that assertion appeared optimistic, given that organisers said that compared with the big normal crowds, just 2,000 people visited the event. For Bihar artisan Sunil Poddar, the 11 days of Nature Bazaar at Anuvrat Marg near Qutub Minar were disheartening. “For 20 years, we have put up our stall at this event. This year nobody turned up even when everything has more or less opened up in the city,” he said. Poddar and his fellow artisans did expect the sales to decline given the circumstances. “We used to earn around Rs 20 lakh every year. This time we have barely made Rs 1 lakh. The only saving grace is that the stall rent was waived by the organisers,” mumbled Poddar. Kishan Dhalia, a leather jutti seller from Haryana, claimed to have just about logged a fifth of normal sales at Nature Bazaar. “People would approach us for bulk purchases, but this year, we have to wait long even for single customers,” said Dhalia. “This is a very tough time for us. We are thinking of going online now to try and sell some items.” Some artisans like Devender Kadian of Jaipur have already made the transition to online commerce. A maker of wooden wall hangings, Kadian said that after the lockdown was announced, the artisans saw their business dwindling. “Since we were facing a loss, someone suggested that we should create a website and move our business online,” he said. “Earlier, most of our profits were generated at festivals like these, but now we garner more than 50% of profits from our online transactions.” Meanwhile, the odd artisan or two happily earned more than expected. “Because of the prevailing conditions, we expected the sales of our cane and bamboo items from Assam to decline drastically,” said Md Junaid. “But we participated nevertheless, and were eventually surprised to see the number of customers we attracted. We sold more or less the same number of items that we usually do.” Nabeel Ahmed too, selling edibles from Afghanistan, recorded more or less better sales than he had expected. “Most people came and visited our stall in the evenings when the heat and humidity had abated. We honestly thought that we would be able to do just 20% of the normal business, but to our own surprise we were able to do much better,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-effect-craft-fair-ends-with-a-whimper/articleshow/78374234.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Missing couple untraceable||HYDERABAD: Vikarabad police are searching for the 26-year-old woman who was taken away from the town by her estranged husband in his car on Sunday evening. The woman was forced into her husband’s car by his accomplice at around 6.30 pm when she was walking on the street in front of a garment store with her sister. “After getting into the car, she saw her husband and did not resist,” police said. The woman, who married a 30-year-old neighbour from another religion against the will of her parents in 2015, started staying separately from him. “Two days after the marriage, she went to her parents’ house and started staying separately. Her husband even converted to her religion but her parents did not agree to the relationship so a divorce plea was filed in the court,” Vikarabad SP Narayana said. Based on a complaint lodged by the woman’s kin, a kidnapping case was registered and police picked up the husband’s friends. “People who helped him said that they accompanied the couple till Tandur and after that they left for Goa,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-couple-untraceable/articleshow/78372828.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Vegetable prices soar as rain brings down supply||Nashik: The recent bouts of heavy rainfall has affected the supply of agricultural produce to the market due to which the prices of vegetables have gone up drastically. The retail price of onions have gone up to Rs 50 per kg, while tomatoes are also being sold at the same price. In addition to this, prices of other vegetables like okra, brinjal, chili, among others have also gone up in the past 10 days. According to an APMC official, the vegetable prices have increased in the range between 25% and 50% in the past week. “Supply has been affected due to rains in the last few days. Vegetable have been badly affected on around 400 hectare land across the district. The supply of vegetables is expected to improve to some extent during the next few days if rains do not arrive,” the official said. “There has been a scarcity of vegetables for the past few days. This has led to rise in retail prices of vegetables,” Ganesh Shevale, a vegetable vendor, said. Good quality onions that were being sold at Rs 30 per kg around 10 days ago, have now increased to Rs 50 a kg due rise in wholesale price. Meanwhile, substandard quality onions are being sold at Rs 40 a kg. Tomatoes that were fetching around Rs 35 per kg are now being sold at Rs 50 per kg — a rise of 40% in retail price. The price of brinjal has also shot up by 50% to Rs 60 per kg due to shortage in supply. Around 10 days ago, brinjal was being sold at Rs 40 per kg. The prices of okra, drumstick, cauliflower and cabbage have also increased between 25% and 40%. Drumstick is being sold at Rs 80 per kg, against Rs 60/kg around 10 days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vegetable-prices-soar-as-rain-brings-down-supply/articleshow/78370311.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||PSSCC takes notice of JAC ‘decision’ to bar admission to SC students||Chandigarh: The Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission (PSSCC) has taken a suo motu notice of media reports about the decision of joint action committee (JAC) of 1,650 colleges and universities of Punjab not to enroll scheduled castes students in their college and universities. The commission has marked an inquiry and sought a report by October 13. Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said it has come to the notice of the commission that JAC of 1,650 colleges and universities has issued statement in newspapers that they will not give admission to SC students in their institutes. This decision of JAC comes under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and Section 4 (ZA) (D) of Amended Act, 2015. She said an inquiry has been marked in this matter to the additional chief secretary, social justice and empowerment and minorities and secretary, higher education, who will submit a report by October 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/psscc-takes-notice-of-jac-decision-to-bar-admission-to-sc-students/articleshow/78374238.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-DGP Saini appears before SIT, grilled for 6 hours||Mohali: Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini on Monday appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) investigating the case of alleged disappearance and elimination of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. He was grilled for nearly six hours. Saini — prime accused in the case — arrived at 11am in his Z+ security cover and left at 4.45pm. Although his counsels and another unknown person accompanied him to the police station, they were not allowed to stay in the room where he was questioned. SIT head SP Harmandeep Singh Hans, along with DSP Bikram Singh Brar and Mataur SHO inspector Rajiv Kumar, did the grilling. The SIT members were, however, tight-lipped over what transpired during the questioning. Hans just said, “We asked 200 to 250 questions.” Punjab Police sources said the foremost question was how he disposed of the body of Balwant Singh Multani and how he died. He was also questioned on his hideouts after his anticipatory bail was rejected. Sources said he maintained that he was living at his house at Panchsheel Park in Delhi. Sources said Saini was also questioned about the revelations made by the two co-accused UT cops, who have turned approvers, and also about the three eyewitnesses, but Saini refuted all allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-dgp-saini-appears-before-sit-grilled-for-6-hours/articleshow/78374214.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 29, 2020||Chennai||No dip in infections, state to campaign for better awareness||Chennai: Public health officials in Tamil Nadu are campaigning hard to get people to adhere to standard operation procedures and pandemic rules as the state reported 5,589 fresh Covid-19 cases and 70 deaths on Monday. Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of fresh cases after Maharashtra (11,921) and Karnataka (6,892). There were 46,306 people still under treatment for the viral infection. Earlier, incidence of Covid-19 was higher in places where the living conditions were poor. “People living houses that were smaller than 150sqft, those who shared common toilets and public fountains or people who crowded marketplaces were infected. That’s not how we see the infection spreading now,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Contract tracing by the Covid control room and inputs from the district health authorities show that people are catching the infection after attending marriages or funerals, or after visiting places of worship. “The places of worship follow SOPs inside their complex but there is crowding at the places around shops. Even during inspections we find people forgetting to wear masks and maintain physical distance. We fine people for violation, but we don't see people changing,” he said. The state is planning a series of awareness messages on high risk behaviours such as lowering the mask while speaking, or rubbing the nose without washing hands. District authorities have been asked to urge people to follow rules while they go out for morning walks, visit milk depots, buy newspapers or wait outside tea shops. “We have to sensitise people to avoid crowded places. Any place can turn into a super spreader if we take it lightly,” he said. On Monday, the state tested 78,614 people for the viral infection using RT-PCR testing kits. Chennai reported 1,283 fresh cases, Chengalpet 249, Kancheepuram 147 and Tiruvallur 249. Chennai reported 13 deaths, Kancheepuram five, Chengalpet three and Tiruvallur two. The seven other northern districts reported 758 cases and 14 deaths. The eight western districts together reported 1,639 cases compared to 675 in the central zone and 589 in the south. The west reported 17 deaths, the south seven and central districts eight. The west had 14,405 active cases, south 5,299 and central zone 5,063.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-dip-in-infections-state-to-campaign-for-better-awareness/articleshow/78372825.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,300 new Covid-19 cases, testing dips||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 1,378 new Covid-19 positive cases and seven deaths across the districts, even as testing fell over the weekend, despite calls for more stringent efforts, on Monday.  With the latest figures, the caseload in the state has reached 1,87,211, while the toll went up to 1107.  The number of tests in the state saw a weekend dip with just 35,465 tests conducted on Monday. In fact, a dip in numbers have been seen every weekend which has continued this week, even after few DMHOs were pulled up for the less testing during the weekend. On Monday, the number of tests conducted per million population stood at 77,743. So far, 1,56,431 patients have recovered from the novel coronavirus in the state, while 29,673 patients are under medication in hospitals and at homes. The case fatality rate in the state has remained constant below one percent for a week now while the recovery rate has slightly improved to 84 percent as against 82 percent a week back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1300-new-cases-testing-dips/articleshow/78372839.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR among top 10 global markets of Uber in September||NEW DELHI: With its residents taking more than 1 million cab rides each week, Delhi-NCR ranks among the top 10 markets of app-based cab aggregator Uber globally. Delhi-NCR is the only Indian location to have made it to the top 10. Uber’s September data reveals that as residents of Delhi-NCR resume travel with unlock guidelines in place, cars have emerged as the most preferred mode of commuting, followed closely by low cost products, such as Auto and Moto. While Delhi-NCR finds itself among Uber’s top 10 markets globally, the cab aggregator didn’t elaborate on the ranking of Delhi-NCR or the other global cities in the list. An interesting rider trend points to an increase in longer distance trips, with the busiest hours weekly being from 8 am to 10 am and Mondays and Fridays being the busiest days of the week for Uber drivers. “We are thrilled to see Delhi as one of Uber’s top 10 global markets in terms of number of trips in September, which underscores India’s important role as a contributor to Uber’s business growth. As people start travelling again, we are seeing green shoots of recovery in the capital, which further underscores the promising potential of Delhi and India,” said Prabhjeet Singh, President, Uber India and South Asia. Earlier this month, Uber announced that its popular Uber Auto service was recovering briskly. Uber said that it was prioritising low cost products like Auto and Moto as regular life was resuming in cities. While demand for cabs is growing, the cab aggregator is trying to ensure that cab rides are safe keeping in mind the pandemic. Uber was the first to install floor-to-ceiling safety screens or safety ‘cockpits’ in 40,000 sedans, along with forging an industry first partnership with Bajaj to facilitate installation of safety screens in one lakh autos across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncr-among-top-10-global-markets-of-uber-in-sept/articleshow/78374209.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||70% students turn up for CLAT in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Only 70% students wrote the CLAT in the city on Monday. This entrance test is conducted nationally for admission to 22 premier national law schools across the country. While 1,931 students had registered for the exam in the city, only 1,326 turned up on Monday — the number was slightly better in the rest of the eight exam centres across the state. In Kolkata, the exam was conducted at TCS Gitobitan at Sector V in Salt Lake, while the rest eight centres across the state were in Hooghly, Kalyani, Howrah, Asansol, Durgapur, Barrackpore, Barasat and Siliguri. Overall, 74% candidates wrote CLAT exams from the state on Monday. Total number of candidates for the exams from the state was around 3,000, as against 73,000-plus nationally. The Consortium of Law Universities that conducts the exams said the Bengal figures were not very different from those of other states where the attendance of candidates was recorded between 74% and 80%. The consortium, of which the National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) is a part, attributed such attendance to the ongoing Covid situation, though elaborate arrangements of sanitisation and social distancing had been made at every exam centre by TCS iON, the agency that organized the exam. The exam was online because of the Covid situation and students said that it was very similar to the eight mock tests and practice sessions that the Consortium had specially arranged for the students. “The exam went on smoothly. There were no complaints about the paper or about the arrangements from anywhere. The Consortium will meet virtually on Tuesday to discuss further,” said Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty, vice chancellor of NUJS, the nodal officer of Clat here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/70-students-turn-up-for-clat-in-city/articleshow/78372831.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Cops launch fresh crackdown on trucks after New Town accident||KOLKATA: The death of a young engineer couple, who were hit by a speeding truck in New Town on Saturday night, has prompted police to launch a fresh crackdown on reckless lorry drivers, who have been responsible for a majority of crashes in the township. Local traffic guards have been instructed to ensure no heavy vehicle is allowed beyond the permissible period of 9pm to 7am. Rash driving, drink driving, overloading and mechanical faults from retreated tyres: these have been the most common reasons behind most accidents in New Town-Rajarhat, trucks being involved in maximum incidents. Also, constructions have halved the width of New Town Main Arterial Road in at least three places, making it especially challenging for motorists to go past speeding goods vehicles. TimesViewThis tragedy should be a wake-up call. There needs to be a sustained campaign against rash driving — particularly by heavy vehicles — in the New Town-Rajarhat belt. Every life lost like this is one too many.TOI found the area between Narkelbagan and Jatragachhi crossing—where the accident took place on Saturday night, when Deepayan Mukherjee (29 and finacee Medha Pal were returning home on their scooter after having dinner at a Sector V restaurant—has turned especially dangerous now that the four-lane road has been narrowed down to two lanes owing to a subway construction. As a result, vehicles turning left from the Sector-V end and those turning right from the New Town police station-end are forced to suddenly slow down. “Last week, I almost rammed into a vehicle as I turned left towards Eco Park. There was no cop to warn against the sudden change. It gets riskier at night as trucks enter the thoroughfare from adjacent lanes,” said Soumyadeep Chatterjee, a resident near City Centre II. The two other “narrowed” spots are near Akansha crossing and at Eco Park, where Metro constructions force vehicles to take the service lane. “There are signages, but people at night do not always notice that. I had escaped an accident last month,” said app-cab driver Gopal Yadav. Probing into the Saturday night accident, police said Mukherjee , had possibly lost control of the scooter as he had to slow down after taking a left from Biswa Bangla gate, where the truck grazed the two-wheelers and the two fell off after hitting an iron guard-wall. Cops are yet to track the goods vehicle or arrest the driver but said they had intensified policing along the stretch. “We have asked all traffic cops to ensure no goods vehicle is allowed on the thoroughfare before 9pm,” said a Bidhannagar City Police officer. “Apart from prosecuting drivers, we will fix responsibility on owners,” a traffic cop said, adding owners would be prosecuted for retreated tyres, faulty brakes and overloaded trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-launch-fresh-crackdown-on-trucks-after-new-town-accident/articleshow/78374213.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||138 Indians leave Jeddah for Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 138 Indian nationals left for the city by a special Air India flight from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on Monday. The Vande Bharat flight from Jeddah took off at 2.40 pm. The consular officer of the Consulate General of India (CGI) in Jeddah met Sayyed Ahmed Qutub, director (consular affairs), foreign office, Jeddah, and discussed issues concerning Indian nationals, particularly, expediting the final exit of Indians under Huroob category and early deportation of the detainees. “The Saudi officials promised to provide necessary support in all genuine cases,” CGI Jeddah informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/138-indians-leave-jeddah-for-city/articleshow/78372851.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 29, 2020||Nashik||NMC seeks Rs 46cr from state govt||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sought funds worth Rs 46 crore from the state government for management of Covid-19. The civic body has so far raised a total of Rs 25 crore, including Rs 15 crore from the state and Rs 10 crore on its own since the outbreak of Covid-19 in April. “The demand for infrastructure like beds, oxygen, oxygen tanks, medicines and other equipment is increasing with rise in the number of patients in the city. Moreover, we also have to pay salaries to the medical staff recruited on temporary basis,” a civic official said. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has written to the state government, seeking the funds. “We are increasing the capacity of beds in the new Bytco hospital from present 500 beds to 1,000 beds. This will include a total 400 oxygen beds. Moreover, we are also in the process of obtaining two large oxygen tanks with a capacity of 20,000 and 10,000 litre capacity. Two other oxygen tanks with capacity of 3,000 litre are being installed at private medical college and hospital,” he added. Apart from infrastructure and procurement of medicines for Covid, the NMC has already hired a staff of 550, including doctors, to provide treatment to Covid patients. “We are also in the process of recruiting 300 additional medical staff in the next few days,” the official said. “We will have to spend more on infrastructure, procurement of medicines, oxygen and salaries of medical staff. The income of NMC through property and water taxes along with town planning taxes have been badly affected due to the pandemic. Hence, we have urged the state government to provide Rs 46 crore fund for Covid management,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seeks-rs-46cr-from-state-govt/articleshow/78370317.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||Drunk cop thrashed for creating ruckus||Rajkot: A cop was arrested for allegedly creating a drunken ruckus on IFCO Tagor Raod in Gandhidham of Kutch district on Sunday night.Police said the accused, Shivaji Rajput (44), head constable at Gandhidham police headquarters, was beaten up by locals at a roadside eatery and handed over to the police after he was found in an inebriated state. “A drunk Rajput went to the eatery and started asking those on the spot to maintain social distancing. When it was found that Rajput was drunk, the eatery owner and his customers beat him up and handed him over to the police,” said M K Vaghela, sub-inspector with Gandhidham B division police station. “We have arrested Rajput after booking him under the Prohibition Act. We have also booked those five accused who allegedly beat up Rajput on the complaint of Rajput. One of the accused has been identified as Madan Majirana,” added Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drunk-cop-thrashed-for-creating-ruckus/articleshow/78371455.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Discontent brews against farm laws in Himachal||Shimla: Even as the protests against the farm laws are not very pronounced in Himachal Pradesh, there is a simmering discontent against the new laws among the farmers of the hill state. Some private companies are already buying fruits and vegetables directly from the farmers in the state, but this is hardly benefiting them as the prices are decided by the private companies in the absence of any intervention from the government, they say. Agriculture is the main occupation of the people of Himachal Pradesh and contributes, along with its allied sectors, 12.73% to the total gross state domestic product (GSDP). Agriculture and horticulture provide direct employment to about 69% of the total workforce of the state, as per the 2011 census. Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association’s state president Harish Chauhan said, “In Himachal Pradesh, private companies decide the rate of produce at their level without asking the farmers, as there is no control of the government. Under the new arrangement, companies will enter into contract with the farmers for five years and any dispute arising will be dealt with at the level of sub-divisional magistrate instead of courts, which raises doubts about the protection of farmers’ interests.” Kisan Sabha state president Kuldeep Singh Tanwar said in Himachal Pradesh, production of vegetables and spices accounts for 15 to 17 metric tonnes (MT) annually, while 13 to 15 MT of food crops (cereals and pulses) are produced every year and fruit production is 10-11 MT. He said largely, the MSP regime has not benefited the farmers here due to less quantities of the produce so far, but now the government must ensure MSP for their produce. He said during the 2014 parliamentary election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised MSP on all crops, but to date, he has not fulfilled this promise. “Right now farmers of the state are busy with apple, vegetables and other crops. But, in the coming days, we are going to oppose the farm laws in a big way,” he added. While the farmers of state are planning agitation, Congress has already hit the road opposing the farm acts. While leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri took out a tractor rally from Kangar to Haroli in Una district against the farm bills, in Shimla, Congress workers demonstrated at the Ridge and took out a procession up to Raj Bhavan demanding to roll back the decision. The party has also announced to hold protests at block level on October 2. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has said the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 is a pro-farmer, which would not only provide better marketing facilities to the farmers to sell their produce, but also go a long way in doubling the farmers’ income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/discontent-brews-against-farm-laws-in-himachal/articleshow/78374247.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||ISB-Hyderabad campus expansion at Rs 450 crore gets green nod||HYDERABAD: The State-Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) has approved the terms of reference (ToR) for expansion of Indian School of Business at an estimated cost of Rs 450 crore on Gachibowli campus. ISB has proposed to develop infrastructure and existing facilities on the current campus in two phases spread over 250 acres. The current project is located in 1.2 lakh square metres. The expanded project will add another one lakh square metres, taking the total constructed area to 2.2 lakh square metres. The Telangana State Pollution Control Board renewed both the consent for the operation of the project and hazardous waste management licence, which is valid till 2021. The state expert appraisal committee appointed a sub-committee to look into the matter. After inspecting ISB, the sub-committee submitted a report stating that no construction activity of the proposed project was taking place at the time of the visit of experts. The ISB has developed a green belt in 30 acres of land with 80,000 multiple species of plants and did landscaping in 18.5 acres. The sub-committee said: “There will not be any impact on the surroundings due to the proposed expansion if the ISB follows all norms.” The sub-committee also recommended to the ISB to add certain measures like automatic forest fire stoppage systems in ToR. “The sewerage treatment plant is not working effectively with the current method of treatment and sewage water is still contaminating ground and surface water. The total dissolved solids have to be reduced further and microbial contamination that is occurring due to the release of ineffectively treated water should be stopped,” it said. The sub-committee also said: “Leaving the water or storing it in an artificial pond is contaminating the environment.” It further suggested setting up of a herbal garden and also recommended for a study of flora and fauna on the ISB campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isb-campus-expansion-at-rs-450cr-gets-green-nod/articleshow/78372849.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||3 die of Covid, 63 test positive in Wardha||Wardha: An 80-year-old man and 60-year-old woman from Wardha, and a 55-year-old woman from Hinganghat died due to coronavirus on Monday, taking the district’s death toll to 118. 63 more persons tested positive out of 326 test reports, while 38 recovered from Covid-19. A total of 342 swab samples were sent for testing and 57 test reports are pending, while 1,281 persons were asked to isolate as they came in contact with Covid patients or have mild symptoms. The total cases in the district reached 4,321. In all, 1,965 patients are undergoing treatment and 2,238 have recovered from the virus. The new cases were reported from Wardha (40), Deoli (7), Hinganghat (6), Selu and Arvi (4 each), Samudrapur and Ashti (1 each). Among the 63 positive, 40 are men and 23 are women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-die-of-covid-63-test-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/78369404.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Man sentenced to two years RI for stalking ends life in Miyapur||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old private employee, who was sentenced to two years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for stalking a woman, committed suicide on Sunday. The deceased, B Krishna, hanged himself at his house in Old Hafeezpet, Miyapur on Sunday night. According to the police, a case was registered against Krishna in 2015 for stalking and harassing a woman. Police said that the woman attempted suicide due to the harassment and stalking by Krishna. On Friday, a city court sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment, after which he was allegedly depressed and took the extreme step. He was rushed to a private hospital but was declared brought dead. A suspicious death case was registered at Miyapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-sentenced-to-2-years-ri-for-stalking-ends-life/articleshow/78372854.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Govt moves HC against stay on privilege notice to 18 DMK MLAs||Chennai: Three days after the Madras high court stayed fresh breach of privilege notices issued by the privilege committee of the Tamil Nadu assembly against DMK chief M K Stalin and 17 other MLAs for bringing gutka packets inside the House in 2017, the committee has moved an appeal challenging the interim stay. On September 24, Justice Puspha Sathyanarayana passed the interim order on a batch of pleas moved by the MLAs, challenging the notices dated September 7. “…the purpose of bringing the banned substance into the House was to register a protest, to highlight and expose the vulnerability of the law and the law enforcing agencies in their alleged failure to enforce the same (law). As the petitioners have made out a prima facie case and the balance of convenience is in their favour, this court is of the view that the notices need to be stayed until further orders,” Justice Puspha Sathyanarayana had said. Now, claiming that the order is completely erroneous, contrary to established law and has been passed misunderstanding facts, the privilege committee has moved the present appeal saying it is liable to be set aside. “The single judge has erred in admitting the petitions when the division bench confined its decision only to the question of breach of privilege as to whether the committee can take action for the alleged violation,” the committee said. Only on August 25 the first bench of the court headed by chief justice A P Sahi set aside the earlier notices issued against the MLAs for ‘foundational error’. On September 7, the committee issued fresh notices to the 18 MLAs as the first bench granted liberty to the committee to commence the proceedings afresh if it feels so. Aggrieved, the MLAs moved the high court and got the September 24 order. “The bench categorically observed that carrying gutka sachets into the assembly may or may not amount to breach of privilege. Therefore, entertaining the present petition contradicts directions of the court,” the committee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-moves-hc-against-stay-on-privilege-notice-to-18-dmk-mlas/articleshow/78372847.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Waqf, endowments registration banned||HYDERABAD: Telangana government on Monday issued orders prohibiting registration of all types of waqf and endowments properties. The government has put all the properties belonging to the waqf and endowments under section 22-A of the Registration Act, 1908. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued the orders following an assurance by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on the floor of the assembly a couple of weeks ago. The chief minister said registration of properties of waqf and endowments would be banned with immediate effect and resumed only after Dharani land web portal becomes operational. “The state government is committed to protecting the endowments and waqf properties. Documents relating to transfer of property by way of sale, agreement of sale, gift, exchange or lease exceeding 10 years in respect of immoveable property, owned by religious and charitable endowments falling under the purview of the Telangana Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987 or by waqf falling under the Wakfs Act, 1995, executed by persons other than those statutorily empowered to do so are banned,” the GO said. The chief executive officer of Telangana State Waqf Board and commissioner of endowments, managing director of Dharani portal and inspector general (registration & stamps) have been directed to ensure that all properties are included in the list of properties prohibited for registration and put them under auto lock and disable online registration module for such properties. The government also said no building permission should be given on these lands and the lists of waqf and endowments land should be provided to the district collectors, municipal commissioners and panchayat secretaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-endowments-registration-banned/articleshow/78372853.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to B Ramalinga Raju: Did you convey objections?||HYDERABAD: A division bench of Telangana HC on Monday sought to know from Satyam Computers founder-chairman B Ramalinga Raju if he had raised any objection with Netflix or producers of the web-series featuring an episode on him. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy posed this query to Raju’s counsel after hearing Netflix’s contentions that it had briefed Raju’s associates two weeks before the scheduled September 4 release of ‘Bad Boys Billionaires’ documentary. Raju approached a trial court earlier and got a stay on the release of the documentary series made on him. When they briefed you by August 19, did you convey your objections to the filmmakers or Netflix?, the bench asked Raju’s counsel. Netflix counsel said Raju was in the know of things and approached the civil court only to gain a pre-press restraint order. The bench asked Raju about the status of pending cases against him. The bench posted the case to October 1 for hearing the argument of Raju’s counsel. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-raju-did-you-convey-objections/articleshow/78372862.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Onion touches Rs 60, other vegetables too pinch pockets||Kolkata: Onion price in the retail market has taken a sharp upswing again as it touched Rs 60 per kg on Monday. With the supply of onion from Maharashtra dwindling, the fear of further price rise looms large. Prices of other vegetables, too, show no sign of coming down. The price of potato is stuck at Rs 35 a kg while chillies once again turned hotter with the price hovering around Rs 170-180 a kg in retail market. “The onion supply for the last few days has been very erratic. Posta wholesale market gets 10 to 12 trucks, each carrying 16 tonnes of onions daily. On some days, the number of trucks suddenly dropped to six or seven, widening the gap between the demand and supply,” said Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors’ Association. Bengal’s onion consumption is 8 lakh tonnes per annum. This year, the state has produced substantial onion crop and it was due to the absence of onion cold-chain in Bengal that much of it had to be sent to neighbouring states immediately after harvesting. Thus, Bengal now depends on Maharashtra and Karnataka to meet its onion demand. “The onion price should rise steeply like last year, because of the substantal buffer stock of Centre. If a substantial amount of onion is released, the price will automatically dip. Otherwise such soaring price will encourage unscrupulous traders to hoard the vegetable to increase the price further,” said Dey. However, Chandan Chakraborty, working president of Posta Merchants Association, said the onion price would not jump the way it had gone up last year. This time the government put a timely ban on onion export. The prices of other vegetables than onion have left consumers in the lurch. Most of the vegetables are being sold at Rs 50 a kg or above. Potato (Jyoti variety) was sold at Rs 35 a kg on Monday. Even the price of bitter gourd has reached Rs 80 a kg while the price of tomato is refusing to plunge below Rs 65-70 a kg. The price of parwal, which should plunge by now, is still being sold at Rs 80 a kg. “People like us have no other choice than reducing the consumption,” said Gour Ghosh, a buyer at Barisha market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/onion-touches-rs-60-other-vegetables-too-pinch-pockets/articleshow/78372906.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 29, 2020||Shimla||Form panel to fill PHC posts, high court tells Himachal Pradesh govt||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the state government to make recruitments to fill the vacant posts of doctors and other staff in the primary health centres (PHCs) of the state. A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed the order on Saturday while hearing a petition filed by Davinder Sharma and Vinay Sharma, who had raised the issue of acute shortage of staff in the PHCs across the state. The high court directed to constitute a monitoring committee, which would be armed with power to make selections to 184 posts of pharmacists, 144 posts of laboratory technicians, 168 posts of nurses/ FHWs/ midwives, 196 posts of Class IV/Dai, 210 posts of sweeper/ safai karamchari, 49 posts of MHWs/ MPWs/ SLTs, 11 posts of radiographers and 92 posts of superintendents/ senior assistants/ clerks, among others, which are lying vacant in the PHCs across the state. The high court bench observed that the respondents want another five-six months’ time to fill all the posts. “In this regard, it is pertinent to observe that the patients shall not be made to wait till the time all the posts are filled up, which may lead to loss of lives, which cannot be compensated by any means,” it added. The court directed the additional chief secretary (health) to take steps for issuing notifications to notify the State Staff Selection Commission to forthwith advertise the said posts, make selections and complete the entire process in a time-bound manner, for which the state government shall take immediate steps to fill up all the vacant posts. It also directed the chief secretary to look into the matter, speed up the recruitment process and file an affidavit with regard to the steps taken for appointment to all these vacant posts and the progress made in that regard by or before the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hc-tells-himachal-to-form-panel-to-fill-posts-in-phcs/articleshow/78374248.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||NMC transport dept spent Rs19 crore as buses ran for Covid operations||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s transport department is under scanner after it spent a whopping Rs 19 crore between April and July this year when the entire department was non-functioning because of lockdown. The money was mostly spent on running buses for civic operations to control Covid outbreak. The department, though, claimed to have generated Rs 1.14 crore revenue from these operations. The department submitted its income and expenditure statement from April to July 2020 to the transport panel for its meeting to be held on Tuesday. It shows the department generated Rs 70.96 lakh revenue in April 2020. During this time, though city bus service was stopped, NMC utilized Aapli Buses for ferrying citizens from containment zones to quarantine centres. For this, it spent Rs 7.73 crore, the statement submitted before the transport committee revealed. Similarly in May, June and July, the department generated revenue of Rs 14.56 lakh, Rs14.57 lakh and Rs 14.57 lakh while it spent Rs 3.32 crore, Rs 4.17 crore and Rs 3.76 crore, respectively. The amount will be paid from department’s annual budget (for the year of 2020-2021) of Rs 118 crore. A senior official said the expenditure incurred in April was high as during that time NMC had pressed almost 100 buses to ferry citizens to quarantine centres. The numbers gradually reduced as NMC converted quanratine centres into Covid Care Centres, the official explained. The official said the department has been utilizing the the buses for ambulance service, as hearse van and as mobile testing centres. The department also submitted a proposal to purchase one electric bus for the city. At present, NMC has five electric buses procured using funds provided by the state government. Against Rs 9.30 crore grant, the department had spent Rs 7.47 crore to procure five electric buses only for women. Instead of refunding the remaining funds, the department sought the panel’s nod to purchase one more electric bus. The operational cost of electric buses is much lower compare to diesel buses. Five other proposals, mostly renewal of contracts of officials hired in the department would also be discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-transport-dept-spent-rs19-crore-as-buses-ran-for-covid-operations/articleshow/78374258.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 29, 2020||Allahabad||Naini Aerospace to make satellite launcher loom||Prayagraj: The Sangam city would soon be having a say in future space expeditions of the country. The Naini Aerospace Limited (NAeL) of the city would be making the looms for the satellite launchers of Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), which would be imparting training to the staff members of the Naini based company. Eight employees of the NAeL would be send to Trivandrum for being trained by ISRO in respect to the technical expertise required to manufacture the state of the art looms (bunch of wires used to transfer signals) for satellite launchers of the country. The training will be in two phases, four employees each would be trained in each phase. After going through the meticulous training, the staff of NAeL would have to qualify the exam and earn a certificate for the same. Staff, who have achieved this certificate would be engaged in making these looms. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Naini Aerospace Limited Rajinikanth Mishra said, “A delegation of ISRO had visited NAeL in the month of November 2019 and inspected the facilities before approving the ambitious plan for manufacturing looms for satellite launcher. The delegation gave its report after inspecting the unit at Naini and following the report, ISRO has given the green signal to NAeL to make the loom”. The present facility at NAeL is presently making structure and looms for helicopters and looms of LCA Tejas fighter jets. “We have been making structures and looms for Dhruv chopper being used in the country and Tejas fighters and soon we would be making looms for LCA MK IA, as soon as Hindustan Aeronautical Limited (HAL) gets the order from the government”, said Mishra, who is superannuating by end of this month. Indian Air Force (IAF) would be placing the order for 83 LCA MKIA to HAL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/naini-aerospace-to-make-satellite-launcher-loom/articleshow/78374274.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Highway blocked in Solan due to landslide||Shimla: A major landslide was reported near Kiyari Bangla near Kandaghat in Solan district on Monday and major cracks reported over the roads too, as a result the national highway has been totally blocked. According to police officials there is no possibility of opening of road till Tuesday morning. Police has requested the commuters to take alternate routes from Kufri-Chail-Sadhupul, Mehli-Junga-Sadhupul or via Tutu-Kunihar etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highway-blocked-in-solan-due-to-landslide/articleshow/78374263.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Corpn defends stormwater drain project along ECR||Chennai: Greater Chennai Corporation has defended its Rs 1,285 crore stormwater drain project that it has started on the East Coast Road after opposition from residents. Residents, including the VGP Golden Seaview Residents Welfare Association, submitted to the GCC that the area did not witness water stagnation even during 2015 rains, floods and 2004 tsunami and that drains weren’t needed. Replying to the association in a letter three days ago, GCC commissioner G Prakash said water stagnation had been seen on many places on ECR from Kottivakkam to Uthandi. GCC could not continue to keep machineries such as pumps and earthmovers to bailout rainwater and had to look for permanent solutions such as drains, he said. Chief engineer (storm water drain) L Nandakumar told TOI that in under-developed areas, only 20% water would remain on the road. But on ECR, many buildings have come up and roads have been paved, which leads to 80% of water stagnating on the road. “German consultants too have studied our report and approved this,” he said. German consultant M/s Kocks appointed by KfW had conducted tests and proposed rainwater harvesting blocks imported from Germany at 20 places, retention ponds and 171 rainwater harvesting wells along road margins and 22,450 rainwater harvesting pits for the project. Near the beach, water would not percolate much and remain on the surface, Nandakumar said. “This necessitated drains which would take it to the sea. In these designs, not all the water will be sent to the sea. A large portion will be harvested through rainwater harvesting structures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-defends-stormwater-drain-project-along-ecr/articleshow/78372911.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Govt eases oxygen usage guidelines||Nagpur: After Indian Medical Association (IMA) opposed the irrational rationing guidelines regarding use of oxygen for Covid-19 patients last week, the state government has come up with fresh guidelines this time with the help of NITI Aayog. The fresh notification was issued on Sunday. It permits oxygen usage up to 10 litres/min for oxygen beds in hospitals and 40 litres/min for ICU ventilator beds. On September 18, the government had capped oxygen use at 12 litres per minute for Covid patients. “New guidelines seem more rational but the government should not restrict the usage of oxygen. Treating doctor’s clinical judgement should be final. The treating physician should not have such restriction while trying to save lives,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra State president of IMA. “Government should believe the doctors work ethically and in the best interest of patient as per actual condition. They should not doubt the doctors and restrict them in the usage of oxygen or in any mode of the treatment,” he added. NITI Aayog guideline considers 80% of cases of Covid-19 are asymptomatic or having mild symptoms and they require no oxygen therapy. Of the remaining 20% cases, 17% are considered as moderate requiring non-ICU oxygen supported beds. Only 3% cases are severe requiring ICU beds for 18 days. These 3% also consume oxygen in different levels. The state government has also issued directives to form oxygen monitoring committee at every district headquarters under the chairmanship of additional civil surgeon. In every hospital, a similar committee will be there under the chairmanship of senior superintending officer of the hospital. Chest physician, anaesthetist and assistant matron will be its members. New guidelines of O2 use - For moderate cases (SpO2 level between 90-94%) – 2-4 litres per minute (LPM) for nasal prongs; 6-10 LPM by facemask and 10-12 LPM by non-rebreathing mask (NRBM) - For severe cases (Spo2 level less than 90%) – 10 LPM by invasive mechanical ventilation; 25-60 LPM by non-invasive ventilation and 10-15 LPM by NRBM - Target oxygen saturation rate – 94-95% - once this is achieved, flow of oxygen may not be increased - Oxygen consumption should be regularly monitored – A committee having additional MS, HOD of Anaesthesia, HOD of respiratory medicine, and nursing superintendent should monitor daily - HFNO device – High flow nasal oxygen should be used only in ICU setting under supervision of respiratory physician and patient should be put on HFNO only after approval of senior most chest physician||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-eases-oxygen-usage-guidelines/articleshow/78374230.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Doctors warn against putting off check-ups||HYDERABAD: Doctors advise extra care of the heart and to not ignore symptoms of heart diseases during Covid as many who put off check-ups end up at hospitals when there’s little chance of survival. “Due to the pandemic, there is a worrying trend of patients avoiding hospitals and doctors in the fear of getting Covid. But what one should remember is, the risk of heart attacks and heart stroke far outweighs the risks of contracting Covid-19. Our heart attack related emergency admissions dropped by over 50 per cent. As a result, patients are ending up with severe health issues,” said Dr Sudheer Koganti, consultant interventional cardiologist, Citizens Specialty Hospital. Cardiovascular disease has many causes: Smoking, diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity among others. “Never avoid calling for emergency services if the need arises, because only qualified medical professionals can understand and attend to the concern,” said Dr Sharath Reddy, interventional cardiologist and endovascular specialist, Medicover Hospitals. “In the current time, patients are faced with a double-edged threat. Not only are they more at risk of developing severe forms of the virus, but they may also be afraid to seek ongoing care for their hearts. We have to take care of our heart and help safeguard the hearts of our loved ones. During the pandemic, there has been a problem in getting timely help to reach healthcare facilities. CSI Telangana requests citizens not to delay any heart-related issue and reach out to the nearest hospital,” read an official statement from the Cardiology Society of India. It is important that individuals who are at risk due to underlying health conditions, must not put off regular check-ups||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-warn-against-putting-off-check-ups/articleshow/78372903.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 5 peddlers in possession of hashish oil held||HYDERABAD: The enforcement team of the prohibition and excise department has arrested five peddlers and seized 155 grams of hashish oil from their possession. Acting on a tip off, the excise department trailed the suspects and seized 155 grams of hashish oil stored in 31 plastic bottles from them at Bowenpally. The accused are A Ranjeeth Kumar (25) of Neredmet, K Niteesh Kumar Yadav (20) of Bowenpally, Ch Sai Kumar Reddy (22), Sanjay Sharma (23) of Medchal and S Girish Kumar (24) of Quthbullapur. The five accused told police that they have been procuring hashish oil from Sai Reddy (22) of Quthbullapur and S Vikram (28) of Kukatpally. “The accused were purchasing five grams contraband bottles for Rs 1500 and selling the same for Rs 2,500 to customers at Suchitra, Bowenpally and Malkajgiri areas,” assistant excise superintendent, N Anji Reddy said. The accused have been handed over to the Secunderabad excise station for further investigation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-peddlers-in-possession-of-hashish-oil-held/articleshow/78372888.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Road rage leads to murder in Jeedimetla||HYDERABAD: An argument over a minor road accident resulted in a murder on Monday evening. A Suresh, a 30-year-old auto driver, was stabbed to death by 50-year-old B Vijay at Vimanapuri Colony in Jeedimetla following an altercation between Suresh, his three friends and Vijay’s son Sandeep. At around 4.30 pm, Sandeep and his friend were travelling on a bike at Vimanapuri Colony. Pavan (25) too was travelling in the same direction with his cousin on another bike. Due to a sudden movement of Pavan’s bike, Sandeep lost balance and fell on the road. Subsequently, Sandeep followed Pavan to the latter’s house and picked up an argument with him. “Pavan’s cousin said that Sandeep used objectionable language against her and she informed this to her brother Ramesh, who works in Malaysia,” Jeedimetla inspector K Balaraj said. Ramesh called his friend Suresh and asked him to sort out the matter. “Suresh, along with three of his friends, reached Pavan’s house and took Sandeep to his house. Sandeep informed his father Vijay about the argument. Vijay came to the house, picked up a knife from the kitchen and stabbed Suresh in the stomach. Suresh succumbed while undergoing treatment at a local hospital,” the inspector said. Police registered a murder case. “If Pavan’s cousin mentions in the complaint that Sandeep misbehaved with her we will add section 354 of the IPC,” he said. A Suresh, a 30-year-old auto driver, was stabbed to death by B Vijay at Vimanapuri Colony in Jeedimetla following an altercation between Suresh and his friends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-rage-leads-to-murder-in-jeedimetla/articleshow/78372933.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown impact: Heart ailments up among youth||HYDERABAD: Since the onset of Covid-19, city cardiologists have reported a steady rise in younger people seeking teleconsultation for symptoms like palpitations, burning sensation and tremors. In fact, teleconsultations for heart-related issues form a chunk of consultations, doctors say attributing it to the ‘new normal’ where people — between 30 and 45 years — are mostly working from home, rarely going out. “Recently, because of lifestyle changes, young individuals have started experiencing heart ailments especially, coronary artery diseases,” said Dr Krishna Kumar, senior cardiothoracic surgeon. Post lockdown, he said, there has been a significant increase in cases of obesity, diabetes and stress-related ailments, which affect the heart. Dr B Hygriv Rao, cardiologist and director consultant cardiologist at KIMS Hospitals, said, “A recent research paper showed the prevalence of anxiety was 30% and depression 33%, among general population during Covid.” He said stress and anxiety worsens the immune system making people prone to infection. Another issue: lack of awareness, said Dr K Sarat Chandra, senior cardiologist at Virinchi Hospital and former president of Cardiological Society of India. “This is our major concern. Almost 70% heart failure patients in Hyderabad reach a cardiologist at an advanced stage... It is important the government, public and private hospitals make efforts to create awareness about symptoms, and risk factors for early diagnosis,” he said. “Around half the people with heart and circulatory diseases have found it harder to get medical treatment since Covid-19 began,” said Dr Bharat Vijay Purohit, senior interventional consultant, Care Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-impact-heart-ailments-up-among-youth/articleshow/78372922.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Rural areas of Nashik reporting more Covid cases than urban||Nashik: The number of active cases in rural Nashik have exceeded that of the active cases in Nashik city indicating a reversal of the trend for the first time in the last six months since the outbreak of Covid-19.According to the official data as of September 27 (Sunday), Nashik rural had 3,424 active cases, which is 385 cases more than the active cases in the city within the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation. So far, the number of active cases in the city was on an average at least 1,000 more than rural Nashik. Also, the total number of Covid cases in the city ((49504) is more than rural Nashik (19,199) comprising 15 talukas.NMC officials said this new trend is a reflection of the better recovery rate in the city, which is currently over 92%. The recovery rate in rural Nashik is around 80%. The civic authorities said, “Now, there is a marginal dip in the flow of Covid patients coming from rural areas to the city for getting tested and treated in case they test positive. Our feedback is that in rural Nashik, district health authorities are constantly ramping up testing and admitting the Covid patients in the rural Covid treatment centres. This has helped us in having lower active cases than in rural Nashik,” However, the number of active cases could alter for Nashik rural and the city depending on the number of people testing positive on a daily basis, said NMC officials.District health sources said though the main focus is to carry out RT-PCR tests in rural areas, antigen testing will also be increased.“In Nashik rural, we are dealing with the pandemic involving a population of over 40 lakh whereas the city’s population is around 19 lakh. Since the infection is spreading across all the talukas, there is a possibility of active cases being more in Nashik rural than the city,” said health authorities adding that they are following the ICMR laid guidelines for discharge of patients. The district health officials said so far they have conducted about 10,000 antigen tests. The authorities are in the process of procuring 40,000 more kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-areas-of-nashik-reporting-more-covid-cases-than-urban/articleshow/78370338.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad: Nirbhaya Act against rape accused employer||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police on Monday invoked the Nirbhaya Act against the accused, who is said to be involved in the alleged abetment of suicide and rape of an 18-year-old who worked as a domestic help. The accused, Madhu Yadav, has been sent to judicial custody for 14 days. At a press conference, Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy said that the accused was involved in three cases of land disputes in the past registered at the local police station, and due to his illegal activities, police opened a rowdy sheet against him. On September 25, the girl who was employed by the accused, was allegedly subjected to verbal and physical abuse. Based on the statement of the victim’s sister, the police have now registered a case under relevant sections of the Nirbhaya Act and Juvenile Justice Act. The DCP said that during the course of the investigation, the police found that after the victim’s suicide, the accused telephoned the police. “Before the police could reach the crime scene, the accused had briefed the victim’s sister to tell the police that her sister was suffering from stomach pain and committed suicide as she was unable to bear the pain,” he said. The victim’s sister was further examined by a woman police sub-inspector, and during the conversation, she informed her that they have been employed at the house since childhood and that they were frequently subjected to verbal abuse. She also disclosed that her sister was frequently harassed by the accused, which may have led to the suicide. Yadav was produced before the XIV Additional Metropolitan Magistrate and was sent to judicial remand. “We shall make efforts to ensure a speedy trial and conviction, and also invoke PD Act against the accused,” said DCP N Prakash Reddy. The investigation into the case is being directly supervised by ACP K Ashok Chakravarthy. Meanwhile, many women and political groups have demanded harsh punishment for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nirbhaya-act-against-rape-accused-employer/articleshow/78372928.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Minister seeks report on Telangana government properties||HYDERABAD: R&B minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy directed officials of the state housing board to submit a detailed report on its properties within a week. The report will be submitted to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Non-performing assets need to be identified and an action plan should be implemented to protect the land under legal disputes, he said. “Also, prepare and submit an inventory with details of lands, their extent, value and current status,” he told them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-seeks-report-on-govt-properties/articleshow/78372956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||In just 1 year, 85,000 booked for driving on wrong side in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As many as three riders were booked under culpable homicide for causing an accident by driving on the wrong side of the road. According to traffic police, over 85,000 violators were booked for driving on the wrong side this year alone. Last year, the cases were as high as 1.5 lakh. Road safety experts said the people who were caught taking the wrong side driving do it mostly because they want to shorten their route to avoid traffic hassle and even to save fuel. “However, they do not realise how dangerous wrong side driving can be. Wrong side driving is a major cause of accidents in the city. Only enforcement will do no good, people need to be educated about the dangers of such practices,” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of Indian Federation of Road Safety. On September 22, a truck driver was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder for allegedly causing an accident by driving on the wrong side of the road which led to the death of a person. The victims seeing a truck, driven on the wrong direction, applied a sudden brake. After the victim fell on the road, he was crushed by a DCM travelling behind. In another recent accident, a lorry driver was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder for drunken driving and wrong side driving in Mailardevpally. The accused lorry driver was driving on the wrong route and dashed into the deceased’s bike from the opposite direction. According to police, he dragged the body for 10 metres before halting. “It also depends on the attitude of the commuters. To educate citizens on serious traffic violations that lead to a fatal accident, we share the footage of some accidents apart from continuing awareness programmes on social media,” said DCP (traffic), Cyberabad, Vijay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-just-1-yr-85k-booked-for-driving-on-wrong-side/articleshow/78372945.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Rain affects kharif crop on 83k hectare||Nashik: The recent heavy rainfall in five districts of Nashik division damaged standing crops on 83,675 hectares. The state agriculture department has completed the primary assessment about the losses of crops. The crops like maize, onion, soybean, jowar, cotton, tur, moong have been damaged due to the heavy rain. The reports about the crop losses have been submitted to the state government. Nashik division of the state agriculture department includes five districts- Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. Nashik district has been the worst-affected among the five districts in the division. The standing kharif crop on 37,829 hectares has been affected in the district. Around 44,859 farmers from 263 villages from 10 talukas of the district have been affected due to the recent heavy rains. The state agriculture officials said around 35,000 hectares of total 37,829 hectares damaged in Nashik district are from Chandvad and Yeola talukas. Around 33,025 hectares of kharif crops have been damaged in Chandvad taluka, while crops on 2,188 hectares and 969 hectares have been damaged in Yeola and Sinnar talukas of the district, respectively. In Nashik district, maize and onions have been damaged on 17,815 hectares and 11,300 hectares, respectively. The soybean has been damaged on 4,518 hectares and bajra on 1,972 hectares. The vegetables have been damaged due to rains on 473 hectares in Nashik district. After Nashik, Ahmednagar is the second worst-affected district in the division. The standing kharif crop on 26,734 hectares has been damaged in Ahmednagar district due to recent heavy rain. The rains have damaged 10,490 hectares in Dhule district, 4,364 hectares in Nandurbar and 4,256 hectares in Jalgaon district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-affects-kharif-crop-on-83k-hectare/articleshow/78370369.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 29, 2020||Nashik||AAI invests Rs 50cr on Jalgaon airport||Nashik: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has invested over Rs 50 crore in a phased manner to create aviation infrastructure in Jalgaon, which has the second biggest airport in North Maharashtra after Nashik airport. Currently, commercial flights operated by Trujet are being run from the airport. While the Jalgaon-Ahmedabad-Jalgaon flight operates thrice a week, the flight from Jalgaon to Mumbai operates once a week. A private airline is planning to connect Jalgaon with Pune and Indore. MPs Unmesh Patil and Raksha Khadse are working overtime to improve the air connectivity of Jalgaon. “After the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) gave its approval for night landing of aircraft, the instruments for facilitating the same have been put in place at the airport. The airport has also established a new equipment that will provide navigation information to pilots not only while landing and taking off but also while flying over Jalgaon,” said officials. The AAI has also provided Jalgaon airport with state-of-the-art crash fire-fighting equipment imported from Austria and two new baggage X-Ray scanning machines. “On the instructions of the AAI, the authorities have constructed a 40m-long bridge over a river outside the airport premises to facilitate movement of vehicles during an emergency. The bridge has been linked to a 1000m kutcha road leading to the airport,” said AAI sources. Director of Jalgaon airport director Sunil Maggirwar said that the airport had huge potential. According to AAI sources, some of the future plans include establishing a new swanky terminal and setting up nine bays for aircraft parking. There are also plans to shift the main gate of the airport from Aurangabad highway side to the southern side of the airport. District guardian minister Gulabrao Patil has provided funds and directed the PWD to construct the approach road leading to the proposed main gate of the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/aai-invests-rs-50cr-on-jalgaon-airport/articleshow/78370351.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Uphill task ahead for panel on Musi river||HYDERABAD: As the NGT puts the focus on a newly-formed committee for remedial action on the Musi river, experts say that the committee will have an uphill task considering the plethora of problems faced by the water body. “First priority must be the removal of encroachments in the catchment of the Musi river. Owing to this the width of the river has shrunk,” said Mohammed Nayeem Pasha, an LLB student from Sultan-Ul-Uloom College of Law, who is the petitioner in the NGT. The NGT, New Delhi, recently ordered the formation of a committee to oversee the remedial action on the river stretch in Hyderabad. The committee is to be headed by justice Vilas Afzalpurkar, former judge, AP & Telangana high court as the chairman and will include members from the Central Pollution Control Board, State Pollution Control Board and a district magistrate. Environmentalist Purushottam Reddy also urged that the catchment must be protected. While appreciating the order, Reddy said: “Among many considerations that need to be taken into is probable deforestation in the Damagundam reserve forest area in Vikarabad. This is the catchment of Musi and any disruption will adversely affect it.” The forest is being considered for extremely low frequency radar project which was undertaken by the Eastern Naval command, Visakhapatnam. All eyes will now shift to the committee, which has been given a month to hold its first meeting, to file its report in four months and to complete its work tentatively within one year. The panel will be provided all logistics and other support by state PCB and district magistrate. Babu Rao, a former scientist with the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, however, raised concerns about the need for experts with technical knowledge in the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uphill-task-ahead-for-panel-on-musi/articleshow/78372953.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Eat millets to fight lifestyle diseases: Amitabh Kant||HYDERABAD: With lifestyle-related diseases becoming a matter of grave concern, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant has called for cultivation and consumption of millets. “We need to create a buzz and make it a fashion statement that consuming millets is good for health and has immense nutritional benefits,” Amitabh Kant said during a webinar, which was organised by ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, on Monday.  Last year in September, the department of school education wrote to state governments to include millets in midday meals. Kant said Niti Aayog recently facilitated development of a pilot project for decentralised inclusion of millets in three aspirational districts of Telangana. This has been approved by the committee of aspirational districts and Niti Aayog is providing the funds for this. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eat-millets-to-fight-lifestyle-diseases-kant/articleshow/78372938.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 29, 2020||Hubballi||B’luru forum modernises D’gere village school by spending Rs 26 lakh||Davanagere: The children of Government Higher Primary School in Neralagundi, a tiny village in Honnali taluk of Davanagere district, are boasting of an institute that can make any private school feel shy. The government school’s fortune changed for the better after ‘Vana Yatri’, a Bengaluru-based forum of adventure enthusiasts, adopted and modernised it at a cost of Rs 26 lakh. Now, the schoolchildren are taught lessons in hi-tech classrooms with audio-video teaching aids, said headmaster Lakshmipathi B H. According to the headmaster, many children from neighbouring villages started showing interest to join this school after coming to know about the facilities there. Word-of-mouth publicity by those who had already joined the school is said to have done the trick. “Our school’s development and education standards are a major pull. We started the classes in June by adhering to SOP guidelines. But because of Covid crisis, the classes are held at community halls, temples and under the trees,” the HM said, adding: “Each teacher has adopted 10 students whom they will give individual attention to. As most of the parents of our students are illiterates, our teachers pay weekly house visits to clear study-related doubts, if any. Nine months ago, three teachers were appointed to teach English, science, maths, computers, sports and yoga, besides an attender. These appointments are in addition to the six teachers appointed by the government. “Rs 54,000 is paid towards their (new appointees) salary and this is borne by our forum,” said Raghu Neralagundi, auditor and one of the members of ‘Vana Yatri’. Raghu is a native of Neralagundi where the school is located. Explaining the reason for adopting the school, he said: “The building of my alma mater was crumbling, making it unsuitable to hold classes. So we adopted and modernised it by spending Rs 26 lakh.” The forum members said they had met education minister S Suresh Kumar and inked an MoU to get Rs 20 lakh matching grants from the government to improve the school. “Being in touch with the minister, we keep updating him about the developments in the campus,” Raghu said. The forum of adventure enthusiasts has over 80 members from different walks of life — engineers, architects, doctors and the like — with most of them residing in Bengaluru. They visit Neralagundi school during week days to interact with students and teachers. Such visits help them address campus-related issues, if any, and keep the show going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bluru-forum-modernises-dgere-village-school-by-spending-rs-26-lakh/articleshow/78372549.cms||SA Gangaraju
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Women’s role most important in family, but least appreciated: HC||Nagpur: Over 15 years after a woman’s death in an accident, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court granted Rs8.22 lakh compensation to her husband and two sons, while making the observation that “a woman has the most important role in a family, but is least appreciated”. “In a family, a woman's role as a housewife is the most challenging, which though deserves much appreciation, is least appreciated. According to the dictionary, ‘housewife’ is a woman who doesn’t have a job outside home and spends her time cleaning, cooking, and looking after her family. In fact, she emotionally holds the family together,” justice Anil Kilor said, while quashing the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT)’s verdict of rejecting appeal of husband and sons for Rs5 lakh compensation from Oriental Insurance Company. Terming a housewife as a pillar of support for her husband, a guiding light for her children and harbour for the family’s elderly, the judge said she works round-the-clock without a single day off, regardless of whether she’s a working professional or not. “However, the work she does goes unacknowledged and isn’t considered as a ‘job’. It’s an impossible task to count her services, which consist of hundreds of components that go into functioning of a household itself, in monetary terms,” the judge added. Rambhau Gawai and his two sons from Achalpur had challenged the MACT verdict of rejecting their compensation claim under the Motor Vehicle Act, after the death of his 38-year-old wife in an accident on March 31, 2005. The company rejected their claim on grounds that the driver of the offending vehicle didn’t possess a valid motor driving licence and the offending jeep was insured for private purposes, but was used commercially in breach of condition. Quoting Supreme Court’s judgements, justice Kilor said the loss to husband and children on death of housewife/mother has to be computed by estimating the loss of personal care and attention given as a mother and wife, and for gratuitous and multifarious services rendered for managing the entire family. “The deceased, being a woman and mother, would have also contributed her physical labour for maintenance of household and also taking care of her children,” the judge said. “Being a labourer and taking care of family, her daily income should be fixed at Rs200 per day and Rs6,000 per month,” the judge added, while granting additional compensation of Rs8.22 lakh against demand of Rs5 lakh. Rejecting the insurance company’s claim, the judge stated that the accident took place due to the driver's rash and negligent driving, therefore it’s vicarious liability of the vehicle owner to pay compensation. “It’s the company’s statutory duty to pay compensation even in breach of policy rules. The company is at liberty to recover it from the vehicle owner,” the HC said. What HC said* As per dictionary, housewife a woman who doesn’t have job outside home * She spends time in cleaning, cooking and looking after family * Emotionally holds family together and pillar of support for hubby * Guiding light for children and harbour for family’s elderly * Works 24X7 without a single day off, no matter whether she’s a working professional or not * Her work goes unacknowledged and isn’t considered a ‘job’ * Impossible to count her long list of services * Comprises hundreds of components that go into functioning of household||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/womens-role-most-important-in-family-but-least-appreciated-hc/articleshow/78374311.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala’s per day Covid growth rate double that of country||KOCHI: Post Onam, Kerala has seen a massive 126% increase in active Covid cases -- from 23,277 on August 29 to 52,677 on September 26. The state is now placed fourth in the country in terms of active cases -- behind Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- and it is a serious development for a relatively small state. The state is above the national average in most Covid parameters. Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) is high at 13.6% while the growth rate of new cases is 3.5% per day, which is more than double that of the country. The state's seven-day active cases MGR is 28% as against the national average of 11% and 30-day active cases MGR is 98% as against 46% nationally. The mortality moving growth rate (MGR) has also jumped by 134%. Health experts said Kerala’s once-lauded model of Covid control is facing its biggest challenge and if the present trend continues, there will be a cascading effect on the state's healthcare infrastructure and districts with limited hospital resources will be the worst-hit. The ICU facilities in Kottayam and Thiruvananthapuram districts are already almost full while 50-75% critical care facilities in Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, Idukki and Kollam are filled with Covid patients. Active cases in Kollam, Palakkad and Kannur have grown over 200% in September while Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Idukki and Kottayam have seen an 150% jump. Critical care infrastructure and trained staff are a concern in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and all north Kerala districts except Kozhikode. There is a manpower crisis as well. “The situation is slowly getting out of hand and we will soon see an increase in Covid deaths if this continues. We have a manpower crisis also at such a crucial junction. While the junior doctors are quitting by September-end, many doctors registered with Covid Brigade have either not joined or have quit within a few days of joining over payment or other issues,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, president, Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA). "Looking at the recent numbers and trends in Kerala, we get an impression that the state is struggling at the moment. We are not sure if the healthcare infrastructure in Kerala has the tolerance to handle 15,000-20,000 cases per day. It is important to keep the contingency plan ready and take all stakeholders into confidence," said Mysore Sanjeev, convener, Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative that analysed the situation and shared its report with the government and the IMA. The state's concerns are manifold as it is densely populated (906 persons/sq km as against 426 persons/sq km in India) and has nearly one-third population in the high-risk category as they are either aged above 60 or have chronic health conditions. Health minister K K Shailaja had, on Sunday, warned that the state could be forced to go for extreme restrictions or even a second lockdown. "With Unlock 5.0 round the corner, everyone needs to be extremely careful; should stick to the "Break the chain" guidelines. Human life is more precious than anything," said Dr B Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralas-per-day-covid-growth-rate-double-that-of-country/articleshow/78372944.cms||Preetu Nair
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik West has least number of Covid cases, courtesy awareness||Nashik: Upmarket localities that fall in Nashik West division have registered least number of Covid-19 cases among six divisions of the city, thanks to awareness about the pandemic. Of the 48,213 Covid positive case in the city, Nashik West has only 4,307 cases, which is only 9% of the total cases, said civic officials on Monday. Areas like College Road, parts of Gangapur Road, Mumbai Naka, Trimbak Road and Raviware Karanja fall in the division,. However, Panchavati, Cidco and Nashik Road divisions have 66% of the total cases . “The residents, especially senior citizens, in Nashik West have not been moving out of their homes unnecessarily, Those moving out are following safety rules such as social distancing and wearing of face masks,” said Charudatta Jagtap, divisional medical officer, Nashik West division. “There are around 12 slums in the area, but cases low there as even slum dwellers are taking all the precautions against the coronavirus,” he said. “We are also continuously conducting surveys to find people with Covid symptoms besides creating awareness in the division,” said Jagtap. Corporator Shahu Khaire said cases are definitely under control in Nashik West division but more needs to be done to curb the cases. “The civic officials and employees are doing a good job, but we have to increase the efforts to break the chain in the city. The situation was bad around 20 days back, but it has now come under control,” said Khaire. The corporator said the recovery rate in the city has increased up to 91%, while the death rate is below 1.5%, both of which are positive developments. Khaire also expressed the need for proper coordination between the civic administration, police and public representatives to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-west-has-least-number-of-covid-cases-courtesy-awareness/articleshow/78370405.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Restaurants can open from first week of Oct, with riders||Nagpur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has assured restaurant and hotel owners that their establishments would be allowed to open from first week of October, but the owners would have to follow certain guidelines. A meeting was held between the CM and Hotels and Restaurants Association Western India (HRAWI) on Monday. HRAWI was led by its immediate past-president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli. Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary (tourism), has prepared a protocol for restaurants. It has been circulated among the hotel and restaurant owners. The salient features of the protocol are: All customers should be screened at the entry point for Covid symptoms such as temperature (using thermal guns), cough, cold, etc and only asymptomatic ones should be allowed. Those with temperature more than 38.0 °C (100.4 °F) and/or flu like symptoms shall not be permitted. The service provider should record contact details of such persons while advising them to return. Consent for sharing of their details with authorities should be taken from visitors as and where required for contact tracing related activity. Customers will be allowed to enter premises only if they are using face cover/masks. They are always required to wear face mask while on the premises. Hand sanitizers must be made available for customers. They must be placed in all public areas on the premises to be used by guests. Payment via digital mode for purchases to be encouraged as much as possible and precautions shall be taken in case of handling cash. In order to prevent interaction between customers and cashiers, consider using physical barriers, such as Plexiglas screens, at counters where interactions with customers frequently occur. If practicable, set up separate venue entry and exit points. Put green and red lights or signage outside the washroom to indicate its occupied or not. CCTV cameras at the accommodation unit must be fully functional. Disposable menus to be used to reduce the chances of spread of virus. Contactless menu through QR code recommended. Instead of cloth napkins, use of good quality disposable paper napkins to be encouraged. Modification of restaurant layout keeping minimum one metre distance between tables. Only bottled water, where outer side of the bottle is disinfected, to be used for providing water to guests. Only cooked food to be included in the menu and to avoid inclusion of raw or cold food like salads etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restaurants-can-open-from-first-week-of-oct-with-riders/articleshow/78372971.cms||Ashish Roy
September 29, 2020||Allahabad||Among four dists, number of docs with Covid-19 infection highest in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: Indicating how not even frontline warriors are not safe from the grip of the deadly virus, more than 60 doctors and over 100 healthcare professionals working in government medical facilities have tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Prayagraj district since the outbreak of the disease in March. In Prayagraj district, 169 healthcare services providers — 67 doctors, 68 paramedical staff and 34 others — have been diagnosed with Covid-19 till now. Apart from these, 23 doctors and seven paramedical staff working in private hospitals and nursing have been diagnosed with the disease till now in the district. Prayagraj’s count of healthcare providers contracting Covid-19 is the highest among the three other neighbouring districts. In Fatehpur, 45 healthcare professionals working in government institutions have tested positive for Covid-19 till now. The corresponding figure for Pratapgarh and Kaushambi districts is 30 and seven respectively. Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Pratapgrah and Kaushambi are the four districts which comprise Prayagraj range. Additional director (health) Dr Sudhakar Pandey said, “At 169 cases, Prayagraj has recorded the highest number of healthcare service providers testing positive for Covid-19 among the four districts. Meanwhile, Kaushambi district has recorded the highest recovery rate in the range.” Till Sunday, Prayagraj’s recovery rate had crossed 81%. The recovery rate of Pratapgarh and Kaushambi was recorded as 76% and 89% respectively. Of the 18,660 Covid-19 patients recorded in Prayagraj till Sunday, 15,227 have recovered. The caseload for Pratapgarh and Kaushambi is 3,692 and 1,462 respectively and 2,800 and 1,310 patients have recovered in the two districts till now. In Prayagraj, 10,916 patients have completed home isolation, while 4,311 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery till Sunday. Till now, the city has recorded 3,173 active cases. Meanwhile, 260 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 till now in Prayagraj. The toll in Pratapgarh and Kaushambi currently stands at 42 and 21 respectively. Around 2.39 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Prayagraj district so far. The corresponding figure for Pratapgarh and Kaushambi is 40,000 and 79,000 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/among-four-dists-number-of-docs-with-covid-19-infection-highest-in-prayagraj/articleshow/78374326.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fancy this! 0009 is a seven-digit number||NEW DELHI: After a fivefold increase in car sales in July compared with May, August proved to be a dampener with a dip of 37.8% compared with July. However, the fascination of Delhiites for fancy registration plates has definitely not witnessed a slowdown. This month, a registration number of the popular series 0009 went for Rs 10.1 lakh, the highest bid since the Covid-19 outbreak. This bid eclipses the one of Rs 7.1 lakh in July for a registration number of the same series. The other high bids in September were of Rs 3.1 lakh each for registration numbers of series 0003 and 0007. After being closed in March owing to the lockdown, e-auction of fancy registration numbers restarted in April. However, only one registration number, of the series 9000, was auctioned and the transport department earned Rs 1.5 lakh. The next month, five registration numbers were auctioned for a total of Rs 9.3 lakh with 0022 fetching 2.1 lakh. In June, the department earned Rs 21.7 lakh, the highest bid being Rs 3.4 lakh for the number 0002. In July, the department earned Rs 33.8 lakh through e-auction, including the Rs 7.1 lakh bid. The other high bids for the same number as part of different series went for Rs 4.2 lakh and Rs 3.1 lakh in the same month. In August, the numbers dipped slightly and the total revenue earned through e-auction of fancy numbers was Rs 33.3 lakh. However, officials believe that the cumulative e-auction figures, which would be calculated at the month-end, would be the highest since March. From April to August, the department earned Rs 99.6 lakh. Compared with the same period last year, when the revenue was Rs 4.6 crore through e-auction, the current numbers appear very low. However, Delhi government officials believe this is a welcome sign. Unlike purchase of vehicles, buying fancy registration numbers is an extravagance. The fact that vehicle owners don’t mind spending on a fancy number an amount high enough to buy another affordable vehicle, shows that buyer confidence is slowly re-emerging. Before the pandemic, Delhiites weren’t averse to splurging on fancy registration numbers. In June 2017, a Delhi-based hospitality firm created a record, which remains unbeaten, when it paid Rs 16 lakh for the coveted registration number 0001. The record prior to that was Rs 12.5 lakh, which was achieved in September 2014, again for 0001. The department has now run out of series with which the number can be provided. The other sought after numbers were 0009 and 0007, an official said. The online e-auction facility for fancy registration numbers was started in 2014. It is conducted by Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd on behalf of the transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fancy-this-0009-is-a-seven-digit-number/articleshow/78374329.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||JCTSL suffers losses as passenger load dips||JAIPUR: Jaipur City Transport Service Limited (JCTSL) has been running half of its buses as the number of passengers has gone down drastically after lockdown was relaxed. This has severely hit the revenue of the organisation that hasn’t been able to pay its employees salaries for the last two months. Before lockdown, JCTSL used to ply around 200 buses which has now been brought down to 84. When things were normal, around 2 lakh people availed the services generating more than Rs 18 lakh revenue daily. Currently, not even 25,000 people are opting for the services generating just around Rs 4 lakh revenue. Veerendra Verma, officer on special duty at JCTSL for , “Due to the ongoing pandemic, passengers are not availing the services. Earlier, we ran buses with half capacity to maintain social distancing but now we have allowed to run them in full capacity but to no avail.” A few days ago, JCTSL had reduced the fare of buses by Rs 5 in all the routes, but that hasn’t solved the problem. JCTSL is already running in losses and they haven’t been able to pay salaries to their employees for the last two months. Babulal Nangli, secretary of JCTSL Employees Union said, “We haven’t received our salaries for two months and it will third month if you count September.” Babulal said when JCTSL services were entirely shut, they were not facing such losses. “One AC bus takes around Rs 50 per kilometre but the revenue it is generating is not even Rs 30 per kilometre,” said Babulal. There are three depots from where JCTSL buses ply – Sanganer, Vidhyadhar Nagar and Todi depots — out of which Sanganer is completely shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jctsl-suffers-losses-as-passenger-load-dips/articleshow/78372962.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Greens: Save Devuni Kunta||HYDERABAD: Writing to the chief justice of HC, activists Jasveen Jairath and Lubna Sarwath have pleaded that Devuni Kunta, a lake in Mehdipatnam which has turned into a puddle to be restored. In their appeal, the activists said “in spite of all our representations and follow up Devuni Kunta’s “area and storage capacity have not been restored till date.”  They also blamed lack of the lake’s holding capacity on the inlet channel being diverted and water being pumped out by persons other than officials concerned.  Stating that the RDO Hyderabad division had lodged FIR at SHO Humayun Nagar in 2019 against encroachers, they have asked that the FIR against encroachers be fast tracked. They have also asked for Devuni Kunta team with locals to protect the lake as well as appointing locals in WALTA authority as mandated by WALTA Act 2002.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/greens-save-devuni-kunta/articleshow/78372958.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||BIS scientists ‘took bribe’ for fit-water certificate: CBI||KOLKATA: The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked two scientists for allegedly “demanding and accepting” bribe from a Kasba-based packaged drinking water manufacturer and trying to certify inferior quality water against the money. While one of them is a former scientist with Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), the other one is now posted with BIS’s New Delhi office. The case dates back to 2018 when the two allegedly asked for bribe from the Kasba-based manufacturer. According to sources, the manufacturer —Water Angel — had a licence from the BIS for packaged drinking water. Since the licence had to be renewed annually, they had applied for the same and the two scientists demanded money from the manufacturer. The scientists, then posted at the Kolkata BIS office, offered to clear the water sample of the company against an amount. They also offered to list the “stop marking” order passed against the company. According to BIS sources, when a packaged water manufacturing company seeks a licence, it has to go through a series of tests before it’s allowed to use the “ISI” mark. Every bottle of packaged drinking water has to go through a complex process involving decantation, filtration, aeration, filtration with membrane filter, depth filter, cartridge filter, demineralization and re-mineralisation, among others. Processed water is disinfected by chemical or physical methods while maintaining the food safety standards. The containers used in the process need to be ISS certified and filling process should be tamper proof. Each container or bottle should have the shelf life clearly mentioned on the label. “The licence is granted after a thorough inspection and it has to be renewed annually after the facility meets standard requirements,” said a senior official with the BIS, Kolkata. According to BIS sources, there are around 350 packaged drinking water manufacturers in Bengal and each of them go through annual checks apart from market surveillance. “This incident took place in 2018 and it was later referred to the vigilance office of the BIS. The case was referred to the CBI after that,” the official said. In its FIR, the CBI mentioned that the complainant or the packaged water manufacturing company had submitted video clips in which one of the scientists had a conversation with a representative of the company. In another clip, the company’s representative is seen talking to the scientists regarding the bribe amount of Rs 85,000 and Rs 15,000. On Monday, the company downed its shutters after media representatives reached their Kasba office. None of the representatives of the water manufacturer could be contacted. Seema Sharma, the chief vigilance officer of the BIS, went through the details of the complaint and submitted that with the CBI. “The preliminary inquiry revealed that both the scientists accepted the bribe amount and showed the company favour by trying to pass inferior quality water,” the CBI said in its complaint. Based on the preliminary inquiry, the CBI has registered a case and booked the two scientists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bis-scientists-took-bribe-for-fit-water-certificate-cbi/articleshow/78372961.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot submits memo, Pilot hits out at Centre over agri laws||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, along with PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, submitted a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking withdrawal of the new agriculture-related laws, to Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday.Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, on the other hand, addressed a press conference to hit out at the Centre by accusing it of betraying the farmers by ‘forcefully’ getting the new farm laws passed by the Parliament.“These laws will destroy the farmers and the country’s already weakened economy,” Pilot said. “It is strange that the farmers never asked for such laws, but still the Centre got these passed without having majority. You (NDA government) could not convince the Cabinet minister from your ally Shiromani Akali Dal and still expect the farmers to accept these laws,” he added.On being asked if the three laws signed by the President would be implemented in Rajasthan, Pilot said, “When we are opposing these, we cannot be party to implementing the same.”The former deputy CM said that ending the existing mandi system would lead to a few industrialists monopolising the sector. “In May this year, the Centre said it would connect the mandis digitally. How will the marginal farmers travel to faraway places to sell their crop,” Pilot asked.“These laws are being opposed all over the country. Congress decided to stand alongside the farmers and take the fight further. The central government has betrayed the farmers at a challenging time,” he said.A day earlier, President Kovind gave assent to the three contentious bills namely, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-submits-memo-pilot-hits-out-at-centre-over-agri-laws/articleshow/78372972.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant leopard dies in territorial fight||Chandrapur: A female leopard was killed in territorial fight with a higher predator in Saoli range. The carcass was recovered during early hours of Monday. The deceased beast was pregnant and one of its dead fetuses was jet black due to melanistic genetic abnormality, claimed a doctor involved in the post-mortem. RFO Saoli range, Kambli informed that their patrolling team found the bloodied dead body of the female leopard, aged around three years, in compartment no. 1534 close to Londhli village. The beast had several injury marks, including major ones on neck and tail. There was blood spilled all around and had scene suggested of violent struggle between two predators. “The injury marks on the body and other circumstantial evidences on the scene suggest that the leopard probably had fight with a big tiger,” he said. As no veterinary doctors was available in Saoli, the body was moved to Chandrapur transit treatment centre (TTC) for post mortem. Wildlife veterinary officer, TATR, Dr Ravikant Khobragade and team carried out post mortem at TTC. Dr Khobragade said that there is already one very popular black panther (melanitic leopard) in Tadoba and its sighting during safari is very rare. “It was seer shock to find yet another specimen of same kind. There were three fetuses, two male and a female, in the abdomen of the leopard. One of the male fetuses had rare melanistic genetic anomaly due to which its skin was pitch black,” he said. Post mortem was carried out in presence of NTCA and PCCF representatives Bandu Dhotre and Mukesh Bhandakkar. Vets confirmed that death was caused due to violent struggle with other predator. The remains of dead leopardess and its fetuses were later incinerated at TTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-leopard-dies-in-territorial-fight/articleshow/78373028.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||School fees appeal case: Hearing deferred to September 30||JAIPUR: After the government informed the high court that it also wanted to file appeal against the order, the high court has deferred the hearing on the appeal on the single bench order on school fees to September 30. The order had asked parents to pay 70% of the tuition fees in three instalments by January 31. The court then posted the hearing on the matter on September 30, clubbing both the cases together. The court was hearing the appeal against the single bench order of September 7 by lawyer Sunil Samdaria. The court had earlier issued notice to the government and the private school organizations which went to the court resulting in the court order. Incidentally, the last date for the first instalment of fee payment is also September 30, on the day of hearing. The single bench of the court on September 7 in an interim order had directed the parents to pay 70% of tuition fee in three instalments for the academic year 2020-21 till a final decision was taken. The court direction came following a petition by several private school organisations challenging the government order on April 9 directing deferment of school fees for three months for the academic session 2020-2021 which was extended up till re-opening of schools on July 7. The appeal petition said the single bench order had allowed the writ petition in part at the interim stage, directing the institutions to demand 70% of tuition fees from parents during the period for which schools had remained closed or for the period schools would remain close, thus imparting no effective education to the children except through online medium. He said the order had been passed without granting any effective opportunity of audience to the affected parties. The petitioner further said, school fee of private schools is to be determined in accordance with Chapter II of The Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee Act), 2016. Section 4 of the Act provides for constitution of parents’ teachers association within 30 days of the beginning of the academic year and a parent of every student is mandatory required to be a member of the association. After the PTA is formed, school level fee committee (SLFC) is to be constituted by way of lottery. After the constitution of SLFC, fee is to be determined by it in accordance with the Act of 2016. It was submitted that despite the statutory mandate, none of the schools has constituted SLFC in consonance of the Act of 2016 and fees have been arbitrarily fixed by the management of institutions. Thus, the parents are not aware as to under what head, what fee is being charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-fees-appeal-case-hearing-deferred-to-sept-30/articleshow/78372978.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Private hospitals in Ajmer district will also treat Covid patients||AJMER: In the wake of a spike in Covid cases in the district, five private hospitals have been directed to start treatment of corona patients. Out of the five private hospitals, three are in Ajmer and one each in Kishangarh and in Beawar. Earlier, most patients got themselves admitted to Jaipur private hospitals. Over the last 15 days, an average of 100 people are getting infected with the virus in addition to around three deaths in Ajmer. Divisional commissioner Arushi Malik on Monday held a meeting of medical and health officials and inspected the Covid ward in JLN Hospital. From the first day of lockdown on March 23, JLN Hospital had been treating Covid patients but now with more people getting infected, more hospitals are needed to treat them. Malik said there was no deficiency of oxygen cylinders in Ajmer district and some private hospitals even have their own oxygen generators. She said the new ICU ward with 200 beds will start working soon. She also directed to allow relatives of patients to meet them in Covid ward but with PPT kits and following the guidelines. She said that direction has also be given to doctors to arrange communication of patients with their relatives and family members so that they feel good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/private-hospitals-in-ajmer-district-will-also-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/78372966.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ajmer||Private hospitals in Ajmer district will also treat Covid patients||AJMER: In the wake of a spike in Covid cases in the district, five private hospitals have been directed to start treatment of corona patients. Out of the five private hospitals, three are in Ajmer and one each in Kishangarh and in Beawar. Earlier, most patients got themselves admitted to Jaipur private hospitals. Over the last 15 days, an average of 100 people are getting infected with the virus in addition to around three deaths in Ajmer. Divisional commissioner Arushi Malik on Monday held a meeting of medical and health officials and inspected the Covid ward in JLN Hospital. From the first day of lockdown on March 23, JLN Hospital had been treating Covid patients but now with more people getting infected, more hospitals are needed to treat them. Malik said there was no deficiency of oxygen cylinders in Ajmer district and some private hospitals even have their own oxygen generators. She said the new ICU ward with 200 beds will start working soon. She also directed to allow relatives of patients to meet them in Covid ward but with PPT kits and following the guidelines. She said that direction has also be given to doctors to arrange communication of patients with their relatives and family members so that they feel good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/private-hospitals-in-ajmer-district-will-also-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/78376529.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||South Eastern Railway project for safety of women passengers||Kolkata: South Eastern Railway (SER) has launched a pilot project named Op My Saheli to provide security to women passengers on long-distance trains. Young women sub-inspectors of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) are involved in this project, which may soon be adopted by other railway zones. Since its inception on September 18, several women passengers have expressed their satisfaction at the efforts being made, said D B Kasar, IG-cum-principal chief security commissioner, SER. Kasar, however, refused to comment on whether any steps have been taken to maintain social distancing or manage crowds if suburban train services do start anytime soon. “No decision has still been taken to run suburban services. Any plans can only be made after an operating procedure is in place to run such services,” SER CPRO Sanjoy Ghosh said. According to Kasar, the reservation chart is studied and 40-50 women passengers are shortlisted. These passengers are spread across all reserved coaches of the train. The concerned RPF sub-inspectors then interact with these passengers, urging them to report back in case something occurs nearby during the train journey. A broadcast group has also been created for these women passengers through which the RPF can remain in contact. “We pass on the list of names with berth numbers (without mobile numbers) to every zone the train passes. At every major station, authorities interact with them and ask whether any assistance is required. In case of an emergency, the women can call up 182 or the mobile numbers of the zonal security control or Op My Saheli,” Kasar said. In the 10-odd days since the start of the project, at least two incidents have been reported. The project is under the Nirbhaya Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ser-project-for-safety-of-women-passengers/articleshow/78372983.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Some big-ticket Tollywood films eye Durga Puja release, others to wait and watch||KOLKATA: If Central Board of Film Certification gives nod on time, Nusrat Jahan, Mimi Chakraborty and Yash Dasgupta’s ‘SOS Kolkata’ and Anjan Dutt’s ‘Shaheber Cutlet’ should release during the Puja. Koel Mullick’s ‘Rawkto Rawhoshyo’ that already has a censor certificate is also targeting a Puja release. At least one among the three SVF productions that are ready is also eyeing a Puja release. But, most other big-ticket Bengali movies might be avoiding Pujas this year even though the state has allowed cinemas to reopen on October 1. Incidentally, October 1 is a Thursday. Cinemas keen on reopening will either go for Friday or thereafter. Though there is no clarity yet on reopening date of the Kolkata cinemas, Santanu Raychaudhuri, treasurer of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), said many single screens on the suburbs are keen on getting back to business immediately. “That includes Rupmandir (Belghoria), Banirupa Cinema (Berachampa), Ellora (Champahati), Mahamaya (South Barasat) and Sulekha Cinema (Mograhat),” he said. Film booker Haru Hazra, who has been in the business for 20 years now, wants to tread with caution. “During lockdown, I went back to farming. If things look up, I will get back to the film industry. However, I don’t know how many cinemas on the suburbs will be able to reopen now. The infrastructure has to be there. Ensuring that everything mentioned in the SOP (which needs to come in) will take time. Besides, there’s content issue,” he said. At a meeting with the chief minister, president of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) Piya Sengupta had mentioned that there are as many as 40 Bengali movies in various stages of production. They include Srijit Mukherji’s ‘Kakababur Protyabortan’, Debaloy Bhattacharya’s ‘Dracula Sir’, Arindam Sil’s ‘Maayakumari’, Sayantan Ghosal’s ‘Tenida’, Kaushik Ganguly’s ‘Ardhangini’ and ‘Lokkhi Chele’, Parambrata Chattopadhyay’s ‘Bony’, Soukarya Ghosal’s ‘Rawkto Rawhoshyo’, Aniket Chattopadhyay’s ‘Habuchandra Raja Gobuchandra Montri’, Raj Chakraborty’s ‘Dharmajuddha’ and ‘Habji Babji’, Nandita Roy and Shiboprosad Mukherjee’s ‘Bela Shuru’, Abhijit Sen’s ‘Tonic’, Anindya Chattopadhyay’s ‘Prem Tame’, Subhrajit Mitra’s ‘Avijatrik’, Arjunn Dutta’s ‘Guldaasta’, Dhrubo Banerjee’s ‘Golondaaj’, Bratya Basu’s ‘Dictionary’, Anjan Dutt’s ‘Shaheber Cutlet’ and Sudeshna Roy and Abhijit Guha’s ‘Biye.Com’. Days after the state allowed filming to resume, new movies including ‘SOS Kolkata’, Raja Chanda’s ‘Magic’ and Kamaleswar Mukherjee’s ‘Anusandhan’ began shooting. Nusrat Jahan is off to London to begin shooting Sayantan Ghoshal’s ‘Swastik Sanket’, starring Rudranil Ghosh, Gaurav Chakraborty and Shataf Figar. Sengupta, however, is sure that initially the halls will reopen with reruns of Bengali movies. “Things may pick up during the Pujas,” she hoped. Producer Nishpal Singh has plans for the Puja release of “Rawkto Rawhoshyo”. According to producer Shyamsundar Dey, “The budget for ‘Shaheber Cutlet’ is Rs 80 lakh. If the audience starts coming in, I think we can do good business with a Puja‘ release.” Though ‘Dharmajuddha’ is ready, director Raj Chakrabarty is not keen on a Puja release since it is not a “festival film” and is “slightly serious”. "I also have 'Habji Babji' ready. However, I think I shall wait for early next year to release these films," Chakrabarty said. For two years now, director Arindam Sil has had a Puja release. Even this year, he had wanted to release “Maayakumari” during the Pujas. “But preparation is required for promotions if we have to release it on October 22. With the 50-viewer cap, it won’t be possible for big-budget films to make money. We need to see how the audience is reacting and the number of people turning up. We have decided that our Puja release will be postponed till December. If the situation was right and things were more normal, we would have definitely released the film during Durga Puja,” Sil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-big-ticket-tolly-films-eye-puja-release-others-to-wait-and-watch/articleshow/78372974.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three floors of 5-storey building near upcoming runway may have to go||NEW DELHI: Aircraft coming in to land at Delhi Airport’s third runway (29-11) from Shivji statue side always need to touch down late on this airstrip to steer clear of the tall structure. Now the airport’s upcoming fourth runway, being built about 300 metres from the third runway, faces the prospect of a five-storey building of Airports Authority of India (AAI) posing a similar challenge to wide body aircraft landing on it once it is ready by next April. Accordingly, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has asked AAI to knock off the top three floors of the building — meaning reduce its height from 25 metres to about 10 metres — and enable full use of the upcoming fourth runway by wide body aircraft. This building houses the northern region HQ of AAI and is the office of regional executive director (north). Confirming this, a DIAL spokesperson said: "The fouth runway of IGI Airport is expected to be commissioned by May 2021. Discussions are ongoing between AAI and DIAL to resolve the few points of AAI’s RED Building which have been identified as obstacles in the Obstacle Limitation Surface (OLS) study of the the fouth runway." People in the know in AAI say the building is housed in a 14-acre plot that belongs to the state-run authority. “Given the drastic fall in air traffic due to the pandemic, there is no need to immediately demolish the top three floors of this building. The upcoming fourth runway is about 300 metres from the existing third (29-11) airstrip. So the two runways can’t have simultaneous or parallel operations. Wide body planes can continue using runway 29 and at a later date when there is the need, the height of this building can be reduced,” said sources. AAI sources say DIAL will have to build office complex in the 14 acre plot for northern region HQ to compensate for the loss of office area by the demolition on the three floors in question. On their part, DIAL sources say the operator hopes to have the fourth runway ready by next May. “Then in June 2021 we plan to recarpet runway 28-10 (IGIA’s oldest warhorse with the famous jumbo point on the expressway) which will take about a year. Once that work is done we plan to recarpet runway 27-09. At any given time, IGIA needs three operational runways to handle the demand of air traffic,” said sources. AAI sources say delaying the demolition of top three floors will mean a “displaced threshold” of about a km for the new runway — meaning this length of the new airstrip won’t be used as wide body aircraft will have to fly in high due to the building and touch down much later on the airstrip. Aircraft coming in to land from Shivji statue side on the 4,430-metre-long third runway (29), that was built in 2008, have to glide for about 1.5 km on it before touching down due to the tall structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-floors-of-5-storey-building-near-upcoming-runway-may-have-to-go/articleshow/78393878.cms||Saurabh Sinha
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||App-based finance firms come under Hyderabad police radar||HYDERABAD: An app-based finance company based in Chennai has come under Hyderabad cyber crime police radar following complaints of harassment and character assassination of loanees by the firm. A few days ago, a city-based private firm employee approached police seeking action against the finance company for defaming him and harassing him. He took Rs 20,000 loan and had failed to repay Rs 5,000. However, a representative of the firm called him and threatened him with dire consequences. The company, it is learnt, accessed his contact list and defamed him by calling several of those on the contact list. When asked, assistant commissioner of police (cyber crime) KVM Prasad said they traced the antecedents of the finance company based in Chennai. “We are investigating the case,” he said. The complainant, who wished to be anonymous, said that he shared his Aadhaar card and PAN card details on the app and took Rs 20,000 loan in four instalments of Rs 5,000 each. “Out of the four loans of Rs 5,000 each, I had failed to repay only Rs 5,000. When the firm’s representative called, I sought time till evening. But, he refused and threatened me. He called several persons on my contact list and defamed me by assassinating my character,’’ the complainant told TOI. He downloaded an app from Play Store, which promised to give short-term, instant personal loan in a hassle-free manner. Police said he fell for the app-based firm’s bait. Stating that the firm had called only women whose names were saved in his contact list, he said the representative had even called his wife and warned her. It is learnt that students are also becoming victims of this harassment, as many of them have taken loans from these app-based firms without the knowledge of their parents. Till now, Hyderabad cyber crime cops received two such complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/app-based-finance-firms-come-under-police-radar/articleshow/78372980.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||HC constitutes an export committee on Sambhar Lake||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has constituted a seven-member expert committee on Sambhar Lake under the chairmanship of the head of the forest department. The panel includes three experts as well as officers from the industries, environment, forest and animal husbandry departments.The committee will submit its report in a sealed envelope to the HC in four weeks on steps to be taken to prevent a repeat of last year when more than 20,000 migratory birds died due to botulism. The court has also made the state wetland authority a party to the petition and directed to immediately set up a temporary bird nursery near the lake.The court had took suo motu cognizance on the mass death of migratory birds in Sambhar Lake last year. The case was heard on Monday in the bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta.During the hearing, amicus curie Nitin Jain gave names of experts to the court while additional advocate general Ganesh Parihar gave names on behalf of the state government. The court formed a seven-member committee headed by the head of the forest department and the state government will bear all the expenses of this committee.The members include Dr Ajit Patnaik, former chairman of the Chilika Lake Development Authority of Odisha, Dr P Satia Selvam, scientist of animal botulism of the Bombay Natural History Society, RN Mehrotra, former head of the forest department, chief DCF Jaipur, additional director, industries department, member secretary Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board and additional director animal husbandry department.The committee has to suggest measures to prevent encroachment in the lake and how to remove them in addition to suggesting ways to prevent sodium sulfate and sewerage from being added to the lake as residue and other relevant aspects on the development of the lake. The court has directed the state government to set up a temporary nursery on the shore of the lake, with facilities for the treatment birds.Why no Covid treatment in govt hospitals including SMSTimes News NetworkJaipur: Rajasthan High Court has asked the government why no Covid treatment is being provided at big government and private hospitals including SMS. The principal secretary medical and health was asked to reply within two weeks. The court issued the notice on a PIL. The petition sought the government to acquire private hospitals and hotels and all tests and treatment of BPL and poor patients be provided completely free. The petitioner said big government hospitals including SMS should provide Covid care as the pandemic was spinning out of control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-constitutes-an-export-committee-on-sambhar-lake/articleshow/78372984.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 40% spike in Covid deaths in September||NEW DELHI: With 37 more Covid deaths in Delhi, the toll reached 5,272 on Monday. In September, over the past 28 days, Delhi has recorded 828 deaths due to Covid-19. It is nearly 40% more than the number of fatalities recorded in August, when 481 people died of the infection. A data shared by the government, however, showed that June and July witnessed a of maximum 2,269 and 1,221 deaths due to the disease. In April and May, Delhi recorded 57 and 414 deaths, respectively. “Most deaths are occurring in elderly patients who have multiple comorbidities. Delay in admission is another reason for the deaths,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. Covid-19 is known to cause damage to lungs, but recent research showed that it affected almost all major organs in the body, including heart, brain and pancreas. “Winter is about to start and extra care is needed for people suffering from heart diseases, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases and cancer, among others. Their immunity is weaker and infection can increase mortality risk,” a doctor said. In the past month, new Covid cases have gone up, while the positivity rate has remained between 5% and 10%. In the past 24 hours, Delhi has recorded 1,984 new cases, which is significantly lesser than the number recorded on Sunday, an official said, The relatively low count of fresh cases came out of the 36,302 tests done the previous day, the official said. The active Covid case count on Monday stood at 27,123, down from 29,228 the previous day. The Monday bulletin said the fresh cases pushed the Covid tally to 2,73,098 in Delhi. According to the latest data, 6,609 of the 15,828 Covid beds were occupied, while the occupancy of ICU beds with a ventilator and without ventilator was 62% and 76%, respectively. As many as 16,679 Covid patients are under home isolation, the official added. Covid-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month, with September 16 recording 4,473 cases — the highest single-day spike in Delhi so far. The daily surge in cases in Delhi had breached the 4,000-mark for the first time on September 9, while the number of fatalities recorded that day was 20. Watch Delhi witnesses 40% spike in Covid deaths in September||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/40-spike-in-covid-deaths-in-september/articleshow/78374346.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur co’s explosives seized in J&K||Nagpur: The 52kg explosives seized in a water tank near Awantipora town of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), bearing the mark of Nagpur manufacturer Amin Explosives, may be from the only consignment sent to J&K, in 2011, said company officials. They added it is likely the explosives were diverted for illegal use, but the shelf life of such explosives is six months, so they were most likely dead, and would do no damage in a blast. “We went through the records. A consignment was sent to a dealer in J&K in 2011. No supply was sent to any entity in the state after that,” said Ravi Kamra, managing director of Special Blasts Limited, the erstwhile Amin Explosives. The haul of explosives was estimated to be enough to trigger a blast like the one in Pulwama. The manufacturer stressed that if this was 2011 batch explosive, as their records say, it would be of no use. The shelf life of commercial explosives like the one seized is not more than six months. Nine years down the line, the explosives would be dead. A query about whether the seized explosives were still live, to the Army PRO at New Delhi, went unanswered. This is not the first time name of Amin Explosives has cropped up in terror related incidents. The company’s explosives were also found to have been used in the 2007 blasts in Hyderabad, which left over 40 dead. Since then both the name and shareholding of the company has changed. Amin Explosives is now Special Blasts Limited (SBL). The company was earlier headed by Sohel Amin, a businessman from the city. In 2012-13, the name was changed to SBL. By 2015, Raipur’s Sanjay Choudhary and his family had taken over the stake in SBL and Amin had exited. Amin told TOI he got a clean chit as the ultimate users were traced in the Hyderabad case. He insisted that misuse, including diversion, happens from the users’ end and not the manufacturer. Nagpur is a hub of commercial explosives makers. The regulatory agency Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) is also located here. Sources in the business say pilferage of explosives takes place during transit. In order to plug the gap, PESO has come up with a bar code based tracking mechanism in 2017. Despite bar coding, not much can be done if the buyer simply diverts the explosive and the material is not caught, said sources. Both the manufacturer and buyer have to scan the bar code and enter details in their respective system. The buyer has to give an electronic acknowledgement of receipt of the consignment. Till then the transaction is not closed at the manufacturer’s end. However, if the buyer gives the acknowledgement but diverts the explosive to the grey market, it cannot traced unless the material is seized under any action. Chaudhary, whose family holds majority stake in SBL now, said there was an inquiry from the police and old records are being searched. Even if the management has changed, the earlier transactions can be still found, he said. “In appearance, the seized material seemed to be emulsion based explosive, which does not have shelf life of more than six months,” he said. Sources in PESO too said commercial explosives in general have shelf life of a year to six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-cos-explosives-seized-in-jk/articleshow/78373105.cms||Shishir Arya
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city crosses 50,000-mark||Nashik: The district reported 1,057 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 682 from Nashik city, taking the total number of Covid cases to 73,888. Nashik city has reported 50,186 cases. A total of 22 patients have succumbed to the infection on Monday, including 10 from the city. The death toll stands at 1,336 in the district, including 726 in the city. As many as 501 patients were discharged from across the district on Monday, of which 345 patients are from Nashik city The district has 7,571 active cases, including 3,366 in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-crosses-50000-mark/articleshow/78370413.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Some heart attack, severe Covid-19 symptoms similar, in both cases blood thinners prove effective: Cardiologists||Jaipur: Cardiologists are being extra cautious these days as some heart attack and severe Covid-19 symptoms are similar. It takes extra bit of efforts to segregate heart attack patients and those with severe Covid infection.“Both heart attack and severe Covid patients rush to hospitals in emergency complaining of difficulty in breathing and chest pain. Some symptoms of both overlap which can create confusion. Even the d-dimer level in both kinds of patients are found to be elevated,” said Dr Jitendra Singh Makkar, director, cardiology department of a private hospital.A heart attack happens when a blood clot completely blocks a coronary artery supplying blood to the heart muscle. In severe Covid patients too, doctors have found coagulation disorder in which blood clots are formed that affect lungs, heart and other parts of the body. When blood clots are formed, d-dimers are found to be elevated in heart attack and in severe Covid patients. D-dimer is a small protein fragment present in the blood after a blood clot is degraded.Doctors after clinically examining the patients complaining shortness in breathing and other symptoms showing strong indication of heart attack and if immediate treatment is required, they get the angioplasty done of the patient suffered heart attack while taking all the precaution.But in most of the cases of heart attack, the doctors are using blood thinning injections such as streptokinase for giving patient immediate relief before they rule out Covid-19 infection by conducting a Covid test to avoid risk of healthcare staff getting infected while performing angioplasty.“Blood thinners are quite useful for heart and lungs as well. In patients with risk of pulmonary embolism, blood thinners are helpful. Clots in vessels increase the possibility of intra-vascular coagulation and for such patients, blood thinners are useful,” said Dr Anil Sharma, cardiothoracic surgeon, Sawai Man Singh hospital. Dr Sharm had performed the first heart transplant of SMS hospital.In majority of the hospitals, cardiologists are using blood thinner injections rather than performing angioplasty to avoid possibility of Covid-19 infection. In Covid-19 patients, most of the times, the blot clots affect lungs. In severe Covid patients and heart attack patients, blood thinners play key role in treatment.Covid causes pulmonary embolism due to blood clot and in heart attack patients, blood clots block coronary artery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/some-heart-attack-severe-covid-19-symptoms-similar-in-both-cases-blood-thinners-prove-effective-cardiologists/articleshow/78373043.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Active cases spiral, mortality rate down to 1.1%||JAIPUR: Covid claimed 15 lives on Monday taking the fatality count to 1,456. The day also saw the state registering yet another biggest single-day spike with 2,112 new infections which took the cumulative count to 1,30,971. On a day the state reported biggest single-day spike for the 11th day in a row, Jaipur also registered a record spike with 444 new infections taking the overall tally to 20,658. In Jaipur, five different areas reported more than 43% of new infections in the last five days. The areas are Sanganer, Malviya Nagar, Mansarovar, Jagatpura and Durgapura. In the last five days, Jaipur reported 2,038 cases and out of those 887 belonged to the five worst-affected areas of the city. A senior health department official said, “The cases might be increasing but the mortality rate has gone down to 1.1%. We are focusing on aggressive testing and aggressive treatment for early detection and early treatment of Covid patients.” Active cases in the state have touched new high of 20,043. In the past two days, active cases remained at 19,700 and 19,355. Out of those 20,043 active cases, Jaipur has the maximum share of 7409, followed by Jodhpur (4069) and Kota (1907). Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (444), Jodhpur (361), Pali (127),Alwar (110), Bikaner (106), Bhilwara (100), Ajmer (82), Udaipur (80), Jalore (74), Kota (60), Nagaur (53), Dungarpur (40), Jhunjhunu (38), Sirohi (38), Churu (37), Dausa (37), Sriganganagar (33), Rajsamand (30), Dholpur (30), Chittorgarh (24), Tonk (21), Karauli (20), Bharatpur (20), Barmer (19), Hanumangarh (19), Jhalawar (17), Jaisalmer (17), Bundi (16), Sawai Madhopur (15), Banswara (15), Baran (14), Pratapgarh (9) and Sikar (6). Jaipur reported its 319th Covid-19 death, Bikaner 110th, Ajmer 103rd, Kota 99th, Bharatpur 80th, Udaipur 48th, Alwar 40th, Rajsamand 23rd, Baran 21st, Tonk 19th, Jalore 18th, Banswara 18th, Chittorgarh 17th, Churu 13th and Bundi 7th.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-spiral-mortality-rate-down-to-1-1/articleshow/78373064.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||‘Bad lifestyle, diet lead to most cardiac arrests’||Kolkata: Covid weakens our health system, leading to more anxiety and depression that will continue to affect the heart, it was pointed out at a seminar organized by Rotary International District 3291 on September 26 to observe World Heart Day. Unhealthy diet and an inactive lifestyle were primarily responsible for cardiac arrests that kill 17.9 million every year around the world, said doctors and experts at the seminar. Heart attack is not always sudden, said orthopaedic Ramendu Hom Chowdhury. “Prevention and early detection are the key. Pre-existing blood pressure and diabetes need to be controlled. By 2025, India will have an additional burden of 17 million obese people. Lack of physical activity, irregular and unhealthy diet lead to diabetes. It can be prevented only through a regular, healthy diet and active lifestyle,” said Hom Chowdhury. The Rotary International has launched a campaign titled ‘Ek chamach kam, char kadam age’, which calls upon citizens to develop a controlled and regulated food habit and physical exercises. Sleep is very vital to building resistance during this pandemic, added Hom Chowdhury. “Disturbed sleep is the source of a number of illnesses. We need a minimum of 6 to 7 hours sleep every day,” he said. “We have planned a series of events to campaign for a healthy heart and lifestyle,” said Jyotish Ray of the Rotary Club of Calcutta (East-Central), one of the organizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bad-lifestyle-diet-lead-to-most-cardiac-arrests/articleshow/78373074.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam case: Orders reserved on bail of 3 cops||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday reserved orders on the bail petition of three accused police personnel in the custodial deaths case of traders P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district.The court was hearing the second bail applications of head constables S Murugan, X Thomas Francis and constable Muthuraj, who were arrested in connection with the case. Pursuant to the earlier order, the CBI submitted a counter before the court on Monday.Assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri submitted that CBI had filed a final report in the case before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate court on September 25 within 90 days of the arrest of the accused. She submitted that as many as 105 witnesses were examined by the agency and all 10 policemen.Taking cognizance of the submissions, Justice V Bharathidasan reserved orders in the bail pleas and asked the CBI to furnish a copy of the final report before the court. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-case-orders-reserved-on-bail-of-3-cops/articleshow/78373095.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses plea for nod to protest suspicious death||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking permission for a protest condemning the incident in which a youth who was summoned for police inquiry was found hanging in a tree at Peraiyur in Madurai district. Justice R Pongiappan dismissed the petition filed by K Ganapathy, Madurai West district secretary of Makkal Viduthalai Katchi.The petitioner said Ramesh, a resident of Anaikaraipatti village, was found hanging from a tree near his house on September 17. His brother Idayakani had married a girl following which her father lodged a complaint with the Saptur police. He said that police had taken Ramesh for inquiry and he was found dead the next day. He alleged that it to be a custodial torture case but the police had made it look like a suicide.Since fair investigation was not being conducted in the case, his party members wanted to carry out a protest pressing for transfer of case to CB-CID and registration of murder case against the officials. He said his representation to the Peraiyur inspector seeking permission for the protest was rejected citing prohibitory orders, following which he petitioned the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-for-nod-to-protest-suspicious-death/articleshow/78373103.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS plays it safe on farm laws’ protests||HYDERABAD: Even as protests against the Centre’s farm legislations have intensified across the country, the ruling TRS is playing coy after opposing the bills in both Houses and terming them ‘anti-farmer’. In party secretary general, TRS parliamentary party leader K Keshava Rao’s words, “No decision has been taken against carrying out further protest programmes.” After registering its protest in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the TRS did not hold any protest programmes. Some party leaders held rallies with farmers in Nirmal and other places in favour of new Revenue Act of the state government. Keshava Rao said the party had protested strongly and voted against the bills. “TRS president, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will take a call on the protests. I will discuss the issue with him,” the party floor leader in the Rajya Sabha said. Sources said the party leadership was going slow on the issue as the state government requires the Centre’s support in implementing various welfare schemes, release of about Rs 10,000 crore towards GST arrears and other financial assistance. “Many projects are stuck with the Centre like national highways development, regional ring road, financial assistance to Hyderabad Pharma City, industrial corridor and other projects. The government does not want to fight with the Centre, keeping the state’s interests in view,” a senior TRS leader said. KCR had described the farm legislations as a ‘sugar-coated pill’ and said they would harm the farmers’ interests. He also said they would benefit only corporates. When contacted, Telangana Rythu Samanvaya Samithi, TRS general secretary Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said they had opposed the farm bills at appropriate fora (read parliament). “We will continue to oppose the legislations tooth and nail. As a party, we are not organising any protest rallies and meetings, but our party workers have been told to participate in protests organised by farmers,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-plays-it-safe-on-farm-laws-protests/articleshow/78373102.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||Idar goes into self-imposed seven-day lockdown||Palanpur: Local traders declared a seven-day self-imposed lockdown in Idar town of Sabarkantha district from Monday to Sunday, following a spurt of Covid-19 cases in the town. The traders said they would re-open their businesses only after October 4. “The lockdown has been self-imposed by the local businessmen to contain the spread of the coronavirus. It was their decision. There has been no government notification for the lockdown,” said Idar mamltdar H B Kodarvi. “Trade associations spontaneously decided to impose the lockdown in order to check the further spread of the pandemic. The bundh is total and all shops including those of cloths, utensils, ready made garments, hotels and restaurants have been closed,” said Kisan Soni a social worker and trader. According to official figures, a total of 182 people have tested Covid-19 positive in Idar, which has recorded one death due to the virus. “Sabarkantha district has registered 914 Covid-19 positive cases with nine deaths due to the virus,” said chief district heath officer Rajesh Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/idar-goes-into-self-imposed-seven-day-lockdown/articleshow/78370455.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC warns against misuse of Covid bail||NEW DELHI: Cautioning against misuse of its Covid 19-related liberal bail and parole orders aimed at decongesting prisons, Delhi high court on Monday said it might revoke them. “If people are misusing it, we will stop it. This is wrong, we will then recall it,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said, making it clear that the court won’t permit misuse of its orders and would recall its extension order. It was hearing an application filed by the special public prosecutor for riot-related cases, Amit Prasad, where the state sought certain modification/clarification/directions in relation to continuation of interim bail granted in various matters, particularly in northeast Delhi riot cases. “The issue is urgent as some undertrial prisoners in Delhi riots cases have been successful in securing interim bails and are getting the same extended in grave and serious offences,” the urgent application stated. A trial court, the plea added, has flagged a recent trend noticed more particularly in riot cases where the accused people are withdrawing their regular bail applications and seeking interim bail on various grounds under the Covid-19 liberalised regime. Taking note of the plea, the high court asked the prison authorities if they have enough number of isolation wards to accommodate all prisoners if the bail extension orders are recalled. It also sought details of Covid-19 cases in the three jails in the capital, the number of prisoners out on bail and need to surrender in the next month and the number of isolation wards in each jail, while expressing concern at the “the surge in Covid-19 cases” in Delhi. The high court had, by its July 13 and August 24 directions, made it clear that orders extending interim bail/paroles would be applicable to everyone granted the relief before or after March 16. The application has alleged that the two orders are being misused by prisoners by seeking bail on grounds of family illness or some such reasons, instead of seeking regular bail, and then getting the same extended on the basis of the high court’s direction. The high court also issued notice to the director general of prisons, who is in charge of all three jails — Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli — in the capital and sought his stand before the next date of hearing on October 16. On August 24, the court extended till October 31 all interim orders that were to expire on or after August 31 in cases that are before it or district courts in view of the persisting Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-warns-against-misuse-of-covid-bail/articleshow/78374355.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 29, 2020||Agra||Agra: Smart city cameras to catch people not wearing masks||AGRA: For strict enforcement of Covid-19 norms, the Agra smart city cameras will be updated to identify a group of people not wearing masks at public places. These cameras will send an alert to the police station of the area through the Agra smart city's Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). Those found not wearing masks will be issued a spot challan of Rs 500. At present, 635 smart cameras are installed at 125 locations mainly in the marketplaces and busy crossings of the city. These are all connected to the ICCC at Agra municipal corporation head office. Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary of the state government, who is the nodal officer for Agra district, visited the ICCC on Sunday and chaired a meeting with the officials. He ordered the use of cameras installed under the Agra smart city project. Vice-president of Agra smart city project Anand Menon said, “We are updating the software of the smart cameras. A feature to automatically identify people not wearing face masks will be incorporated soon. According to the plan, an alert will be sent to the local police station through ICCC after the cameras spot people not wearing masks at the public places. Maintenance of social distancing protocol is already being monitored through the ICCC." Meanwhile, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has constituted special teams for strict enforcement of social distancing protocol and penalising those not wearing a face mask. The teams have been directed to operate daily from noon to 2 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/smart-city-cameras-to-catch-people-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/78370418.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Labour shortage may hit biodiversity in Western Ghats: Study||HYDERABAD: The large sized farms with abundant labour and resources in Western Ghats are key to preserving the rich biodiversity of the region, a joint study by the Indian School of Business (ISB), Centre for Wildlife Studies (India) and Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies, University of Wisconsin-Madison (USA) has revealed. As per the findings of the study titled – ‘Coffee, Trees, and Labor: Political Economy of Biodiversity in Commodity Agroforests’, large farm size, increase in canopy density and the cultivation of Coffea Arabica varieties are factors associated with high tree species diversity necessary for sustaining the wildlife habitat in Western Ghats. According to the study, in coffee plantations, tree maintenance demands a large amount of seasonal labour force. “This is compounded further because labour costs make up 65% of input costs. With declining supply of labour and its increasing costs, preferred management options tend to reduce tree canopy and tree diversity, especially among small landholders,” it said. It pointed out that due to scarcity of labour and rise in market volatility, small landholders are opting for production and management practices that lead to maintaining fewer tree varieties, higher usage of pesticides and substitution of Arabica with Robusta coffee plantations. “Many are converting farms from Arabica to Robusta as the price difference between the two varieties is almost reaching parity. Notably, in the Western Ghats, roughly 75% of coffee plantations are smaller than 10 hectares,” the study said. Prof Ashwini Chhatre, co-author of the study and associate professor of public policy at ISB, underlined that the current pandemic has made hiring labour an uphill task. “In addition to the blow to livelihoods and costs to the larger economy, our analysis shows that the cascading effect will eventually impinge upon the birds and the bees. In global conservation hotspots like the Western Ghats, our results also point to ways in which economic policy can be used to mitigate the impact on biodiversity through better support for smallholder coffee producers,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labour-shortage-may-hit-biodiversity-study/articleshow/78373120.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Flying colours: Good rains bring butterfly boom to Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Good monsoon has come as a boon for desert district Jaisalmer with thousands butterflies seen fluttering after many years. Environment expert Dr Divish Kumar Saini, environmentalist Parth Jagani, SBK College’s zoology department assistant professor Shyam Sunder Meena, in a joint effort, recorded 41 species of butterflies in Jaisalmer out of the 1,500 in the country. Many species are being seen in Jaisalmer after many years. Due to the ongoing breeding season, lakhs of butterflies have come to Jaisalmer, which is being considered as a good indication, environmentally speaking. September is celebrated as the butterfly month in the entire country, wherein many programmes, awareness campaigns etc are organised across the country. It is to be mentioned that a few days ago, desert Grezel scrapers were seen after 70 years in the desert area, which is a good sign. SBK College zoology department assistant professor Shyam Sunder Meena said butterflies belong to the phylum-arthropod of non-chordata, all other insects also belong to similar phylum, but butterflies are most beautiful among Arthropodians. Except butterflies, most of the insects may harm human beings directly or indirectly. He said after so many years, migrant population of butterflies has come to various parts of Jaisalmer, which is a good sign. Environment expert and deployed in Pokhran government hospital Dr Divish Kumar Saini said the Big Butterfly Month 2020 is a great initiative as many people do not know of their role in our ecosystem, both in the rural and urban habitat including the forest ecosystem. Dr Saini said butterflies are key biodiversity indicators as they are very sensitive to changes in the environment. They are indicators of a healthy environment and healthy ecosystem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flying-colours-good-rains-bring-butterfly-boom-to-jaisalmer/articleshow/78373107.cms||Vimal Bhatia
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Over 3.5L download Pariksha app, attempt mock test 16L times||Nagpur: Even after facing several technical glitches, Nagpur University’s ‘Pariksha App’ is turning out to be a big hit among students and teachers. The newly launched application has been downloaded by over 3.5 lakh users till Monday, even though it was developed for final year students, whose number is about 75,000. Even the mock test introduced by NU, which faced intense criticism for innumerable blunders in questions, were attempted as many as 16.22 lakh times by users. “We haven’t expected such an overwhelming response. Due to the large number of users, the server was overburdened and developed snag. Now, we’ve increased its capacity. From Sunday, the app is also available on Google Playstore. Till Monday evening, over 5,500 users have downloaded the app,” board of examination and evaluation director Prafulla Sable told TOI. NU officials are coming across various problems faced by the students almost everyday and accordingly, they’re making changes in the app. “With app being available on Playstore, we would be updating it regularly to include new provisions. Since, this is also our first time, we’re updating the app as per genuine problems reported by the students. We appeal to all examinees to update app every day or at least check for new updates,” said Mayur Kalkayian, director of Promarc Software Limited, which has developed it. With a view to control users from attempting mock tests, which had crossed a whopping 16.22 lakh number, NU has brought that portion under the login section. Now, only registered final year students would be able to download and attempt questions. “Earlier, anyone can attempt mock tests, but now we’ve restricted the access. We’re receiving various grievances from students and genuine ones are being incorporated to improve the app. We’re removing the link from the NU website, as it’s now available on Playstore,” Sable said. He added NU had disbursed hall tickets of all examinees to their respective colleges from Saturday and students should contact them. Even the timetable for exams has been uploaded on NU website. “We’re fully prepared for conducting the examinations. On the first day, papers of BA and BSc would be held. NU is perhaps first among all traditional universities to be ready for the first attempt of online exams,” he said. Defer paper, say BCA students The Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) students have approached NU authorities with a request to postpone the October 10 exam. “They’ve sent an e-mail with the request, as they have some competitive test on that day. We’ve not yet taken any decision on it,” Sable said. The exam was scheduled to commence from October 1 and end on 18. However, some students have moved authorities as UPSC paper is scheduled for October 4. NU then decided to defer papers on that day to October 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-3-5l-download-pariksha-app-attempt-mock-test-16l-times/articleshow/78373117.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 29, 2020||Madurai||New cases up by 675 in central districts, 589 in southern region||Trichy/Madurai: The central region of the state recorded 675 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally to 50,712, which include 5,063 active cases. According to the state bulletin, eight deaths were also reported in the region taking the toll to 705. Meanwhile, the 10 southern districts have reported 589 fresh cases and eight deaths.The total positive cases in the southern region crossed 1,10,000 on Monday. It has taken 16 days to add the last 10,000 cases after crossing 1 lakh cases on September 12, reflecting in the drop in the number of cases in the region.After crossing 50,000 cases on July 31, it took just six more days to cross 60,000 cases on August 6. It took seven days to cross 70,000 cases on August 13, eight days to cross 80,000 cases on August 21, ten days to cross 90,000 cases on August 31 and 12 days to add the next 10,000 cases and cross 1 lakh cases on September 12.The deaths include two each in Dindigul, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari and one each in Madurai and Tirunelveli.Death rate in the region is 1.67%, showing a marginal dip from 1.68% last Monday. However the region’s death rate continues to be higher that the state’s average death rate of 1.60%.Kanyakumari with 98 cases recorded the highest number of cases in south, followed by Madurai (86), Theni (74), Tirunelveli (63), Tuticorin (60), Tenkasi (53) and Dindigul (51). Ramanathapuram (30), Virudhunagar (36) and Sivagangai (38) recorded less than 50 cases each.In the central region, Thanjavur reported 180 fresh cases taking the tally to 10,733, which include 1,169 active cases, the highest in the region. Tiruvarur recorded 138 cases pushing the tally to 7,076, which include 1,079 active cases. Karur’s tally touched 3,000 on Monday after reporting 51 cases.In the central districts, three patients each died in Thanjavur and Pudukottai and one each in Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur districts. The region also recorded recovery of 44,944 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-cases-up-by-675-in-central-districts-589-in-southern-region/articleshow/78373109.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Allahabad||HC asks Centre to inform about progress in Covid vaccine trials||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the Central government to apprise it with the progress made in Covid-19 vaccine trials and its proposed completion date. Besides, on complaints of substandard masks and sanitizers being sold in the state, the court sought all standards and guidelines with regard to masks and sanitizers which have been set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Hearing a PIL seeking better facilities at quarantine centres in the state, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “In our country, to begin with, we very successfully locked down the country for good three months. While the lockdown was imposed, we found that police was really effective. Today, when social distancing and wearing of masks has to be done in letter and spirit, we find that strict enforcement is missing. Quite often, it has been found that even police personnel outside their police stations are not wearing masks. It is possible that the Task Forces, which have been constituted by the senior superintendent of police and the superintendent of police in various districts, might be enforcing social distancing and they might be asking people to wear masks but the usual civil police have not reacted in the manner they ought to have.” During the course of hearing, the counsels assisting the bench made various suggestions like police in every district should take rounds in their area to ensure that the public is properly following unlock guidelines issued by the government from time to time and people must be stopped from eating on roadside eateries, restaurants, etc., and only be allowed to take away packed food from eateries. Earlier, on September 23, this court had directed police authorities to ensure ‘100% population masking’, i.e. that all wear masks, cover mouth and nose while going out of their house in the state and to take strict action against violators. While directing to put up this case on September 30 for the next hearing, the court directed that on the next date, the suggestions as have been given in the court may be looked into by the additional advocate general, representing the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-asks-centre-to-inform-about-progress-in-covid-vaccine-trials/articleshow/78374349.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Cracker unit accident leaves 1dead||Madurai: An accident at a fireworks unit left one dead at Sengundrapuram village near Amattur in Virudhunagar district on Monday. The incident took place at a unit of Sree Murugeswari fireworks. The victim has been identified as Krishnakumar, 55.Inquiries led to suspicion that the unit and sheds were leased to Atlas Fireworks as labels and unfinished fireworks with the brand were found on the premises. It is learnt that the victim was mixing chemicals in the unit when a friction triggered the blast, leaving him wounded. The shed where he was working was razed to the ground.He was rushed to a hospital but he died on the way. Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation officials suspected that a larger quantity than the permissible limit could have been mixed and decomposition of the same could have triggered the explosion due to spontaneous chemical reaction. Remains of the chemical slurry used for tipping that is suspected to have gone off were collected for a chemical testing to ascertain the cause of the accident.PESO officials who cancelled the license issued a warning to cracker unit workers to flee the spot when foul egg smell emanates from the chemical slurry as they will have moments to flee before the decomposition of the chemicals mixed in water goes off. PESO officials said that an accident took place on the same premises in April 2013. Though four people were injured in that accident seven years ago there was no casualty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cracker-unit-accident-leaves-1dead/articleshow/78373111.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||Employee of private finance company kills himself after taking loan, accuses firm of harassment||Bareilly: A 36-year-old farmer, who took up work at a private finance company after suffering losses, allegedly shot himself dead four months after taking a loan from it in UP’s Moradabad. Kiran Pal had taken the money for treatment of injuries received during an accident. He is survived by mother and four children. On Sunday, Pal allegedly shot himself in his home in Moradabad’s Allapur village. Local police recovered two notes near his body. One was addressed to police while the other to his family members. In the notes, Pal has accused the private company of putting pressure on him to clear the loan amount and also of not paying him salary. He has requested strict action against its officials. In the note to his family, Pal has asked for forgiveness. Two employees of the firm have been booked. Station house officer (SHO) of Bilari police station, Moradabad, Madan Mohan Chaturvedi said, “Based on the suicide note, an FIR has been registered against Shahdab Ali and Sandeep Singh under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC. The revolver found at the crime scene has been seized. We are gathering more details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/employee-of-private-finance-company-kills-himself-after-taking-loan-accuses-firm-of-harassment/articleshow/78370458.cms||Maria Khan
September 29, 2020||Agra||CM Yogi asks Agra admin to help other districts in containing pandemic||Agra: The Agra district magistrate (DM) will soon be sharing the Covid-19 containment strategy followed in his district with his counterparts in other districts, after chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed him to help the administrations in other districts in their battle to contain the spread of the virus, during a video conference on Sunday. This, after the Agra DM had made a presentation on the Agra Model at the meeting, titled “From first cluster to effective containment and rapid emergency response”. Once the epicenter of the pandemic in the state, Agra now occupies the eighteenth rank in number of Covid-19 positive cases among UP’s districts. The infection doubling rate, which in April was one day, has now slowed down to 30 days. The positivity rate has also reduced to 3.04%. When five members of a family of shoe exporters residing in the city’s Khandari locality tested positive on March 3, the country’s first Covid-19 cluster was marked in Agra district. On April 27, Agra was at tenth position in the national list of cities with the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases. Five months later on Monday, Agra was ranked 218, with case fatality rate (CFR) having reduced to 2.22%.Agra health department officials attribute the falling graph of Covid-19 positivity rate and CFR to four main interventions — increase in testing capacity with quicker turnaround times in reporting results, door-to-door screening in containment zones and large outbreak regions, improved contact tracing and strengthening of isolation and treatment facilities. Agra DM Prabhu N Singh said, “An eight-layer action plan was prepared to control the spread of the virus. Desired results are being achieved with strict monitoring. From topping the list, Agra district now stands at 18th position in the state in the number of Covid-19 positive cases reported. Following orders of the CM, Agra’s containment strategy will be shared in detail with administrations of other districts. We’ll also benefit from learning best practices of other districts.”The main features of the eight-layer action plan include — rapid contact tracing of Covid-19 patients, screening of all contacts, intense sanitisation of a patient’s house and neighbourhood, door-to-door health check-up in containment zones using thermal guns and pulse oximeters, third-party inspection of containment zones, follow-up review with key officials on daily basis. Chief medical officer (CMO) R C Pandey said, “Till Monday, 5,630 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district. Of these, 82.45% (4,642) patients have been cured and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-ups in different parts of the district and samples of suspected patients are being sent for testing.” Agra was the first district in UP to start pool testing to identify Covid-19 patients. Specific groups identified for this purpose were restaurant staffers, bus and rickshaw drivers, medical store operators, heath workers of both government and private centres, Asha workers, old age home inmates and government offices. With a maximum of 7,531 active Covid-19 cases till Monday afternoon, state capital Lucknow was on the top of the state Covid-19 list. Prayagraj, with 3,065 active cases, stood at second position, followed by Meerut with 2,511 cases and Varanasi with 2,046 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cm-yogi-asks-agra-admin-to-help-other-districts-in-containing-pandemic/articleshow/78370446.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Centre interfering in rights of states, says Kanimozhi||Madurai: Accusing the Centre of interfering in the rights of states and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of supporting bills that are against the interest of farmers, DMK women wing’s secretary and Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi said that all such acts will be cancelled when the DMK comes to power next year and Stalin assumes charge as CM.She was addressing protesters at Inam Maniyachi near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district as part of the state-wide protest organised by the DMK and its allies to oppose the farm bills that were recently introduced by the Union government. The MP said that these acts have made the future and livelihood of farmers uncertain. She said that the centre turned a deaf ear to the opposition and has pushed farmers across the country to protest.Kanimozhi said that protests will continue as the Centre has favoured online trading by passing the bills and made farmers the slaves of corporates. “These acts will wipe out public distribution system. It is against the interest of consumers. The government should withdraw the bills or incorporate changes suggested by farmers to protect their interest,” she said. In Madurai MP Su Venkatesan took part in the protest and said that the farm bills introduced by the Modi government will bury farmers and agriculture. “Agriculture is a state subject. The centre cannot interfere in the rights of the state,” he said adding that the way in which the bills were passed in the Parliament were also against the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/centre-interfering-in-rights-of-states-says-kanimozhi/articleshow/78373113.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer police arrest four drug peddlers||Ajmer: The city police arrested four drug peddlers in two different cases on Monday. In the first, they arrested three peddlers from Pushkar who came to sell 66gm charas. In another incident, police arrested a person accused of selling dope in Dargah Bazaar.According to police, they laid a trap after getting a tip-off and arrested Harpal Singh (28), Jaiprakash (25) and Chand Parkesh (32), all residents of Pushkar and found narcotics on them.Police said they are peddlers and the team is now looking for the main network of supplying drugs in Ajmer and Pushkar. Sources said that during normal times, Pushkar and Ajmer are major tourist places and in the past it was found that Ajmer was transit route to supply drugs to different tourist places of Rajasthan.In another case the Dargah police arrested Khalek Ahmed (30), resident of Shisha Khan with seven cartons of solution. During interrogation, Ahmed told the police that he was taking this solution to sell it to ragpickers in Dargah Bazaar who spend money on cheap intoxication. Sources said that after lockdown drugs have started pouring in in these cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-police-arrest-four-drug-peddlers/articleshow/78373112.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Madurai||5 held in fake job racket in edu dept||Madurai: Ramanathapuram district Crime Branch police arrested five people, including two government employees, in connection with a fake job racket in the district education department.The case revolved around the recruitment of 40 junior assistants by Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission for Ramanathapuram district. They have joined the respective posts though a few of them could not join duty due to various reasons. Police sources said that K Kannan, 47, an assistant at the chief educational officer’s office, and M Kesavan, an assistant in the rural development department, made appointment orders and issued them to three people after getting Rs 5 lakh each. The incident came to light when D Rajesh, 32, of Soorankottai, one of the three who received the fake appointment order, went to join duty at the Government Higher Secondary School in Sikkal a few days ago. School headmaster Jayakumar developed suspicions when he checked the appointment order, and called up district chief educational officer A Pugalendi. On checking records, he found that no such appointment order has been issued in the name of Rajesh. He lodged a complaint with district superintendent of police E Karthick, who ordered deputy superintendent of police Thirumalai from the district crime branch police to conduct an inquiry. Investigation with the accused revealed that Kesavan and Kannan had issued appointment orders to three more people identified as P Kalaivanan, S Sathish Kumar and Manoj Kumar. While Kalaivanan and Sathish Kumar have been arrested, search is under way for Manoj Kumar, said police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-held-in-fake-job-racket-in-edu-dept/articleshow/78373114.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC releases model answer key of school lecturer exam||Ajmer: Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) on Monday released the model answer key of school lecturer (Sanskrit Education) competitive exam - 2018. This exam was conducted by RPSC from August 4 to August 7. The candidates can file objections online between September 29 and October 1 on any question or answer given in the model answer key.RPSC has said that those filing objections must provide standard and authentic book to support their objections. The fee is Rs 100 per objection which is non-refundable. RPSC said the objections can be filed online with proof and no other mode of communication will be accepted. After the given date no objection will be entertained by RPSC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-releases-model-answer-key-of-school-lecturer-exam/articleshow/78373115.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Three UPHCs in Madurai to have gynaecologists 24x7||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has deployed gynaecologists round the clock at three upgraded urban primary health centres (UPHC) for more women to benefit from it and to facilitate more number of deliveries. Earlier, doctors were available only during daytime and at nights they would come only in case of emergencies.The upgraded UPHCs include in Sellur, Ansari Nagar and K Pudur. Officials from health department from the corporation said that there was a minor drop in number of deliveries that took place in UPHCs during the lockdown. City residents preferred Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and private clinics for deliveries during lockdown over UPHCs. An official said that generally more than 60 deliveries took place in corporation-run facilities in a month, which has come down to less than 50 deliveries during the pandemic.The obstetrics and gynaecology department in GRH is the busiest centre for deliveries in south Tamil Nadu. During Covid-19 crisis, the centre had become even busier due to increase in the number of cases referred from various districts, apart from Madurai, health officials said.A health official from the corporation said, “When facility is available with the corporation, we want more number of people to get benefit out of it. With the 24-hours doctor availability, we expect more number of deliveries in coming months than in the past.”In case, patients approached other UPHC centres for deliveries at night, they will be shifted to nearest upgraded UPHC using ambulance service. “All delivery centres are equipped with required medical equipment, drugs and manpower to handle the situation. ,” the official added.There are 31 UPHCs run by the corporation. Around 3,000- 4,000 outpatients were getting treatment in these UPHCs for various diseases on daily basis before Covid-19 pandemic. The number of outpatients had come down as the health officials were diverted to Covid-19 prevention and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-uphcs-in-madurai-to-have-gynaecologists-24x7/articleshow/78373118.cms||V Devanathan
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Woman sets 2 children, self ablaze in Madurai||Madurai: A 32-year-old woman from Madurai burnt her two children to death and committed self-immolation on Sunday midnight. The woman was identified as P Tamilselvi, from Housing Board colony in Melavasal. Her children were identified as P Varshika Sri, 4, and Varnika Sri, 2.A police team rushed to the woman’s house based on an alert from neighbours and shifted the injured woman and children to Government Rajaji Hospital. Varshika Sri died on the way to hospital while Varnika Sri died within a few hours of being admitted to the hospital. Tamilselvi who suffered 95% burn injuries, died on Monday morning.Based on a complaint from Tamil Selvi’s father, P Nondisami, 58, a case was registered with the Thideer Nagar police station under the CrPc section 174 (suspicious death within 7 years of marriage). An inquiry is underway. In his complaint Nondisami stated that Tamilselvi married Pandi in 2014. Pandi had become addicted to alcohol and frequently picked up fights with Tamil Selvi. Police said that Pandi had gone underground ever since the incident took place and a search is underway for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-sets-2-children-self-ablaze-in-madurai/articleshow/78373119.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Remove backlog of Vidarbha in police jobs: Activists||Nagpur: Mahavidarbha Janjagaran, a pro-statehood organization, has through a letter appealed to home minister Anil Deshmukh to remove the backlog of Vidarbha in police department first and then go in for recruitment of persons from other regions of the state. The pro-Vidarbha activists staged demonstration at Samvidhan Square on Monday afternoon to press for this demand. The state cabinet has recently cleared recruitment of 12,538 police constables. The letter also states that the existing height requirement for the recruitment purpose should be relaxed for tribal youths from Gadchiroli and Gondia districts, who are shorter than their counterparts in other regions because of their genetic profile. Janjagaran has demanded implementation of a GR issued in 1991 by the state in this regard. The letter signed by Nitin Ronghe, Sandesh Singalkar, Narendra Palandurkar and Dilip Narwadia states that as per Article 371 (2) of Indian Constitution and Clause 8 of Nagpur Pact, all three regions of the state — Vidarbha, Marathwada and Rest of Maharashtra — are supposed to get a share in state government jobs in proportion to their population. The share of Vidarbha comes to 23%. However, the actual share of the region is far less than this figure. In 2014, Sudhir Thakre, chairman of Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC), had written a letter to the governor stating that the share of Vidarbha in government jobs was only between 5% and 8%, which is very shocking. After the governor and political leaders took note of this letter, the government had set up a committee under the then finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar to find out the share of each region in government jobs. Mungantiwar committee did not undertake any exercise, but in monsoon session of 2019, he announced in the state assembly that share of Vidarbha in state government jobs was 26.28%. This figure is unrealistic and highly inflated. Mungantiwar has not been able to substantiate it, the activists claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remove-backlog-of-vidarbha-in-police-jobs-activists/articleshow/78373130.cms||Ashish Roy
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Traders want Veli St work to end by Oct 5||Madurai: Traders from various streets around the Meenakshi Amman Temple have initiated a campaign urging the Madurai Corporation to wind up smart city works carried out in Veli Streets before October 5 to facilitate Diwali shopping.The traders are planning to send 1,000 post cards in the next one week to Madurai Corporation commissioner and Madurai district collector highlighting their demand. Around 500 cards written by traders will be posted on Tuesday. Around 500 cards will be sent over the next one week to highlight their demand, traders said.Traders said that work on storm water drainage, underground drainage and laying cement, ducting of cables and laying cement road on all four Veli Streets under the smart city mission was taken up eight months ago. They have already suffered a lot due to the delay in completing the work.Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, said that various traders are taking part in the campaign. Of the 500 cards to be dispatched on Tuesday, 400 are addressed to the commissioner and the rest is addressed to the collector.“Business is gradually picking up after several months due to lockdown. We are dependent of Diwali sales. The ongoing project should not create difficulty to traders as well as shoppers. We want the corporation to wind up the work from October 5 onwards, which can be resumed after Diwali,” Ashraf Tayub said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-want-veli-st-work-to-end-by-oct-5/articleshow/78373121.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Follow guidelines, collector tells labs||Coimbatore: Following complaints of private laboratories giving differing Covid-19 results for a same patient, collector K Rajamani instructed private laboratories in the district to follow uniform guidelines in declaring a person Covid-19 positive. Rajamani held a meeting in the city with private laboratories on Monday. With all laboratories using RT-PCR test to declare a person positive based on his/her cycle threshold (CT) value, the collector asked all the laboratories to decide on a uniform CT cut-off. He said differences or discrepancies in results of a patient must not occur between labs, especially if the patient tests on the same day.Speaking to TOI, Rajamani said, “The laboratories say the cycle threshold cut-off value to declare a patient changes from kit to kit, which is why a person declared positive in one lab, ends up testing negative in another lab.” “So, we have asked the laboratories and joint director of medical services to fix a CT cut-off and stick to that criteria,” he added. CT cut-off ranges between 30 and 33 depending on the kit manufacturer.This has prompted laboratories to also consider agreeing to procure the kits from a single company or manufacturer, so that they come with the same guidelines. Laboratories have also been instructed to follow a clinician’s prescription or the patient’s symptoms when declaring someone positive or negative, and not simply follow the CT value alone. “For example, if a patient’s CT value is 31 but is asymptomatic, we may declare it negative, but if he is symptomatic with that value we may declare him positive,” a health department official said.The collector asked laboratories to declare negative results at the same speed they release a positive result. “I have also asked laboratories who run tests from other districts, to ensure those cases don’t get added to Coimbatore’s case list. We keep getting cases from Tirupur, Karur, Dindigul, Dharmapuri, among others, coming into our list, because of data entry errors into the ICMR portal by the labs,” the collector said.Repetition of cases, when patients undergo an exit test in a different lab or take a test in a second lab for a second opinion, should also not take place, the collector said.Meanwhile, the district recorded 587 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the active cases past the 5,000-mark for the first time. The number of active cases stood at a record high of 5,117. This is despite 459 patients getting discharged on the same day. The district recorded six more deaths taking the toll to 424.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/follow-guidelines-collector-tells-labs/articleshow/78373165.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Madurai||More than 1,000 dogs vaccinated in Madurai||Madurai: As many as 1,026 dogs were vaccinated as part of the free anti-rabies vaccination drive organised in Madurai on World Rabies Day on Monday.The drive was held at three government centres for veterinary care in Tallakulam, Thirupparankundram and Palanganatham. The initiative was inaugurated by district collector Dr TG Vinay in the presence of Dr R Rajathilagan, regional joint director of animal husbandry, Madurai, at Government Veterinary Polyclinic, Tallakulam,. “Nowadays, more pet owners are aware about the importance of rabies vaccination. Today, we had an overwhelming response,” said Dr K Vairavasamy, senior veterinary doctor at the polyclinic. He added that the first rabies vaccination must be administered when the dog is three and a half months old, followed by booster shots every year thereafter. All Covid-19 safety precautions were followed during the drive.In Tirunelveli district, veterinary clinical complex, under the directorate of Clinics, Veterinary College and Research Institute, Tirunelveli, organized a rabies awareness programme and free vaccination camp for dogs on Monday at Ramayanpatti. The camp was inaugurated by D Magesh Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, Tirunelveli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-than-1000-dogs-vaccinated-in-madurai/articleshow/78373166.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Madurai||Risk for cardiac patients up 5 fold due to Covid, say doctors||Madurai: With ‘World Heart Day’ being observed on Tuesday, cardiologists point out how Covid-19, despite primarily affecting lungs, can also cause cardiovascular complications. In patients with pre-existing cardio-vascular diseases, there are more chances of exacerbation due to Covid-19 posing high risk of fatality.Dr P Jeyapandian, consultant cardiologist and electrophysiologist, Meenakshi Mission Hospital, observed that inflammation of the vascular system and injury to the heart appear to be common features of Covid-19, occurring in 20% to 30% of patients and contributing to 40% of deaths. “Patients with pre-existing cardio-vascular disease have five times higher fatality rates than the overall Covid-19 infected population. Nearly a quarter (23%) of people hospitalized for Covid-19 have experienced serious cardiovascular complications. Studies have also shown that 8% to 12% of all Covid-19 patients have acute cardiac injury,” he explained.Dr R Sivakumar, senior consultant, cardiology, said Covid-19 is an infectious pulmonary illness that causes stress on the heart in healthy people and those with pre-existing heart disease. “People may experience heart damage that mimics heart attack injury even if their arteries do not have blockages that cause classic heart attacks. This can occur when the heart muscle is starved for oxygen, which in the case of Covid-19 may be triggered by a mismatch between oxygen supply and oxygen demand,” he added.Cardiologists said that in a few severe Covid cases, exaggerated inflammation throughout the body, called a cytokine storm due to Covid-19, can affect the entire vascular system. “It can lead to widespread blood clotting, organ failure or damage to the heart. Drug-related heart damage during Covid-19 treatment is also a concern,” said Dr M Sampath Kumar, another senior cardiologist.Doctors at Meenakshi Mission Hospital said that during lockdown period, incidence of heart attacks had come down by 50% at the hospital. “Total patients admitted during three months of the lockdown is 355, compared to 820 cases during the same period in 2019,” said Dr N Ganesan, senior consultant. “The risk of dying due to heart attack is much higher than the risk of contracting Covid-19 infection in the hospital. In case of symptoms, patients must seek medical care immediately,” said Dr Jeyapandian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/risk-for-cardiac-patients-up-5-fold-due-to-covid-say-doctors/articleshow/78373143.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||Two restaurants sealed for running illegal hookah bars, offering tobacco products to teenagers||Bareilly: Two restaurants were sealed and five people were arrested after the owners were allegedly found running hookah bars and serving tobacco products to teenagers in DD Puram area of Bareilly city on Sunday. The action was taken after a few parents complained about the restaurants to Premnagar police station SHO. The accused were identified as Ganga Prasad, manager, Blueberry restaurant, Shakeel, Amit Bharti, Shanu Bharti and Saurabh. All the five accused were booked under the Juvenile Justice Act. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “We conducted raids at Blueberry and Green Chilli restaurants in Premnagar area of the city where we caught them running hookah bars and serving cigarettes to teenagers. The restaurants were immediately sealed and five staffers were held. The teenagers were left after a warning. We will continue to take action against such restaurants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-restaurants-sealed-for-running-illegal-hookah-bars-offering-tobacco-products-to-teenagers/articleshow/78370497.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 29, 2020||Madurai||MKU signs MoU with Velammal med college||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University and Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute (VMCHRI), Madurai on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for collaboration in teaching, research, training, organizing seminars, conferences and symposia related to biomedical sciences.The MoU was signed in the presence of MKU vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan, registrar (in charge) Dr VS Vasantha, Velammal Educational Trust chairman, MV Muthuramalingam and VMCHRI vice-principal Dr P Mohanty. The MoU facilitates not only joint academic and research initiatives between two institutions but also for the institutions to jointly organize Indian Science Congress, country’s largest annual gathering of scientific experts from across the globe, in the years to come. The prime areas of research include the development of molecular diagnostics, disease categorizations, drug screening, digital health initiatives etc.,“As many as 20 students from across the state have joined our newly-introduced MSc Biomedical Sciences course. Nowadays, not just research is important but taking forth the fruits of research to the people is,” said Dr Krishnan. PG students from MKU will benefit by using the medical diagnostic equipment facilities available in VMCHRI. In turn, medical faculty members of VMCHRI will initiate research activities along with researchers from MKU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-signs-mou-with-velammal-med-college/articleshow/78373124.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Agra||69 new Covid-19 +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 69 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 5,630. The patients included a senior female doctor of SN Medical College’s gynaecology department and a male junior doctor of the Medical College. Also, 102 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 5,630 cases reported in the district, 82.4% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 864 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 4,642 people have recovered. Besides, people who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/69-new-covid-19-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78370470.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kanpur||‘Kanpur is centre of tourist attraction for temples in Bhitargaon village and Bithoor’||Kanpur: The city (Kanpur) is an attraction for tourists due to the temples in Bhitargaon village and Bithoor constructed during the period of Gupta dynasty, said Prof Neelima Gupta, vice-chancellor of CSM University while speaking at an online webinar on world tourism held here on Sunday. She said these temples are pieces of art of Gupta dynasty which proves how perfect were the artisans of that period. Bithoor township, according to Hindu mythology, is not only a holy place but had also played an important role in the country’s freedom movement, she said. The university would soon prepare a booklet on tourism in Kanpur, she added.  Vivek Singh Sachan, incharge, hotel and management department stated that the number of tourists ha The students of the university who had visited Jammu Kashmir ,Agra, Jaipur and Nainital displayed the photographs of those cities in the programme. Students of the university who had visited Jammu Kashmir, Agra, Jaipur and Nainital displayed the photographs of those cities in the programme. Meanwhile, Kanpur Hotel and Guest House and Restaurants Association demanded that tourist information centres should be opened at the airport, railway stations and bus terminus . Vijay Kapoor, chief patron of the association said that tourist centres at all transport terminals would help increase tourism as tourists would get proper information from these plaaces. President of the association SS Malik said the hotel industry needs a special package. Nirmala Singh, vice-president of PSIT was felicitated on this occasion with a title “ Paryatan Shree”. Additional divisional commissioner Rajaram and other officials were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-is-centre-of-tourist-attraction-for-temples-in-bhitargaon-village-and-bithoor/articleshow/78374359.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||GH to get exclusive operation theatre for Covid-19 patients||COIMBATORE: An exclusive operation theatre for Covid-19 patients will soon come up at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). This will include paediatric and adult surgeries. This is expected to reduce contamination and any spread of infection to non-infected people who are admitted or undergoing surgeries in the hospital. There are hundreds of cases when a patient is admitted for pregnancy, other ailments or surgery and is then found to be Covid-19 positive. However, the surgery must be performed in the normal operation theatre and then moved to the Covid-19 ward for recovery. The pediatric ventilator is expected to help handle newborns who are Covid-19 positive or premature newborns who had to be delivered early from mothers who were Covid-19 positive and had complications. “It can be used for babies as small as 800gm with respiratory difficulty. Besides covid-19, the ventilator can be used for other premature babies born with breathing difficulty too,” dean Dr P Kalidas said. Speaking about the benefits of the exclusive operation theatre for Covid-19 patients, he said CMCH had been handling Covid-19 patients from August 1, including pregnant women and cases with other complications. “For these patients an exclusive operation theatre will put our staff and other patients at less risk, because we eliminate any chance of infection spread,” said another GH official. On Monday, the Rotary Club Coimbatore Downtown and Zenith donated pediatric ventilators and anesthesia equipment worth around Rs 54 lakh to set up an exclusive Covid care operation theatre under their Kovai Covid care project. The equipment donated include imported pediatric ventilator, anesthesia workstation, patient monitor, nerve stimulator and neonatal syringe pump.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gh-to-get-exclusive-operation-theatre-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78373146.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: NIA court grants bail to TVV secretary||HYDERABAD: A local National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday granted bail to Telangana Vidyarthi Vedika (TVV) secretary Menchu Sandeep, one of the accused arrested by NIA for allegedly having links with CPI Maoist With Sandeep’s release, all the persons associated with civil rights organizations, who were arrested in different cases either by Telangana police or NIA in the last one year, are said to be out on bail. In the last one month, B Maddileti, N Krishna, Ramesh and Sandeep have granted bail by NIA court. In the recent case, the NIA opposed Sandeep’s bail alleging that he has links with top leaders of CPI Maoists besides being an accused in raising funds and recruitment of youth to outlawed CPI Maoist. “He wrote letters to CPI Maoists regarding activities carried out by him in north Telangana. The petitioner is secretary of TVV, which is receiving guidance from CPI Maoist for organizing protests to wage war against the state and to lure students of college or universities for joining TVV,” NIA told the court while opposing the bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nia-court-grants-bail-to-tvv-secy/articleshow/78373177.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||World in an unchartered territory, those who can jet off in private planes||NEW DELHI: Vacation flights might have been grounded by the novel coronavirus, but air and helicopter charter firms are seeing a surge in interest with offers such as share a jet and pay by the minute use. From being considered a rich family’s indulgence and status symbol, flying private is catching on for those who want to avoid lengthy airport processes and exposure to unknown fellow travellers. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport facilitated over 570 charter flights in August alone. And when Delhi International Airport Limited inaugurated a special terminal to cater to private craft at Indira Gandhi international Airport on Thursday, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri termed it as the ‘need of the hour’ while GBS Raju, business chairman, GMR Airports (India), said the new terminal recognised the growing traffic of private business and leisure travellers. With the focus on safety, people want to fly with known people to assure themselves of being at nil risk of infection, said Bineesh Paul, mission controller, Charter Flights Aviation, which offers multiple flight choices from single- and double-engine helicopters to Bombardier and Boeing Jets with four-32 passenger seating. Booking a charter with options for per minute charges is becoming popular, Paul observed. His firm has flown in people from as far as New York and London to India and operates five to six private flights a day just from Delhi. Indiver Rastogi, president & group head (global business travel), Thomas Cook (India) Ltd, concurred with Paul’s view that fliers didn’t want to risk themselves to Covid. “While we are seeing a strong return of the individual business traveller, charter demand has been significant — for repatriation, business travel and sports," Rastogi said. Karanpal Singh of Blade India says people may be travelling less, but more securely. Blade India, which has six-seater Airbus HC 130 and five-seater Bell 407 helicopters, flies people in Mumbai to their farmhouses, villas or help transport their families or elderly parents to safer destinations without having to go through the airport protocol or sharing a flight with unknown people whose health details one is unsure of. Saujanya Shrivastava, chief operating officer (flights business), Makemytrip, similarly noted, “The demand for chartered flights has seen a significant jump with people looking for safe and customised travel options. A segment that is seeing good traction of late, chartered flight services carry tremendous potential under the given circumstances.” Safety, of course, costs money. Apart from the operating costs, each private flight incurs landing fee, airport and ground handling charges. Also, the fare covers both to-and-fro charges on most occasions. Singh felt that with this mode of mobility becoming popular, it might become more affordable. Paul pointed out that people who regularly opt for his services do it because of the exclusive terminal at the airport, personal security checks, lounges with restricted admission and options of cars picking them from the aircraft to take them to hotels. “You can book a flight that has beds, opt for a conference room in an aircraft, suggest your destination, name of passengers and arrive as close to the departure time as possible,” he added. Sensing the mood, Leela Hotels has started Flycations, or personal charter holidays to their Udaipur and Goa properties. “After potentially months of austerity and isolation, customers are willing to revert to their earlier lifestyles and enjoy luxury services including luxury travel,” explained Anurag Bhatnagar, COO, The Leela Palaces Hotels and Resorts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/world-in-an-unchartered-territory-those-who-can-jet-off-in-pvt-planes/articleshow/78374375.cms||Amin Ali
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||City to get sealed containment zones again||Coimbatore: Days after the government authorities decided to tighten Covid control measures to arrest the spread, sealed containment zones have sprung back across the city.Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said that the civic body would seal streets with three or more Covid-19 patients for 14 days. Sanitary staff would spray bleaching powder and disinfectants and keep a close watch on such streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-to-get-sealed-containment-zones-again/articleshow/78373186.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||26-year-old hostel owner ends life||Kota: A 26-year-old youth, who was reportedly distressed by mother’s cancer and post-lockdown financial hardships, committed suicide by hanging to the ceiling fan of a hotel room in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar under Jawahar Nagar police station of Kota city.The body was found hanging on Sunday and was handed over to family members after postmortem on Monday morning.Sourabh Agrawal, a resident of Vigyan Nagar Extension, was found hanging in a hotel room in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar on Sunday, circle inspector, Jawahar Nagar police station, Ramkishan Verma said. The deceased youth had checked in the hotel room on Saturday night with his car parked in the hotel parking and when he did not wake up and open his room’s door on Sunday, the hotel manager called his number, he said, adding that on receiving no response from the room, the hotel manager called police who broke the door open and recovered the body.The deceased youth was engaged in students’ hostel business and used to take hostels on lease in Kota city, but due to the pandemic the hostels are empty as most of the students left for their respective homes, besides, Agrawal’s mother was battling cancer and was undergoing therapy in Jaipur.“However, we don’t think it was only the financial crisis that drove the youth to suicide as he maintained a car and a well-to-do life, the distress caused by his mother’s disease was likely to be the reason behind suicide,” he added.Police registered a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC for further investigation into the matter.Notably, the industry of around 3,000 hostels and 5,000 PGs, that once mushroomed across the city before the spread of pandemic and accommodated over a lakh coaching students, is drastically hit by corona. Thousands of people who were directly or indirectly associated with hostels and PGs in the city are under heavy financial duress due to EMIs of bank and absence of earning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/26-year-old-hostel-owner-ends-life/articleshow/78373181.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kanpur||Section 34 of IPC added in Bikru ambush FIR||Kanpur: In order to make the case against 42 accused strong, the district’s Chaubeypur police has added section 34 of IPC to the first information report (FIR) in the July 2 & 3 Bikru ambush that claimed lives of eight policemen, including a deputy SP rank official. “We have added section 34 of IPC (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention.—When a criminal act is done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention of all, each of such persons is liable for that act in the same manner as if it were done by him alone) for making the case strong against the accused,” said SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. “We have also added Explosives Act, besides 396 (punishment for dacoity with murder), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) IPC sections in the FIR,” he added. Nearly 42 accused have been booked under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with a deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 120 b (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 7 CLA Act and 3/25 Arms Act with regard to Bikru shootout on July 2 & 3 night. To recall, eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur police area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest alleged criminal Vikas Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 & 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhaunti area in Sachendi, the police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters, while more than 44 other accused have been identified. Out of which 36 were arrested and sent to jail, two others are still absconding and are police are zeroing in on them to make their arrest possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/section-34-of-ipc-added-in-bikru-ambush-fir/articleshow/78374371.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 29, 2020||Agra||Three killed in accident on Yamuna Expressway||Agra: Three persons, including an 18-year-old girl, were killed on Monday when a bike on which they were travelling was hit by an unidentified vehicle near milestone 137 on Yamuna Expressway. The deceased were identified as Heera Bai (63), Arvind (22) and Sapna (18). All of them belonged to Madhya Pradesh. The mishap took place around 12 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-killed-in-accident-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/78370506.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Surat||Surat is gem of charity in giving new lives||SURAT: Diamond artisans of Surat are not just giving sparkling the rough stones, but are also doing gem of a work in helping critically ill patients get a new lease of life through stem cell donation. Of the top 10 Gujarat companies, who have encouraged their employees to register as stem cell donors, four Surat diamond firms figure among the first six with as many as 9,389 artisans and other staff voluntarily coming forward as donors. According to DATRI, India's largest unrelated blood stem cells donors registry, the list includes Hari Krishna Exports, Shree Ramkrishna Exports (SKR), Dharmanandan Diamonds and Venus Jewel. Moreover 42 stem cell donations from these firms have matched with that of needy patients. This too is the highest in Gujarat where 60 donors’ stem cells have matched with patients. These four companies have an annual turnover in the range of Rs 4,000 crore to Rs 6,000 crore and have a combined workforce roughly 25,000, majority of them being natives of Saurashtra. Govind Dholakiya, chairman of SRK Exports said, “When we had called the first meeting of employees regarding stem cell donation, I remember each and everyone had raised their hands to become donors.” “Donors whose stem cell matches with patients are offered paid leave and felicitated during the annual function in the presence of the entire staff to recognise their valuable contribution in saving the lives of others,” Dholakiya added. Hitesh Patel, managing director of Dharmanandan Diamonds, said, “The happiest moment is when stem cell donated by our employee matches with that of the needy patient. We literally celebrate the occasion with our workers who are given certificates of appreciation in a special function.” Sevanti Shah, chairman of Venus Jewels added, “Our employees are voluntarily donating their stem cells for critical patients. They are doing it for the sake of humanity and without any expectations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-is-gem-of-philanthropy-in-giving-new-lives/articleshow/78371604.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||BJP blames Naxals, Christian missionaries for violence||JAIPUR: BJP state general secretary Madan Dilawar has blamed Naxals and Christian missionaries behind the series of violent incidents in Dungarpur and Udaipur. Dilwar is heading a three-member BJP committee to prepare a fact-finding report on the violent clashes between the tribal youths and the police between September 24 and September 27. “On the basis of my interaction with the people in Kherwada and Dungarpur, I can say that it’s a conspiracy hatched by the Naxals and provoked by Christian missionaries. Some mindless youths were given training by the Naxals to clash with the police and to destroy property and businesses of the locals,” said Dilawar, over the phone from Udaipur. The other two members include MP Chittorgarh CP Joshi and Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena. He questioned the ruling Congress for not taking any action against the youths who were on Kakri Doongri hill from September 6. “The police and the administrative officials have told us that tribal youths have gathered stones on the hill and the nearby hill as part of the conspiracy supported by the BTP. Everyone was aware of their intention but the ruling government who is in alliance with the Bharatiya Tribal Party chose to ignore the hints of the conspiracy,” said Dilawar. Calling the entire incident meticulously planned, Dilawar said that eyewitnesses and those who suffered by the hands of protesters have told him that non-tribal houses were selectively attacked after checking their ID cards. “The victims, who were mostly non-tribal were selected on their basis of Aadhaar cards. Disrupting harmony between tribal and non-tribal was also part of the conspiracy. The larger aim I understood is to disrupt the entire tribal region,” said the MLA. The committee will be in Udaipur on Tuesday to meet the police and administrative officers and would leave for Jaipur the same day. They are expected to brief the state president Satish Poonia on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-blames-naxals-christian-missionaries-for-violence/articleshow/78373169.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Daily count of Covid cases doubles in 10 days in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The number of Covid-19 cases reported per day in the district is nearly doubled from 82 cases ten days ago to an all-time high of 161 cases on Sunday.Two days after a sudden spike of 130 cases on September 20, the number of cases fell below 100 cases again, bringing relief to health workers. However, over 100 cases in the past four consecutive days put health officials on their toes. They said high incidence of cases in the neighbouring district, Coimbatore, and easy movements of people have resulted in increasing Covid cases in the district.Till June first week, the hill district had only 14 cases. Then, it gradually started reporting cases in single digit every day. Clusters started emerging in rural areas, especially in the Ooty block, after people gathered at social events like wedding and funerals. On June 23, the district recorded 15 cases. It was 59 on July 23, which was an all-time high till July end. In August, the daily spike hit 87 on 23rd only to dip to 4 on 26th. After that, however, cases were on the rise.“As of now, there is no cluster in the district. Cases are spread across the district with high incidence of cases are in the rural areas,” said Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health. “Every day, at least 30 people with travel history test positive. Remaining cases are mostly contacts of the earlier cases in the district.”According to him, people entering the district with e-passes have to undergo mandatory testing for Covid-19. They are asked to remain self-quarantined till the results are known. However, people visiting the hills for a day are not tested for the virus.“Random samples of throat swabs are being taken from local people who return from other districts. At least 50% of them test positive,” said the official.On an average, at least 1,200 samples are drawn in a day in the district. Over 60 fever camps are conducted everyday. Containment areas are strictly monitored even if the area has reported only one case, he said.“Unless there is dip in Covid cases in Coimbatore, it is difficult to contain the spread here as people movements are not restricted between the districts. At least, 2,000 people are entering the district everyday,” said the official.“Only self-discipline and precaution measures among people will help to reduce Covid cases in the district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/daily-count-of-covid-cases-doubles-in-10-days-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78373212.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Agra||Mentally challenged woman flees Mahila Ashray Sadan||Agra: A 32-year-old mentally challenged woman ran away from a government-run Mahila Ashraya Sadan in Mathura on Sunday night. A CCTV footage of the Sadan showed the woman, identified as Rajvati, climbing the gate using a ladder which she brought from the Sadan. Police have registered a missing person’s report on a complaint filed by Sadan’s superintendent Veera Gangwar.Police said that the woman had been staying in the Sadan since April 1 after she was shifted from Krishna Kutir’s Mahila Ashray Sadan which was converted into a quarantine centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mentally-challenged-woman-flees-mahila-ashray-sadan/articleshow/78370494.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore police plan to install 51 smart traffic signals||COIMBATORE: The city police have sent a Rs 4.82 crore proposal to the state government to replace 51 traffic signals in the city. The 51 signals include 14 on the Avinashi Road, 10 on the Mettupalayam Road and four signals each on the Trichy Road and Sathy Road. Private companies that displayed advertisements on the signals were responsible for their maintenance. The firms were also footing the electricity bills for the signals. Meanwhile, the Madras high court issued an order against displaying advertisements on traffic signals. Subsequently, the firms stopped maintaining the signals and paying power bills. After the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) decided to disconnect power to the signals, the city police contacted the city municipal corporation, which agreed to bear the cost. However, the city police decided to replace the signals. “The state government is likely to confirm the proposal soon. Once the proposal is approved, tender will be invited to install 51 traffic signals with advanced features. A part of the amount will be used for paying the electricity bill for the signals. The private firm that will install the new signals will also maintain them for at least five years,” deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. To install the signals at places like Lakshmi Mills junction and Sitra, which will have four traffic signals, the government will spend Rs 8.79 lakh on four signals. For junctions that will have three signals, the government will spend Rs 6.89 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-police-plan-to-install-51-smart-traffic-signals/articleshow/78373176.cms||A Subburaj
September 29, 2020||Goa||Things getting out of hand for industry, CM must act: Goa Inc||PANAJI: Exasperated with the state government’s apathy and chief minister Pramod Sawant’s dismissal of corruption in the government departments, industry bodies have decided to jointly send a strong missive to Sawant to improve the state’s “business environment immediately”. The decision to send a joint letter pointing out the pain points, bureaucratic delays and rampant corruption in the government was taken by the state’s apex industry bodies on Monday after Sawant had brushed aside the corruption allegations levelled against his government by Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) and hit back saying, “people criticise if they don’t get benefits”. “We will seek immediate redressal because things are really getting out of hand for the industry. There is no point in lingering anymore,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo said. A day after GSIA had criticised the government departments for “under the table deals” and asking for “commission” to allot lands, real estate players had said alleged that planning and development authorities have begun to extort developers, with bribes now accounting for up to 8% of the cost of residential or commercial projects. CREDAI and the Indian Institute of Architects–Goa said the practice of sending files for approval to the ministers or the heads of corporations, who are political appointees, gave scope for arbitrary decision making and arm-twisting of businessmen. GCCI has also expressed dismay over the tweaks to labour laws that put Goan companies at a disadvantage. “We have decided to make another representation to the chief minister enumerating all the things that need to be done and we will wait for the chief minister to give us an appointment,” said Caculo. The decision to approach the chief minister directly was taken by representatives of the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) and Verna Industries Association. GSIA had kicked off a storm when it said that Sawant failed to keep his promise of meeting industry stakeholders to discuss ways to improve the ease of doing business in Goa. GSIA also went public with allegations about corruption in government departments, particularly Goa Industrial Development Corporation. Industry representatives have also questioned the delay in allotting new industrial plots, creation of infrastructure at existing industrial estates and the delay in finalising policies pertaining to raw water tariffs, SEZ land usage and coal block utilisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/things-getting-out-of-hand-for-industry-cm-must-act-goa-inc/articleshow/78374373.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Three arrested in co-operative bank scam||BENGALURU: The CID on Monday arrested three persons in connection with the Sri Guru Raghavendra co-operative bank scam where thousands of investors and depositors were cheated of crores of rupees. The arrested are Venkatesh, Subramanya and Balareddy. Venktesh and Subramanya are brothers-in-law of the bank’s former president K Ramakrishna. Police said Balareddy had provided shelter to Venkatesh and Subramanya in a lodge in Hangal, Haveri district. Police said part of the money siphoned off from the bank was transferred to Venkatesh’s and Subramanya’s accounts. RBI should decide: HCThe high court on Monday said RBI has to take a call on relaxation of moratorium conditions for the bank’s depositors/investors. A division bench made this observation after the petitioners’ counsel told the court that Rs 235 crore is available with the bank. It was submitted that as of now, a depositor is allowed to withdraw only Rs 1 lakh (other than for contingency) and it can be relaxed further if the depositors are elderly and in need of money for medication and other purposes. The court was told the moratorium has been extended till January 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-arrested-in-co-op-bank-scam/articleshow/78371907.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hubballi||Bandh gets mixed response in NK||Hubballi / Dharwad: The ‘Karnataka bandh’ call given by various farmers’ organisations, labour unions and opposition parties against amendments to the Land Reforms Act, APMC Act and other legislations evoked mixed response in Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Vijayapura and other districts of North Karnataka on Monday. Several business establishments including hotels, vegetable and fruit shops, provision stores and public transport remained open. Business at banks, LIC, post offices and other government offices was normal. Normal life in Hubballi was not affected as private vehicles, BRTS, NKRTC buses and some auto rickshaws were seen operating. However, bus service on certain routes was suspended. Trading at APMC yard was suspended while some shopkeepers in the main market area closed their establishments to avoid any untoward incident. The massive rallies by farmers’ organisations and trade unions were restricted to KC Circle in HUbballi, where protestors burnt an effigy of PM Narendra Modi. Though protesters requested bus drivers and others to stop bus service, there was no break in service. Mahesh Pattar of AITUC said, “Due to short notice for the bandh, we failed to reach many people, but we will continue to protest the anti-farmers policies.” Members of Congress, JD(S) and Aam Aadmi Party also protested. Rajanna Koravi of JD (S) and Anil Kumar Patil, Hubballi-Dharwad Congress president submitted a memorandum at the tahsildar office. In Dharwad, members of as many as 50 organisations and opposition parties took out a rally from Kadapa Maidan to the DC’s office. Members of the APMC Merchants’ Association, Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (Ambedkar), Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, Akhila Karnataka Raitha Sangha, AIDSO, AIDYO, AIMS and others blocked NH-4 near Narendra toll gate. Traffic was disrupted near Jubilee Circle as protestors blocked the road and formed a human chain. SR Hiremath of Janatantra Samaj, Congress leader PH Neeralakeri, APMC Merchants’ Association president Shivashankar Hampannavar, and other farmer leaders spoke. DCP (law and order) P Krishnakant said no untoward incidents were reported in the Hubballi and the bandh was peaceful. Normal life was not affected in Davanagere. The bandh evoked a good response in Hospete where protesters blocked the main thoroughfares and most of the shops were closed. Bus services were halted after protesters stormed the bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bandh-gets-mixed-response-in-nk/articleshow/78372427.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||BDA apartment sees 2nd ganja haul in 15 days||Bengaluru: A ganja peddler arrested by JC Nagar police had stored 70kg of the contraband in a BDA flat. This came to light in another operation carried out by Kadugodi police. Incidentally, Central Crime Branch officers had recovered 90kg ganja from another flat in the same BDA apartment (Vindhyagiri) in Doddabanahalli near Kadugodi two weeks ago. Police suspect peddlers are taking flats on rent only to hoard ganja. The two flats in Vindhyagiri were rented by separate gangs, they said. Kadugodi police found 70kg ganja in flat no. 805 on the 8th floor on September 24. The house was rented by Jintoo Thayil James from Kannur, Kerala. “We seized ganja from his flat and launched efforts to trace him. But we learnt James had already been arrested the previous day by JC Nagar police on charges of drug peddling. He had given the address of another flat as his place of residence,” an officer said. Police said James and his associates have flats in Kadugodi and Attibele, where they store ganja and other drugs. JC Nagar police said they got to know three people had parked their car in Benson Town and were selling drugs to customers. A team headed by inspector DR Nagaraj rushed to the spot around 5pm on September 23 and arrested the trio. Police seized 5kg ganja and 20grams MDMA from James and his associates Adarsh M, 27, and Unmesh Xavier, 32, both residents of Attibele and from Kannur. Kadugodi police said they had credible information that the occupant of flat no. 805 had stored huge quantities of ganja there. A team headed by sub-inspector Arun Kumar K rushed to the flat around 9am on September 24. “The door was locked. On inquiry, we got to know the occupant was not inside. We summoned witnesses and a duplicate key maker to enter the flat. We found 35 packets of ganja, each weighing 2kg. In the process of finding James, we were informed about his arrest. We are in the process of securing his custody,” Kadugodi police said. On September 9, CCB sleuths had raided flat no. 1302, (13th floor) of the Vindhyagiri apartment and seized 90kg ganja. Azam Pasha, 25, and Mastan Vali, 25, from Belathur and Mohammed Abbas, 27, from Hoskote had been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bda-apartment-sees-2nd-ganja-haul-in-15-days/articleshow/78372032.cms||Santosh kumar.B
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Stir largely peaceful across Karnataka||Bengaluru: Normal life remained unaffected in Karnataka on Monday with all commercial establishments open and vehicles plying on the roads as usual despite a statewide bandh call given by various organisations. Also, bus and other essential services, government and private offices functioned normally in most places.Schools and colleges are anyway shut due to Covid-19. The bandh was called by farmers, labour, Left, pro-Kannada and Dalit organisations spearheaded by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and supported by main opposition party Congress and SDPI. While the protest got mixed response in south Karnataka, it evoked poor response in coastal and northern areas. Early Monday morning, hundreds of farmers took to the streets against what they called anti-farmer legislations by the Centre. Several protesters were detained when they obstructed traffic in Mysuru, Hassan, Kodagu, Kalaburagi and a few other places but later let off.Several Congress and JD(S) workers were detained on Monday for protesting against amendments to the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act and land reforms acts by the BS Yediyurappa government, Party spokesperson and AICC Karnataka in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala said the BJP government is harmful to farmers. “By attacking our food and farmland, they think they can suppress farmers. They are under an illusion if they think so," he added.At the protest site in Bengaluru, Siddaramaiah said the proposed changes were the death knell to the farming community. “I challenge the CM to resign and let there be polls on these issues and we’ll see the outcome,” he said. KPCC president DK Shivakumar demanded that the ‘three black laws’ be withdrawn or repealed. A Congress delegation submitted a memorandum to the governor. Meanwhile, BJP leaders said the bandh was a total failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stir-largely-peaceful-across-karnataka/articleshow/78371838.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘Anti-social forces provoked people in Dungarpur’||Jaipur: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Monday defended the state government over the tribal agitation in Dungarpur by blaming anti-social ‘forces’ for the violence in southern Rajasthan.“This agitation had been going on for a long time, but it was not such an agitation that anyone expected would turn violent. There must have been some or the other forces that wanted to disturb peace in the state and they must have provoked people,” Pilot said at a press conference here. “Rajasthan’s tribal youth do not believe in violence. They are just concerned about their future, which is a very natural thing,” he added.On being asked if the politics over the Gehlot government needing support of two BTP MLAs from Dungarpur made the local administration go soft on these anti-social ‘forces’, Pilot said, “These are all rumours.” He added, “Some people tried to take advantage of the situation (agitation) and created confusion, which led to violence.”Pilot said demands should be within constitutional limits. “All agitations and movements have been solved through dialogues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anti-social-forces-provoked-people-in-dungarpur/articleshow/78373249.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||What is cycle threshold value?||Cycle threshold value can indicate the amount of virus in a person. It is defined as the number of cycles required for the fluorescence signal to accumulate and cross the threshold. The fluorescence signal accumulates whenever it detects the virus’s DNA. So the number of cycles or cycle threshold can vary from 1 to 33 in a positive patient. It will not accumulate at all in case there is no DNA detected even if it is run for 40 cycles. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/what-is-cycle-threshold-value/articleshow/78373257.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kanpur||Covid hosp asked to improve patient mgmt||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekher , district magistrate Alok Tiwari and the chief medical officer on Monday jointly inspected the private covid facility SPM hospital Kalyanpur and directed the management to increase five more beds in the ICU. The senior district officials of the hospital asked them to improve the patient management system in the ICU and make arrangements of more specialist doctors (anesthetists and chest specialists). The hospital management later assured them that they would engage two specialists by next week. In another direction, hospital management was asked to make use of covid health desk and public address system to inform attendants and visitors about prevention and care from Covid. The district officials expressed satisfaction over the facilities being provided in the hospital. The SPM hospital, functioning as Covid hospital since July has 77 beds including 17 beds in the ICU. Around 325 patients got treatment in the hospital since July and has recorded around 8 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-hosp-asked-to-improve-patient-mgmt/articleshow/78374376.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents of Chandanagar rue encroachment of lung spaces||HYDERABAD: The lung space around Rajendra Reddy Nagar Colony (RRNC), Chandanagar is being encroached by groups who took up construction activities in the area, the residents have alleged. “Encroachers are blasting rocks in our locality without taking precautionary measures. I request the authorities to take action as live of residents and passers-by are at stake,” P Ramchandra, a resident of RRNC, told TOI. According to locals, there are two parks and another open space in their colony, spread around three acres, which have been encroached. Balaji B, the president of RRNC, said that they will continue to raise their voices for saving the lung spaces. Meanwhile, officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) have said that they have initiated actions to cancel the regularisation of the plots. “Once the regularisation gets invalidated, notices will be served and the building permission will also be revoked. If we take an action now, it will count as contempt of court,” said N Sudhamsh, the GHMC deputy commissioner at Serilingampally circle. In the eastern part of the city too, a resident has alleged that 118 square yards of park has been encroached. “A total of 118 square yards in Vimala Devi Nagar at Malkajgiri was handed over to GHM by me. Over the years, the equipment for children to play has also been removed and structures raised there,” said M Nagaraj from Malkajgiri. GHMC has refuted the claims of the park being encroached. “The park is under civic body’s control and we are building a reading room for residents,” said T Dasharath, the GHMC deputy commissioner at Malkajgiri circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-rue-encroachment-of-lung-spaces/articleshow/78373259.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Against rules, state allows mining in Katepurna ESZ||Nagpur: In blatant violation of Supreme Court orders, the revenue department allowed large-scale extraction of murrum and gravels for road work to a contractor in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Katepurna wildlife sanctuary in Akola and Washim districts. Mining in ESZ is banned. Two big hillocks in Waghgad in survey number 45 on the south-eastern part of the sanctuary were pulled down by Swami Samarth Engineering, Pune, after the tehsildar of Barshitakli granted permission in July-August for mining for 200 brass murrumand gravel for road work. According to forest sources, around 800 truckloads of material was extracted, which is many times more than what was permitted. The company also created an illegal road to transport the extracted material. It also felled thousands of trees. They said eight JCB machines worked for over 22 days to extract murrum. Environment Protection Act (EPA) prohibits commercial mining, stone quarrying and crushing, all new and existing mining (minor and major minerals), except for meeting domestic needs of bona fide residents. The act is also violating Supreme Court orders of 2006 in TN Godhavarman case. Barshitakli tehsildar JK Hamand said, “Survey number 45 is outside the sanctuary and is an ‘E Class’ land in possession of the revenue department. Hence, permission to extract murrum/stones was granted to temple authorities as they wanted to level the land. The leftover murrum was taken by the construction company.” Papers in possession of TOI reveal Pune-based company was granted permission by the tehsildar himself. The lid over the scam was blown by Sheikh Munna Sheikh, president, Sarpamitra Nisarga Samwardhan Bahuuddeshiya Sanstha, Akola, by launching a formal complaint with sanctuary officials on August 23. A spot panchnama was done by wildlife officials on September 7 in which many violations have been mentioned. Sheikh said for the last 20 days there is no action. He released several pictures and videos showing hillocks flattened and hundreds of trees felled. Apart from territorial forest officials, the role of wildlife officials is also suspicious as they did not stop illicit extraction being done right under their nose. Deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Manojkumar Khairnar said, “The inquiry officer & ACF VG Sable submitted his report on September 25. The report confirms large-scale felling of trees and excavation in ESZ. As per rules, the district collector is the chairman of the ESZ committee and DyCF Akola is the competent authority to take action in the matter. I will submit the report to collector and Akola DyCF.” Inquiry officer Sable admitted, “The spot where mining and felling took place is 50 metres from the boundary of the sanctuary and in ESZ.” Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani said until ESZ is finally notified by MoEFCC, default 10km ESZ from the boundary of the sanctuary is the thumb rule. Any project activity listed in EIA Notification, 2006, also requires a national board for wildlife (NBWL) clearance. “Mining requires prior environment clearance (EC). Any mining activity without prior EC and NBWL clearance is illegal,” he said. Katepurna (73.69sqkm) was declared a sanctuary on August 2, 1988, considering the presence of rich biodiversity and wildlife. “Its ESZ was almost finalized in a meeting held on June 23, 2020. State forest officials were asked by the MoEFCC to explore more areas to be added in ESZ. However, instead of addition, destruction is taking place,” said Sheikh. “ESZ is ecologically and economically important, but vulnerable even to mild disturbances and hence careful management is needed. Katepurna ESZ acts as ‘shock absorber’ to the protected area but lack of coordination between wildlife and territorial officials is destroying ESZs,” alleged Sheikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/against-rules-state-allows-mining-in-katepurna-esz/articleshow/78373263.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||2 men held for kidnapping power loom worker||Coimbatore: The rural police arrested two people on Sunday for kidnapping a power loom worker over a money dispute from Somanur.They were identified as P Manirathnam, 23, of Mangalam in Tirupur district and J Thiyagarajan, 30, of Anna Nagar in Palladam. “The duo had kidnapped M Karthick, 25, of Somanur, with the help of five men. Karthick, who was working in a power loom unit in Somanur area, used to visit prostitutes. Six months ago, N Mohammed Sabhi of Rayapuram approached Karthick and asked him to introduce him to some prostitutes. Karthick demanded Rs 5,000 and Mohammed gave him the money. But Karthick began to avoid Mohammed and refused to return the money. So, Mohammed decided to teach him a lesson,” a police officer said.On Saturday evening, Mohammed and six others came to Somanur in a car and two motorcycles and kidnapped Karthick. They asked him to return the Rs 5,000. As Karthick had no money, they abandoned him near the Sulur taluk office. The gang threatened him with dire consequences if he revealed the matter to anyone. However, Karthick lodged a complaint with the Karumathampatti police,” the officer added.Police registered a case and arrested Manirathnam and J Thiyagarajan, and booked them under sections 294 b, 323, 324, 341, 342 and 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code. A special team has been formed to nab the absconding people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-held-for-kidnapping-power-loom-worker/articleshow/78373250.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Vehicles to be seized from drunk drivers||Coimbatore: The city police have warned drunken drivers that their vehicles will be seized and handed over to courts. The vehicles will not be returned to the owners at least for 10 days. Due to the pandemic, the city police stopped checking for drunken driving since March 25. A few days ago, two people who were under the influence of alcohol lost their lives after their vehicles hit a barricade and a median.“We instructed our traffic cops to seize cars and motorcycles from people who were driving and riding in an inebriated condition. We seized 10 motorcycles on Sunday. The seized vehicles will be handed over to the courts and the motorists have to pay huge amounts as fine and they cannot get back their vehicles at least within 10 days,” deputy commissioner of city police (traffic) R Mutharsu said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vehicles-to-be-seized-from-drunk-drivers/articleshow/78373245.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||2k ryots taken into preventive custody; roads in CBD choked||Bengaluru: Hundreds of protesters agitating against the state and central government policies on the farm sector thronged Bengaluru roads on Monday morning. The demonstrators threw peak-hour traffic out of gear at vital junctions in the central business district and on state and national highways leading to the city.The protesters began assembling in front of Town Hall from morning. As planned, police took them into preventive custody whenever they attempted to march on the roads. By evening, around 2,000 protesters, including around 550 detained on Sunday night itself, were released from Madiwala’s KSRP Ground, where they had been corralled.Police commissioner Kamal Pant said no untoward incidents were reported and no arrests were made through the day. “All DCPs were present on the roads from 4am. Local police worked effectively in controlling the protesters and helping easy movement of traffic. By afternoon, we relieved 36 platoons of City Armed Reserve, which were stationed in different parts of the city. Police were in control of the situation through the day,” he said. Protesters were detained mainly at Hesaraghatta 8th mile, Goraguntepalya junction, Malleswaram 18th Cross, Mehkri Circle, Yelahanka-Kogilu junction on Ballari Road, Nayandahalli junction on Mysuru Road, Dairy Circle, Adugodi, Madiwala, Sumanahalli junction, Mourya junction, Freedom Park and Town Hall. Northeast police, who were alerted about the protesters planning to flock to Kempegowda International Airport, frisked vehicles heading to the airport at different checkpoints. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) CK Baba tweeted in advance: “Air travellers requested to cooperate with police at checkpoints en route to the airport. Please avoid accompanying people to drop passengers. Only passengers with valid ticket/ boarding pass are being allowed in the airport today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2k-ryots-taken-into-preventive-custody-roads-in-cbd-choked/articleshow/78371730.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris dist logs 137 new cases, 1 death||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district reported 137 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 3,944. The number of active cases in the district is 930. A 62-year-old man from Sogathorai village succumbed to the complications caused by the virus, taking the death toll in the district to 25. A total of 123 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. The recovery rate stands at 75.7%. Of the new cases, about 40 cases have travel history, while the remaining cases are primary and secondary contacts of positive cases, according to Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health.Ooty town reported eight cases, while the remaining cases were from rural areas spread across the district.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said the number of tests per day will be increased from 1,400 to 2,000 as Covid cases are increasing in the district.“We are in the process of identifying more care centres for Covid patients in the district. The Government Sait Memorial Hospital with 60 beds will be ready in a day or two for the purpose. Besides, we are considering to turn some private estate hospitals into Covid care centres,” she said. Presently, the district has 1,400 beds for Covid patients, including five care centres with 699 beds.The collector requested the public to cooperate with the administration in containing the virus in the district..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-dist-logs-137-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/78373234.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Demand for gym equipment rises in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The city is witnessing an enhanced demand for workout equipment post the easing of Covid-19 lockdown norms. Though most gyms, yoga and dance studios have reopened, denizens are apprehensive about infection and are preferring to workout at home. Demand and sale of various gym equipments have risen by more than 50% in the last two months. The main reasons behind the enhanced demand for workout equipment can be attributed to people’s rising awareness about the fallouts of obesity, as most of them have gained a few kilos during the lockdown. Denizens are also keen to boost their immunity and regular workout plays a significant role in it. Some of the big sports stores in the city say sales have gone up by nearly 60% in the last two months. “Most customers are from middle and upper middle class background. Yoga mats for abs exercise, dumbbells for weight training, kettle bells, resistance bands, bench press, treadmills and cross trainers for cardio are the most sought-after equipment,” said Mehdi Abbas, manager at a city sports store. He said besides fitness freaks, homemakers are also a considerable part of the clientele. “They have realised the importance of exercise and are purchasing these to workout at home. Most of them want to avoid going to public gyms and yoga centres as this stage,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/demand-for-gym-equipment-rises/articleshow/78370869.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam admin to survey all industries||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district administration is planning to conduct a survey on various industries in the district. Training for the survey teams started on Monday with around 30 lead officers in attendance at the industrial estate in Vizag city. The survey is likely to start over the coming days with reports scheduled for submission by October 15. An Aadhaar number for industries will also be provided by the administration, the district management said. A series of incidents such as the LG Polymers chemical leak among others have compelled the administration to collect comprehensive information for future exigencies. The district is home to around 11,000 industries including 7,000 manufacturing units and 144 heavy industries. “The survey will be conducted through a mobile app and will cover details of industries since their restart to the present day. They will be scored on nine components,” joint collector Govinda Rao told TOI. The survey will be conducted by engineering assistants of 733 village secretariats in rural areas and ward amenity secretaries of 572 ward-level secretariats in the urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-admin-to-survey-all-industries/articleshow/78370848.cms||Siva G
September 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In quarantine, diets swinging between balance and binge||VISAKHAPATNAM: The pandemic and the lockdown have led to an increase in binge eating and obesity as well as an improved awareness about diet and nutrition. While many have shown an inclination towards healthy eating to boost immunity and fight the novel coronavirus, others, including children, have gained weight by one to two kilos on average every month, occasionally bordering on obesity, said doctors and nutritionists. Speaking to TOI, Dr Triveni Reddy, consultant general physician at Care Hospital, said, “We observed two contrasting dietary habits among people during the pandemic. Due to the socio-economic condition, people are under a lot of stress, which often triggers overeating. A section of people took to culinary experiments from online cookery recipes, which again led to binge eating. Most of these recipes are those of high calorie fried food or rich desserts. With no schools and outdoor activities, children were also restricted at home and indulged in homemade junk food when restaurant food was not available. As a result, this section of people has gained at least six to 10 kg of weight in six months and we are seeing many patients with obesity-related complications.” On the plus side, Dr Reddy said, is people’s eagerness to increase intake of immunity-boosting food, opt for fresh fruits and vegetables, dry fruits, milk, eggs and food rich in Vitamin C. Consultant dietician at Kims Icon Hospital T Lavanya added, “It is observed that nowadays people are preparing herbal tea or kadha concoction using traditional herbs and spices like ginger, turmeric tulsi leaves, pepper and sipping these rather than drinking only aerated and caffeine-rich beverages. They are asking us for immunity-boosting diet that can be easily prepared at home with locally available ingredients. Rather than exotic kiwi and dragonfruit, people are preferring seasonal and locally available guavas and citrus fruits.” “On the flipside, people still continue to order junk food even late at night, when high calorie and sugar-rich foods should be a strict no-no as the metabolism rate slows down from evening,” said the dietician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-quarantine-diets-swinging-between-balance-and-binge/articleshow/78370861.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government to push farm and labour ordinances||BENGALURU: Despite widespread protests, the Karnataka government has decided to reissue ordinances after three contentious bills failed to get the legislative council’s nod last week. While the government failed to push through the two bills related to agriculture and land reforms in the council, another one related to labour reforms was defeated there after it was passed in the assembly on Saturday, last day of the monsoon session. “We’ll take it up at the next cabinet meeting and reissue the ordinance,’’ said revenue minister R Ashoka, adding, “What happened last week is unprecedented. But we won’t allow the opposition to block reforms which will help farmers.’’ “Opposition Congress and JD(S) defeated the labour reforms bills for political rather than logical reasons,” said industries minister Jagadish Shettar, adding that the labour department plans to repromulgate the ordinance at the next cabinet meeting. Araga Jnanendra, four-time MLA from Tirthahalli, who played a pivotal role in preparing the draft of these bills, said it’s unfortunate the opposition did not allow the passage of the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 even though two of their key demands were considered. Their main demand was to withdraw the amendment that raised the cap on buying of farmland from 54 acres to 400 acres. “We retained the original Act, following suggestion of members. The ceiling for a family of four will remain 54 acres and for a larger family (five and above), it will be 108 acres,” he said. He said they also heeded another demand to ensure that irrigated land purchased should be used only for agricultural purposes and nothing else. Defending the proposed APMC bill, he said the government has also cut down on middlemen’s commission and APMC yard cess. For example, if a farmer from Shivamogga wants to sell a quintal of arecanut, he has to pay Rs 1,050 as broker’s commission and cess. “The new bill gets rid of it. The Congress is alleging that multinational companies will take control of the market. If these companies compete against each other to give a better price to farmers, what’s wrong?’’ Jnanendra asked. The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, which labour unions had opposed, will also be repromulgated with minor changes on raising the threshold limit and increasing working hours, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-to-push-farm-and-labour-ordinances/articleshow/78371685.cms||Manu Aiyappa
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||State govt sanctions Rs 7.46 crore for IIIT-Kota||KOTA: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday approved a grant of Rs 7.46 crore, share of the state for construction of permanent campus of the proposed Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) on Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode in Kota. The approval of the state government’s share paves the way for construction of permanent campus of IIIT in Kota after seven years of its announcement, construction of which will likely begin by December this year. The Union government has already contributed its share of Rs 19.38 crore along with four private partners. The detailed project report (DPR) was submitted in 2017. The chief minister, while approving the state government’s share, specifically directed that the sanctioned amount be utilized as per the RTPP Act. Notably, due to vested interests and political motives, the project had been gathering dust for seven years as the construction could not be kicked off even after its announcement in 2013. Regular classes for IIIT, Kota, however, have been running in temporary campus of MNIT, Jaipur. Since 2013, the land allotted for construction of a permanent campus in Raanpur area was left with boundary walls. The four private partners — Vakrangee Limited, Genpact, Cairn India and NBAC Bearing — have already contributed their respective share for IIIT, Kota. The first batch started in 2013 in a temporary campus of MNIT, Jaipur, which passed out in 2017. The construction of the permanent campus will take at least two years to complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-sanctions-rs-7-46cr-for-iiit-kota/articleshow/78373227.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Amaravati||Downward trend of daily Covid-19 cases continues in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 5,487 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 6,81,161. This is the lowest case total in over two months after the 6,045 cases registered on July 22. The death toll, meanwhile, increased to 5,745 as 37 more patients succumbed to complications triggered by the pandemic virus. It the lowest casualty count since July 13 when 37 deaths were reported. As many as 7,210 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals. There are currently 63,116 active cases with 6,12,300 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 89.9%. Comparing the cases registered between August 19 to 26 with that of September 19 to 26, special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said the state has witnessed a considerable improvement in case positivity rate, daily infections and mortality rate. “Despite a 20% increase in test samples, there has been a 25% drop in cases compared to the same week of August. There’s also a 44% decrease in deaths during the same time,” he said. Dr Reddy said that if cases reported in the last one week are taken into consideration, the case doubling rate now stands at 72 days. “It would take about 187 days for Kurnool to see the case count to double, while it will be about 51 days in Prakasam. We plan to increase the present RT-PCR testing capacity to 50,000 samples a day from the present 30,000 samples in the next one week by supplying automated machines to every district,” the special chief secretary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/downward-trend-of-daily-covid-19-cases-continues-in-andhra/articleshow/78377771.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangalore University to lease campus land to institutions; activists feel it will impact biodiversity||BENGALURU: Bangalore University’s decision to lease more of its land on the Jnanabharathi campus to educational institutions has not gone down well with environmentalists and locals. They feel it will affect biodiversity patches on the premises. In June, BU signed a lease to give 15 acres to Inter University Centre for Yogic Sciences for Rs 7.5 lakh per year. Apart from this, it has also agreed to hand over one acre to Central Board of Secondary Education for its regional office, 10 acres to Central University of Karnataka, Kalaburagi for a joint research project with BU in artificial intelligence, machine learning, IOT and space technology, five acres to National Assessment and Accreditation Council, which already has its office on the campus, and two acres to Council of Architecture for a national digital library. Opposing the move, environmentalists and members of the public held a protest march on the campus on Sunday. “The biodiversity park was started in 2002. Now, it has over 3 lakh trees and 600 species of flora and fauna in 15 patches — 148 species of butterflies and 149 species of birds are spotted here. There are hundreds of peacocks. It’s one of the biggest lung spaces of the city, an oxygen and water reserve which was developed over many years with a lot of hard work by the community,” said T J Renuka Prasad, former coordinator of Biopark. The greens point out that the biodiversity park is a joint effort by many people, who have spent money and time in sourcing plants, including endangered species, and maintaining them. “Around 1,500-2,000 people come here for walks every day. For them, it’s not just another place to walk. Many have contributed to the well-being of these plants by providing water tanks during summer or planting more varieties,” said KLH Raya, president of the walkers’ association. Many in the university are also unhappy with the decision. “The patches are important for students too as they use them to study the flora and fauna. The loss cannot be replaced,” said D Paramesha Naik, a faculty member at the environment science department as well as chairman president of Environmental Society of India, an NGO. It’s the govt’s decision: VCBU vice-chancellor KR Venugopal said the government had written to the university to allot lands to educational institutions. “It’s the state government’s decision. We want to turn it into an educational hub. Each institution that gets the land can preserve the biodiversity. A balance should be maintained. The presence of so many educational institutions on the campus will help BU move in the right direction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bu-to-lease-campus-land-to-institutions-activists-feel-it-will-impact-biodiversity/articleshow/78372056.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
September 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Highway widening project hits Covid-19 speed breaker in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown to contain its spread have delayed the four major ongoing projects under the Visakhapatnam project implementation unit (PIU) of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), it was revealed at a review meeting of the PIU. The projects are the widening of National Highway (NH)-16 in stretches between Anakapalle to Anandapuram, Anandapuram to Ranasthalam, Ranasthalam to Narasannapeta and Narasannapeta to Icchapuram. “Construction works were severely affected during the lockdown period and during April 19 to May 26 it came to a standstill for around a month. There was no labour available and procurement and supply of construction materials were not at all stable,” P Siva Sankar, project director of Visakhapatnam PIU told TOI. Altogether, the four projects cover a 164-km-long stretch and the combined project cost is Rs 4,950 crore. The Anakapalle to Anandapuram project is expected to cost Rs 2,000 crore and the highway in this stretch will be widened to six lanes. In the other three projects, the highway will be widened to four lanes and six lanes in some stretches. “We are surely going to miss the deadlines for all four projects. Our findings revealed that if we now work on a war footing without any hindrance, each project will be delayed by at least three months. There are no major hindrances because most of the lands have been acquired. Most importantly, if we are on time from now there won’t be any major effect on the project cost,” said Siva Sankar. NHAI officials, however, added that the delay in the projects would mean commuters bearing the toll fee for a longer period. At present, the stretches under the four projects are in poor shape and the NHAI is charging only 75% of the toll fee. “The waiver would remain until and unless these projects are ready. It means, the time for recovering the construction cost would also elapse,” a senior NHAI official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/highway-widening-project-hits-covid-19-speed-breaker/articleshow/78370836.cms||Arpit Basu
September 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Thefts at places of worship standalone incidents: DGP||VIJAYAWADA: In an official statement on Monday, director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang said that police have detected 12 of the 19 cases of vandalism and theft in places of worship. Addressing the media, the DGP said all the cases were standalone incidents and that attempts were being made to spin a wrong narrative. “If you take the Srikakulam incident for example, people went on to claim that the arm of an idol was desecrated. Our investigation revealed that the arm of the idol fell off last year due to the idol being exposed to heavy rain. When it comes to the Kurnool incident, the accused revealed that he desecrated the idol and stole the private parts of the deity because he was made to believe that this could lead to his wife conceiving a child,” the DGP said. Police data revealed that there is a 25% decrease in attacks on temples compared to the corresponding period of previous year. The DGP also stated that various other attacks were executed by treasure trove gangs who were hunting for treasures supposedly hidden under idols. Elaborating on the precautionary measures taken, Sawang said that state police units have mapped 47,593 places of worship out of which there are 28,567 temples. Cops conducted a comprehensive safety audit of these temples and found that only 10% of them were equipped with CCTV cameras. “We have issued notices to authorities of the respective temples to take necessary steps to ensure safety, like installing CCTVs, boosting lighting around the structure etc. The department itself has installed CCTVs at over 880 locations. The police have bound over 8,204 (persons) who have committed similar offences in the past six years,” the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/thefts-at-places-of-worship-standalone-incidents-dgp/articleshow/78370888.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Downward trend of daily Covid-19 cases continues in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 5,487 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 6,81,161. This is the lowest case total in over two months after the 6,045 cases registered on July 22. The death toll, meanwhile, increased to 5,745 as 37 more patients succumbed to complications triggered by the pandemic virus. It the lowest casualty count since July 13 when 37 deaths were reported. As many as 7,210 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals. There are currently 63,116 active cases with 6,12,300 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 89.9%. Comparing the cases registered between August 19 to 26 with that of September 19 to 26, special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said the state has witnessed a considerable improvement in case positivity rate, daily infections and mortality rate. “Despite a 20% increase in test samples, there has been a 25% drop in cases compared to the same week of August. There’s also a 44% decrease in deaths during the same time,” he said. Dr Reddy said that if cases reported in the last one week are taken into consideration, the case doubling rate now stands at 72 days. “It would take about 187 days for Kurnool to see the case count to double, while it will be about 51 days in Prakasam. We plan to increase the present RT-PCR testing capacity to 50,000 samples a day from the present 30,000 samples in the next one week by supplying automated machines to every district,” the special chief secretary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/downward-trend-of-daily-covid-19-cases-continues-in-andhra/articleshow/78370902.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Jaipur||Peace returns to south Raj; NH-8 cleared for traffic||UDAIPUR: Peace prevailed in Udaipur and Dungarpur on Monday and there were no reports of any violence from any part of the region which was hit by the agitation by tribal youths for the last four days. The stretch affected by the stir, between Bicchiwada and Kherwada on the National Highway 8, was cleared of all obstacles and open for free vehicular movement. Two companies of Rapid Action Forces (RAF), which arrived from Gandhi Nagar, Gujarat on Sunday night, inspected the affected area and are stationed in Bichhiwada. Additional forces and RAC battalions too have been deployed here to prevent any untoward incident. Dungarpur SP Jai Yadav said the protesters have moved back from the Mahapadav protest site and vacated Kankri Doongri hills. For the past 20 days, hundreds of tribal youths had camped on the hill top demanding that the government fill 1,167 vacant seats under the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) in their area with ST candidates. The protest turned violent on Thursday evening when the candidates for the teachers' recruitment examination laid siege to the highway, pelted stones and torched vehicles over their demand. On Monday, Dungarpur police took out peace marches in Sabla and Aspur towns. "This was done to assure the public that the stir is over and law and order has been restored. Volunteers under the Gram Rakshak Dal and Police Mitra schemes too have been asked to join in and report to us in case of any suspicious movement in the area" Yadav told TOI. The SP said during the four days of protest, 30 cases have been registered in Bicchiwada and Sadar police stations of Dungarpur and 44 men arrested. Four hundred persons have been accused of charges of assault, torching vehicles, loot and causing damage to public property, etc. The officer said seven to eight policemen were injured in the violence and around 20 vehicles torched. An estimate of the property loss has not been done yet, he said. Meanwhile, internet services remained suspended on Monday in the entire Dungarpur district and city. In Udaipur too, the district administration permitted internet services only within municipal limits. In rural areas, people suffered due to internet suspension. In Rishabdeo and Jhadol, peace prevailed and no untoward incident was reported throughout the day. On Sunday, both places had witnessed violence, stone pelting and torching of vehicles. In Kherwada, life resumed gradually to normalcy with many shops and commercial establishments resuming work after two days of complete shutdown. Though the non-tribal communities are still apprehensive, authorities and public representatives assured the residents of safety and security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/peace-returns-to-south-rajnh-8-cleared-for-traffic/articleshow/78373264.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kanpur||CM launches 148 projects of over Rs 131Cr in Bangarmau||Kanpur:Chief minister Yogi Adityanath kicked off BJP bypoll campaign by launching 148 projects worth Rs 131.05 crore at Bangarmau assembly segment on Monday. Bangarmau Assembly seat in Unnao district, from where BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar was elected in 2017, was declared vacant in 2019 after he was found guilty by a Delhi court for raping a minor girl in Unnao district in 2017. Speaking on the occasion, Yogi said, “Unnao is a land of our revolutionaries and martyrs and the nation is indebted to their sacrifices, which have enabled us to live in an independent nation.” The CM further lauded Unnao-based migrant workers, who had given beautiful makeover to Unnao school where they were quarantined during lockdown. “Three migrant workers from Unnao, who had returned from Hyderabad and were quarantined in a primary school at Narainpur village in Unnao district, had spent their time in painting and ended up giving a complete makeover to the facility premises. By their effort, Unnao not only found a mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech at the launch of the ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana’, but also hogged limelight nationally,” said Yogi. He further said, “Opposition parties are misleading people, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said agricultural bills will be beneficial for farmers. Opposition parties, for whom there are no issues left are now going on instigating the farmers and doing cheap politics over agricultural bills issue.” He also attacked opposition, which was criticising the government over the Rafale fighter jet deal. “Now Rafale has come and even China has now stopped speaking against India.” The CM also announced to name the road from Bangarmau to Sandila after Maharaja Satan Pasi, a revolutionary ruler of Unnao. He also announced to rename Rajkiya Mahavidyalaya in the name of former MP Vishambhar Dayal Tripathi. Yogi further said that whether it be Lok Sabha or Nagar Panchayat polls, people of Unnao had elected BJP and once again they should vote BJP in the upcoming bypoll of Bangarmau assembly seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cm-launches-148-projects-of-over-rs-131cr-in-bangarmau/articleshow/78374381.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Request Kerala to store more water in Siruvani dam, collector tells govt||Coimbatore: Collector K Rajamani has requested the state government to hold talks with Kerala to raise water level in the Siruvani Reservoir till the maximum storage capacity. The reservoir level has been maintained at 44.61ft against the full storage capacity of 49.53ft for the last one week, even though catchment areas receive rain. The decision to reduce the maximum storage capacity by five feet was taken by the Kerala government as a precautionary measure following the 2018 floods.A source privy to the development said that the Coimbatore collector wrote to the state government a few days ago requesting to hold talks with the Kerala government to increase the storage level as the southwest monsoon is receding. “Water shortage during the summer season can be avoided to an extended if water is saved for another five feet. The irrigation department of the Kerala government has opened the reservoir’s sluice gate to maintain the level. The gate, which is usually opened up to 5cm, was opened up to 8cm on Sunday,” the source said. Meanwhile, officials of the Tamil Nadu water and drainage (TWAD) board are awaiting a response from the Kerala’s irrigation department. They met their Kerala counterparts in Kozhikode last Tuesday and requested them to take steps to increase the maximum storage capacity. The latter assured to inspect the reservoir and submit recommendations to the Kerala government. “We have not received any reply from the irrigation department yet. We can save up to 122 million cubic feet of water, which will be sufficient to supply for 25 to 30 days,” said a TWAD official. As of now, of the 101 MLD withdrawn from the reservoir, 90 MLD is supplied in the corporation areas. The corporation has been supplying water once in six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/request-kerala-to-store-more-water-in-siruvani-dam-collector-tells-govt/articleshow/78373269.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman, 20, attempts to immolate herself||Coimbatore: Allegedly harassed by her husband for dowry, a 20-year-old woman tried to immolate herself in front of the collector’s office here on Monday.Police identified her as Chitra, a resident of Karamadai. “She tried to enter the collector’s office with a can of petrol but was stopped by cops. Preliminary inquiry revealed that she was staying alone after her parents died. She had married Gowrishankar three months ago. He has been abusing her both physically and verbally demanding Rs 50,000 as dowry,” said a police officer.Cops took her to the all women police station at Gandhipuram. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-20-attempts-to-immolate-herself/articleshow/78373265.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bareilly||Nine criminals held with illegal drugs, liquor||Pilibhit: Nine criminals, including seven carrying a bounty of Rs 10,000 each, were arrested by a team of cops from two different police stations in Pilibhit district. One of them has a reward of Rs 12,000 on his head while another was wanted for drug peddling. The police have recovered illegal drugs worth Rs 5 lakh. Hajara SHO Shamshad Ahmad said that seven were accused of dacoity and keeping illegal arms. "They were residents of Kambojnagar along India-Nepal border. Several criminal cases were registered against them. Each of them carried a reward of Rs 10,000. They were nabbed from the outskirts of their village on Sunday." The drug peddler who was identified as Daljit Singh of Bazar Ghat was also wanted in a criminal case registered against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, Ahmad said. Madhotanda SHO Ram Sevak said that one of the top 10 criminals of his circle, Shankar Singh, 22, of Akbarpur was nabbed by police while making illicit liquor. "He had four cases registered against him under the NDPS Act and the Excise Act. He was carrying a bounty of Rs 12,000," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nine-criminals-held-with-illegal-drugs-liquor/articleshow/78370527.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Social activists urge city corpn to adopt green measures||Coimbatore: Social activists on Monday requested the city corporation to increase green cover around city lakes and treat water before letting it into the lakes while implementing the lake beautification projects under the Smart Cities Mission.The suggestions were made during the smart city advisory forum meeting that took place in the corporation office. Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian presided over the meeting.Activists requested the civic body not to cut trees on the roads while implementing the model road projects on the DB Road and Race Course Road, to increase green cover around the lakes and to speed up installing sewage treatment plants (STPs) as part of the lake beautification project.“We requested the corporation to take steps to clean and maintain the canals connecting the lakes even though it does not come under the scope of lake rejuvenation project. As a crematorium is located just a kilometre away from Muthannankulam, people have been dumping ritual wastes including garlands and beds along the lake bund. We have requested the corporation to take measures to prevent it,” secretary of the Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore (Raac) R Raveendran, who attended the meeting, said.Syed of environmental organization Osai said, “We requested the officials to remove encroachments along the Valankulam lake and to increase green cover to protect biodiversity. Also, steps should be taken to maintain the lakes after the construction work is completed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/social-activists-urge-city-corpn-to-adopt-green-measures/articleshow/78373273.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Udaipur||Peace returns to south Raj; NH-8 cleared for traffic||UDAIPUR: Peace prevailed in Udaipur and Dungarpur on Monday and there were no reports of any violence from any part of the region which was hit by the agitation by tribal youths for the last four days. The stretch affected by the stir, between Bicchiwada and Kherwada on the National Highway 8, was cleared of all obstacles and open for free vehicular movement. Two companies of Rapid Action Forces (RAF), which arrived from Gandhi Nagar, Gujarat on Sunday night, inspected the affected area and are stationed in Bichhiwada. Additional forces and RAC battalions too have been deployed here to prevent any untoward incident. Dungarpur SP Jai Yadav said the protesters have moved back from the Mahapadav protest site and vacated Kankri Doongri hills. For the past 20 days, hundreds of tribal youths had camped on the hill top demanding that the government fill 1,167 vacant seats under the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) in their area with ST candidates. The protest turned violent on Thursday evening when the candidates for the teachers' recruitment examination laid siege to the highway, pelted stones and torched vehicles over their demand. On Monday, Dungarpur police took out peace marches in Sabla and Aspur towns. "This was done to assure the public that the stir is over and law and order has been restored. Volunteers under the Gram Rakshak Dal and Police Mitra schemes too have been asked to join in and report to us in case of any suspicious movement in the area" Yadav told TOI. The SP said during the four days of protest, 30 cases have been registered in Bicchiwada and Sadar police stations of Dungarpur and 44 men arrested. Four hundred persons have been accused of charges of assault, torching vehicles, loot and causing damage to public property, etc. The officer said seven to eight policemen were injured in the violence and around 20 vehicles torched. An estimate of the property loss has not been done yet, he said. Meanwhile, internet services remained suspended on Monday in the entire Dungarpur district and city. In Udaipur too, the district administration permitted internet services only within municipal limits. In rural areas, people suffered due to internet suspension. In Rishabdeo and Jhadol, peace prevailed and no untoward incident was reported throughout the day. On Sunday, both places had witnessed violence, stone pelting and torching of vehicles. In Kherwada, life resumed gradually to normalcy with many shops and commercial establishments resuming work after two days of complete shutdown. Though the non-tribal communities are still apprehensive, authorities and public representatives assured the residents of safety and security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/peace-returns-to-south-rajnh-8-cleared-for-traffic/articleshow/78381323.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Goa top cop tests positive for Covid||PANAJI: Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena has tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. Speaking to TOI, Meena said that he was suffering from fever due to which he opted for a Covid test. “The result was positive,” he said. Meena was holding regular review meetings to improve policing in the state. He had taken charge of Goa police in July. He was additional DGP in Mizoram before his posting to Goa. The officer has also served as senior superintendent of police in Puducherry and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, apart from holding various ranks in the Delhi police, including joint commissioner of police — New Delhi range, special commissioner — New Delhi range and chief of the anti-corruption branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-top-cop-tests-ve-for-covid/articleshow/78374377.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong men not allowed to meet guv, detained||Hyderabad: Congress leaders, including AICC general secretary Manickam Tagore, MPs N Uttam Kumar Reddy and A Revanth Reddy among others were taken into police custody at the Raj Bhavan gate when they went to submit a memorandum to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday. The governor’s office had not given an appointment to the Congress, despite the party seeking it well in advance. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the governor’s office cited Covid-19 pandemic as the reason for not giving time. “Why does the same reason not apply to the meetings between CM KCR and the governor?” he asked. Uttam requested that at least one of the officials from the governor’s office should take the Congress representation on the three farm bills at the Raj Bhavan gate. Instead, they were told to email the representation to the governor. Tagore, who was recently appointed as state in charge, led the march from Dilkusha Guest House to Raj Bhavan, as part of the nationwide protest called by Congress demanding withdrawal of the contentious farm legislations. The copies of the memorandum were addressed to governor Tamilisai and President Ramnath Kovind. The Congress wanted to submit the representation to the President of India through the governor’s office. Slogans against farmer legislation, Narendra Modi-led BJP government and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao were raised. Subsequently the police took the Congress leaders to Goshamahal police station where they were released later. Tagore condemned the denial of appointment by the governor. In an informal interaction with media persons, he said despite testing Covid-19 positive once, the Tamil Nadu governor did not deny appointment to the opposition leaders. The rules in Telangana’s Raj Bhavan appear to be different from the rest of the country as governors in other states have met delegations and accepting representations, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-men-not-allowed-to-meet-guv-detained/articleshow/78373270.cms||Roushan Ali
September 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sadguru hospital gets fire services pat for prompt response to mishap||Bhubaneswar: The fire services directorate has submitted its inquiry report on the recent fire at Sadguru Covid hospital in Cuttack to the state government. Despite not having the mandatory fire safety certificate, the hospital has received appreciation from the probe authorities for promptly responding to the mishap, which had not led to any casualty. State chief fire officer (CFO) Sukanta Sethy has handed over his investigation report to Cuttack district collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani. The report has attributed the cause of the fire to a short circuit in an AC of the ICU. “I have received the inquiry report from the CFO. There was no negligence by anyone as the fire incident occurred due to an electric short circuit. The report said the timely intervention of the hospital’s staff averted a major tragedy. The hospital’s fire-fighting gadgets, including extinguishers and sprinklers functioned properly due to which their staff could douse the fire before the arrival of the firemen,” Chayani told TOI. Neither Sethy nor any other senior fire services officials, including director general Satyajit Mohanty agreed to speak on the inquiry report. The officials even avoided queries on the leniency shown to the 10-year-old hospital, which did not have the fire safety certificate. The hospital also treats non-Covid patients, who need dialysis. Though the Covid ward has been shut since the fire that had occurred on September 21, the dialysis wing still functions in another portion of the hospital. The government said Sadguru Covid hospital would be allowed to function only after they get a fire safety certificate. The fire officials will conduct an inspection and grant the certificate only if the hospital complies with the requisite fire safety measures, Chayani said. The hospital authorities said compliance of the fire safety gadgets was in the final stage. “Recommendations by the fire services officials are being implemented on a war footing. We will soon get the fire safety certificate. We had already installed several fire-fighting devices due to which we could effectively and promptly douse the fire and save the lives of the patients and staff. Since the premises were filled with smoke, we evacuated the patients within 10 minutes,” Sadguru hospitals director Rahul Pratyush Mohanty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sadguru-hospital-gets-fire-services-pat-for-prompt-response-to-mishap/articleshow/78384226.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: SCB to go after tax defaulters to raise funds for sanitation spend||SECUNDERABAD: With only four months to go for the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) polls, the boards officials have sprung to their feet to clear the pending proposals piled up in the engineering, health and sanitation wings.  To meet these demands, the fund-starved Cantonment Board has set its eyes on collecting nearly Rs 3 to Rs 5 crore in property tax from defaulters. According demand notices, the board was supposed to collect to Rs 70 crore to Rs 100 crore tax but could only get Rs 50 crore in 2019-20. The SCB also made pleas to people, urging them to pay taxes online. “The SCB tax department had identified 200 defaulters who have not paid taxes for past many years. The staff has served ‘red notices’ to them, but they have still ignored paying up,” SCB deputy CEO Vijay Kumar Balan Nair told TOI. “With identification of defaulters whose property tax is Rs 1 lakh and above, the board is expecting to collect nearly Rs 5 to 10 crore,” he added. The SCB on Monday also launched an integrated payment gateway to pay property tax and water bills. A link is sent to the registered mobile number and the payment can be completed through UPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-go-after-tax-defaulters-to-raise-funds-for-sanitation-spend/articleshow/78373280.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS has no right to protest farm bills: BJP||HYDERABAD: BJP national V-P DK Aruna on Monday said the TRS had no moral ground to oppose the farm bills passed by Parliament. Interacting with TOI, she said the TRS was backing protests in villages fearing farmers may supporting the BJP after they realise that farm bill is beneficial to them. “Even those protests are sponsored,” she said. She said that the TRS has no right to complain when they could not complete Palamuru Ranga Reddy irrigation project on time. “These protests are for political reasons, people don’t have any false hopes about the TRS regime,” she said. She also alleged that TRS had a tacit understanding with the Congress for GHMC and Dubbak bypoll. The BJP will protest before all mandal offices on Tuesday opposing LRS scheme launched by the state government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-has-no-right-to-protest-farm-bills-bjp/articleshow/78373277.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 29, 2020||India||India, China remain in touch for more talks on LAC||NEW DELHI: After last week's meeting of senior commanders on the LAC stand-off, India and China remain in touch to follow it up with the next round of diplomatic talks. Apart from six rounds of military talks, India and China have also held four meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on Border Affairs between diplomats for disengagement and de-escalation. Official sources said the WMCC meeting will take place soon, possibly as soon as this week, to take stock of developments since the senior commanders' meeting on September 21. The government believes that frequent meetings are important to ensure that the situation along the LAC in Ladakh doesn't deteriorate any further even as the two sides remain engaged for complete disengagement and de-escalation. The last military meeting saw the two sides agreeing to strengthen ground communication to avoid any further misunderstandings and misjudgement, stop sending more troops to the front-line, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation. While there has been no breakthrough in the talks so far, the fact that the two sides managed to issue a joint statement after the September 21 meeting between the senior commanders is seen as a positive development. That meeting also saw the participation of MEA joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava who otherwise leads the Indian delegation in WMCC. Official sources said his participation had been invaluable in providing continuity to the talks with China. Significantly, he was a part of both External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and also Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's delegations when they met their counterparts in Moscow this month. In the last WMCC meeting on August 20, the two sides had agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an "expeditious" manner and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. They, in fact, also agreed that restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas will be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-remain-touch-for-more-talks-on-lac/articleshow/78375283.cms||---
September 29, 2020||World||India, China remain in touch for more talks on LAC||NEW DELHI: After last week's meeting of senior commanders on the LAC stand-off, India and China remain in touch to follow it up with the next round of diplomatic talks. Apart from six rounds of military talks, India and China have also held four meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on Border Affairs between diplomats for disengagement and de-escalation. Official sources said the WMCC meeting will take place soon, possibly as soon as this week, to take stock of developments since the senior commanders' meeting on September 21. The government believes that frequent meetings are important to ensure that the situation along the LAC in Ladakh doesn't deteriorate any further even as the two sides remain engaged for complete disengagement and de-escalation. The last military meeting saw the two sides agreeing to strengthen ground communication to avoid any further misunderstandings and misjudgement, stop sending more troops to the front-line, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation. While there has been no breakthrough in the talks so far, the fact that the two sides managed to issue a joint statement after the September 21 meeting between the senior commanders is seen as a positive development. That meeting also saw the participation of MEA joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava who otherwise leads the Indian delegation in WMCC. Official sources said his participation had been invaluable in providing continuity to the talks with China. Significantly, he was a part of both External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and also Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's delegations when they met their counterparts in Moscow this month. In the last WMCC meeting on August 20, the two sides had agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an "expeditious" manner and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols. They, in fact, also agreed that restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas will be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/india-china-remain-touch-for-more-talks-on-lac/articleshow/78375290.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Insult to Amravati honorary warden flayed||Nagpur: In an unprecedented move, 24 honorary district wildlife wardens from Maharashtra have condemned humiliating treatment meted out to Amravati honorary warden and wildlife conservationist Sawan Deshmukh and demanded an apology from Amravati chief conservator of forests (CCF) Praveen Chavan. On September 26, after learning that PCCF (wildlife) NH Kakodkar was reaching Mahendri guesthouse in Warud range to conduct a field visit of the proposed sanctuary area and discuss the proposal, Deshmukh had reached Mahendri to welcome Kakodkar and submit a memorandum. “However, Chavan stopped me and my colleagues at the gate and asked to leave. I was shocked. Not stopping at this, the CCF asked me whether I had invitation to the meeting. I told him that I’m here to meet the PCCF but the CCF did not listen and asked me to go,” said Deshmukh in press release. “Hurt by CCF’s behaviour, I waited for Kakodkar at the gate. After working for conservation for last 23 years with the department, if we get such a treatment it is really shocking,” said Deshmukh. Chavan clarified, “Due to Covid-19 spread, I had restrained even staff from coming to Mahendri. I politely asked Deshmukh and his group to stay out and give his submission when Kakodkar arrives at the spot. There were PCCF’s instructions not to allow too many people at Mahendri. We later accepted Deshmukh’s memorandum and also discussed with him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/insult-to-amravati-honorary-warden-flayed/articleshow/78373294.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to reach out to 50 lakh farmers||HYDERABAD: The top leadership of the Congress along with the district, mandal and village level members have set a target of reaching out to 50 lakh farmers in the state to explain the impact the three farm bills passed by BJP government will have on the ryots.  MPs, MLAs, MLCs, former union ministers, state ministers, ex-MPs and working presidents have been appointed as in-charge of 32 districts in the state to plan and lead the agitation against the bills on October 2.  Another 70 important leaders will be made in-charge of 8 to 10 mandals each to cover all the 600 mandals in the state. AICC general secretary in-charge Tagore and TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy will tour mandals during the near-month long campaign between October 2 and 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-reach-out-to-50-lakh-farmers/articleshow/78373285.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Excess rain, farmers’ strike lead to rise in vegetable prices||PANAJI: Rising vegetable prices in the state are continuing to burn a hole in the pockets of the common man. Vegetable traders have blamed this on shortage in the supply caused due to massive destruction of crops in neighbouring states due to heavy rainfall. “The monsoon damage coupled with the Covid-19 crisis has made thing difficult. Most of the vegetables available at the GSHCL outlets come from Maharashtra,” Goa State Horticulture Corporation Ltd (GSHCL) chairman, Pravin Zantye said. The ripple effect of the price rise is also visible at the government-run GSHCL outlets. Another reason for the sudden shortage is the farmers’ strike in Karnataka. “Almost 80% of the crop in Belagavi has been destroyed due to rain. The farmers are demanding compensation from the Karnataka government. Due to the strike, the open markets in Belagavi are short of vegetables. Even if they suspend the strike, it may take a month or two for the rates to stabilise,” a vegetable supplier from Belagavi, Ramesh Pawale said. Since vendors in Goa mainly source vegetables from Belagavi, their income has been hit. “Owing to the heavy rain in Karnataka and Maharashtra, most of the crop has been destroyed at farm level itself. This has caused a serious shortage of vegetables in the local market. As a result, the prices have increased,” vegetable vendor, Imamsahib Mokashi said. GSHCL managing director Sandeep Faldesai said that they had been receiving substandard materials over the past week owing to dampness. The onion crop and leafy vegetables, especially, has been severely affected. “Some items that are completely damaged are in shortage. However, we are ensuring that the quality of onions, potatoes, and tomatoes is not compromised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/excess-rain-farmers-strike-lead-to-rise-in-vegetable-prices/articleshow/78374387.cms||Nida Sayed
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Musicians seek permission to participate in events||Coimbatore: Musicians in the district on Monday sought permission from the district administration for participating in programmes to earn their livelihood.Before the pandemic, a musician used to get around 15 programmes at marriages, temple festivals or shop inaugurations every month, said S Prabu, who represented the performers. “We could easily earn Rs 900 to Rs 1,000 from an event. But now, as there is a ban on large gatherings, we have lost our income,” he said.The April-June temple festival season offered no solace this year due to the lockdown, Prabu said. “Whether it is Hindu weddings or Christian weddings, we used to get opportunities to perform. Now, weddings have been downsized and we are the first casualties.”While other sectors have shown signs of getting back on the track, bands and orchestras are still reeling under the lockdown, the musicians said. As many as 200 musicians in Valparai, Mettupalayam, Annur and Pollachi have been affected.While unorganised sector workers are given special assistance during the lockdown, musicians have been left out, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/musicians-seek-permission-to-participate-in-events/articleshow/78373276.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Surat||Wife’s recovery spurs bizman to encourage stem cell awareness||Surat: In 2015, Bharat Nakrani was losing hope for the treatment of his wife Anshuya diagnosed with leukaemia till someone told him about blood stem cell transplantation. Following a successful transplantation surgery in Chennai, Nakrani is on a mission to ensure that anyone who needs stem cells does not have to struggle to find one. Nakrani, 44, is a Surat-based diamond businessman he has never looked back after 2915 and worked tirelessly for patients in need of stem cells. "When my wife was diagnosed with blood cancer, we were not aware about blood stem cell. A family friend advised us to explore the option. The hospital took her sample and sent it to the blood stem cell registry DATRI. We were fortunate to get a matching bone marrow the transplantation was successful and her life was saved by an unknown person who we later found out was Manish Singh, working with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF),'' he said. "During Anshuya’s treatment, I learnt a lot about bone marrow transplantation and how lives can be saved with it. Getting as many people as possible to register as blood stem cell donors with the registry became my life mission,'' Nakrani added. Nakrani and his seven family members got themselves registered as donors in 2015. Any healthy person between the age of 18 to 50 years can register as blood stem cell donors with DATRI and they potentially lifesaver. "Nakrani been instrumental in getting registration of over 7,000 people. He leaves no stone unturned to convince blood stem cell donors to donate their bone marrow to save a patient's life,'' Jalpa Sukhanandi, head, donor recruitment and counselling at DATRI, India's largest blood stem donor registry, told TOI. "In all, 35,955 people from Gujarat are registered with Datri of which 17,109 are from Surat city that has the highest number in the state. Till now, 88 people from Gujarat have donated their blood stem cells of which 66 are from Surat,'' she added. "The probability of finding an HLA matched donor is only one in 10,000 to one in over a million, as the total number of volunteer donors registered are very low. In our registry, over 2,300 patients await match donors,'' Jalpa Sukhanandi said. "Two years ago, a woman was found to be matched for a blood cancer patient but was not ready to donate as her doctor misguided her. I met her and her doctor as well and explained everything related to bone marrow transplantation and finally she was convinced to donate it,'' Nakrani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wifes-recovery-spurs-bizman-to-encourage-stem-cell-awareness/articleshow/78371643.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Seats nearly full in Govt Arts College||Coimbatore: The Government Arts College on Monday held the final round (in-person) of counselling for the students who had applied for courses online, but failed to get seats.Those who had applied for two to three courses, but had not got admission, were asked to visit the college on Monday for the counselling, principal K Chitra said. “Those who were willing to take another course were admitted through a single window system. If there are more vacant seats, candidates who had not applied online earlier, can visit the college on Tuesday, apply afresh and get admitted in courses in which seats are available,” she said. The college has 1,433 seats for 24 courses. As much as 95% of the seats have been filled.Meanwhile, parents who came for admission on Monday said that there were no proper facilities on the college campus to ensure physical distancing. Responding to this, Chitra said that the authorities had asked students not to bring their parents so as to reduce crowding. “But the students said they needed their parents for guidance. We made announcements, asking them to maintain social distancing. But there was lack of awareness.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seats-nearly-full-in-govt-arts-college/articleshow/78373281.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Fresh rain alerts, Himayat Sagar gates may open soon||HYDERABAD: With inflows to Himayat Sagar steadily increasing for the second consecutive day, the water level reached 1,760 feet mark, only short of two feet to reach the full tank level. Anxieties over opening the floodgates of Himayat Sagar among officials of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) are also peaking. “With IMD’s fresh alert on another spell of rain, we are expecting heavy downpour in catchment area of Himayat Sagar, If this happens, we are sure we will have to open the floodgates,” HMWS&SB officials and in-charge of Osmannagar and Himayat Sagar reservoirs, S Hari Shankar, told TOI. From Sunday afternoon, the inflow into Himayat Sagar was receding due to no rains in the catchment area. “But presently, 833 cusecs of water is flowing into the reservoir,” said Shankar. In Osmansagar, the water level reached 1,772-feet on Monday. But there was no inflow into the reservoir on Monday, according to an official water level statement issued by the HMWS&SB on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fresh-rain-alerts-himayat-sagar-gates-may-open-soon/articleshow/78373289.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Standard operating procedures for partial reopening of schools leave teachers, students in dist confused||COIMBATORE: Due to lack of clear instructions on reopening of schools, the academic fraternity is confused, which has been compounded with the recent government order (GO) that willing students can attend classes, teachers said. On September 24, the state government issued an order saying students in Classes X to XII in government, government-aided and private schools can come to schools on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from teachers, from October 1. It also said 50% of teachers can visit the schools. However, without a clear announcement that schools would be reopened and there would be attendance for classes, students and parents are apprehensive, teachers said. “There is no clear mention of timings. The order also doesn’t clearly say that schools are being reopened. In this situation, more than 50% parents are apprehensive to send their children to school. Students also say that if they have to clear doubts, they would call us and get it done, rather than visit the school,” said a PG science teacher of a government school. Without the mention of regular classes, timetable and attendance from the state government, parents are wary of sending kids to school, the teacher added. For the last four months, teachers have been taking online classes, and directing students to watch Kalvi TV programmes. “In this situation, if students are asked to come to schools, there might be some practical difficulties. In schools with lesser strength, physical distancing can be maintained easily. But in other schools, we may have to split classes, and have to take care of other such issues also,” said T Arulanandam, a graduate teacher at a government-aided school. Another issue which was confusing teachers and students was that of portions. “The state has said it had reduced 40% of the portions. But teachers and students have not been informed clearly as to what has been taken off. We have already completed five to six lessons in online mode. If those lessons are omitted, it would have been a waste of time,” said Arulanandam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/standard-operating-procedures-for-partial-reopening-of-schools-leave-teachers-students-in-dist-confused/articleshow/78373284.cms||---
September 29, 2020||World||Pakistan delisted 4000 terrorists to sustain terror ecosystem, India tells UN rights body||NEW DELHI: In another showdown at the UN Human Rights Council, India on Monday accused Pakistan of delisting 4000 terrorists to sustain its terror ecosystem and of using training camps and terrorist launch pads in PoK for ramping up cross-border terrorism. The government said that none of Pakistan’s "vile accusations" against India could stifle the voice of the minorities and the people under its subjugation. "The fate of religious and ethnic minorities is well known when beheading is the only option in Pakistan in exchange for freedom of religion," said Pawan Badhe, first secretary with Indian permanent mission in Geneva, exercising India's right of reply after Pakistan again raised the issue of alleged human rights violations in India. The official said various international organisations had termed Pakistan as the killing fields for minorities and that the Ahmadis remained the most persecuted community in Pakistan under the aegis of "the so-called Constitution of Pakistan". Badhe said Pakistan’s "deceit and hypocrisy" was best demonstrated when it orchestrated mass influx to Pakistan-occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh through discriminatory domicile laws. "It’s baffling that there are three outsiders for every 4 in the Pakistan-occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. While civil, political and constitutional rights are non-existent in Pakistan-occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, deliberate economic policies have also subjugated them to a life of extreme poverty," he said. "In contrast, full-scale training camps and launch pads of terrorists are being escalated (sic) in Pakistan-occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh at great expense for sustaining cross border terrorism against India. It’s not without reason that Pakistan remains a safe harbour for terrorists. While the world is busy combating the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan hoodwinks the world to allow delisting more than 4000 proscribed terrorists to sustain its terror ecosystem," added the official. In scathing counter-attack on the human rights issue, the official also said it was deplorable that Pakistan had institutionalised enforced disappearance as a tool of subjugation against dissent and criticism not just against individuals but against the entire society. "Children as young as 12 years old in Baluchistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh are normally abducted and trained to be suicide bombers," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-delisted-4000-terrorists-to-sustain-terror-ecosystem-india-tells-un-rights-body/articleshow/78375282.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Flashpoint IIT: CM says it will come up, Melauli locals say no||PANAJI: Efforts of the state government to pacify Melauli villagers opposed to the IIT-Goa project did not bear any fruits as the villagers have strongly demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant should hold a meeting in their village, whereas the chief minister suggested that a committee of four villagers be formed to discuss their issues with the government. Sawant said that IIT-Goa will come up at the proposed site at Melauli whereas villagers said that they will not allow the project in their village. Since the government took a decision to set up the IIT at Melauli in Sattari taluka, villagers have been strongly opposing the project. To resolve their issue Sawant along with health minister Vishwajit Rane, who is also the MLA of the constituency, held a meeting with the villagers on Monday. Speaking to reporters Sawant said that around 45,000sqm of land has been removed from the plans of the IIT-Goa campus project as this land includes a temple and other areas used by locals for religious practices and rituals. Sawant also asked villagers to submit documents if they are the owners of any of the land needed for the project so that land can be given to them at another location. He said that he explained to the villagers that the government is not interested in grabbing any land. “Government has kept all options open to compensate villagers and the government will not do injustice to them,” he said, adding that people should support the IIT-Goa project as it is one of “national pride”. He also said that he assured villagers that all their problems would be resolved within a year’s time. Sawant said that 70 percent of the land is a plateau, and a presentation was made to the villagers of the project location and they were also explained the benefits of the IIT campus. Sawant said that everything would be on paper and shared details of the hospital and other infrastructure at the proposed site with Melauli villagers. “They will not only get job and business opportunities, but they will get maximum opportunity as promised by IIT-Goa,” Sawant said. The chief minister also said that the government has the option to form a four-member committee so that they can directly speak to the chief minister, health minister or north Goa collector. Reacting to their demands to hold a meeting at Melauli, Sawant said, “My government wants to solve the issue and not mix it up. A four-member committee should continue to communicate with the government to solve the issue. IIT-Goa will be set up at Melauli village.” Speaking to reporters, villagers said that they are not in agreement with the chief minister’s suggestions. “Last four months we have been agitating. Why has the CM not come to us,” villagers said. They also said that they have told the chief minister that the government should first transfer land in their names as compensation for the land utilised. “Come to our village and we will speak here,” they said, adding, “We are not interested in the four-member committee and we will not allow IIT-Goa to come up at Melauli.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flashpoint-iit-cm-says-it-will-come-up-melauli-locals-say-no/articleshow/78374390.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: ‘Advocate’s anti-Brahmin posts left assailant frenzied’||RAJKOT: The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the murder of Rapar-based lawyer Devji Maheshwar, rounded up three more persons, including the arrested 22-year-old assailant Bharat Rawal’s employer in Mumbai and a man who had dropped him to Samkhaliya on a bike after the crime on September 25. Kutch (west) superintendent of police (SP) Mayur Patil said they have rounded up Rawal’s Mumbai-based employer Mahesh Patel and Viral Patel, who had dropped Rawal to Samakhiyali on his bike on the night of September 25. Viral works in Mahesh’s farm in Rapar and Rawal had reached there after stabbing Maheshwari to death in the latter’s office. Rawal had even called Mahesh and informed him that he had a “bitter fight” in the town and wanted to reach Mumbai immediately. Mahesh in turn called up Viral to drop him to Samakhiyali. Rawal then reached Mumbai by changing at least five vehicles. Top police officials in SIT also confirmed that Rawal had been harbouring severe grudge against Maheshwari for the latter’s critical social media posts showing Brahmins and other right-wing organizations in a poor light. “We are investigating this Facebook posts angle also and getting all the details about the posts,” JR Mothaliya, inspector general of police (IGP), border range, told TOI. “We have got strong evidence including detals of some threat calls that Rawal had made to Maheshwari over phone asking him to refrain from writing such posts,” a senior foficial said. Police have got his remand up to October 3. “We have to recover the weapon used in the crime, reconstruct his escape from Rapar and take him for probe to Mumbai too,” added Patil. Of the nine persons named by Maheshwari’s wife, police have taken seven into custody with one person Pravinsinh Sodha, named in the FIR, being detained on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sit-rounds-up-assailants-employer-from-mumbai/articleshow/78371770.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Surat||Realtor offers commercial building for free to set up medical facilities||Surat: In a noble gesture, a city-based realtor group has offered its five-storey commercial complex in New Dindoli free-of-cost for few months to the doctors, hospitals and clinical laboratories to set up medical facilities for the local residents. Jethanand Ahuja (54) came up with the proposition to provide easy access to medical facilities to the migrant population in New Dindoli, who are mainly associated with textile and other ancillary industries. He has offered Vishveshwar Arcade, having 242 shops which were originally designed to house hospitals and textile shops. However, now Ahuja has decided to provide the complex exclusively to the doctors, laboratories and medical stores so that locals can get all kind of medical services under one-roof. Not only this, but the developer is also offering free publicity to doctors willing to start their clinics at his commercial complex. According to Ahuja, the residents in the area have to travel long distance to Bhatar and Ghod Dod Road medical treatment due to lack of good doctors and hospitals. Talking with TOI, Ahuja, owner of Ahuja Estate said, “New Dindoli is dominated by migrant population and they don’t have access to good medical facilities. So, we have opened up our complex for the doctors willing to set up their clinics, hospitals and laboratories there.” Ahuja is offering rental-free office space for clinics for six months or beyond. “However, the doctors will have to offer their services at subsided rates to the residents of New Dindoli,” said Ahuja. Shravan Chourasiya, a partner in the project told TOI, “Majority of the residents in New Dindoli are employed with textile and chemical units in Pandesara, Udhana and Sachin. They earn a monthly salary ranging between Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000. It is difficult for them to pay high consultancy fees of the doctors in posh areas.” Spokesperson of Indian Medical Association (MA), Dr Vinesh Shah said, “We are encouraging doctors from our association to explore the possibility of setting up clinics in the project to provide easy access to the medical facilities to the residents. This is a noble cause of serving needy patients in New Dindol.” Photo quote People in New Dindoli had to struggle to get good medical service. We do have clinics, but they are mostly run by the BAMS and homeopathic doctors. If any of the leading doctors of the city is setting up his clinic in our complex, then other doctors will surely follow. Jethanand Ahuja | Realtor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/realtor-offers-commercial-building-for-free-to-set-up-medical-facilities/articleshow/78371690.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Bid to loot petrol bunk foiled in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A gang of thieves attempted to rob a petrol bunk in Bodhan town of Nizamabad district on Sunday night. The incident occurred at around 11.30 pm, when the owner of the petrol pump on Narsi road was at the station. “Four offenders with face masks approached the owner. One of them was holding a knife and another offender threw a stone at him,” said Bodhan inspector Rakesh. “The owner had already shifted the cash collected on that day at 8.30 pm. When the gang could not find anything, they fled from the spot,” added the officer. Police suspect a Maharashtra-based gang’s involvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bid-to-loot-petrol-bunk-foiled/articleshow/78373354.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP cop removed from duty after ‘wife-beating’ video goes viral||Bhopal: Purshottam Sharma, a DG-ranked officer in Madhya Pradesh, was removed from his post after a shocking video of him allegedly hitting his wife went viral.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said, “He (Sharma) has been relieved of his duty. If anyone in an important position commits any unlawful act or takes the law in his hands, action will be taken, irrespective of who the person is. Action would be taken.” The video of Sharma punching his wife and pinning her on the floor, saying he was attacked with scissors, surfaced on social media around midnight on Sunday. The next day, another video surfaced showing Sharma’s wife apparently finding him in the house of another woman, which is said to be the trigger for the violence that followed at the IPS officer’s home.The wife hasn’t filed a complaint and the administration said it can take action only when someone does. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra told reporters that he has seen the video. “If a complaint is filed, we will see,” he said in the morning.Later in the day, Sharma was removed as public prosecution director, and asked to explain why action shouldn’t be taken against him. “Your unlawful activity and domestic violence against your wife are, prima facie, seen in the two viral videos concerning you. Explain why disciplinary action shouldn’t be taken against you,” says the notice issued to Sharma.The first video is alleged to have been posted on social media by the couple’s son, an income tax deputy commissioner, who also reportedly filed a complaint with Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-cop-removed-from-duty-after-wife-beating-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78373390.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Central paddy fund details unclear||HYDERABAD: Although the central government has sanctioned funds for paddy procurement to three states, including Telangana, confusion regarding it being the total procurement amount or an advance prevails in the states. While Rs 5,500 crore has been earmarked for Telangana, officials are awaiting clarity on the quota. Civil supplies department had obtained a sanction of Rs 20,383 crore for 2019-20 procurement. In the Kharif season of 2020-21, the procurement is expected to be high. Usually, the state government applies for reimbursement from the Centre after using the paddy in local public distribution systems. The reimbursement bills are generated every quarter. The Food corporation of India reimburses the funds after paddy milling is done and the produce reaches in form of rice to them. However, the delay on part of the central government in paying is putting extra burden of interest rates of about Rs 1,200 crore on the state. “We have written about this to see that we get the reimbursement in time,” said M Srinivas Reddy, civil supplies corporation chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-paddy-fund-details-unclear/articleshow/78373372.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 29, 2020||Goa||Dengue cases this year twice those in same period in 2019||PANAJI: In 2019, Vasco witnessed a spurt in dengue cases, this year, it is Candolim and Calangute. Overall too, cases have nearly doubled in 2020, with 248 reported till August end as compared to 141 for the same period in 2019. Two to three cases are found in every ward of Calangute and Candolim, director in charge of the national vector borne disease control programme, Dr Anant Palyekar said. Last month itself, 18 cases of dengue were found in Candolim and new suspected ones continue to be reported. “All health centres have been directed to test people coming with complaints of fever for dengue and malaria, besides Covid-19. We have made testing kits available at all health centres,” Palyekar said. While dengue cases are detected every year in Vasco, Candolim, Calangute, Cortalim, Panaji and Margao, however, this time the number of cases found in Candolim and Calangute are up, he said. “People must also get themselves tested for dengue and malaria if they have fever,” Palyekar said, adding that dengue cases are not only on the rise in Goa, but in other states as well. He said that this could probably be an effect of the lockdown. People remained indoors and that led to more breeding of the dengue mosquito, Palyekar said. Malaria cases are under control, he said. “Prior to the onset of the pandemic quite a few cases of dengue were detected in Vasco, but that ceased after March-April because of extensive sanitisation conducted in the town due to Covid-19. During the lockdown Vasco was cleansed and sanitised,” Palyekar said. The coastal belt is witnessing an increase in cases probably because the normal cleaning exercise has not been carried out given that hotels are closed, Palyekar said. The heavy rainfall also facilitated accumulation of water in discarded items, whether plastic cups or other articles. “We have found dengue mosquito breeding at almost every ward in Candolim,” he said. In 2019, many dengue cases were reported from Panaji and Vasco, with larva found breeding houses, mostly in flower pots and pots holding decorative plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dengue-cases-this-year-twice-those-in-same-period-in-2019/articleshow/78374406.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 29, 2020||Agra||Hathras rape survivor moved to Safdarjung, damage to spine permanent||Agra: With no improvement in condition for two weeks now, the 19-year-old rape survivor from UP's Hathras was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital from Aligarh on Monday. The Dalit girl had been allegedly raped by four dominant caste men in her village, left paralysed with severe spinal cord injury which doctors now said could be permanent damage. Doctors have already said she may have lost control over her limbs. “Surgery to fix her spine can only be done after her condition improves … Damage to the spinal cord appears to be permanent,” Dr Fakhrul Hoda, head of neurosurgery at the Aligarh hospital where she was being treated, told TOI. She was referred to Delhi on Monday upon her father’s request. Her brother accompanied her to Delhi. She is the youngest of five siblings. At the time of leaving Aligarh, her pulse was a low 52. “She is critical and on life support. A decision about her surgery will be taken by senior doctors only after an improvement in her condition,” a doctor on duty at Safdarjung Hospital’s neurosurgery ICU told TOI. The girl had been dragged by the dupatta round her neck to a field near which she had been gathering cattle fodder, which injured her spinal cord. When she was held down, she seems to have bitten her tongue, which has a deep cut now. That she had been allegedly raped only came out when she was able to give a statement to the police, a week into hospitalisation. All four accused she named — Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi — have been arrested for gang rape, attempt to murder and sections of the SC/ST Act. Police are preparing to file the chargesheet. Her father had told TOI on Sunday that the families of the four accused have been threatening them for speaking out. The girl had also told her family, it had later emerged, that the four men had warned her against telling anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-rape-survivor-moved-to-safdarjung-damage-to-spine-permanent/articleshow/78370567.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 29, 2020||Delhi||How ‘Shahrukh’ helped reunite Jaipur teen with family||NEW DELHI: For the last one year, 15-year-old Rehan was lodged as a ‘vagabond’ at a shelter home in north Delhi. Being mentally challenged and physically weak, he could not recall his address and there was little hope of him ever going back home. However, things brightened up for Rehan two weeks ago as a police team from south-east Delhi made it their mission to unite him with his parents. According to DCP southeast RP Meena, they had come across the teenager on September 18 when the anti-human trafficking team was on a routine visit to the observation home for counselling. Rehan was brought to the Salam Balak Trust home after being found sitting alone at Old Delhi Railway Station. This police team spent long hours talking to Rehan while trying to extract some information from him. Their efforts paid off after two days when Rehan recalled that there was a ‘Firdaus Masjid’ near his house in Jaipur. He could also recall ‘Shahrukh ka mobile shop’ near his home. The anti-human trafficking team called many police stations of Jaipur, Rajasthan to verify the information shared by child but despite best efforts, nothing substantial emerged. The cops, however, did not lose hope. They started looking for related places on Google and social media using the two keywords. They located around 40 Shahrukhs with mobile shops and zeroed down upon one who owned a shop near a mosque in Shashtri Nagar, Jaipur. That Shahrukh guided the cops to one Nasimuddin whose son had gone missing a few years ago. Nasimuddin identified the child through videoconferencing. The cops then made arrangements to unite Rehan with his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-shahrukh-helped-reunite-teen-with-family/articleshow/78374412.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on non-agricultural lands: KTR to ministers||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has asked ministers and MLAs to give revenue and property-related issues pending in their respective districts and villages by Tuesday. The minister said the state government was committed to resolving all the pending issues pertaining to the revenue and non-agriculture properties during this special drive and updation of land records on Dharani web land portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-non-agri-lands-ktr-to-mins/articleshow/78373400.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||‘Don’t wait for the hypoxia to set in, administer remdesivir in early stages’||Pune: Medical experts and task force members across the country have highlighted the benefits of administering antiviral drug remdesivir in the early stage of Covid-19 rather than using it only in patients with low blood oxygen levels. Currently, the state and Centre’s clinical guidelines for Covid-19 stipulate the use of the drug only in moderate to severely ill patients with hypoxia (blood oxygen level below 94% on room air) who need oxygen support. However, experts have called for the revision of these protocols by allowing the drug’s early administration, instead of waiting for Covid-19 induced hypoxia to set in. The drug, experts say, should not be delayed for patients whose radiology scans (CT scan or x-ray) are suggestive of Covid-19 or in those with a marked elevation of inflammatory blood markers. The drug’s early administration can effectively check viral replication and disease progression to abnormal immune response called cytokine storm — a potentially life-threatening complication of Covid-19. Bengaluru-based critical care expert Pradeep Rangappa, who is on the Karnataka government’s task force, said, “Increasingly, we are witnessing patients with CT scan images suggestive of lung involvement — but not necessarily needing oxygen supplementation — who are denied remdesivir. There is an urgent need to change the current protocol to prevent complications and further rein in casualties.” Adopting the early administration strategy could significantly lower the progression to conditions needing oxygen supplementation and the burden on the health care system, Rangappa said. “About seven companies in India are producing the drug and its availability has been largely streamlined. It is time to revise the existing protocols across India and save more lives,” said Rangappa, who is also director of the critical care department at Columbia Asia hospital in Bengaluru. Sharing the view, intensivist Rahul Pandit, director of critical care at Fortis hospital, Mulund, and a member of the Maharashtra task force, said, “One need not wait for the hypoxia to set in if lung lesions are present on the CT scan. It is better to start remdesivir early in hospitalized patients for faster recovery.” Critical care expert Yatin Mehta, chairman of Medanta Medicity in Delhi NCR and a former president of Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine (ISCCM), vouches for the efficacy of the drug in the early stage of the illness. “I start remdesivir immediately rather than wait for the patient’s condition worsen. It reduces the viral load, slows or prevents the progression of pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and significantly shortens the hospital stay,” Mehta said. Intensivist Dhruv Chaudhary, Haryana government’s nodal in-charge on Covid-19 management, also supports the early use of remdesivir with steroids. “Remdesivir kills virus, decreases its load and the steroid douses the fire initiated by the virus. Therefore it is logical to extend the use of remdesivir early to prevent occurring of inflammation,” said Chaudhary, the current national president of ISCCM. Pune-based intensivist Subhal Dixit, who has been supporting the drug use at the early stage of the illness, said, “Once hypoxia sets in, the physiology of the patient changes and the disease may then worsen rapidly. Hence, initiating the treatment with remdesivir early is of paramount importance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dont-wait-for-the-hypoxia-to-set-in-administer-remdesivir-in-early-stages/articleshow/78373407.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 29, 2020||Surat||Bizman’s suicide: Four accused remanded to police custody||Surat: The three suspended cops and a scribe arrested in connection with the abatement of suicide case of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel were remanded to police custody on Monday. While the cops were sent to police custody till October 6, while scribe was remanded till October 1. The accused including police inspector L P Bodana, ASI Kiransinh Parmar, constable Ajay Bhopala and scribe Mukesh Kulkarni were produced before additional chief judicial magistrate in Mandvi court. The cops were nabbed on Sunday from Vadodara-Savli road while going to Ahmedabad. Kulkarni had surrendered at the IGP office in Surat. Police had sought 14-day custody of the accused cops to investigate why Bodana had asked the deceased to come to meet when he was quarantined at a farmhouse near Bhesan. Police are also investigating why Bhopala had taken the digital video recorder (DVR) of the farm house with him. During investigation police found that Bhopala had taken DVR recordings of 15 days when Bodana was quarantined at the farm house.Police informed the court that they need custody of the accused to find out why the computer of the police station was not used for recording data of the case against Patel.During investigation it was found that Kulkarni had issued threats to deceased businessman Patel and promised to resolve the issue related to tax on the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizmans-suicide-four-accused-remanded-to-police-custody/articleshow/78371715.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Vadodara||Gym owner gets notice for tax evasion||Vadodara: Owner of a popular gym, who on the run after allegedly cheating a gastroenterologist and endoscopist, has now been given a showcause notice by the goods and service tax department. Kailash Jadhav, who owns Alivez Gym and Fitness Centre, has been asked to appear before GST officials and explain why GST amount of Rs 34.1 lakh along with interest be not recovered from him. He has also been asked to explain why penalty amount of Rs 5.1 lakh should not be imposed on him. The 22-page notice states that the gym’s accounts were manipulated and the tax department found suppression of income done by him between September 2015 and June 2017. Along with Jadhav, the notice was also sent to Dr Devang Shah whom he had cheated. Shah had partnered with Jadhav to open a gym. However, only Jadhav has been called upon to appear before GST officials as he was the active partner and managed all affairs of the gym.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gym-owner-gets-notice-for-tax-evasion/articleshow/78371702.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kochi||IS fighter Subahani Haja gets life term||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court here on Monday awarded life imprisonment and Rs 2.1 lakh fine to Subahani Haja Moideen, a Thodupuzha native, who went to Iraq in 2015 to fight a war for Islamic State (IS) and returned to India. Judge P Krishna Kumar in his 140-page order observed that the act of the convict was a blot on the cultural conscience of this nation. “It is also a blow to its pride as one of the most progressive societies in the nation. It is a painful realization that youthful people are indoctrinated by such extremist ideologies and they are even prepared to renounce the eternal tie with their mother country, seemingly on their wishful thought that they could embrace their own paradise in that attempt. Let us hope that Shri Subahani Haja, once duly reformed, will tell them that the best rule of paradise must be the rule of law preserved by the Constitution of India,” the court observed. The case pertains to the arrest of Subahani in 2016 after NIA busted a group Ansar-ul-Khilafah Kerala, from Kanakamala in Kannur. It was found that he travelled to IS controlled territory in 2015 via Turkey and was trained by IS at Mosul in Iraq in combat and warfare and deployed by the terrorist organization in the warfront at Iraq. The court in the order observed that the insolent boldness shown by the convict to plan meticulously his journey to IS and to execute it with perfection, his temerity to come back to India without being caught by any authorities and his commitment to pursue the offensive objects he cherished, made the court very cautious and society centric, while fixing the quantum of punishment. “…his dexterity to keep the journey of no return (as he believed then) a secret from all his kin and his foresightedness to use a mobile phone of a particular brand presumably for all his vital communications, demonstrate that normal methods of reformation will be ineffective for him,” the court order reads. The court added that when these facts were considered together with his effort to buy online an advanced American sniper rifle (CheyTac M200), which is lethal even at 2.2km range, while he was in India, the question of leniency in sentence became absolutely foreclosed. Subahani was sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh under Section 20 of the UA(P) Act. In a rare incident, the person was sentenced under Section 125 IPC as well for waging war against an Asiatic power in alliance with India. This is one of the first cases wherein a person has been sentenced under this section. He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh. He was further sentenced for rigorous imprisonment for five years and to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 under section 120B of the IPC, read with sections 20, 38 and 39 of the UA(P) Act. The convict was also sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years each under sections 38 and 39 of the UA(P) Act. The sentences shall run concurrently and the time period during which he has been detained in this case, that is from October 5, 2016 till Monday, would be set off. The court appreciated the investigation officer A P Shoukat Ali, NIA senior prosecutor Arjun Ambalapatta and defense counsel V T Raghunath. Subahani said ‘Allahu Akbar’ when he saw mediapersons on Monday and he was taken to high-security prison in Viyyur later in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/is-fighter-subahani-haja-gets-life-term/articleshow/78371732.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Agra||No temple-mosque dispute in Mathura, says priests’ body||AGRA: “We don’t want what happened in Ayodhya to happen here,” said Mahesh Pathak, president of the All India Teerth Purohit Mahasabha. The body of priests said there is no dispute on the temple and the mosque as the matter was resolved by an agreement five decades ago, but the issue is being unnecessarily raked up again for “political gain.” The All India Teerth Purohit Mahasabha is a 60 years old registered organisation with its head office in Haridwar. It has over 90 organisations of temple priests across the country as its members. “Even if there were any disagreement, it would have been resolved amicably by the two communities without disrupting peace …. This is just an unnecessary diversion after 52 years of the agreement between the managements of Shahi Idgah mosque and Sri Krishna Janamsthan Sansthan in 1968,” said Mahesh Pathak, the national president of the priests’ body. Notably, Pathak had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Mathura as a Congress candidate. “Being a local resident and the president of priests’ body, it is my moral responsibility to maintain the peaceful atmosphere of the religious town. Some outsiders are trying to spoil the peace and harmony of the temple town by raising issues which could create communal tensions in the city,” he added. The suit, filed by Lucknow resident Ranjana Agnihotri and five others, including a Delhi resident, claims that the mosque is exactly where Krishna was born and they have sought the ownership of the entire 13.37-acre land. It also sought cancellation of a compromise decree between the governing body of the temple complex and the management trust of the mosque in 1968. The court hearing on the issue of ownership of Krishna Janmasthan land and the removal of Shahi Eidgah mosque in Mathura was deferred to September 30. Meanwhile, Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan secretary Kapil Sharma said that the matter is not related to the ownership of the land only, but also the sentiments and faith of lakhs of Krishna devotees. Hence, a logical decision is needed in the matter, he added. The Sansthan is also a party to the petition filed by the Lucknow resident. On the possibility of an out-of-court resolution of the dispute, Sharma said, “Had it been possible then the Ayodhya matter would too have been resolved.” He added that the court’s decisions will be followed by everyone. In a petition filed in a Mathura court by Supreme Court lawyer Vishnu Shankar Jain, it has been stated that Shree Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan is a registered society that has overpowered the trust, which was “non-functional since 1958 and had fraudulently entered into a compromise with the Committee of Management Trust Masjid Idgah on October 12,1968”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-temple-mosque-dispute-in-mathura-says-priests-body/articleshow/78370580.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 29, 2020||Goa||Cops book Padi girl’s friend for murder||Margao: The Cuncolim police on Monday booked 18-year old Anisha Velip’s death as a case of murder. Her 23-year old male friend Sarvesh Gaonkar, who was found to have died of suicide soon after Velip’s death, has been charged with killing her under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh told reporters that Velip’s autopsy report states the cause of death as “forced drowning.” “As Gaonkar was seen near Velip’s house around the time of her death, and as they were friends since the last two years, we have booked him with charges of murder,” Singh said. Velip, a resident of Khaddem, Padi, was brought dead to the primary health centre, Balli, Sunday afternoon, as a case of drowning. Soon, Gaonkar’s body was found hanging from a tree near his house at Cavrem, Quepem. Though police suspect that it could be a case of failed relationship, police are also looking at other possible reasons that drove Gaonkar to snuff out Velip’s life and then end his own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-book-padi-girls-friend-for-murder/articleshow/78373410.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Pune||Over 100 posts vacant, FDA struggles to keep a tab on oxygen use in hospitals||Pune: The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) is finding difficult the task of keeping a tab on oxygen supply and ensuring no sale of remdesivir in the grey market with over 100 posts remaining vacant in the department. FDA officials said the government needed to fill 111 vacant posts at various levels in the department, which has been directed to check oxygen supply and ensure that all districts had remdesivir stock. “Seven posts of joint commissioners are vacant. Besides, there are 32 vacant posts of assistant food inspectors and 72 vacant posts of drug inspectors. Though the state government is emphasizing on the need to fill the vacant posts in the health department, there is an urgent need to fill the posts in the FDA as well,” a senior FDA official said. The FDA has been told to appoint nodal officers at the 25 oxygen manufacturing plants and ensure supply of 100 refilling plants. Besides, the department has to ensure proper operation of 101 tankers and monitor the control room in every district of the state.“The FDA officials are stretched and the state government should ensure that the vacant posts are filled at the earliest,” the official added. “Our duty is to ensure that the districts get the additional supply, if we get calls from the resident deputy collector of the district. Once the oxygen plant comes up at Chakan, it will help ease the situation,” the FDA official said.At present, 129 tankers are supplying oxygen to 1,091 Covid-19 hospitals.In case of remdesivir injection, he said the daily requirement for the state has increased to 22,000 vials per day from September 21 as against the earlier 9,700 vials a day. “We have six companies supplying to the state and we daily procure about 30,000 vials. As of now, there is no shortage,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-100-posts-vacant-fda-struggles-to-keep-a-tab-on-oxygen-use-in-hospitals/articleshow/78373412.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 29, 2020||Goa||Startup policy to get 6-month extension, revamp in works||Panaji: With the revamped startup policy yet to be finalised, the state government on Monday said that the existing Goa Startup Policy 2017, which lapses this month, will be extended till February. Minister for information and technology Jennifer Monserrate said the new policy will includes inputs from the national startup framework. Goa’s Startup Promotion Cell (SPC) has already begun work on the new policy, which will focus on institutional and financial support, access to talent, skill development and thought leadership, said officials. “In cognisance of the Goa Startup Policy 2017 and schemes thereof expiring, Goa’s department of information technology and SPC are currently in the process of extending the same policy for the next six months,” Monserrate said. Ernst and Young, who were brought back as consultants for the department in January, are helping the state finalise the new startup policy. DoIT officials said it has adopted a “consultative and participatory approach” while preparing it. The state wants the revamped policy to address regulatory bottlenecks and enhance funding avenues for startups. The draft of the new Goa Startup Policy 2020 will be uploaded on the Goa Online portal to gather further inputs from stakeholders, officials said. “The SPC has carried out significant work on draft of new Goa Startup Policy 2020 in collaboration with state departments, central government, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, Startup India and startup stakeholders in Goa. The new policy will incorporate various aspects of the new Startup India framework,” Monserrate said. The Goa Startup Policy 2017 offered 14 incentives for startups and the SPC received 77 applications for these schemes. DoIT is also trying to encourage startups to get on board the Government E-Marketing (GEM) portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/startup-policy-to-get-6-month-extension-revamp-in-works/articleshow/78373416.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||North-south Metro to start Sunday operations from October 4||KOLKATA: Ridership jumped to 55,228 on the north-south link as Metro Railway added six more trains and extended services to 7.30pm, instead of 7pm, on Monday. Trains on the corridor will run on Sundays from October 4 and senior citizens will not need passes on Sundays. But passenger count on East-West Metro was 128 only. No Sunday service will resume on the 5km Salt Lake stretch. TOI wrote on Sunday Metro Railway was likely to re-start Sunday services from next week, considering the demand before the Puja. The decision was finalized at a meeting chaired by Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi on Monday. The first train on Sundays will start at 10.10am and the last trains will leave Kavi Subhas and Noapara at 7.30pm. The 58 Sunday services will be at an interval of 20 minutes each. “The GM is monitoring the situation, taking into account the availability of crew and station staff to ensure more people can take Metro by maintaining distance,” said an official. The ridership count on Monday was 55,228, against Friday’s 50,740. “It was a 10% rise in working-day passenger count,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, who has developed the e-pass technology. Three more trains from two ends ran at a 10-minute gap. An official said “a pass booked for 7pm-8pm slot will be valid till 8.30pm”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/north-south-metro-to-start-sunday-ops-from-oct-4/articleshow/78373437.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||With second list, Kamal Nath bets on fresh faces||BHOPAL: In Congress’ second candidates list for approaching bypolls in 28 assembly seats, former chief minister Kamal Nath seems to have put his faith in young, new faces with electoral calculations heavily based on caste equations. Whether Sumawali or Mungaoli, Jaura or Pohri – the bet is on caste formulas and predominant communities with large share of votes. In Sumawali, Congress has fielded Ajab Singh Kushwaha – a former BSP candidate from the seat in the 2008, 2013 assembly elections and on BJP ticket in 2018. He lost all three times but ended up in the second place. In 2008, Kushwaha was closest rival to Congress winner candidate Aidal Singh Kansana. The winning margin was around 9,500 votes. BJP’s Gajraj Singh Sikharwar was reduced to the third place. BJP’s Neetu Satyapal Singh won the seat in 2013 defeating his closest rival BSP’s Ajab Singh Kushwaha by 14,100 votes. Aidal Singh Kansana got 6,300 votes less than Kushwaha. In 2018, Aidal Singh Kansana as Congress candidate struck back and won securing 65,455 votes. Ajab Singh Kushwaha, left BSP and now a BJP candidate lost by 13,300 votes. The bypolls will see Ajab Singh Kushwah as Congress candidate from the seat, most likely against his old rival Aidal Singh Kansana – one of the 22 rebel MLAs who left Congress and joined BJP in March. Sources in the Congress party claimed that irrespective of party affiliation, Ajab Singh Kushwaha has drawn a huge chuck of votes in every successive election because of the constituency’s caste equations. “He has been in the BSP, then in BJP and now joined the Congress party. Notwithstanding his party affiliation, he has the trust of voters in the seat. In 2018, as BJP candidate Kushwaha secured 52,142 votes and in 2013 as BSP candidate he got 47,481 votes,” a senior Congress leader said. Question remains, whether Kushwaha can this time on a Congress ticket finally claim his victory? Congress has fielded Pankaj Upadhyay as candidate from Jaura seat vacated after the demise of party MLA Banwarilal Sharma. The seat has predominant Brahmin and Yadav voters. BJP is likely to field former rebel Congress MLA Brijendra Singh Yadav while Congress is counting on Brahmin votes with Upadyay. However, Congress is also expected to get the support of former BSP MLA Balbir Singh Dandotiya, who is a close kin of Prahlad Upadhyay. Mungaoli, a seat that went for bypoll also in 2018 after death of former minister Mahendra Singh Kalukheda will see another bypoll in less than 20 months. Congress has fielded Kanhaiyalal Lodhi as constituency is predominantly inhabited by Yadavs and Lodhis. For BJP, the most likely candidate is Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist turn-coat MLA Brijendra Singh Yadav. Party fielded a former candidate Harivallabh Shukla from Pohri – again a seat with large Brahmin and kirar (an OBC agricultural community) vote-bank. BJP’s candidate could be Congress winner of 2018 elections who left the party Suresh Dhakkad. Harivallabh Shukla was BSP candidate from the seat in 2008 and lost to BJP’s Pralad Bharti by 20,000 votes. He as Congress candidate, again lost to Bharti in 2013, though by a slimmer margin of 3,500 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-second-list-nath-bets-on-fresh-faces/articleshow/78371735.cms||Suchandana Gupta
September 29, 2020||Goa||Pauskar: Rs 150cr in central funds for hotmixing roads||Panaji: While admitting the bad condition of roads across the state, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Monday said the roads will be hot mixed as soon as possible and that the Centre has sanctioned Rs 150 crore for the same. The PWD minister said that seven work orders has been issued and that PWD officials will ensure the quality while hot mixing the roads. “If rains subside, then in the next two days road repair work would be started,” he added. Pauskar told reporters that work on the new national highways, which has been taken up across the state, will not face any issue for at least 10 years. He said the PWD has not taken up any major road work in the last two years as the work of laying sewerage pipe line was not complete. Pauskar further said that 70% work of Zauri bridge is complete and the remaining work will be completed by April 2021. The PWD minister also said that they are regularly reviewing the national highway work. Meanwhile, PWD on Monday began the work of repairing the Davorlim-Nessai road which was in a bad condition. The road had turned into a death trap, especially for two-wheelers, particularly during night hours. Several roads in Navelim and Margao have developed potholes which has led to many two-wheelers meeting with accidents. Significantly, the roads were asphalted just before the monsoon. Locals have also complained about the bad condition of the road from the military camp at Ravanfond to Dicarpale, besides near the KTC bus stand at Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pauskar-rs-150cr-in-central-funds-for-hotmixing-roads/articleshow/78373425.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Khaunte terms unit’s transfer as ‘absurd’||Panaji: The government’s decision to transfer control of the Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana from the Registrar of Cooperative Societies to the agriculture department will make no difference and may only lead to further scams, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte said that transfer of control was “absurd” as it was against administrative norms and did not have legal standing. “The first step would have been to hold a general body of all shareholders and pass a proposal of dissolution of the cooperative with a comprehensive compensation for the shareholders who aren’t in support of the dissolution,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khaunte-terms-units-transfer-as-absurd/articleshow/78373419.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kochi||CF Thomas laid to rest with state honours||Kottayam: C F Thomas, who represented Changanassery constituency for over four decades in the state assembly, was laid to rest with state honours in Changanassery on Monday. State assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan paid his last respects to the former minister in the afternoon. Earlier, food minister P Thilothaman paid homage at the late leader’s residence. Hundreds of people turned up at Thomas’s residence and later at St Mary’s cathedral premises to pay homage to him. The mortal remains were taken to the church in a procession and was kept for public homage at the church at 12 noon. The funeral service began by 3pm. Cardinal George Alencherry, head of Syro-Malabar Church, led the prayer service and delivered the condolence message. Archbishop of Changanassery Mar Joseph Perunthottam led the funeral service. After the funeral, a condolence meeting was held by leaders of all political parties. Thomas died of a cardiac arrest while under treatment at Believers Church hospital in Thiruvalla on Sunday. He was admitted to hospital on September 19. He was undergoing treatment for cancer for the last two years. Thomas won nine elections continuously from Changanassery since 1980 and was deputy chairman of Kerala Congress (M). He served as the minister for registration and rural development in the UDF government in 2001-2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cf-thomas-laid-to-rest-with-state-honours/articleshow/78371774.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||O2 use best left on judgement of treating doctors: Experts||Pune: Medical fraternity on Monday objected to the latest guidelines on oxygen use for encroaching upon the space of treating doctors, who “should be free to take a call on its use depending on the condition of patients”.The latest circular, third on the subject so far, was issued on September 25 with the help of Niti Aayog members and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state has put the onus on collectors to ensure 10 litres per minute for oxygen beds and 40 litres per minute for ICU ventilator beds at hospitals. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI that fresh notifications reiterate that there should be rational use of oxygen and the health hubs should follow the latest directions.However, members from the state Indian Medical Association_the body representing the medical fraternity said that even as guidelines seem rational, the restriction is uncalled for as they feel that the treating doctor should be able to take discretion depending on the patient’s condition.State IMA president Avinash Bhondwe told TOI that the latest circular was rational but should have left it on the treating doctors’ clinical judgement to decide on oxygen use on patients. “The treating physician should not have any such obligatory restriction in saving the lives of patients. The government should not doubt the doctors,” Bhondwe said.Private medical practitioner Manish Kolge said there were certain conditions, other that Covid and post-Covid situations, where one can’t be restrictive.Centre had warned states over the excessive use of oxygen, specifically Maharashtra which has been reportedly consuming three times more oxygen than the national average. In Maharashtra, Pune is consuming the largest quantity – 235 metric tonne of oxygen out of a total consumption of 953 metric tonne of oxygen across the state. According to the state government, the demand for oxygen at 1,072 Covid-19 hospitals across Maharashtra is at 953.21 metric tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/o2-use-best-left-on-judgement-of-treating-doctors-experts/articleshow/78373418.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 29, 2020||Pune||PMR 24-hour tally drops to Sept’s lowest over less testing||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR)’s single-day Covid-19 tally dropped to its lowest in September on Monday on account of less testing.A total of 1,945 people tested positive in PMR on Monday, least 24-hour tally since August 31 when 1,933 people had tested positive. With this, PMR’s tally has risen above 2.31 lakh. As for recoveries, as many as 3,130 patients were discharged in PMR in teh last 24 hours, taking cured count above 2.78 lakh. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar revealed that as many as 9,543 samples were tested in 24 hours ended Monday evening. The region has been testing around 13,000 to 14,000 samples every day since last few days. The total sample testing reached 11.42 lakh on Monday night. The region reported 59 more deaths due to Covid-19, including 33 in the PMC limits, 10 in the PCMC limits and 16 in the rural and Cantonment areas. With this, PMR’s total death count has increased to 6,359. A PMC report said 943 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits. Of these, 520 patients were on ventilator support. A total of 3,393 patients were on the oxygen support at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-24-hour-tally-drops-to-septs-lowest-over-less-testing/articleshow/78373422.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 29, 2020||Vadodara||BCA organizes its 80th AGM online||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) on Monday organized its 80th annual general meeting (AGM) and cleared the financial accounts of 2019-20. The association now is eligible to get grants worth crores of rupees from the BCCI as it has organized all the pending AGMs. The meet was organized online amid opposition by some Royal Group members who had even approached the charity commissioner to bring a stay on the AGM.“The Royal Group members sought to bring a stay on the AGM making several allegations. But the charity commissioner on Monday refused to stay the meet. It is a vindication of our stand that the BCA management has been working well within the rules and in the interest of the association,” said Satyajitsinh Gaekwad, chairman of BCA’s press and publicity committee.Gaekwad further added that those who sought to stay on the AGM want to further delay the cricket stadium project. “By bringing stay on the AGM, they want to delay grants to the BCA and obstruct the stadium project,” Gaekwad claimed. During the AGM, the BCA also moved a resolution to appoint a retired Supreme Court judge C K Thakkar as an ombudsman.It was exactly a year ago that the BCA had elected Pranav Amin as its president and brought the Revival Group to power in the association. “Within one year, we have organized six pending AGMs and cleared all annual accounts till 2020. We also received various subsidies from the BCCI worth about Rs 52 crores,” Gaekwad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-organizes-its-80th-agm-online/articleshow/78371751.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||Three nCov-infected prisoners escape||Rajkot: Two Covid-19 positive prisoners escaped from Surendranagar Gandhi Hospital on early Monday morning while another Covid-19 positive prisoner fled from Sanathan Dharamshala, a quarantine centre, in Junagadh on the same day.Police said the accused, Arjunsinh Jadeja and Raju Mathasuria, were admitted to Surendranagar Gandhi Hospital after testing positive. At Surendranagar Gandhi Hospital, 60 Covid-19 positive prisoners from Surendranagar sub-jail are admitted. Jadeja and Mathasuria were admitted on the first floor of the hospital. “After dinner on Sunday night, when all the prisoners were locked inside their rooms, the accused duo broke the window grills and climbed down to the ground floor with the help of a bed sheet that they had used as a rope whose end they had tied to a window grill,” said S B Solanki, sub-inspector with Surendranagar B division police station. Jadaja was lodged in the jail in a murder case of 2019, while Mathasuria was jailed for a murder case in Vadhwan in 2017. After 60 prisoners of the Surendranagar sub-jail tested positive, a special Covid-19 ward had been created in Surendranagar Gandhi Hospital. There were 14 cops deployed to guard the prisoners at the hospital. Meanwhile from Junagadh Civil Hospital, a POCSO case accused Raju Necharata (23) escaped. “Necharata was admitted to the Sanathan Dharamshala after he was tested Covid-19 infected. Necharata also escaped after breaking the window grills of his room,” said an official from Bhavnath police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-ncov-infected-prisoners-escape/articleshow/78370636.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Green tribunal sets Dec 31 deadline to ready coastal plan||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday granted the state time till December 31 to complete the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP), environment minister Nilesh Cabral said. Further, the state has been told to complete public hearings by January 31, 2021. Earlier, the state had filed an application seeking time till March 10, 2021 to complete the plan. It had stated that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected the planning work. The NGT has also directed the ministry for environment forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to intervene in the matter and find plausible means with the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, to expedite the preparation of the CZMP, Cabral said. In its application, the state government said it has ensured that no violations occur in the CRZ areas. As the plan is not yet ready, it said necessary directions are issued from time to time in terms of Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1985. Further, it submitted that no approval is being granted for any development in coastal areas till the CZMP is finalised. The state also clarified that the delay in finalising the CZMP is neither deliberate nor wilful. In its application, the state said that there has been a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Goa which has also hampered NCSCM’s work of identifying khazan lands and mapping, plotting of the outer bunds to limit the high tide lines (HTL). The application also stated that since local bodies had expressed desire to know what CZMP is, field visits had been organised through officials of the directorate of settlement and land records to explain the same, as well as specify what features should be incorporated in the plan as per the provisions of CRZ Notification 2011. The state issued directions in terms of Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act calling upon all local bodies to prepare their own CZMP plan so that the same could be forwarded to NCSCM. It was one of the requests of local bodies that they may prepare their own draft CZMP. The government said that all local bodies had prepared it and the same had been forwarded to NCSCM. The state government also stated that they have complied with the directions issued by this tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/green-tribunal-sets-dec-31-deadline-to-ready-coastal-plan/articleshow/78373448.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||After Tope prod, GMCH gears up to add 400 beds||Nagpur: After health minister Rajesh Tope directed them to develop 400 new beds and complete 1,000-bedded Covid facility, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) administration has started preparations in this regard. New Covid-19 beds will be developed on second and third floor above the existing paediatric ward, confirmed members of the committee that was constituted to decide the road map for additional beds. The committee submitted its report to dean Dr Sajal Mitra on Monday. Medical superintendent of the hospital Dr Avinash Gawande said that new beds will be added soon. “It will be challenging for us to manage additional 400 beds with the existing manpower. We have to adjust shifts, reduce leaves of the doctors and medical staff. We are now working on manpower management plans,” said Dr Gawande. The hospital has to reduce breathing period given to doctors in between two Covid-19 duties to cope with the manpower crisis. Several other measures will be taken to ensure ample manpower to handle additional 400 beds. GMCH has 600 bedded Covid-19 hospital which was first such dedicated facility developed in Nagpur. During his visit to Nagpur last week, health minister Rajesh Tope had directed the authorities to develop 400 more beds and have 1,000-bedded dedicated Covid-19 hospital ready at the earliest. Dean Dr Sajal Mitra had constituted a committee in this regard which submitted its report on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-tope-prod-gmch-gears-up-to-add-400-beds/articleshow/78371794.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||NMC didn’t report 263 +ve cases, 13 deaths in last two days||Nagpur: Though number of Covid-19 cases have come down due to fewer tests, another reason is that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has missed out on reporting 263 positive cases and 13 deaths in last two days. Now, NMC’s data sent to its zones on daily cases and deaths will reflect the real picture, as the civic body has changed its system of reporting. After 590 cases in the district on Sunday, including city’s 398, the number of cases went up to 994, including city’s 743, on Monday as per the daily data released by NMC and district civil surgeon (CS). This is the second consecutive day when the district’s cases were less than 1,000, after staying above this figure on all days since August 25.The daily average of tests and positive cases in the district was 7,025 and 1,640 in the first week (1-7) of September, with the figures being 7,741 and 1,777 for second week (8-14), and 6,212 and 1,662 in third week (15-21). The average daily tests declined to 5,212 and positive cases reduced to 1,230 in the fourth week (22-28). The CS has reconciled 2,102 old cases on September 24 to match NMC’s figure. This number was not considered by TOI in calculating the average daily cases of fourth week. City’s 263 cases and 13 deaths were not listed in the last two days by NMC, due to failure of the officials to reconcile the numbers.NMC used to report total number of cases every day from ICMR’s website between 9pm on any day to 9pm next day. The same number used to be released to the press, social media and to the 10 zones.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna B told TOI, “I directed change in the system to get correct data of a day. Since last couple of days, we are taking data from 12 midnight to 12 midnight next day from ICMR website.” To match the figure with the CS, NMC continues to release data to press and social media considering cases and deaths up to 5pm.Accordingly, NMC released total of 848 cases at 5pm on September 26 to the CS, media and social media. The CS is nodal agency to report cases and deaths to the state government. But NMC released total number of cases as 1,015, which were up to 12 midnight, to its 10 zones. Thus, the difference for the day was 167 cases.The same was repeated on September 17. NMC reported 398 cases up to 5pm but released figure of 494 for its 10 zones. NMC was supposed to reconcile the 167 cases of September 26 on September 27, which was not done. Thus, 167 cases were not registered in total number of cases of the city as well as district.Again, reconciliation of 167 cases of September 26 and 96 cases of September 27 was not done in total number of cases in the city as well as district on September 28. Thus, 263 cases were missed out. Similarly, 13 deaths of September 26 and 27 were not reconciled on September 28.TOI pointed out these errors to the civic chief.Radhakrishnan said it was not a deliberate missing out of cases and deaths but officials forgot to do reconciliation. “I will ensure all cases and deaths are reconciled. It is important for us not to miss the name of any positive patient for contact tracing, pursuing while revising the system, and it was ensured as data which went to 10 zones was proper,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-didnt-report-263-ve-cases-13-deaths-in-last-two-days/articleshow/78371755.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Single-day jump in Covid-19 cases drops below 2,000 first time in 18 days||BHOPAL: After 18 days, less than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases were reported in a single in the state on Monday. With 1,957 new cases, the state’s Covid tally went up to 1,24,166. Monday is also the third day since September 17 when the recoveries outnumbers fresh infections. As many as 2,373 people recovered on Monday taking the recoveries in the state to 99,944. On September 25, 2,743 people recovered while only 2,227 fresh cases were reported an on September 17, 2,863 recoveries were reported in the state while 2,391 persons tested positive. Before this, recoveries had outnumber new cases on August 4. The recovery rate in the state crossed 80% on Monday. It was 80.49% on September 28. The recovery rate on August 31 was 76%. State’s positivity rate has also gone up from 4.6% as on August 31 to 6.16% as on September 28. On Monday, it was 9% as 1,957 persons tested positive out of 21,638 samples tested. Since March 20 when the first Covid-19 patient was found in the state, a total of 1952747 tests have been done in Madhya Pradesh as on September 26. In addition, 35 Covid deaths were also reported in the state on Monday. This has taken the death toll to 2,242. As on September 28, there were 21,980 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/single-day-jump-in-cases-drops-below-2k-first-time-in-18-days/articleshow/78371804.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Vadodara||‘Balmurti’ reaches out to global Gujaratis in digital avatar||Vadodara: For nearly four decades, it has entertained kids through stories, essays, songs and poems while keeping the tradition of literature in Gujarat alive. Now, amid the coronavirus-induced pandemic, the popular Gujarati magazine ‘Balmurti’ has adorned digital avatar for home-bound fractious children of Gujaratis and its diaspora spread globally. It was started by Nutan Bal Shikshan Sangh (NBSS) – the organisation established in 1926 by noted children educationist Girijashankar Badheka better known as Gijubhai Badheka and his close associate Taraben Modak. Badheka was a pioneer who introduced the Montessori system of education in India. “Balmurti Online is a digital portal which hosts the e-magazine which is created with the same passion and curated with stories and articles by authors and well-wishers, who have always supported the noble cause,” said Nilesh Shukla, chairman of NBSS and founder-director of Unified Growth Foundation (UGF). Shukla’s late father Jayant Shukla as a founding member had worked extensively for children’s education in Gujarat. “In tune with the new National Education Policy, we are making it interactive with embedded videos and audios. We have already created 12 sessions for those NRGs or their generation next who can speak Gujarati, their mother tongue but cannot read or write. The US-based Federation of Indian Association and the Gujarati samajs across the country have started popularising the digital version of ‘Balmurti’ through their network,” said Shukla. “Digital distribution has become mandatory. In the physical format, we could print 4,000 copies a month. It was sold at subsidized subscription rate of Rs 100 per annum. But in the digital format – balmurtionline.com – has reached to 4 lakh users within a month,” he said, adding that the digital version will remain free for readers. “We are doing everything through corporate social responsibility funds and donations. Its link will be available on the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan portal so that teachers can take it to a larger audience. Also, municipal schools run by civic bodies in the state will be spreading the e-version through their own channels,” he said. After reaching out to diaspora through Balmurti online, NBBS and UGF are planning to start honorary weekend classes for the generation next of Gujarati diaspora spread in US, UK, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Middle East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/balmurti-reaches-out-to-global-gujaratis-in-digital-avatar/articleshow/78371828.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 29, 2020||Pune||Internal shakeup of constables triggers crowd at police chief’s office||Pune: An internal shakeup of 1,200 Pune police personnel, mostly constables, triggered a crowd situation and social distancing concerns at the police commissioner’s office on Monday after more than 150 of the personnel gathered to voice their grievances against the transfers.Senior police officers had to rush out of their cabins to ask the constables not to create a crowd on the first floor of the building, where the commissioner’s cabin is located, in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Later, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “We will give a patient hearing to each one of the transferred constables and try to resolve problems relating to their new postings.”Gupta, who took over the reins of Pune police on September 20, said, “The transfer orders were issued on Saturday night. Some constables were not happy with their new postings. They came to my office requesting the senior officers to look into their grievances.”Among other things, most constables gathered at the commissioner’s office said they wanted the higher-ups to reconsider their transfers. Senior police officers promised to look into their grievances if they visited the commissioner’s office in small groups while maintaining physical distancing norms. A senior officer said, “The constables were either transferred from one police station to another or to and from special branches like crime branch, traffic branch and special branch or to police headquarters. Many of the transferred personnel cited family problems or distance as an issue. Similarly, woman constables with small children, cited their problems. We will do whatever is possible but they should not gather in large numbers here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/internal-shakeup-of-constables-triggers-crowd-at-police-chiefs-office/articleshow/78373463.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal records 4 Covid deaths, 85 new cases||Yavatmal: The district recorded four more deaths on Monday. There were 85 new Covid-19 cases, of whom 48 are men and 37 are women. According to sources, there are 556 active positive patients — 500 are in home isolation and 271 are in the isolation wards. On Monday, 128 patients have been discharged. Yavatmal now has 8,276 total Covid cases, of whom 6,988 patients have been discharged. The deceased comprise 49 and 77-year-old women from Digras, an 89-year-old man from Ralegaon and 61-year-old man from Ghatanji, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-records-4-covid-deaths-85-new-cases/articleshow/78369758.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Three more cops succumb to virus||Pune/Mumbai: A Pune rural sub-inspector and two constables, one from Pune rural and the other from Navi Mumbai, died while being treated for Covid-19 on Sunday. With their deaths, the state police force’s toll has touched 245. The sub-inspector was posted at the rural police control room, while the havaldar was from the Yavat police station. A rural police official monitoring the health of policemen testing positive for novel coronavirus said, “The two police personnel tested positive a fortnight ago and were given the best possible treatment, but unfortunately they succumbed to the contagion.” In all, 219 rural police personnel have so far tested positive and 188 of them have recovered. In Pune police, a total of 1,234 positive cases have so far been reported and 1,096 of them have recovered, seven have succumbed to the contagion. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 479 police personnel have tested positive and 433 of them have recovered. Forty four are still under treatment as active cases and two have died because of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-cops-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/78373519.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||SC reserves order in petition by mining company||Panaji: The Supreme Court on Monday reserved judgement on a petition filed by a mining company seeking more time to transport royalty paid ore. The company approached the court stating that the extension was being sought as factors beyond their control had affected ore transportation. The factors, according to the company, include time taken by the state authorities to issue transit permits, time taken to clear stockyards, which had a huge backlog due to the high court judgment, stoppage of transportation during lockdown imposed due to Covid-19, restrictions imposed on extent of transportation (trips per hour), even after transportation was allowed, limited availability of labour due to the restrictions on passenger transport and the hysteria surrounding the pandemic. Mine leaseholders had challenged an order of the high court that had stopped transportation of iron ore mined after March 15, 2018. The Supreme Court had allowed mining leaseholders in the state to transport mined iron ore extracted between February 7 and March 15, 2018, and lying at the pitheads, stockyards or any other storage places. Claiming “widespread’ abuse of the SC order passed in January allowing ore transportation for six months, the Goa Foundation had filed an application opposing the plea of the mining company. Stating that the erstwhile lease holders are enjoying the support of the government and lifting ore, the NGO has sought clarification of the apex court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-reserves-order-in-petition-by-mining-company/articleshow/78373543.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Active cases drop below 100 at DCB limits||Pune: The number of active Covid-19 cases has recorded a persistent drop in the Dehu Road Cantonment Board (DCB) limits, with the count dipping to 96 now as against 250 three months ago. Dehu Road, with a population of 55,000, had the highest Covid-19 cases among the three cantonments in the district. R Harital, chief executive officer of the DCB, said, “Deployment of a team of doctors, medical staff and volunteers in each ward has helped us bringing the situation under control after three months. Earlier, we used to report 30-40 positive cases in a day, which has come down to 8-10 now.” The board has been carrying out “My Family, My Initiative” for the last three days. During the drive, it carried out rapid antigen test of more than 500 people. “We have found 20 positive cases during the exercise,” Harital said. Dehu Road has recorded 1,150 Covid cases since the outbreak of the pandemic and 1,024 of them have been discharge after successful recovery. A total of 30 patients have succumbed to the virus and 96 are under treatment as active cases. A majority of cases were reported from the slum pockets, Harital said. “About 20,000 people stay in slum areas across Dehu Road and they were not taking enough precautions like wearing of masks, social distancing. But after taking consistent efforts towards awareness, we could manage to change the situation to some extent,” he said. Dehu Road does not have a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) of its own and most of its patients are referred to either of the DCHCs in Talegaon Dabhade or Hinjewadi. The critically ill patients are referred to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri. “We are in the process of converting our hospital into a DCHC with 40 oxygen beds. We will carry out interviews of doctors and support staff for hiring in next two days,” Harital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-cases-drop-below-100-at-dcb-limits/articleshow/78373557.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 29, 2020||Goa||Key depts see slew of promotions||Panaji: Goa public service commission (GPSC) on Monday recommended promotions across key departments and also lifted the probation period for officers. GPSC chairman Jose Manual Noronha told TOI that the commission convened a meeting of the departmental promotion committee (DPC) and recommended promotions for officers across various departments. One officer was promoted to the post of employment counselling officer in the labour department while two officials were promoted to the position of assistant directors of transport in the transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/key-depts-see-slew-of-promotions/articleshow/78373514.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Psychologist Dr PM Mathew passes away||Thiruvananthapuram: Noted psychologist Dr PM Mathew Vellore, who had a major role in popularizing psychology and sex education in state, died at his residence at Charachira on Monday. He was 87. Dr Mathew had been ailing due to age-related difficulties for the past few months. Dr Mathew had worked at Christian Medical College, Vellore as psychologist and professor. After that stint, Dr Mathew started a psychotherapy centre in Thiruvananthapuram where he worked until he fell ill recently. He suffixed Vellore to his name when he began to write columns in magazines and books on psychology in 1970s. One of his major initial works, ‘Kumari Kumaranmarude Samsayangal’, discussed teenage issues scientifically. Later, he wrote columns in Malayalam magazines where doubts on popular psychological disorders were discussed in layman’s language. A man known for raw humour, Dr Mathew founded Narma Kairali along with humourists like cartoonist Sukumar and C V Anandakuttan. He had also acted in a few movies. Mathew Vellore leaves behind wife Susy Mathew; son, Dr Sajjan (Oman) and daughters Dr Reba (Dubai) and Lola. The funeral will be held at St George Syrian Orthodox Church at Karipuzha in Mavelikkara, his native place, on Tuesday. CM Pinarayi Vijayan remembered Dr Mathew as a teacher who had tried to create scientific awareness about psychology among masses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psychologist-dr-pm-mathew-passes-away/articleshow/78371864.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Anti-rabies shots must follow immediately after dog bite: Vets||Trichy: Rabies vaccination camps were organized at seven places in Trichy district on Monday to mark World Rabies Day. The camps held witnessed 410 pet dogs and 12 pet cats being brought by 399 animal owners. Veterinarians said anti-rabies vaccine should be taken at once if bitten by unimmunized dogs or cats.The camp held at government veterinary poly-clinic at Palakkarai inaugurated by Trichy collector S Sivarasu saw 102 owners coming with 105 pet dogs and 12 cats for the vaccination. Department of animal husbandry organized the camp at five more places – government veterinary hospitals in Thiruverumbur and Lalgudi, veterinary dispensaries at Subramaniapuram, Srirangam, Musiri and Thiruvellarai in the district. Veterinary clinician Dr R Magesh, who was in-charge of the camp at Palakkarai, said Monday’s turnout was good. For prevention of rabies, there should be compulsory vaccination once a year. Animal lovers are mostly aware of the vaccination for their pets, he said. Stating that India records around 20,000 fatalities of humans due to rabies every year, Magesh said that India accounted for 36 % of deaths due to rabies worldwide. “The saliva of unimmunized dogs and cats can infect a human when it comes in contact with any wound. Most of the people ignore the bite without taking the human deployed cell vaccine (HDCV) available at government hospitals. If a person suffers a bite from stray dogs suspected to be unimmunized and un-vaccinated, they should wash the surface with running water and visit the nearest health centre and take the vaccine for six days,” said Magesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/anti-rabies-shots-must-follow-immediately-after-dog-bite-vets/articleshow/78373554.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Doctors encourage early testing to effectively treat Covid||Panaji: Instead of self-isolating without knowing one’s health status, doctors recommend that people who suspect they have Covid-19 should get tested to save precious time in the event of their condition deteriorating. “Some families who have gotten sick have decided not to get tested. They’ve preferred to stay at home and self-isolate. This is not advisable,” a government doctor said. “If one does test positive for Covid-19, the government permits home isolation where doctors monitor one’s condition and are available on call. But if someone doesn’t get tested and his condition worsens at home, time will be wasted.” The health department’s daily Covid-19 bulletin has been releasing data of people being brought dead or visiting the hospital late, resulting in them succumbing to the deadly virus within hours of being admitted. There are also many patients, including their families, who are not aware of their status at all and test positive for Covid-19 post mortem. The government doctor warned that if a patient turns critical and his status is not known, he will first be treated as a suspect and admitted to the suspect ward before tests are done. “Testing is also available in private hospitals if people are apprehensive of visiting government-run healthcare facilities,” the doctor said. Getting oneself tested also goes a long way in containing the infection. Another healthcare professional said that if, upon being tested, a patient opts for home isolation or gets admitted in a Covid care centre, it would protect several others, especially the elderly and vulnerable at home. The government has stated that people who at a higher risk of developing complications due to Covid-19 are smokers, those above the age of 60 years and those with non-communicable diseases including cardiovascular disease (heart attack/stroke), chronic respiratory disease, diabetes and cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doctors-encourage-early-testing-to-effectively-treat-covid/articleshow/78373584.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal needs more portable oxygen cylinders, says CMHO||BHOPAL: There is a need for more portable oxygen cylinders rather than oxygen supply in the state capital, according to Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. The state capital is catering to the oxygen supply needs of around 15 districts, he added. According to industry sources, the use of oxygen cylinders and refilling is one of the main issues.  On an average, hospitals treating Covid-19 patients have a very high demand for liquid oxygen and portable cylinders. With capping of the price of oxygen, the state government is yet to clarify and fix transportation cost for the same. Capping of the price of liquid oxygen used to treat victims of novel coronavirus and other respiratory diseases after complaints of hoarding and shortages, was announced by the Union government recently. To ensure that the oxygen is available at reasonable rates, the government has capped manufacturers’ prices at Rs 15.22 per cubic metre (CUM). Prices of a cubic metre of medical oxygen delivered by cylinder to end-users has been fixed at Rs 25.71, higher than the previous ceiling price of Rs 17.49/CUM. However, transportation inputs and other overheads are high in Madhya Pradesh. The state is reliant on inventories for oxygen manufacture from other states. Overall demand for oxygen has increased fourfold in many hospitals. “There is an additional input cost per delivery of oxygen. It is about Rs 2,500 for the hospital. Earlier, we needed a refill in about three weeks. Now it has come down to about a week,” said a private hospital owner.  Much of the input is transportation and labour related, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-needs-more-portable-o2-cylinders-says-cmho/articleshow/78371847.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Explicit messages surface amid school online class||Nagpur: ‘Mujhse koi sex kar lo’ (someone please have sex with me) and ‘bohot maaza aa raha hai’ (it’s a very pleasurable feeling) were some of the messages that stunned a woman teacher of a reputed school when they appeared on the screen during an online class of Standard VI.It’s learnt the online classes had started at 11am and were supposed to continue till 1.30pm. The obscene messages started surfacing at 12.30pm. The students and their teacher were initially left flabbergasted, and then tried to figure out who was behind the relentless vulgar messages.The sender of the obscene messages was removed from the online class but he kept on adding himself to the room and continued to misbehave for long. The class was disturbed but the teacher is learnt to have managed to complete the session despite the recurrent disturbances.A parent, stunned to know the development, said online classes would be a nightmare for the children if such nauseating incidents keep repeating. “The school authorities should act sternly and report the matter to the police and lodge a complaint. The culprit must be found and punished for such behaviour, and disturbing a class full of students of both genders and woman teacher,” the parent said.“Parents cannot always be beside their children during online classes as offices have started and there are other engagements too. It is horrifying to think how students must be reacting to such vulgarity,” he said.A school representative said the matter was referred to the technical team to scrutinize the issue and try to find more details about the incident. “We will try to counsel the perpetrator if he or she is a minor, but may have to take the matter to the police as a deterrent in case it is the handiwork of an outsider trying to spoil the ambience,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explicit-messages-surface-amid-school-online-class/articleshow/78371820.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Not tracing high-risk contact leads to another death||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) failure to trace and test high-risk contacts of positive patients, especially comorbid ones, and late testing and reporting to Covid hospitals by patients themselves have continued to lead to deaths. The civic body has now urged for support from the people.A 57-year-old man from Khamla tested positive for Covid-19 around 12noon on Sunday and died around 4pm. As per information available from shopkeepers in Khamla, the deceased, a shopkeeper, was having acute diabetes. Local shopkeepers said son of deceased’s brother had tested positive some 10 days ago.Three immediate neighbours of the deceased had also tested positive. The deceased was having fever and other symptoms for one week. He called one of the shopkeepers to ask about another trader who had died on Saturday. The person he spoke to came to know the man having symptoms for last one week.He was advised to go for immediate test at RPTS Testing Centre. He was not willing to go to there fearing contracting disease from others. He, however, arranged to have swab collected by a private laboratory at home. His son (30) was also having fever so also gave swabs. Reports of the both came positive around 12noon on Sunday.Then, his family members checked oxygen saturation of the person. It had reached 30. He was taken to a Covid private hospital at Dhantoli where doctors directed him to GMCH. At GMCH he was declared brought dead, the Khamla traders said.President of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat Khamla Narayan Ahuja recalled NMC had quarantined and tested over 80 persons from Khamla when one man had tested positive in March end. Of them, five were found positive. He said for last two months, NMC is not tracing and testing high-risk contacts which is one of the major reasons behind deaths.“Instead of collecting fine from those not wearing masks, NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) should be asked to track and fine high-risk contacts who have not gone for testing. At least, it will prevent from fatalities,” he said. TOI has reported several such deaths in last two months.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said NMC has opened 55 centres where all contacts should get tested. The rapid response team (RRT) goes to houses of positive patients and requests all contacts to get tested. NMC Mobile Swab Collection Centre can come to a particular area and take samples of large number of suspected cases. “It is also the responsibility of the people to get tested,” he said.Till end of June, NMC used to track all contacts of positive patients, quarantine and test them. With rise in cases, civic body allowed home quarantine from last week of July. Since then, NMC’s RRT goes to houses of some positive patients and asks high-risk contacts to go to NMC centres and give samples. There is no monitoring whether the they actually do so.NMC zone officials said, “There are over 1,000 cases a day. No civic body can depute staff at the house of each positive patient and wait till everyone gives. People should also act on their own when somebody in family tests positive,” they said.------------------------------IAN* NMC used to track 30-50 contacts of positive patients, quarantine and test all till end of June* It was confined to family members and neighbours with rise in cases in July* NMC allowed home quarantine of high-risk contacts from last week of July* 55 testing centres opened across the city where tests are done free of cost* NMC team visits some positive patients and asks family members and immediate neighbours to for testing * No monitoring whether this is done* High-risk contacts do not test in many cases, a major reason behind decline in number of tests since September 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-tracing-high-risk-contact-leads-to-another-death/articleshow/78371845.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Three commissioners to monitor ‘confidential checks’ at pvt hospitals: State HM Anil Deshmukh||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday that divisional commissioner, NMC chief and police commissioner would be monitoring ‘confidential checks’ at private hospitals treating Covid patients, testing laboratories and plasma banks.Deshmukh had instructed joint team of police, NMC and food and drug administration (FDA) to form flying squads and conduct surprise checks at the private hospitals, Covid testing laboratories and plasma banks following a spate of complaints against their over-charging, flouting the norms and protocols set by the governments. Deshmukh, talking to TOI, said some of the hospitals are resorting to profiteering as against others who are cooperating with the government. “We have just kick-started the drive following complaints,” he said. “In the beginning, we would verify the complaints and try authenticate their claims,” said the state home minister. Though Deshmukh said the primary roles of supervising and monitoring the drive would rest with the divisional, NMC and police commissioner, he shall review the developments and keep a close vigil too. When asked whether the drive may cause a duplication of the same work done by the audit system already put into place and auditors engaged at the private hospitals for checking the bills, Deshmukh said the combined squads would act like a check on them too. “There is no question of duplication of work. The combined teams would also check the efforts of the auditors and scrutinize their work,” he said. CP Amitesh Kumar said a dozen of calls had trickled in the first few hours in the helpline number (9823300100) on Monday, which was also the first day of the drive. “This drive is for checks and sensitization rather than slapping cases. In fact, there cannot be any blanket decision but we would proceed from case to case depending upon the facts,” said the CP.Dr Anup Marar, convener, Vidarbha hospitals’ association, said private hospitals are already facing unconstitutional injustices like bills are being audited after the government’s stand of forcing the hospitals to start Covid sections and serve under capped charges. “These kinds of autocratic tactics are demoralizing, insulting and illegal which we have already raised with the high court nominated Covid coordination committee. In stead of entering into premises to audit bills, the government should start a disputed bill cell where the matters can be referred,” said Dr Marar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-commissioners-to-monitor-confidential-checks-at-pvt-hospitals-state-hm-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/78371857.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 29, 2020||Goa||Revise ore transportation rates: Truckers||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant will meet officials of mining companies to discuss revising the truck transportation rates for e-auctioned ore, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said on Monday. Pauskar, who along with representatives of truck owners’ associations, met the chief minister on Monday, said that the rates were last revised in 2017. “At the time the price of diesel was Rs 52 per litre. Now it is Rs 72 per litre,” the PWD minister told reporters after the meeting. As per the 2017 rates, trucks are paid Rs 12.5 for the first 10 km, thereafter it is Rs 11.5 between 20 to 30 km. The truck owners’ associations are demanding that the transportation rate be reviewed, he said. “They want at least Rs 17.5 for the first 10 km,” Pauskar said. “The CM has said that he will speak to mining companies, who purchase e-auctioned ore, to revise the rates,” he said. The truck owners said that the need to increase the transportation rates was felt by them due to inflation. “The CM has assured to come out with some solution on the issue,” truck owner Vallabh Dalvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revise-ore-transportation-rates-truckers/articleshow/78373574.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||Theft accused flees Covid hospital||Palanpur: A Covid-19 positive theft accused who escaped from Palanpur General Hospital on Monday morning was nabbed from Deesa on the same day the forenoon. Police said after getting arrested in several theft cases, Kanti Devipujak (31) was admitted to the hospital on September 10. He tested Covid-19 positive on Septmeber 25. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/theft-accused-flees-covid-hospital/articleshow/78370684.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation fast-tracks UGD phase III project||TRICHY: Trichy corporation has expedited phase III of underground drainage (UGD) project to facilitate sewage network for the peripheral wards of the city with the work on installing UGD lines and chambers commencing. Simultaneously, package II work of phase II project providing connections in core parts of the city covering various government offices and residential settlements was also launched recently. With only 31% of the city covered under networked sewage system, the sewage masterplan prepared by the Trichy corporation had suggested two major UGD work proposals under phases II and III. While Phase III will cover 15 wards of the corporation, Phase II will have 25 wards. Officials said Phase III will cover KK Nagar, Karumandapam, E Pudur and parts of added wards in Thiruverumbur, where work has commenced. “Pipe and manhole installation work has been launched in KK Nagar. Work is on in full-swing amid the lockdown. We are planning to complete and commission the project by 2022, ” a senior city corporation official added. The civic body said that the UGD projects will ensure a better sewage network in the city, preventing ground pollution due to faulty septic tank design and clandestine dumping of faecal waste in water bodies. Package II of phase II covering Raja colony and collector office road was initiated by the Ponmalai zone of the corporation. Government buildings on the district collectorate campus will get UGD connections in the ongoing work. The collected sewage will be pumped to Panchapur via Othakadai pumping station. While phase II covering the east zone was the expensive UGD project, phase III, covering the west zone, is the largest project in terms of length of UGD lines to be installed. The UGD projects are funded jointly by the urban local body, Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (Tufidco) and Asian Development Bank (ADB) at Rs 344 crores and Rs 312 crores respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-fast-tracks-ugd-phase-iii-project/articleshow/78373588.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sugarcane farmers not to change crop for next 2 years||PONDA: Following the government’s assurance to restart the Sanjivani sugar factory within two years, sugarcane growers have decided not to change the crop for the next couple of years. Following a representation made by the farmers at a meeting held recently by chief minister Pramod Sawant with sugarcane growers in the presence of agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, Sawant had announced that Goa’s lone sugar factory at Dharbandorawould not be shut down. He also stated that it would take another two years to either modernise the factory or set up a new plant. Harshad Prabhudesai, vice-president of the Sugarcane Growers’ Association Goa, said that they are satisfied with the chief minister’s statement. It may be recalled that a couple of months ago, the state government was trying to persuade farmers to change the crop. The 47-year-old factory has been in a dilapidated state and in need of urgent overhauling of vital machines or modernisation of the entire plant. In 2017, a project proposal costing Rs 29.3 crore was also submitted to Centre under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY), a national agricultural scheme for modernisation of the plant. However, the Centre had rejected the proposal stating that the scheme is meant for agricultural units and the Sanjivani plant was run by a cooperative society. The state recently handed over the plant to the agriculture department and the government may now resend the proposal, said Kavlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sugarcane-farmers-not-to-change-crop-for-next-2-yrs/articleshow/78373598.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
September 29, 2020||Nashik||Fire rages at Kolhapur’s Covid hospital||Kolhapur: A fire broke out in the trauma care unit of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital, largest public hospital in Kolhapur around 3:20 am on Monday, The hospital is designated as dedicated Covid hospital since the pandemic broke out. T The hospital has over 400 Covid patients undergoing treatment. When the fire broke out, 15 Covid-19 patients were lodged in the unit. Hospital dean Chandrakant Mhaske said, “The fire broke out mainly due to electrical short circuit. We are checking whether the fire was also due to some other reasons. No casualty has taken place due to incident. The patients have been shifted to other wards with the critical equipments. The fire has been doused.” After the incident, Mhaske and district collector Daulat Desai rushed to the hospital. Desai has asked the CPR Hospital authorities to get the fire audit of the entire hospital done immediately with the help of electrical experts. After the incident, a son of a patient, who died early morning, claimed that his father died while he was being shifted to another ward. Mhaske denied the allegation. However, Desai said he has asked authorities to carry out death audits of the Covid patients who died some hours before and after the incident. Mhaske also denied that one of the ventilators caught fire. Some staff and relatives claimed they heard a loud sound before smoke came out from Trauma Care Centre. Desai, who rushed to the hospital on bicycle after he got call from the dean, said, “I found no one from the centre died when I rushed to the spot. The fire broke out at an electrical output. I have asked authorities to make sure the oxygen supply for every floor is managed separately instead of centralised monitoring so that the supply does not get affected in such incidents. I have asked the CPR administration to carry out the electrical fire audit and make necessary changes immediately.” Acording to a statement issued by CPR Hospital late in the evening, no death due to the fire incident or while shifting the patients to other wards took place. However, the statement added, that three patients from the Trauma Care Centre died later due to widely spread infection to their lungs and they were already critical. Among the three, one was from the room where the fire broke out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fire-rages-at-kolhapurs-covid-hospital/articleshow/78370622.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid patients’ kin turn to social media for plasma||Kolhapur: With most of the private hospitals in the city reeling under scarcity of plasma required for treating Covid-19 patients and even some government facilities running dry, relatives of many patients are taking to social media appealing to donors to donate the life-saving fluid. Several forums mainly have come forward to facilitate plasma donation. They assure that the identity of the donor is kept confidential.Rahul Gondil, associated with the Thalessemia Eradication Association said, “We have 40 donors listed with us. So far, we have provided 15 donors. There is shortage of plasma mainly because of lack of awareness among cured patients. The administration, which has details of all the recovered patients, should approach them and counsel them. Most of the patients for whom we have arranged donors have recovered successfully.”The Food and Drugs administration (FDA) has approved plasma collection for two private blood banks. Earlier, there was just one blood bank at the CPR hospital for plasma collection. The owner of a private blood bank said, “Since we got approval for collection of plasma, we have got many calls asking for plasma availability. However, very few have donated. Moreover, there are no clear guidelines about the tests to be done to quantify the antibody count. The plasma with low antibody count are declined by the hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-patients-kin-turn-to-social-media-for-plasma/articleshow/78370668.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Traders up against week-long lockdown in Samayapuram||TRICHY: Citing Covid-19 spread, the district administration enforced a local lockdown in Samayapuram town near Trichy on Monday. Although the lockdown will continue for a week, traders have expressed their unwillingness to follow the norms, leaving the officials in a fix to enforce the restrictions. Though Samayapuram town has not reported many Covid-19 positive cases in recent past, the increasing footfall to Samayapuram Mariamman temple has prompted health authorities to implement a lockdown around the temple. As per the suggestion, S Kannanur town panchayat and the revenue department had directed traders around the temple to close their shops for a week. Except for pharmacies, around 500 shops in temple car streets, Sannidhi Street and Kadaiveethi have shutdown. However, the lockdown did not deter the devotees from visiting the temple town as public transportation was available. Traders have questioned the functioning of Samayapuram temple despite the Covid-19 threat. “Tasmac outlets are functioning and bus transportation is continuing. Forcing us alone to stop the business is unfair. We cannot keep our shops closed for a long period,” V P Muniyappan, a flower vendor, said. The traders’ association has requested the local town panchayat to allow them to reopen the shops from Tuesday. Meanwhile, sources said that the devotees to the temple are gradually increasing. On Sunday, around 10,000 people visited the temple, of which close to 1,000 people have tonsured their heads. “Closing the shops alone will not help,” a source at the temple said. Following the protest from traders, the local body and revenue officials are in a dilemma to continue with the restrictions. “We are waiting for the decision of the revenue department ,” an official source in town panchayat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-up-against-week-long-lockdown-in-samayapuram/articleshow/78373600.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: For students, classes six days a week; for professors, preparatory leave hangs in balance||KOLKATA: The new academic calendar for undergraduate and postgraduate programs in Bengal for all state-run universities will require teachers to conduct classes six days in a week. The classes are scheduled to start from December 1. These classes can be online, face-to-face or in blended mode. The preparatory day leave, which had been allocated to the faculty in colleges and universities, will have to be scrapped until June 2022. The proposal from the University Grants Commission (UGC) was accepted at the vice-chancellors’ meeting with education minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday. Several teachers pointed out that cutting out the preparatory leave will lead to a major disadvantage because the college libraries are not sufficiently equipped with which are required to prepare the study materials. “Several colleges do not have the financial resources that would allow the faculty to subscribe to international journals and e-books. On the days allocated as preparatory leaves, we go to the National Library or other resource centres to prepare for the classes. Now, the time will be limited,” said a teacher at a Calcutta University-affiliated college. Another teacher pointed out that the situation demanded such drastic measures. “The syllabus needs to be completed within a stipulated time. It is impossible to prepare the candidates for both first-semester and second-semester examinations next year because they will have to be taught a curriculum within nine months. This otherwise takes a year without the six-days-a-week diktat,” he added. In most of the colleges of Bengal, except for the private ones, classes are held six days a week for the students and teachers are allowed a day’s preparatory leave. In the universities, classes are held five days or five and a half day every week. Rabindra Bharati University VC Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury said a major challenge awaited them, particularly in the arts department where many teachers WERE guest faculty. “The guest lecturers associated with other institutes will find it difficult to manage time and attend classes at RBU,” he said. Another VC said the situation was similar in many colleges and universities where the number of teachers fell short of the required figure and posts were lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-students-classes-six-days-a-week-for-profs-prep-leave-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/78373567.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Rush to open two Majerhat bridge lanes for Durga Puja days||KOLKATA: The state PWD wants to open — provided the railways gives its nod — two lanes of Majerhat bridge (instead of four) for small cars in the Puja week to ease commuting woes of people living in New Alipore and Behala. Partial commissioning of a bridge, however, is unheard of in the railways’ rulebook. A span of Majerhat rail overbridge (ROB) had collapsed on September 4, 2018. The ROB portion is within the ambit of Eastern Railway (ER). Sources in ER said strict adherence to rules is needed for commissioning a bridge under the railways’ jurisdiction. “We want to open the bridge for a few days during the Pujas provided the temporary commissioning doesn’t harm the structure. Currently, there are prolonged traffic snarls on the Bailey bridge that connects the alternate route through Alipore and New Alipore,” said a state engineer on Monday. The state public works department (PWD) is implementing the Majerhat ROB reconstruction and Haryana-based S P Singla is contracted to build it. The initial deadline for commissioning the bridge was September 2019. A railways source said: “PWD must adhere to all construction rules and then apply for commissioning. ER will check compliance and then give its nod. But the railways has never commissioned any structure temporarily till now.” State engineers admitted that full-fledged commissioning can happen only around November 15, which will be just before Diwali. Currently, cables are being installed. Plyon to pylon, the main span is 100m. Since it is a cable-stayed bridge, cables from the pylons will support the deck. Like Vidyasagar Setu, Majerhat bridge will have four pylons — two to the north and two on the south. The city’s other cable-stayed bridge — Nivedita Setu — has one pylon each on the two sides. Till Monday, 36 cables out of 84 had been laid. Laying of all the cables may be over by October 10, but this crucial installation has to be okayed by the project’s international consultant Wiecon and the railways. Another crucial aspect is load-testing, which also must be cleared by the railways. While the old structure could barely carry 150 tonnes, the new one is being equipped to withstand around 350 tonnes. After load-testing, second-stage stressing has to be done. Then there is fine-tuning of the cables. “After the first-stage stressing, it will have to be seen whether small cars can be allowed to ply only during Pujas, provided it doesn’t cause any kind of damage to the structure. We may apply for temporary commissioning to the railways and close the bridge again and prepare it for full-fledged commissioning some time before Diwali,” a state engineer said. Another important work is building the crash barrier walls. Plus, the entire bridge deck (total length of the bridge is 650m) has to be paved with bituminous concrete. But this can be done in three or four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rush-to-open-two-majerhat-bridge-lanes-for-puja-days/articleshow/78371900.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city residents irked over lapses in waste collection||TRICHY: Lapses in the door to door waste collection is resurfacing in Trichy as near normalcy is back in the state. Irregular waste collection and absence of a systematic approach in reaching out to the residents are forcing the frustrated residents to dump solid waste in the vacant sites. While the civic body focused waste collection in residential areas during the lockdown, the return of the commercial outlets has exposed the lapses. On normal days, four zones here generate around 435 MT of waste per day. During the lockdown, the absence of commercial establishments minimized the waste generation to 315 MT per day. But with relaxations gradually pitching in since September, the waste generation quantity has simultaneously increased. Except for the schools, colleges and movie halls, as other commercial establishments are back, Trichy city is generating close to 400 MT per day now. Irregular waste collection complaints were raised in K Abishekapuram and Ariyamangalam zones in recent weeks. “Waste collection vehicle skipped our area for the past one week. The vehicle was said to be under maintenance, but no alternative arrangement was made,” K Sudhakar, a resident of VOC Road said. A section of residents complained that the waste collection vehicles are not making announcements while reaching the streets. Mindless dumping of waste on vacant plots is cited as another reason for the waste to pile up on roads even as the door to door waste collection was proper in the locality. Mostly the commercial establishments were blamed for clandestine dumping of food and plastic waste on roads including Reynolds Road, Heber Road and Williams Road. With normalcy returning, residents urged the civic body to streamline the solid waste management. Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said that officials have been told to ensure seamless waste collection. “Public littering act will be penalized heavily,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-residents-irked-over-lapses-in-waste-collection/articleshow/78373609.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Neither fine nor fear persuades Nagpurians to wear masks||Nagpur: It seems rising Covid cases and deaths have failed to convince the people of Nagpur about the importance of wearing mask in public. The fine being imposed by civic cops for going without mask too doesn’t seem to be a deterrent.“I feel suffocated in a mask… There are no corona positive person in our vicinity… I took off the mask just now…” are common excuses people caught by the NMC’s nuisance detection squad for moving around maskless give out.On Monday alone, NDS and Nagpur city police penalized almost 300 people for not wearing masks in public. The penalty no longer gets offenders to fall in line. NDS team has collected so far Rs 37.32 lakh fine from 14,407 maskless offenders since the drive was launched on April 15. Civic cops claimed they have to spend most of their time convincing people about the importance of wearing masks. To no avail. NMC was imposing Rs 200 fine on people not wearing mask from April 15. Following home minister Anil Deshmukh’s directives, NMC raised the fine to Rs 500. The civic cops even caught 258 NMC staff at its Civil Lines office without masks and recovered Rs 57,000 fine from them.A senior official from NMC’s sanitation department said the NDS team of 180 (retired armymen) was working in all 10 zones. Zones like Dhantoli and Lakadganj deploy the NDS team from 6am at wholesale vegetable markets like Cotton Market and APMC Kalamna. Others like Mangalwari and Laxmi Nagar use them till 10pm for action in public places.From September 7, the Nagpur city and traffic police too joined hands with the NMC and started penalizing citizens without masks. Till September 27, both have penalized over 18,000 people and recovered Rs 47.42 lakh fine from them.NMC health officials have warned if this continues, the spike in cases will continue and it could be disastrous for Nagpur. According to standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, following guidelines of maintaining physical distancing and wearing mask while venturing out is essential. “Otherwise, city will witness a health disaster,” he warned.NDS REPORT CARDZones----------No Mask---FineMangalwari ---2,814---5,88,980Dharampeth---2,149---5,57,000Dhantoli---1,898---4,43,800Laxmi Nagar--- 1,535---4,35,100Ashi Nagar ----1,498---3,94,100Hanuman Nagar---1,223---3,26,500Nehru Nagar----1,070---2,64,400Satranjipura---906---2,44,500Lakadganj---813--- 2,09,400Gandhibagh----743---2,03,800NMC HQ---258---57,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neither-fine-nor-fear-persuades-nagpurians-to-wear-masks/articleshow/78371883.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 29, 2020||Pune||One held on charge of robbing and murdering car driver||Pune: The Pune crime branch on Monday claimed to have solved the robbery-cum-murder of Nagesh Gund (37), a car driver from Tuljapur in Osmanabad, near Jedhe Chowk on the night of September 3, following the arrest of a criminal on police records from Kothrud who was on a temporary bail. The police said they recovered a sickle and a motorcycle that the suspect, Hrishikesh Jeevraj Kamthe (34), had allegedly used in the crime. They also recovered Gund’s cellphone. “After the incident, Kamthe had driven to the Katraj ghat, where he discarded the victim’s cellphone and the sickle,” senior crime branch inspector Rajendra Mokashi said. “Kamthe’s motive was to rob the victim, but he died of excessive bleeding caused by the attack wound that damaged a nerve on his right leg,” Mokashi said. “We had CCTV camera footage of the incident, from which one of our informers recently identified Kamthe. We picked him up from Kothrud on Sunday night,” the senior inspector added. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Sambhaji Kadam said, “Kamthe admitted to his involvement in the murder and led the police to the crime scene and recovery of the murder weapon and other articles. He is wanted in two robbery cases reported in August and September from the Sinhagad and Yerawada police areas. He was previously arrested in 16 criminal cases and was released on an emergency bail in May because of the Covid-19 pandemic.”On September 3 night, Gund had just returned to the city by bus at Swargate to resume his work after a long stay in his hometown. The incident occurred when he was waiting at a bus stop near Jedhe Chowk to pick up his friend Kamlakar Ghodke. Mokashi said, “Kamthe told police during questioning that he was returning home from Budhwar Peth via Swargate on a motorcycle, which belonged to his friend, when he spotted Gund urinating on a wall near the bus stop. Kamthe approached Gund and picked up a dispute stating the latter was urinating at the spot and demanded money. Gund resisted Kamthe, who then pulled out a sickle and attacked the victim on his right leg before snatching his cellphone and Rs1,800 and fled.”Moments later, Ghodke reached the spot and found Gund lying injured. He rushed him to Sassoon hospital, but the doctors pronounced the victim as brought dead. Ghodke’s statement in the FIR stated that Gund gave an oral declaration to him that two men were responsible for the attack, Kadam said the CCTV camera footage, the articles recovered from Kamthe and his movements established that only he was responsible for the murder. The custody of Kamthe was later transferred to the Swargate police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-on-charge-of-robbing-and-murdering-car-driver/articleshow/78373606.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 29, 2020||Nashik||2 women held for blackmailing doctor, trying to extort Rs 60 lakh||Kolhapur: Shahupuri police in Satara arrested two women on Saturday for allegedly blackmailing a doctor and attempting to extort Rs 60 lakh from him. A minor girl, who accompanied the women when they were accepting the cash from the doctor, has also been detained. The accused, Poonam Patil and Prachi Gaikwad, have been booked under sections 384 (extortion) and 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the IPC. Both of them were produced before a court which remanded them in police custody for four days. Police have seized cash and ornaments, all totalling to Rs 12 lakh, from the residences of the two women. Police have also confiscated both their cellphones. Police said that the two women approached the doctor around six months ago under the pretext of medical checkup and befriended him. Both of them also took the doctor’s cell phone number and started chatting on WhatsApp. Later, both the women expressed their feelings for the doctor following which he started chatting with them more freely. Preliminary investigation reveals that the women had taken screenshots of their conversation with the doctor. A few days ago, both the women demanded Rs 12 lakh from the doctor. Thinking that they might be in dire need of money, the doctor gave away the amount sought. Later, both the women sought Rs 48 lakh and threatened to make their conversations with the doctor on phone viral. The doctor approached police and lodged a formal complaint when the women started calling him and demanding the money. Police asked the doctor to call the women at a specific spot with the promise of giving them the amount sought. A police team, comprising women personnel, caught the two women red-handed when they were accepting the cash from the doctor. Police are investigating whether the women have used the same modus operandi to cheat more men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-women-held-for-blackmailing-doctor-trying-to-extort-rs-60-lakh/articleshow/78370644.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||DPT sexual harassment committee reconstituted||Rajkot: The Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) has reconstituted the internal complaints committee on prevention against sexual harassment of women in accordance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013. The tenure of the said internal complaints committee is three years. It will inquire into the written complaints of sexual harassment at workplace lodged by women employees and workers under the said 2013 Act and also recommend appropriate action as per relevant regulations of the DPT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dpt-sexual-harassment-committee-reconstituted/articleshow/78370713.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Fire rages at Kolhapur’s Covid hospital||Kolhapur: A fire broke out in the trauma care unit of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital, largest public hospital in Kolhapur around 3:20 am on Monday, The hospital is designated as dedicated Covid hospital since the pandemic broke out. T The hospital has over 400 Covid patients undergoing treatment. When the fire broke out, 15 Covid-19 patients were lodged in the unit. Hospital dean Chandrakant Mhaske said, “The fire broke out mainly due to electrical short circuit. We are checking whether the fire was also due to some other reasons. No casualty has taken place due to incident. The patients have been shifted to other wards with the critical equipments. The fire has been doused.” After the incident, Mhaske and district collector Daulat Desai rushed to the hospital. Desai has asked the CPR Hospital authorities to get the fire audit of the entire hospital done immediately with the help of electrical experts. After the incident, a son of a patient, who died early morning, claimed that his father died while he was being shifted to another ward. Mhaske denied the allegation. However, Desai said he has asked authorities to carry out death audits of the Covid patients who died some hours before and after the incident. Mhaske also denied that one of the ventilators caught fire. Some staff and relatives claimed they heard a loud sound before smoke came out from Trauma Care Centre. Desai, who rushed to the hospital on bicycle after he got call from the dean, said, “I found no one from the centre died when I rushed to the spot. The fire broke out at an electrical output. I have asked authorities to make sure the oxygen supply for every floor is managed separately instead of centralised monitoring so that the supply does not get affected in such incidents. I have asked the CPR administration to carry out the electrical fire audit and make necessary changes immediately.” Acording to a statement issued by CPR Hospital late in the evening, no death due to the fire incident or while shifting the patients to other wards took place. However, the statement added, that three patients from the Trauma Care Centre died later due to widely spread infection to their lungs and they were already critical. Among the three, one was from the room where the fire broke out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fire-rages-at-kolhapurs-covid-hospital/articleshow/78370703.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||Demand for Amrutvel on the rise||Bicholim: In Bicholim taluka, there is a sudden surge in demand for an ayurvedic ‘kadha’ (concoction) derived from the leaves and stems of a creeper, popularly known as ‘Amrutvel’ or ‘Gulvel’, as it is believed to boost immunity. Locals have been making a beeline to buy the stems of this medicinal herb wherever they are being sold. Uday Parab, who sells the stems of this creeper at his vegetable stall at Mulgao, told TOI that people from all over Bicholim taluka, and even Mapusa and other areas of Bardez come to purchase it. Stating that the Amrutvel plants are mostly found in remote areas, Parab said that he buys them from a person who can identify the creeper. The vegetable vendor said he charges Rs 50 for a bunch of the Amrutvel stems, and they are sold off no sooner they arrive. Tukaram Sawant from Sarvan, whose family is know for traditionally giving a variety of locally made ayurvedic medicines, said that in their childhood, his cousin used to feed Amrutvel leaves and stems to his cattle. “However, we have now realised its importance”. Ramnath Naik from Karapur believes that “many sages used to eat ‘Amrutvel’ to live a long life”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/demand-for-amrutvel-on-the-rise/articleshow/78373616.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Trichy||DMK, allies protest in delta districts against farm bills||TRICHY: DMK staged protests across delta districts on Monday demanding withdrawal of the three farm bills. Cadres led by party’s principal secretary K N Nehru as well as those from alliance parties and farmers carried out the protest in Trichy. CPI state secretary R Mutharasan participated in the protest held at Kumbakonam. Indian Union Muslim League president K M Kader Mohideen led the protest near the district collector’s office in Trichy which was addressed by K N Nehru. The protesters said that the law will ruin the life of the farming community. Though the protesters adhered to Covid-protection norms, none of the leaders who stood on a truck wore masks or maintained social distance. Leaders and cadre from Congress, CPI, CPM, MDMK, VCK, Dravidar Kazhagam participated. Protests were also held in Thottiam, Musiri, T Pettai, Thuraiyur, Uppiliapuram, Pulivalam, Manachanallur, Number 1 Tollgate in Trichy district. In Thanjavur, protests were held at 40 places. Thiruvaiyaru MLA Durai Chandrasekaran led the protest in Thanjavur city. Thanjavur MP S S Palanimanickam, MLA T K G Neelamegam, district Congress president T Krishnasamy Vandaiyar, MDMK district president K Udayakumar and others participated. Kumbakonam MLA Sakkottai G Anbalagan led the protest near Gandhi Park in the town. MLAs Govi Chezhian, M Ramachandran, and party cadre participated. CPI state secretary R Mutharasan addressed the gathering. Protests were also held in Karur, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, and Perambalur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-allies-protest-in-delta-districts-against-farm-bills/articleshow/78373614.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||Dil Bechara: Amid Covid-19 fears, don’t ignore your heart ailment||Nagpur: In the time of Covid-19, patients with heart disease are faced with a dangerous dilemma. Not only are they more at risk of developing severe forms of the virus, they may also be afraid of seeking ongoing care for their hearts due to concerns of exposure to Covid outside home. If you have health conditions such as heart disease, heart failure, high blood pressure, or obesity, don’t let Covid-19 stop you from attending your regular check-ups, said senior cardiologists in city while speaking to TOI on the eve of World Heart Day.According to doctors, delaying care because of Covid-19 fears can lead to long-term health consequences. Skipping appointments or not being as diligent with your cardiac care plan in the short-term can lead to long term health issues, including heart attack, stroke, and heart damage.Consultant cardiologist Dr Shailendra Ganjewar said patients recovering from Covid-19 too are experiencing heart troubles. “Those who experience blood coagulation during Covid-19 treatment are given blood thinners for 28 days or more after recovery. We have seen patients as young as 30 and 35 years of age suffering from heart attacks after recovering from Covid-19,” he said.Cardiologist Dr Irshad Pathan said that corona fears discourage people from visiting hospitals. “Lifestyle has seen major changes during the Covid-19 period right from first lockdown to unlock phase. Food habits have changed and daily schedule of exercise has been disturbed. Regular check-up is not happening, and people are ignoring symptoms like chest pain. Due to this, heart failure cases are increasing and we are expecting more such cases in future,” he said.Dr Pathan suggested people should not ignore symptoms, keep control on blood sugar and blood pressure and avoid negativity. “I suggest not to watch TV news much, as it increases stress levels,” he said.Consultant interventional cardiologist Dr Sachin Patil said healthy lifestyle is like a vaccine against heart diseases. “Even corona patients nowadays are presenting with symptoms of heart attack, heart failure, low blood pressure. It’s always better to immediately consult a doctor, because early treatment in heart diseases can save one’s life,” he said.Cardiologist Dr Pankaj Harkut also observed that heart patients are reporting very late during Covid-19 days. “During pandemic, taking care of heart is very important. But unfortunately, patients are reaching doctors late,” he said. “We are witnessing the most vital medical tragedy of a lifetime. Stress is major factor we want to avoid,” he noted.“Heart attacks and stroke happen, even during a global pandemic. Unfortunately, people are scared to go to the emergency room or are concerned about burdening their local hospital,” said senior interventional cardiologist Dr Jaspal Arneja. “But, don’t let those fears stop you from coming in. If you have a heart attack, hospital is the safest place for you,” he added.World Heart Day 2020: Care for Heart In PandemicIn pandemic, public focus is on deaths related to infectionCardiovascular disease is biggest comorbidity in patients dying in pandemicPandemic has partially halted emphasis on preventive aspects of lifestyle diseasesTheme of World Heart Day 2020 is ‘Use heart to beat heart disease’Using heart means understanding what it takes to live a heart healthy lifeSYMPTOMS OF A HEART ATTACK:- Rise in blood pressure- Chest or back pain- Numbness or weakness- Difficulty breathing or speaking HEART CARE IN COVID-19- Patients with heart conditions must take extra care- Follow all prescribed medications regularly- Strict adherence to healthy diet, abstaining from excess alcohol intake, smoking- Regular exercise can build lower risk profile- Frequent sanitization, wearing masks, and staying away from people with Covid-19- Shorter the time in seeking help, higher the chances of heart muscle being saved||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dil-bechara-amid-covid-19-fears-dont-ignore-your-heart-ailment/articleshow/78371903.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 29, 2020||Bhopal||85% take CLAT in city amid strict Covid norms||Bhopal: The CLAT 2020 was conducted at four centres in Bhopal on Monday, with around 85%. Around 2,000 students had registered for the exam in the state capital. Exam centres were at IES College, Trinity (two centres) and SAM College. Experts said that the CLAT 2020 was of moderate level and consisted of more passage type questions this year, making the exam a bit lengthy. Students said that the test had fewer questions as per the changed exam pattern, with 150 questions instead of 200. The total duration of the exam was 120 minutes, and there was no sectional cut off, making it more comfortable for the aspirants. As the questions were passage-based, many candidates struggled with lengthy passages. Time management was an issue for many. The Logical Reasoning section was manageable while the Legal Reasoning section had a fair share of lengthy questions, said students. The exam had the maximum number of questions in legal reasoning and current affairs while the Quantitative section had a minimum number of questions. This year, the CLAT exam was administered, using the new pattern. The Consortium of National Law Universities has released the CLAT answer keys on the official website. The Consortium will also allow the aspirants to raise objections against the provisional CLAT answer keys. The details of raising objections including formats and uploading relevant supporting documents have been mentioned in the official website. After considering the objections raised by the aspirants, the consortium will release the final CLAT answer key 2020 on October 3 and the results on October 5. CLAT result will mention details of the scores of the candidates. The CLAT 2020 result will decide the candidates’ eligibility for admission to the undergraduate and postgraduate law colleges in the state. Common Law Admission Test is a centralised national level entrance test for admissions to twenty two National Law Universities in India. Most private and self-financed law schools in India also use these scores for law admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/85-take-clat-in-city-amid-strict-covid-norms/articleshow/78371880.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||More recoveries on 4th day in a row; 5 die during treatment||Amravati: For the fourth successive day, the graph of new cases reported a downward trend as against that of recovered cases. Though it is not immediately clear whether this is happening due to an alleged fall in number of tests or due to fall in number of positive cases, it has given hope to residents of the district. The district reported 204 new cases as against 275 recoveries on Monday. The caseload reached 12,887 while 10,308 have been discharged, for a recovery rate of 80%. The doubling rate of the district is 38.3 days, according to a report released by civil surgeon office here. The report also said that five persons including a woman died during treatment on Monday, taking the toll to 279. The report put the case fatality rate of the district at 2. There are 2,300 active cases, including 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 1,030 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-recoveries-on-4th-day-in-a-row-5-die-during-treatment/articleshow/78369800.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Six months’ extension for Pune airport pre-paid auto stand||PUNE: The Pune airport authorities have granted six months’ extension to the pre-paid autorickshaw stand at the airport. The airport authorities have approached the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) again for a space near the airport for setting up an autorickshaw stand, airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. “As far as the pre-paid autorickshaw stand is concerned, we have given a six months’ extension. In addition, we are also trying to find a suitable place for the autorickshaw stand in coordination with the PMC,” he said. Earlier this month, the pre-paid stand was discontinued by the airport authorities after their agreement — extended on two occasions since March — expired. The closure of the stand affected flyers and 180 autorickshaw drivers. Airport sources said that the shifting of the prepaid autorickshaw stand and the international cargo terminal has to be done soon to make way for the new terminal building, which is being constructed. “It is coming up adjacent to the existing terminal building towards the western side. The plan includes connecting both the buildings for which the international cargo export facility and the pre-paid autorickshaw stand need to be shifted,” the source said. The new terminal building of the airport will be ready for operation from December next year. There was talk of shifting the cargo facility to a new spot early last year as the location of the existing building was a hindrance to the construction of the new terminal building. The facility was to be shifted around 300 metres away to an empty plot belonging to the Indian Air Force. However, the issue has not been resolved. Sources said that the transfer of the IAF land was awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-months-extension-for-airport-pre-paid-auto-stand/articleshow/78373617.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 29, 2020||Trichy||IIM-T starts first batch of supply chain management course||TRICHY: Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy started the first batch of post graduate certificate programme in supply chain management (PGCSCM) on Monday. The one-year programme will be offered in device-to-device mode and covers a focused set of relevant and contemporary topics in supply chain management. Further, it is designed to enhance the capabilities of supply chain professionals to achieve performance excellence. The strategic human resource management for executives is designed to help participants understand how to operationalise and strategically align different functional dimensions of human resource management to organizational objectives. Chief guest of the event, Rakesh Sinha, who is founder and CEO of Reflexive Supply Chain Solutions stressed on the need for a practical approach while talking about supply chain problems. He highlighted important aspects, such as the focus on consumers, striking the right compromise using optimization models and combining customer needs while making decisions and questioning the assumptions behind mathematical models. Senior director and head of operations, Maersk Line, Vikas Vij emphasized on building resilience and redundancy in supply chains, the need for flexibility and matching supply with demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-t-starts-first-batch-of-supply-chain-mgmt-course/articleshow/78373623.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Goa||AAP files plaint against pvt bus operators in Vasco||Vasco: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has filed a complaint with the assistant director of transport against bus operators plying between Sada and Vasco for their the alleged high handedness. Parshuram Sonurlekar from Sada, a member of AAP’s state unit, alleged that the bus operators were cutting short routes and not dropping passengers to the last stop, besides charging 50% more than the fixed ticket fare. “Buses starting from MPT colony and Bogda in Sada are supposed to ply right up to the KTC bus stand in Vasco. However, they make the last halt in the heart of the port town. Passengers wanting to travel outside Vasco are then forced to either walk about 1.5km or catch another bus to get to the KTC bus stand,” Sonurlekar said, adding, “Ever since the lockdown was lifted, these buses only go up to Vasco town and then return to Sada and the conductors are charging Rs 15 instead of Rs 10.” Sonurlekar demanded immediate action against the bus operators and has also threatened to take up the matter with higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-files-plaint-against-pvt-bus-operators-in-vasco/articleshow/78373717.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Strict norms result in fewer takers for RTE seats this yr||Trichy: The number of applications received for RTE seats this year in Tamil Nadu is less than the seats available across schools which is likely to leave many RTE seats vacant this year. The lesser numbers have been blamed on strict enforcement of norms this year, like the one-kilometre distance of the applicant’s residence from the school of choice. Children who are born between May 30, 2016 and July 31, 2017 only are allowed to apply for the enter-level RTE seats this year. This has effectively ruled out many from applying. “Some of the children lost the opportunity to apply for RTE seat for being born only a few days before or after the date mentioned in the RTE application,” said K Rafiullah, correspondent of S R nursery and primary school in Trichy. S Kathirvel of Karumandapam could not apply in a popular private school in his locality as the google map showed his house a little more than a km from his residence. “The online portal did not accept the application showing the residential address more than a km from the selected school,” he said. In Trichy district, it is for the first time in the last four years that the number of applications received is less than the total number of RTE seats in schools. A total of 3,216 applications were received against 4,183 RTE seats available till the last date of September 25. Officials say the state government too is not keen on encouraging RTE admissions as it has to reimburse the tuition fee to schools for these seats. This year, CBSE schools were kept off the centralised process for RTE admission of the state government. Many CBSE schools have allegedly discouraged applications from parents as they are worried about reimbursement from the state and Centre. “If more number of seats remain vacant at the end of the admission process, we may ask the state government to allow more applications to fill the seats,” said A Karuppasamy, Director of Matriculation Schools, Chennai. “We have been witnessing less takers for RTE applications in some private schools in rural areas where government or government aided schools are popular. While these seats remain vacant, popular private schools in cities receive RTE applications in hundreds though there may be only a few RTE seats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/strict-norms-result-in-fewer-takers-for-rte-seats-this-yr/articleshow/78373619.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Smoke alert on container ship bound for Kolkata||Kolkata: Smoke escaping from a container on board a Kolkata-bound ship led to panic near the Sandheads early on Monday. While the Coast Guard has dispatched three ships to the spot and carried out an equal number of aircraft sorties till last available light, the Kolkata port has placed a tug at the Haldia Dock Complex that could reach the spot in a short time and help move the vessel. Till last reports came in, some smoke could still be seen though ‘boundary cooling’ was started by the ship’s captain. The X-Press Godavari is a Malta-flag vessel that was on its way to Kolkata from Port Klang in Malaysia with 506 containers. According to a source, the ship anchored at the Sandheads, awaiting a call from the port and a pilot. In the morning, the captain alerted SPMPT about dense smoke from a container. There was also some kind of gas being released, the captain reported. “We alerted the Coast Guard. The tug was placed at HDC,” a Kolkata port official said. A Coast Guard source said the container may carry acid used in batteries. “We diverted two ships that reached in two hours. A third ship was sent from Paradip,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/smoke-alert-on-container-ship-bound-for-kolkata/articleshow/78373692.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Agencies seek Friday-Sunday Sealdah flyover closure for East-West Metro tunnelling||KOLKATA: Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency for East-West Metro, has proposed to the state government to close Sealdah flyover from 6am on Friday till 6am on Monday to facilitate construction of the underground tunnel. The agencies inspected the flyover on Monday to chalk out traffic plans when the flyover remains closed and the extent of strengthening measures needed to ensure safety of the structure. The inspection team included Kolkata Police traffic brass, KMRC and KMDA engineers, contractors ITD ITD-Cementation and designers from Stup Consultants. Tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urvi, which is digging the east-bound tunnel for the corridor, will cross the portion below flyover to reach its destination — Sealdah station. This is the last-leg of 2.45km of the East-West Metro tunnelling between Esplanade and Sealdah station. “We are working on the proposal to close the flyover,” DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar said. “There will be 24-hour monitoring before and after the TBM passes the flyover to look out for the slightest of ground settlement,” a KMRC official said. Monday’s inspection was also to gauge the extent of strengthening measures that will be needed to ensure safety of the structure while the 450tonne TBM digs below the ground. Traffic movement along Brabourne Road flyover was closed twice for three days in July and August 2017, during the first phase of East-West Metro tunnelling between Howrah Maidan and Esplanade. Against the 40m depth of tunnels then, this time the TBM will be digging just 10m below the surface, matching the corridor’s depth with Sealdah station. More precautions will be needed this time because the machine will be cutting across the flyover base, covering 25m to reach Sealdah station. The area will witness multiple diversions as well as parking restrictions when the flyover closure date is finalized. “KMDA has started informing traders who sit below the flyover about the temporary shutdown of the market. Public transporters are also being informed. Unlike August last year, when we partially closed the bridge for KMDA’s health audit, the preparation time now is short,” a police official said. The cops may stick to last year’s diversion plans. “With very few trains operating from Sealdah station and less buses on the road, it will be like a longish weekend if the flyover is closed from Friday,” the officer said. Sources said the market association had requested cops not to shut them down during the weekend leading to Durga Puja. “We have explained to them the importance of this decision,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/agencies-seek-fri-sun-sealdah-flyover-closure-for-e-w-tunnelling/articleshow/78371916.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: TOI webinar discusses challenges and success stories during the pandemic||PUNE: The second edition of the RWA Neighbourhood Webinar, organized virtually by TOI on Sunday, took a look at how educational institutions have risen to the challenge posed by the pandemic in the past six months. On the panel were Prafulla Pawar, registrar of Savitribai Phule Pune University, and The HDFC School principal Amruta Prabhu. The panelists touched upon a range of topics related to education and the impact of Covid-19. Pawar said nobody had anticipated the effect of the pandemic. “It was interesting to see how the entire education system adapted to the change and has moved ahead successfully. Although Covid-19 is a pandemic, it has come as an opportunity for many and has done some irreversible changes for good,” Pawar said. Prabhu said this was a learning experience for both students and educators. “There were hurdles, but we took them in our stride. The education sector and schools across the globe saw how parents have cooperated to make children sit in front of screen for their lessons,” said Prabhu. A participant, Nisha Monteiro from Sunshree Kangan housing society at on NIBM Road, brought up challenges that lay ahead. “Six months have passed and soon, it will be the end of this academic year and we still do not know how long this situation will last. Has the government thought of this?,” she said. Prabhu, in response, said the onus was on schools to ensure students are not at a disadvantage. “Schools need to make efforts to reach out to the lowest strata of society. WhatsApp groups are formed for teachers to material and other teaching resources to make education accessible to every child,” she said. Saurav Bhowmik from Nirmal Township, whose daughter is in Class X, raised a query about board exams in 2021. “It is likely that the exams will be pushed forward at least by a couple of months if the situation persists and as a result, students appearing for board exams may also get at least two months of classroom teaching,” Prabhu said. The discussion then moved to curriculum — Prabhu said educational boards have sent alternative plans for the academic year, where they have listed out chapters or topics that could be taken up as a project, role-play or viva without written assessment. Mayur Rathi from Indramani housing society, Wadgaon Sheri, raised the issue of school fees and charges for facilities that are not currently being used. “Schools have housekeeping, transport and other staff on the payroll and it is the management’s moral duty to pay their salaries. Many schools are unable to pay full salaries in this situation,” Prabhu said. Quotes Parents are always the first teachers. Many parents have the additional pressure of working from home and monitoring their child. This does not mean parents need to be too rigid or strict — children are not able to move out, interact with friends and that is why parents need to be like friends. What we do not want is to tarnish the emotional well being of the children Amruta Prabhu | principal, the hdfc school The SPPU conducted a survey which showed that nearly 2.2 lakh students opted for online exams and only about 25,000 opted for offline exams, for which we have 110 centres. We will have 10-15 students in a block, six feet apart, sanitize the exam centre premises and follow the health guidelines set by ICMR Prafulla Pawar | registrar, sppu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toi-webinar-discusses-challenges-and-success-stories-during-the-pandemic/articleshow/78373629.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolhapur||2 women held for blackmailing doctor, trying to extort Rs 60 lakh||Kolhapur: Shahupuri police in Satara arrested two women on Saturday for allegedly blackmailing a doctor and attempting to extort Rs 60 lakh from him. A minor girl, who accompanied the women when they were accepting the cash from the doctor, has also been detained. The accused, Poonam Patil and Prachi Gaikwad, have been booked under sections 384 (extortion) and 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the IPC. Both of them were produced before a court which remanded them in police custody for four days. Police have seized cash and ornaments, all totalling to Rs 12 lakh, from the residences of the two women. Police have also confiscated both their cellphones. Police said that the two women approached the doctor around six months ago under the pretext of medical checkup and befriended him. Both of them also took the doctor’s cell phone number and started chatting on WhatsApp. Later, both the women expressed their feelings for the doctor following which he started chatting with them more freely. Preliminary investigation reveals that the women had taken screenshots of their conversation with the doctor. A few days ago, both the women demanded Rs 12 lakh from the doctor. Thinking that they might be in dire need of money, the doctor gave away the amount sought. Later, both the women sought Rs 48 lakh and threatened to make their conversations with the doctor on phone viral. The doctor approached police and lodged a formal complaint when the women started calling him and demanding the money. Police asked the doctor to call the women at a specific spot with the promise of giving them the amount sought. A police team, comprising women personnel, caught the two women red-handed when they were accepting the cash from the doctor. Police are investigating whether the women have used the same modus operandi to cheat more men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-women-held-for-blackmailing-doctor-trying-to-extort-rs-60-lakh/articleshow/78370723.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Vadodara||Court junks bail plea of Bharuch biz man for Rs 71Cr GST fraud||Vadodara: A Bharuch-based businessman who was arrested for evading goods and service tax (GST) amounting to Rs 71 crore was once again denied bail by a court here.The accused Dilip Jain had applied for bail on September 8 since the investigating officer had filed the chargesheet against him. Jain also told the court that he had not evaded any tax, yet he was arrested by GST department. In response to Jain’s bail application, district government pleader, Anil Desai, argued that Jain is the key person who had evaded the tax so there is likelihood that he may tamper with evidence and influence the witnesses. The court of additional sessions judge, P T Patel, upheld Desai’s arguments and turned down Jain’s bail application.Jain was denied bail in July too in the same case. After his arrest in GST scam, Jain was arrested by the state CID (crime) too for misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 446 crore. He was booked for cheating, criminal conspiracy and under sections of Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act and Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-junks-bail-plea-of-bharuch-biz-man-for-rs-71cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/78371905.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Trichy||AI Express flights from Singapore extended||Trichy: Air India Express has extended Vande Bharat flights daily from Singapore to Trichy and will continue to operate from October 1 to 24. So far 56 flights have been operated to Singapore from Trichy during the lockdown. Once the winter schedule is announced, the service would be further be extended beyond October 24, sources said. Air India Express flight IX1682 will leave Trichy international airport at 11.05am and reach Singapore at 6pm. In return, the flight IX1681 will depart at 7pm from Singapore and arrive at Trichy airport at 8.45pm, airport sources said. Since May 7, after the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) gave its nod to operate flights, 36,258 Indians stranded in various countries have been brought back to Trichy. Various airlines including Air India Express and foreign carriers have so far operated 225 flights till September 27. Air India Express operated more flights to Singapore from Trichy compared to other countries like Kuala Lumpur, Kuwait, Dubai, Sharjah, Muscat and Abu Dhabi. So far 9,752 have arrived in Trichy by Air India Express. It is to be noted that Trichy-Singapore is the only sector where Air India Express is operating Vande Bharat flights daily basis compared to other airports in the country, airport sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ai-express-flights-from-singapore-extended/articleshow/78373625.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops look for two doctors in molestation case||PUNE: The management of the CoEP jumbo Covid-19 facility has not yet provided full details to the Shivajinagar police about the two doctors against whom a woman doctor lodged an FIR on Sunday alleging molestation. The doctors ran away from the facility after the woman had raised her voice and declared that she was lodging a police complaint. Police inspector Manisha Zende, who is investigating the case, said one of the doctors is staying in Kalyan and the other in Mumbai. “Our teams will visit these places once we get their exact details. can act fast once we get the details,” she added. A senior police officer told TOI that one of the two doctors is from Madhya Pradesh. It is suspected that the two doctors have fled there. The woman doctor stated in her complaint that the two doctors touched her inappropriately and also demanded sexual favours from her. The incident took place in the doctor’s room of the facility in between September 21 and 25, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-look-for-docs-in-molestation-case/articleshow/78373621.cms||---
September 29, 2020||India||Govt clears military acquisitions worth Rs 2290 cr, including 72K more assault rifles from US||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry on Monday approved arms acquisitions worth another Rs 2,290 crore, including procurement of 72,000 more assault rifles from the US, amid the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh with China. The Rajnath Singh-led Defence Acquisitions Council (DAC) cleared the Rs 780 crore acquisition of assault rifles from US firm SiG Sauer. The 13-lakh strong Army has already inducted 72,400 SiG Sauer rifles, which are 7.62x51 mm caliber guns with an effective “kill” range of 500-metres, under a Rs 647 crore fast-track procurement (FTP) deal inked in February last year. The DAC on Monday also gave the nod for the indigenous procurements of smart anti-airfield weapons for Rs 970 crore and static HF trans-receiver sets for Rs 540 crore. TOI had in July reported the Army was planning to order a second lot of 72,000 SiG Sauer rifles for front-line troops due to the continuing delay in the project to manufacture Russian AK-203 Kalashnikov rifles in India. India had in March this year also inked a Rs 880 crore deal to acquire 16,479 Israeli Negev 7.62x51 mm light machine guns (LMGs) for its front-line troops deployed on the borders with China and Pakistan. But the limited number of new assault rifles and LMGs will only meet partial requirements of the armed forces. The bulk of Army soldiers are slated to get 7.62x39 mm caliber AK-203 Kalashnikov rifles, with an effective range of 300-metres, to supplement the limited number of the more advanced US-origin rifles with a longer kill range. But the much-touted ‘Make in India’ project to manufacture 6.71 lakh AK-203 rifles at Korwa ordnance factory in Amethi district of Uttar Pradesh is yet to take off due to cost issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-clears-military-acquisitions-worth-rs-2290-cr-including-72k-more-assault-rifles-from-us/articleshow/78375309.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Share order on no fee hike with schools: Calcutta high court||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Monday directed that the July 20 state government circular, advising schools not to hike fees for the 2020-21 academic session, along with other measures, be shared with all schools. Some schools cited this order during the school fee PIL hearing, suggesting all schools can implement these. The state directive asked schools not to charge any fee for services like transport, library, computer lab, sports, extra and co-curricular activities and not to deny students from attending online classes. The HC said that the circular should be shared with all the schools that have filed affidavits in the case and joined as parties, since they might not be aware of the circular. A total of 145 schools have joined as parties in the case. Loreto Convent School, Elliot Road, submitted on Monday that the administration and the teaching-learning process Anglo-Indian schools are governed by a code. In the past, 11 schools run by the Church of North India had appealed that they be heard separately as they were unaided minority institutions. The order said several other schools submitted that the “broad-based consensus” that had emerged during the previous hearings should be implemented. This referred to the three proposals — on how the concessions can be given — submitted to the court by different groups of schools. The schools can choose any one proposal, the court had said earlier. The PIL filed by Vineet Ruia pleaded for concession in school fees since many parents were going through a financial crisis due to the pandemic. A division bench of justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Moushumi Bhattacharya will hear the case again on September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/share-order-on-no-fee-hike-with-schools-cal-high-court/articleshow/78373642.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 29, 2020||Pune||Project aimed at providing cremation passes at private hospitals may be realized soon in Pune||PUNE: The civic project aimed at providing cremation passes at private hospitals may finally see the light of the day. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had first contemplated this project in 2018. The proposal gained focus again after the introduction of an online system for cremation pass allocation to the families of Covid-19 victims. At present, cremation passes are available at 19 centres, including nursing homes, crematoriums and a few civic as well as government hospitals. “Hospital administrations have been allowed access to the online system for filling up the details of the people succumbing to Covid-19. These details get transferred to the PMC records. The official concerned can access the information of the deceased patients online,” said Shriniwas Kandul, chief engineer of PMC. Civic officials said as per the current process of pass allocation, the details of the deceased, such as name, date of admission, date of demise and cause of death, are recorded in the hospital. These details are mentioned in the forms handed over to the relatives of the patients. These forms are submitted to the centres where the passes are issued. The relatives get the pass and take the body for cremation or burial. Kalpana Baliwant, a senior official of PMC’s health department, said the submission of physical documents pertaining to the death and patient’s health were a must for maintaining records at the birth and death record department. “These details need to be shared with various authorities, which brought in focus the proposal of issuing crematorium passes at the private hospital. It could not be started as the private hospitals did not come forward to accept the responsibility. However the proposal can be revisited in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. According to PMC data, around 80 hospitals can be roped in to issue cremation passes at their counters, for which their consent is a must.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/project-making-crematorium-passes-available-at-private-hospitals-may-be-realized-soon/articleshow/78373675.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Four locations on Delhi’s fringes emerge as Covid-19 hotspots||NEW DELHI: Five days ago, Delhi saw the number of Covid containment zones go beyond the 2,000 mark. But with corona cases rising and district authorities creating micro containment zones to arrest the spread of infection, red zones numbered 2,505 on Tuesday. Many Covid-19 hotspots have also newly emerged. The most containment zones are concentrated in four locations on the north, northwest and southwest fringes of the capital in Najafgarh, Rohini, Dwarka and Burari. Of the 2,505 containment zones, 448 are in South-West district. Not surprisingly, the two localities with the most containment zones – Najafgarh and Dwarka – fall in this district. Though both regions are far-flung, the actual sealed areas are concentrated in a few pockets in Najafgarh and some adjacent sectors in Dwarka, as is the case in Rohini. Located close to the Delhi-Haryana border, Najafgarh has a mix of rural and urban areas and though the locality is spread over a huge area, most of its 73 containment zones lie in congested localities close to each other, including Dharampura, which has 20 red zones, and the neighbouring Prem Nagar (10), Gopal Nagar (9) and Roshanpura (8). Similarly, while Dwarka’s expanse covers a huge area, most of the 43 containment zones are located in a few sectors, 3, 4, 5, 7, 13, 14, 16 and 18, which have four to five red zones each, apart from two to three restricted areas in other sectors, apart from one in Bindapur. Rohini, which has the second highest number of containment zones – 69 – is spread across the two revenue districts of North and North-West. The largest number of containment zones in Rohini – 10 - is in Sector 16, followed by nearby sectors 17 and 18, both of which have five red zones each. Another cluster of containment zones in Rohini is in Sector 7 with nine sealed areas and five in Sector 8. Sectors 21 to 24 have another 17 containment zones. Burari in Central district has 35 red zones and most of these are in areas like Sant Nagar (9), Baba Colony (6), Kamalpur (4) and Pradhan Enclave (4), apart from other neighbourhoods. “Though there are no radically different strategies adopted for the different Covid-19 hotspots, we are definitely focusing intensely on these areas with big case loads,” said a district official. “The maximum number of tests are taking place in these hotspots and these areas are also being put to the most aggressive enforcement.” The official carried on, “We are implanting strict enforcement drives in the hotspots and most of the challans issued in the last few days are from these areas. We are ensuring that not a single person is found without a face mask in public in these areas or violating other Covid safety norms. Also, aggressive testing is being carried out at hotspots and unlike last month, these are not limited to those who are symptomatic or those with comorbidities. Covid tests are being conducted on almost everyone residing or coming to work in the hotspots.” Behind South-West is South district in the number of containment zones. It has 273, an increase of 41% from just five days ago when it had 193 sealed areas. The hotspots in this district include Dakshinpuri, Chattarpur, Mehrauli, Sangam Vihar, Lado Sarai and Khanpur. The nearby areas of Greater Kailash, East of Kailash and Kailash Colony have a total of 15 containment zones. Another district that has seen a substantial jump in the number of red zones is New Delhi, where the figure has gone up from 164 to 229, an almost 40% increase. The areas with the highest number of containment zones in New Delhi are Vasant Kunj (18) and RK Puram (17). Janakpuri, which falls partially in New Delhi district apart from South-West district, has 29 red zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-locations-on-citys-fringes-emerge-as-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/78395855.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 29, 2020||Trichy||32-year-old man booked for raping minor, abetting her suicide in Pudukottai||TRICHY: A 32-year-old man was booked on Monday for abetting the suicide of a 12-year-old girl, who he had sexually assaulted several times in Pudukottai district. The accused, S Ganesan, was having an extra-marital affair with the victim’s mother, who is separated from her husband, and used to frequent her place. According to police, Ganesan bought juice mixed with sleeping pills for the victim and her mother on Saturday night. After they both fell asleep, Ganesan raped the 12-year-old. While he left the house around midnight, the girl was found hanging from the ceiling on Sunday morning. Based on a complaint from the victim’s grandfather, Ganesh Nagar police registered a case and sent the body for postmortem. According to police, Ganesan was arrested after he confessed to the crime. He has been booked under section 305 (abetment of suicide), 328 (causing hurt) and section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) under Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/32-year-old-man-booked-for-raping-minor-abetting-her-suicide-in-pudukottai/articleshow/78373672.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||CP ‘handpicks’ robust crime branch team||Nagpur: In a first, police commissioner (CP) Amitesh Kumar has been toiling at police gymkhana to pick the constabulary for filling the vacant posts in the crime branch after shunting out some old faces and controversial ones. He has also sent out a message to the officers of crime branch regarding zero-tolerance policy towards criminal activities, especially to target the 'big fish' and go cracking against them. The CP, after referring to the service records of the constabularies, is learnt to be posting them at crime branch 'on-the-spot' if someone fits his expectations. Having started the process last week with general transfers to the police stations, Kumar continued the exercise more meticulously with the crime branch, which he now wanted to unleash against the goons, organized syndicates and illegal activities. Earlier, the transfers were conducted by a three-member committee of top officers aided by the clerical staffers. Kumar has put an end to the traditional method with his personal involvement. CP said the crime branch unit was made a permanent choice posting by some cops, but now under his regime, “impeccable credentials, adequate physical and mental tenacity and knowledge about criminals” would be some of the key criteria. "Crime branch entails 24×7×365-day jobs and one must have the capacity to fulfil that, apart from sufficient knowledge about criminals," said Kumar, stating that nefarious rackets must cease to exist as much as possible. Sources from crime branch said Kumar had also taken a meeting of the squad and unit incharges, where he had sternly warned against slackness and failure to curb crime. "CP has told the inspectors to perform, instead of just occupying their places," said a source. While the home department is engaged in posting senior officers in Nagpur, Kumar is busy strengthening the base with adequate and deserving manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-handpicks-robust-crime-branch-team/articleshow/78374479.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Lack of water at MSRTC depot raises concerns||Aurangabad: A video depicting lack of water supply at bus repair depot of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation at Chikhalthana has raised concerns over the hygiene at the facility amid the prevailing pandemic. The technicians and mechanics of the depot can be seen in the video washing hands with water kept in bottles. The technicians can be heard saying that water is neither available for drinking nor in the washrooms. Another staffer from depot said the video was recorded on Sunday during night shift and was posted in an internal group of MSRTC staffers. It was soon widely circulated. In the video, one of the staffers can be heard saying that they don’t have water even to wash their hands before having dinner. “The scenario is such that before lunch and dinner, we wash hands with just two litres of water that we carry ourselves,” said another staffer, seeking anonymity. The staffers without mincing words can also be heard expressing their anger against the administration responsible for providing basic facilities at the depot, which is one of the largest in the region. The depot would daily repair over 100 MSRTC busses before the pandemic. The depot has a staff of 65 people. When contacted, depot manager Amol Bhusari said, “I am unwell and not aware of the problem. I will definitely look into the issue and address it.” However, staff from the depot contradicted Bhusari’s claim. “The depot manager is well aware of the water crisis we have been facing for quite a while, but nothing has been done to address the issue.” MSRTC’s premises in Chikalthana area is divided into workshop and depot. The water is supplied to depot from the workshop, which gets closed at 5 pm. On majority of the occasions, depot goes without water. The staffers have demanded an independent water connection to the depot, so that the water needs of the depot as well as of the staffers working there, are fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lack-of-water-at-msrtc-depot-raises-concerns/articleshow/78370748.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 29, 2020||Rajkot||Woman, paramour held for murder in Dwarka district||RAJKOT: A woman and her paramour were detained for the murder of her husband in Varvala village of Dwarka taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Monday. According to the police, the accused _ Punam Aswar and Aizaz Gajan _ had stoned Arwind Aswar (36) to death on Saturday night, as he was a hindrance to their relationship . “Punam and Gajan hit the head of Aswar with a stone, while the latter was asleep on a cot on the terrace of his house in Varvala village,” said Gajendrasinh Zala, sub-inspector with Dwarka Police Station. “Punam had already been on the radar of our suspicion from the beginning of the investigation. When we checked her cellphone, we found the number of Gajan. When we interrogated her, she confessed that she had called Gajan on the night of crime and both had killed Aswar,” said Zala. “Punam has two sons. We will be formally be arresting the accused once they undergo the Covid-19 test,” added Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-paramour-held-for-murder/articleshow/78370801.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kochi||Probe GAP Road widening: Report||IDUKKI: In his report to revenue principal secretary, Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan has stated that road-widening work on Gap Road stretch of Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway in Munnar cannot be resumed in the present condition. The report, accessed by TOI, called for a probe into lapses on the part of the contractor and national highway officials who undertook the ‘unscientific road-widening work that led to a series of landslides’ in the region. The report pointed out that the road is at an elevation of 5,000ft. “Earlier, the Gap Road was laid in an ecosafe manner and no landslides or mudslides were reported in the region. Government should verify whether NHAI had a specific plan and a dedicated agency before it laid the stretch. After road widening work was undertaken by NHAI, more than 15 landslides were reported on the single stretch,” the report further stated. The report also demanded that an inspection of the quarrying works carried out by contractor. The primary inspection found that the contractor conducted illegal quarrying in government’s purampoke land. An inspection needed about the illegal quarrying. If lapses are found, the government should take legal action against the contractor and officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/report-calls-for-probe-into-gap-road-widening-work/articleshow/78371951.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Government subsidy to encourage growing organic vegetables||TRICHY: The horticulture department has announced incentive to farmers to cultivate organic vegetables in the district. The incentive varies based on vegetables as farmers will get Rs 1,000 per acre for greens, Rs 1,500 per acre for tomato, brinjal, ladies finger, gourds, and broad beans and Rs 2,000 for cabbage, cauliflower, capsicum and beans. Farmers will be also given an additional Rs 200 per acre to meet certification charges, officials said. Currently vegetables - mostly brinjal, chilies, onion followed by tomato, gourds, and greens - are cultivated in the district on 25,000 acres. Provision has been given in the Uzhavan App for applying under the organic farming subsidy scheme. Interested farmers can also contact the concerned block or district level officials to avail assistance by submitting document certifying that the vegetables are organic, officials said. The state government has allotted Rs 7 lakh for 452 acres in Trichy district under the National Horticulture Mission through the department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops, C Vimala, deputy director of the horticulture department told TOI. This apart, the government is also providing cash incentives to farmers for the cultivation of off-season vegetables and will be given Rs 1,000 per acre so that the vegetables are available throughout the year to stabilize prices. They can avail the benefit by furnishing the details of seed or planting material bills of vegetable crops and particulars of a copy of land along with the field photo. Provision has also been given in the Uzhavan App for applying assistance under this scheme, officials added. District collector S Sivarasu has appealed to farmers in the district to avail the subsidy and increase the area of cultivation of organic vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-subsidy-to-encourage-growing-organic-vegetables/articleshow/78373637.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Let-us-fly prayer on lips ahead of Puja season||Kolkata: The travel trade fraternity has written to the state government, requesting lifting of curbs on flights from October 1 in view of the festive season. Travel to and from Kolkata usually sees a spurt around Durga Puja and Diwali. With barely two days left in September, there is still no clarity on flights from six cities that currently operate only three days a week. “With the festive season approaching, there is a lot of demand for travel to and from Kolkata. While Kolkatans who live in other cities want to travel to the city, others want to travel out of the city,” Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni told TOI. Sources said Kolkata airport authorities had spoken to the state on the issue following queries on social media from travellers intending to travel in October and had been told that there was no plan to lift the curbs just yet. The authorities have also written to the ministry of civil aviation and hope officials will take up the issue with the state government. “As of now, we will continue with the ongoing restrictions with flights from the six cities allowed to operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Unless there is a communication from the government, there won’t be any changes,” the official said. Travel agents are hoping the state will relax the norms keeping the festive season in mind. “International flights are starting. Various sectors are opening up. The state has announced that theatres will be allowed to function. We must be positive about flights. They will bring in business and travellers that the state needs to get the economy going,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Airlines hope the government clarifies its stand soon to prevent inconvenience to travellers. “If the government decides to persist with the curbs, it needs to announce soon so that passengers can be accommodated accordingly. Otherwise, it may be too late,” said an airline official. Despite the curbs on international and domestic flights, over 10 lakh people have either flown into Kolkata or taken flights out of the city since services resumed on May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/let-us-fly-prayer-on-lips-ahead-of-puja-season/articleshow/78371997.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Reserved category seat vacancies pose new challenge for colleges||KOLKATA: The vacant seats in the reserved categories for undergraduate courses have thrown up a new challenge for colleges. The bulk of reserved category seats are lying vacant in many institutions, making college authorities anxious as they are racing against time to complete the admission process. In some colleges, these make up more than one-third of the total number of seats. Several colleges have been posting regularly on their websites about vacancies in reserved category seats, but the response has been lukewarm. “Even after publishing 17 merit lists and one repeat list, there are several vacancies in the reserved categories. We have been regularly informing the candidates through our college’s website,” said an official of Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College in Sovabazar, where 12 seats are vacant in English (honours) in the scheduled caste category, 14 in BCom honours in OBC A category and 14 in physics honours in the SC category. At Shyamaprasad College, 203 reserved category seats in BCom (honours) were vacant till Monday evening. The number was 30 in geography (honours). “We have again invited those candidates who had applied, but did not take admission,” said an official of the college. In St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College, Umesh Chandra College and Asutosh College, too, there are seats in reserved categories that are lying vacant. “We have issued notifications for the vacant seats in the reserved categories several times,” said a college official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reserved-category-seat-vacancies-pose-new-challenge-for-colleges/articleshow/78373626.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||In Covid-yug, Aishbagh Ramlila to be performed online without live audience||Lucknow: The centuries-old Ramlila staged at Aishbagh Ramlila ground will be broadcast online via social media platforms without audience this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. For the first time in its history, the Ramlila till now staged by around 300 artists from different states will be staged by a few local theatre artists in the presence of only 50 members of Shri Ramlila Samiti, Aishbagh. “It is not the first time that we are broadcasting the Ramlila live on our website or on YouTube. But it is for the first time that we will be missing the crowd cheering the actors and the lively ambience. Every year, we try to bring something new for the audience—flying Hanuman or changing forms of Meghnath. Unfortunately, we will not be organising the Ramlila like previous years, but we will continue with the tradition of making it a larger-than-life event for the audience at home,” said Harish Chandra Aagarwal, president of the committee. Solo dance recitals, the birth of Lord Ram, his ‘Rajyabhishek’, the values taught by him and his importance—all will be presented inside the committee’s Tulsi Hall and shown to the audience online. The procession of ‘Bharat Milaap’ will not be taken out. The ‘samiti’ has also planned to hold the customary rituals of ‘puja’, ‘kalash sthapna’. Speaking about its history, secretary of the committee Aditya Dwivedi said, “In the 16th century, Tulsidas used to come here with several sadhus to spend chaumasa (the four months of monsoon). During those times, Ramlila was performed by sadhus. Though Tulsidas translated Valmiki’s ‘Ramayana’ into Awadhi, only a few people could understand it. So, Ramlila was started by him and other sages for the audience. It has been going on since then.” It is believed by the members that the staging of Ramlila was once hindered during a widespread plague in 1902-03.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-covid-yug-aishbagh-ramlila-to-be-performed-online-without-live-audience/articleshow/78374491.cms||Aditi Singh
September 29, 2020||Aurangabad||ACPs told to spend 2 hours at Aurangabad police stns every day||Aurangabad: Police commissioner Nikhil Gupta, in order to ensure transparency in the day-to-day affairs at the police station level and basic policing is carried out in letter and in spirit, has issued directives to all the assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) to mandatorily visit one police station every day and spend at least two hours over there.“We have asked the ACPs to mandatorily visit one police station in their respective jurisdictions daily and spend at least two hours there. Also, to be doubly sure about the effectiveness of the ACPs’ visits to the police stations, deputy commissioners have been asked to pay visit to the police stations in their respective jurisdictions as frequently as possible,” Gupta said.The directives are a shift from the existing policy of ACPs and DCPs visiting the police stations only whenever there is a law and order situation, for inspection of police stations or for supervision and handling of sensitive cases. As per the directives, the ACPs should visit at least one police station in their respective jurisdictions and camp there for at least a couple of hours each day. “Moreover, it will address the issue of pendency of cases as well as applications at the police station level, resulting in to speedy justice to the victims. Even policemen facing administrative issues may speak to the seniors during their visit to police station,” Gupta said.City police chief is said to have issued directives, after he noticed serious issues at the police station level. Gupta has also asked the police station chiefs to ensure that no innocent person gets framed in a false case or faces harassment.Aurangabad city comprising 17 police stations, is divided in to two zones, each headed by deputy commissioner of police rank officers. Zone-I has eight police stations, while Zone-II has nine police stations. These zones are further divided in to two divisions each, headed by ACP rank officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/acps-told-to-spend-2-hours-at-aurangabad-police-stns-every-day/articleshow/78370804.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 29, 2020||Trichy||Forest dept awaits govt nod to reopen butterfly conservatory||Trichy: The tropical butterfly conservatory Trichy (TBCT) is likely to be reopened soon as the forest officials in Trichy have sent a detailed report to the state government seeking permission to open it for the public.TBCT, where over 114 butterfly species have been spotted so far, has remained closed since the lockdown and there has been popular demand in Trichy to reopen the conservatory after lockdown norms were eased recently. Located on the Upper Anaicut reserve forest at about 3.5 km from Srirangam, over 10 lakh people have visited TBCT since its inception in November 2015. The number of daily visitors kept swelling over the years with an average of 3,000 visitors per day and saw footfall of at least 5,000 people on weekends.As the Covid-19 lockdown was eased recently, there have been instances of visitors coming to TBCT and returning disappointed after finding it closed.“TBCT is one among the very few spots in the city with such greenery and space. When everything else has been opened up, we expect it to reopen too,” said S Dinesh Kumar, who came on a ride to TBCT with friends assuming it to be open on Sunday.We have sent a report to the state government detailing the standard operating procedure to be adopted if allowed to operate, said Trichy district forest officer, D Sujatha.Amphitheatre and other places of gathering within TBCT will remain shut and staggered entry of visitors with 120 people per hour may be allowed considering safety of the visitors, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-dept-awaits-govt-nod-to-reopen-butterfly-conservatory/articleshow/78373691.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 29, 2020||Nagpur||90 doctors, health staffers resign in protest||YAVATMAL: Ninety doctors and health staffers from Yavatmal district submitted their resignation to zilla parishad CEO Dr Shreekrishna Panchal on Monday evening in protest after they were allegedly insulted and driven out by district collector M Devendar Singh. The Gazetted Medical Officers’ Sanghatana chief Dr Vijay Akolkar and other office-bearers on Monday had marched to the collector’s office to submit a memorandum of demands. The collector allegedly refused to entertain the delegates and sent them back without receiving their representation. He has also allegedly threatened of registering FIR against them in the city police station. Despite several attempts by TOI, the collector wasn’t reachable on phone. In a statement, the district information officer said that the administration has stood behind the health staffers and will work to solve their problems. In Yavatmal district, 23 doctors and 67 health workers have been infected by Covid-19 while one doctor lost died due to the disease. The sanghatana secretary Dr Sangarsha Rathod released a list of demands which include immediate transfer of the collector, reserving 50 beds in government Covid-19 hospitals for doctors, staffers and their families, sending back doctors and health staffers including lab technicians to their respective places of postings, revoking daily swab testing, one day weekly off, Rs50 lakh ex gratia assistance from district development fund to the wife of deceased doctor Khalid Baig. Union president Dr Vijay Akolkar told media they were doing Covid-19 duties irrespective of the poor facilities for last seven months. “Instead of appreciating our selfless work, the collector is insulting us even in the review meetings. We remained silent so far but our patience has given up. We decided to resign en bloc and submit our resignation to the CEO on Monday and stop working from Tuesday,” said working president Dr Ravindra Durge. He added that the collector even insulted the district health officer in front of others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/90-docs-health-staffers-resign-in-protest/articleshow/78374502.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar claims 1.5 lakh tests a day, but there’s a catch||PATNA: Bihar has claimed an astounding Covid testing record of 1.5 lakh samples a day – much more than most other states - by relying almost exclusively on rapid antigen tests (RAT) that don’t necessarily require full-fledged laboratories or trained technicians, but can be misleading in terms of throwing up false negatives. On September 21, testing peaked at 1.9 lakh in the state, a figure cited by CM Nitish Kumar while summarising how his government had scaled up its response to the pandemic. This is in sharp contrast to about a couple of months ago, when Bihar had the lowest testing rate among all states. The flip side of the health department data is that less than 7% of the samples are being tested using the gold-standard RT-PCR method to confirm an infection. TrueNat, another confirmatory method where the sample preparation is automated to give a faster result, accounts for even fewer tests. Bihar’s reliance on RAT comes at a time when the Union health ministry as well as the Indian Council of Medical Research have, in their guidelines to states, recommended RT-PCR tests as RAT is not accurate. According to the guidelines, all symptomatic negative cases of RAT should be compulsorily retested using the RT-PCR method. Recently, Delhi high court had directed the Arvind Kejriwal government to scale up RT-PCR tests in the national capital on priority saying RAT was only 60% accurate. However, Bihar government’s principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said that although less accurate than other testing methods, the convenience of RAT was hard to overlook given the size and spread of the state's population. “Be it an airport, marketplace or bus stand, the antigen test facility is available everywhere. If any person looks ill but has tested negative in RAT, the sample is sent for an RT-PCR test in a lab,” he told TOI. A RAT kit is meant for single use and the test takes a maximum of 30 minutes, including sample collection. On the availability of antigen kits in huge numbers, Amrit said, “We have a supply chain that is being monitored and maintained as required. Districts with a higher positivity rate than others are sent more kits. Barring one or two districts, the positivity rate has dipped below 5% at most places.” While RAT continues to be the Covid test of choice for Bihar, the health department has set itself a target of 20,000 RT-PCR tests a day. On Saturday, 13,500 samples were tested using the RT-PCR method and nearly 4,000 through TrueNat, the principal secretary said. “It is possible that a sample comes out negative for Covid in an antigen test despite the presence of the virus. Therein lies the danger,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior VP of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Bihar. T Sundararaman, former head of the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s National Health Systems Resource Centre, said, “A negative result of a patient with clinical symptoms should always be suspected to be false negative, in which case an RT-PCR test is mandatory. False negatives can be a major source of infection.” As on September 26, Bihar had 57 approved labs for Covid testing, according to the ICMR website. Health experts say ICMR-accredited labs are required mostly for RT-PCR tests. “Conducting tests on samples through RT-PCR method requires a laboratory, but tests using RAT kits can be done anywhere. Diploma-holder paramedical staff can be roped in or other personnel can be provided short stint of paramedical training to collect nasal/swab samples and conduct on-the-spot tests,” said Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, principal of Madhubani Medical College and a former president of IMA’s Bihar chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/catch-in-bihars-record-covid-testing-numbers/articleshow/78372055.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 29, 2020||Mysuru||Metal fence erected around Sri Chamundeshwari temple to check encroachment||Mysuru: In a bid to check illegal construction activity around the Sri Chamundeshwari temple, the forest department has erected a metal fence, which is aimed at preventing further intrusion into the wooded section in the temple’s vicinity. Several environmentalists and citizen outfits have been crying hoarse over the slew of development projects that the government has undertaken atop Chamundi Hills in order to bolster its potential as a tourist destination. Unauthorised construction atop the hills will further aggravate the situation for the wild animals, who have had their natural habitat shrink gradually over the years. Activists have been calling for targetted action to prevent depredations from being visited on the natural surroundings of Chamundi Hills, the ecological balance of which they say needs to be preserved for the wellbeing of all residents of Mysuru city. Umesh, a resident in of Chamundi Hills, said that there were more than 2,000 houses near the temple, eating into the buffer zone between the forests and human habitat. “Owing to the spike in the population atop the hill, people are building houses without obtaining permission from the forest department. The forests are shrinking and animals are venturing into human areas. Leopards are commonly sighted near our homes. They venture out to prey on our livestock and pets. The authorities need to act against illegal construction around the hills,” Umesh told TOI. Deputy conservator of forests (Mysuru division) KC Prashant Kumar said that a metal fence had been erected behind the temple atop the hill. “In addition to checking encroachment of forest land, it will keep wild animals such as pigs from entering the homes of the residents atop the hills,” Kumar said. President of the Chamundi Betta gram panchayat Geeta said that the forest department had erected a fence in order to preserve the remaining wooded area at Chamundi Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/metal-fence-erected-around-sri-chamundeshwari-temple-to-check-encroachment/articleshow/78371095.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Ancient temples remain in neglect for decades in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh’s long history is reflected in many of its ancient temples that are scattered throughout its geography. However, a significant number of those temples have been left in a state of apathy and ruins. According to E Sivanagi Reddy, archaeologist and CEO of Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati (CCVA), there are a number of temples across the state that are crying out for restoration. A case-in-point would be the Rupulamma Temple built between 649 to 673 AD. The temple is now buried up to the roof of the gopuram due to wastage let out by a local cement factory. Another temple at Eguvareddyvaripalli village of Chandragiri mandal in Chittoor district is now in an unidentifiable state. “The temple only has a dilapidated gopuram left with the sanctum sanctorum missing. Locals believe it was a Narasimha Swamy temple but we can’t be sure. However, there is an indication that this place is connected to the Lord Venkateswara Swamy temple in Tirumala as yagnas used to be conducted for the utsavar idols (festival deity) back in the 15th century AD,” Sivanagi Reddy told TOI. A majority of these temples are neither vandalized nor destroyed by external forces but left abandoned to its natural purgatory. The 13th century Shiva temple in Vallur, Kadapa district is another example of abandonment where thick green grass has grown out of the ruins. “In fact, right adjacent to the temple, we can see farmers tilling the land and cultivating their crops but none had even entered to check the place out for decades. The temple is in dire need of restoration. Architecture style shows that it was built by the Kayasthas during that time,” Reddy added. The CCVA conducted ‘Preserve Heritage for Posterity’ campaign where awareness is being created for neglected ancient temples, sculptures and heritage sites. Other neglected temples of significance surveyed across AP include the dismantled Panchamattas temple at Srisailam, Dwikuta Temple in Tangeda and collapsed Shiva temple at Kolluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ancient-temples-remain-in-neglect-for-decades/articleshow/78370817.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 29, 2020||Mysuru||Bandh partial, peaceful across Old Mysore region||Mysuru: The Karnataka bandh passed off peacefully in Mysuru region on Monday even as it hit normal life as farmers and other organisations coupled with Congress and JD(S) activists led the agitation. Owing to elaborate security arrangements to maintain peace by police, the protests across the region were peaceful. Police took into preventive custody the agitators, who included legislators and other elected representatives. Even though commercial establishments were open, people’s movement was less, forcing KSRTC to withdraw its schedule. In all the districts, normalcy returned in the afternoon. In Mysuru, over 40 organisations participated in the protest. As part of the bandh call, the APMC was shut. However, Devaraja market and other vegetable markets were open. Supermarkets, hotels and other commercial establishments were open. In Shivamogga, the home turf of CM BS Yediyurappa and the district which is known for the Kagodu movement, considered the first farmers’ movement in the post-Independence era, the bandh received a mixed response. Various Kannada organisations and political parties carried out joint protest rallies. However, the commercial establishments, transport and other services were available. In Hassan, the agitators blocked the Bengaluru-Hassan-Mangaluru national highway. However, normal life was mostly unaffected. Arkalgud JD(S) MLA AT Ramaswamy staged a solo protest in front of the taluk office in Arkalgud for 30 minites. In Mandya, farmers protested at several places of the district. Mysuru-Mandya-Bengaluru was blocked by the agitators. In Chamarajanagar, the bandh was observed with farmers, Dalit and labourers' unions holding massive protest rallies in Chamarajanagar, Kollegal and Gundlupet. In Kollegal, former minister and independent MLA N Mahesh led the protest march. In Kodagu, the bandh was partial. Police detained 67 protesters Madikeri and Kushalnagar when they tried to block traffic. In Chikkamagaluru district, the bandh was peaceful. The district administration had banned liquor sale on Monday as a precautionary measure. Even though a few Kannada activists tried to carry out a protest in the city early in the morning police didn’t allow it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bandh-partial-peaceful-across-old-mysore-region/articleshow/78371362.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||CSIR turns 79, ITR, CDRI celebrate||Lucknow: CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) celebrated 79th CSIR Foundation Day on Monday by organizing a webinar and a talk by experts on maintaining healthy brain and liver. Speaking in IITR’s webinar on Mental Health: causes and management during Covid pandemic, president of Indian Academy of Neuroscience, and head of psychiatry department, King George’s Medical University, Dr. PK Dalal said there has been a rise in psychiatric ailments due to corona. Such patients should be monitored meticulously and counseled, he said. In the online talk on “Heart of the Liver” organized by CDRI, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences director Prof. Shiv Kumar Sarin emphasized on the importance of good liver health for a happy, healthy, and long life. He said we should keep liver fat less than 5% as fatty liver is the main cause of various health complications including diabetes, heart disease and hypertension. CDRI also released its 70th-year celebration logo on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/csir-turns-79-itr-cdri-celebrate/articleshow/78374501.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||MAHE to introduce dual mode academic delivery, says vice-chancellor||Mangaluru: A campus without its students is definitely not the same. Even as students and faculty have adjusted to the new system of online education, Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal is all set to introduce the dual mode academic delivery — a blend of classroom and online learning — once students return. In an exclusive interview, Lt. General Dr MD Venkatesh, vice chancellor, MAHE said, “We are looking at dual mode academic delivery which means half the students will attend the classroom lectures and the other half will attend the online lectures, even while in campus, and after a week, their roles would be flipped. Each of them will get adequate classroom exposure and interaction opportunities with teachers,” he said. The induction for most of the programmes has begun. The new batch of the medical, dental and engineering is expected to begin in November. Dr Venkatesh told TOI, “From the students’ safety perspective, we cannot have large classrooms amid the pandemic. Laboratories will also see fewer students at any given point, which means that faculty would have to put in extra effort for repeated sessions. Planning is on and we are almost ready with all the processes to be implemented once the students return. There will be a realignment of the timetable. Only after requisite training and assessment, sessionals and semester exams would be conducted,” he said. MAHE is looking at a lag period of eight weeks, which would be covered by reducing the vacations and semester breaks. Even if students start returning by mid- November, they are confident of reaching near normalcy by the middle of next year. “Lot of hard work has been put in and new modules have been prepared. There is no doubt that the faculty are now more prepared in terms of handling the online mode than when the Covid-19 hit us,” he said. On laboratory learning, the VC explained that currently, in courses that require laboratory learning, the faculty is engaged in recording experiments and demonstrating them. For computer-based courses, learning is through virtual labs. “However, for health care courses, the regulatory bodies have laid down clear guidelines. By the time the students return to the campus, theory classes would have been completed. Hence, plans are to engage the entire day in practical and clinical training. There will at least be a two month period before the conduct of exams, “he said. Also, all the lectures delivered are captured and available for the students Meanwhile, an elaborate safety SOP is in place on the campus from a safety perspective. The information has already been shared with the students and their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mahe-to-introduce-dual-mode-academic-delivery-says-vice-chancellor/articleshow/78371706.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 29, 2020||Mysuru||Mudhol Hound to replace German Shepherd sniffer dog Rana at Bandipur?||Mysuru: For the past five years, Rana the German Shepherd sniffer dog has been an indispensable asset to the foresters at the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, aiding the officials and personnel in solving numerous crimes. Trained at Bhopal’s 23rd Battalion of Special Armed Reserve Forces, Rana is slated for retirement in two years and forest department officials are mulling over replacing him with a Mudhol Hound. Along with his handlers – Prakash SH and Suresh from the special tiger protection force – Rana helped solve scores of crimes at Bandipur. His crown achievement was helping foresters track down the celebrated tiger ‘Prince’, who died at the Kundagere Range in Bandipur. More recently, helped trace five poachers who were nabbed for hunting down a tiger at the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. Interestingly, Rana, who was two when he arrived in Bandipur in 2015, was scheduled to be retired this year but the foresters decided to have his stint extended till they found a replacement. The forest department had brought two other German Shepherd dogs – Nero and Jackie – in 2016 to join Rana, but both succumbed to illnesses. Interestingly, Kuiper, a Belgian Shepherd, which joined the forest department in ’16, continues to serve at the Kali Tiger Reserve in Dandeli, Uttara Kannada. The forest department authorities are contemplating opting for an Indian breed, which is the reason the Mudhol Hound – from Mudhol in Bagalkot district – has caught their eye. Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra told TOI that they had approached the higher authorities and made a formal request for a sniffer dog. “Some of the foresters have suggested enlisting a Mudhol Hound, which is more aggressive than German Shepherd and tougher to handle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mudhol-hound-to-replace-german-shepherd-sniffer-dog-rana-at-bandipur/articleshow/78371871.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Mangaluru: With tipplers taking their booze home, pubs face dry spell||MANGALURU: Fearing infection and also because of the economic slowdown, many tipplers are enjoying their favourite drink at home. As a result, bars and restaurants in Mangaluru, which once were bustling with patrons, are now mostly empty. Pubs and bars were allowed to resume normal service at the start of the month, but footfall has been low. Families too are supportive of their kin drinking at home since it’s far safer. Bar and restaurant owners say the trend began a year ago after a crackdown on drunk driving and a steep hike in fines. However, Covid has made it a norm. Bar and restaurant owners say regular patrons, especially those aged above 50s, have virtually disappeared. Steevan, a private firm employee, said he previously frequented watering holes in the city, often with his friends. “But now, after the pandemic struck, I have stopped going completely. I buy booze and take it home. At times, my friends join me,” he said. Karunkar Suvarna has turned his car into a mini-bar. He says after dark, he and his friends enjoy a drink in the car. “Drinking at home is strictly prohibited, so I turned my car into a bar. Another reason is that my earnings post lockdown have dropped. I cannot afford to visit a bar.” Hemanth, an employee of a wholesale liquor shop says business is brisk since many take away liquor. “Customers say it is risky drinking in a bar, especially if it is crowded. Drinking at home is a better and safe option. There is also no trouble of getting caught and fined by traffic police,” said Hemanth. Another bar owner said besides home, many drink in their vehicles before returning home. There are others who arrange a house party after renting a place and order food from a restaurant or eatery. “As a result, our business has taken a hit. There are hardly any customers on weekdays. The weekend is a lot better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-tipplers-taking-their-booze-home-pubs-face-dry-spell/articleshow/78371553.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Forensic report proves our doubt, say Jaleel’s relatives||Kozhikode: Relatives of Maoist leader CP Jaleel, who was gunned down by the police at a resort in Wayanad on March 6, 2019, claimed that the forensic and ballistic reports have proved their argument that Jaleel’s encounter was fake. Jaleel’s brother and secretary of Janakeeya Manushyavakasa Prasthanam, said the ballistic report submitted in Wayanad district and sessions court clearly said Jaleel didn’t fire from the gun that was found near him after the police firing. CP Rasheed said all empty cases of bullets examined by experts are from the service rifles used by the police. “It also exposed the police theory that another Maoist–who was with Jaleel fired –at them. There is no evidence of firing other than from the guns used by the police,” he added. Rasheed said ‘hand-wash’ forensic report on Jaleel’s right hand said there was no trace of lead or gun powder. “It also proves that Jaleel, a right-hander, did not fire at the police as claimed. There is no explanation in the report as to how traces of lead was found on Jaleel’s left hand when it was found that he had not fired any shots,” he said. Police had claimed that they rushed to Upavan Resort after receiving information that Maoists had arrived at the spot. Maoists opened fire at the police ignoring warnings and police fired at them in self-defence, the police had said. “There were 16 CCTV cameras at the resort, but police have released visuals from only three to prove that the Maoists were armed. Even in the visuals, one can see that police fired at retreating Maoists,” Rasheed said. Jaleel had two bullet injuries on the back of his head and one on his shoulder. “This also confirmed our suspicion that the police fired with the intention of killing Maoists,” he said. Rasheed had filed a complaint seeking a probe into the circumstances that led to his brother’s death. Meanwhile, the SP of Kerala Anti-Terrorist Squad had approached the court with the plea to release the weapons used by the police in the firing as the forensic examination was over. The court had then asked the police to submit a detailed report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/forensic-report-proves-our-doubt-say-jaleels-relatives/articleshow/78372051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Mysuru||Deer injured in accident, leg amputated||Mysuru: An adult deer sustained grievous injuries after it was hit by an unidentified vehicle while it was trying to cross the busy National Highway- 766 connecting Mysuru -Ooty near Yelachagere Gate in Nanjangud taluk. As the leg was broken beyond repair, the wildlife veterinarians amputated its leg. The male deer, estimated to be around 3-years-old, was hit by a speeding vehicle around 2 pm on Sunday. The driver fled the scene without stopping the vehicle. The villagers and passers-by who noticed the deer struggling in pain, immediately called the Nanjangud forest office. Nanjangud RFO Rakshith told TOI that they rushed to the spot immediately after being alerted by the villagers. “We saw that the right leg of the deer was badly injured. The bone had broken badly and the deer was in pain. We immediately gave the first aid and rushed the animal for treatment,” he said. The veterinarians conducted the X-ray of the leg and found it had been damaged beyond repair. The doctors took the decision to amputate the leg to save the animal. The deer is in the custody of the forest department in Nanjangud. We are trying to trace the vehicle, said the official. “After we came to know about the incident, we alerted the forest and police checkposts. We have also informed the department high-ups about the incident,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/deer-injured-in-accident-leg-amputated/articleshow/78371030.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Now, West Bengal allows kin to cremate Covid bodies||KOLKATA: Based on a Calcutta High Court directive, the state government has decided to allow hospitals to hand over bodies of Covid patients to their kin. The state has also allowed six family members to take the body to specified crematoriums or burial grounds for last rites. On September 16, the HC had ruled that families of Covid-19 victim should be allowed to perform the last rites — calling it akin to a fundamental right — but stressed that pandemic protocol must strictly be adhered to. On an appeal by the state, the HC on September 21 modified its order, specifying only six family members can be allowed to perform last rites, which must be done at places specified by the authorities. The state government order now specifies that six persons who can go to the crematorium or burial grounds will include parents, surviving spouse and children. After taking handover of the bodies, the order says, the relatives must only go to the crematorium or burial ground and not anywhere else, not even to home. The vehicles that will carry the bodies shall be provided by the authorities or those approved by them. A list of such vehicles will be made available on a website. The relatives who will accompany the bodies must travel in separate vehicles. Before being handed to the relatives, the bodies will be covered in a bag with the face end in a transparent cover. The relatives, who will be handed a detailed guideline, must wear surgical masks and gloves and if possible, even PPE. The vehicle carrying the bodies should be sanitized and decontaminated, the order said. According to the order, rituals the do not warrant touching the bodies will be allowed. All these steps will be followed if a patient dies in a government hospitals and the family contacts the KMC health department. If a patient dies in a private hospital, KMC will inform private agencies engaged in disposal of bodies to make proper arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-state-allows-kin-to-cremate-covid-bodies/articleshow/78372057.cms||Saikat Ray
September 29, 2020||Goa||Social distancing to the wind at Cong protest against farm laws||Panaji: Social distancing went for a toss near Raj Bhavan on Monday as around 300 Congress workers marched to Raj Bhavan to protest against the three agricultural acts brought in by the Centre. With Goa police throwing in a strong cordon, the Congress workers standing shoulder to shoulder, raised slogans demanding that the laws should be repealed. In a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted to Raj Bhavan, the Congress said that the Centre has subverted India’s federal structure. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the NDA had used its “draconian majority” to pass the Bills that will destroy farmers across the country. “Abolishing the system of grain market and vegetable market or Agriculture Produce Marketing System (APMC) will totally destroy the agricultural produce procurement system,” said Chodankar. “In such a scenario, the farmers will neither get the ‘Minimum Support Price’ (MSP) nor the price of their crop as per the market price. Congress’s contention is that farmers and farm labourers will be the biggest losers while large companies will stand to gain. The Centre pushed through three bills - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - which Kovind has given the nod to. Kamat said that the MSP helps in price discovery for the farmers at the APMC but once companies start purchasing directly from fields, the farmer will be unable to determine the appropriate price nor bargain for better prices. “The Modi government’s claim that farmers can now sell produce anywhere in the country is a white lie. In India, 86% of farmers cannot transport their farm produce to other states,” Kamat said. Interestingly, other than Kamat, no other Congress MLA was seen during the protest march. When queried, Chodankar said that though the other MLAs supported farmers, the party had asked senior leaders to maintain social distance and consider their own health. Congress also expects hoarding of agricultural produce, particularly cereal, pulses and other agricultural produce to increase. The party said that with the closure of mandis, Goa’s source of income from market fees will dry up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/social-distancing-to-the-wind-at-cong-protest-against-farm-laws/articleshow/78373842.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Police register 4 offences in group clash||Aurangabad: Four offences have been registered in the group clash that took place on Sunday over taking possession of an eight-acre plot owned by Abdul Qader Auliya Dargah committee. The land is situated on the border of Kranti Chowk and Jinsi police stations, and two offences each have been registered in both the police stations. This land has a market value of crores of rupees, due to which it has become a bone of contention between those claiming share over the property. Two offences, one for rioting, unlawful assembly, and the other one for using criminal force to deter a government servant from performing his duty have been registered with Kranti Chowk police station. Kranti Chowk’s PSI Gajanan Sontakke said, “On learning that a huge mob had gathered at the site and was threatening people, I rushed to the spot and separated them. But soon those gathered turned violent, pushed me and even manhandled me. The groups then started pelting stones at each other as well as on the vehicles parked there.” While, Jinsi police have registered an offence of dacoity against a group of six suspects and second offence has been registered for attempt to murder against eight identified and equal number of unidentified suspects.Commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has tasked DCPs heading zone I and II to arrest the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-register-4-offences-in-group-clash/articleshow/78370822.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chargesheet in Mimi Chakraborty harassment case||KOLKATA: Cops from the Gariahat police station on Monday submitted a charge sheet against taxi driver Laxman Yadav, who allegedly harassed actor and MP Mimi Chakraborty near Ballygunge Phari on September 15. Police said charged under IPC sections 354A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 354D (stalking) and 509 (outraging the modesty of a woman), Yadav, if proved guilty could be jailed for up to three years. Police said they wanted to submit the charge sheet when the accused was still in judicial custody. Chakraborty identified the perpetrator in the TI parade and recorded her statement before a magistrate. “With strong evidence in place, we filed the charge sheet fast,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/charge-sheet-in-mimi-harassment-case/articleshow/78373769.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Removal of 102 girders could take four months||KOCHI: With demolition work on the Palarivattom flyover set in motion, the process of removing and demolishing its 102 girders is expected to take four months. As many as 60 workers will be employed at peak hours to break the girders, casting work, removing remnants and other activities. Though cutting of the girders is likely to start on Wednesday or Thursday, the two agencies, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Ltd, refused to divulge where generated waste will be disposed. Work on removing the asphalt started on Monday after puja. The girders will be cut using wire cutters. Each girder will be broken into three pieces making it easier for cranes to move them. When work starts, the pillars will be safeguarded by reinforcing them with nets. Barricades will be placed on the stretch of roads flanking the flyover when girders are removed. The broken girders will be ground into powder before being transported for disposal. “We will dispose the waste at a convenient spot. If anyone comes forward to buy the waste, we will give it on condition that it is not dumped in a wetland. We want the waste removed at the earliest,” an Uralungal society official said. Girders on 17 of the 19 spans will be removed. There are six girders in each span. City police has submitted a proposal on traffic diversion to the DMRC which will be implemented once girder removal starts. Two new U-turns have been proposed at both ends of the flyover. An automatic signal system fitted with a timer will also be installed. Roads under the flyover will be closed when work on lowering slabs starts. A trial run will be held on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/removal-of-102-girders-could-take-four-months/articleshow/78372063.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Tractor set ablaze on high-security Rajpath||NEW DELHI: Despite Delhi Police claiming to have beefed up security in the capital in the wake of farmers’ agitation in the neighbouring states, a group of 15-20 men, allegedly members of Punjab Youth Congress, managed to reach the high-security Rajpath and set afire a tractor on Monday morning to support the protest against the recent farm laws. Five people have been arrested. All five men are residents of Punjab and have been identified as Manjot Singh, Raman Deep Singh Sindhu, Rahul Kumar, Sahib and Sumit Pal. The men claimed they were led by Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Dhillon, who is yet to be traced, police said. Around 7.30am, the men arrived at India Gate in a few cars and a truck carrying the tractor, toppled the tractor in the middle of Rajpath and set it on fire, police said. The protesters, carrying a portrait of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, raised slogans in support of the agitation and even hanged an effigy from a streetlight pole but the cops stopped them from burning it. Punjab Youth Congress went live on its Facebook page during the incident and some participants also telecast it on social media platforms. Later, a video went viral on social media, in which some policemen were seen standing near the burning tractor. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said a patrolling van had reached the spot. “The fire was controlled and the tractor was removed. Seeing police, the men fled in their vehicles. However, five of them were caught and the truck was seized along with an Innova car,” he said. The arrested men “have disclosed that it was a planned protest. Their political affiliations are being verified. Efforts are on to track the absconding members,” the DCP added. Police are checking if the same tractor was burnt in Ambala on September 20 as several pictures have emerged showing both with the same numberplate. The men have been booked under Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act, Damage to Public Property Act and IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tractor-set-ablaze-on-high-security-rajpath/articleshow/78373839.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur citizens launch movement against spitting||Kolhapur: Citizens of Kolhapur have initiated an ‘anti-spitting movement’ through which they will also ensure legal action against those spitting in public. Around 257 citizens have signed to volunteer for this movement and the number is increasing. Several citizens mobilised through social media have formed ‘anti-spitting movement’. The members of the group stand at chowks and important locations. They take photos of the people spitting and the photo of the vehicle if they spit while riding. They also hold placards asking people not to spit. Dipa Shipurkar, convenor of the movement, said, “There is hefty fine for spitting in public. Since we have started the movement, the authorities are taking up the task to punish those spitting in public. Spitting by a diseased person leads to further spread of the disease.” Due to the awareness created by the movement, the authorities are punishing the violators. On Sunday, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti fined a person Rs 500 for spitting. “We have teams doing rounds in wards to nab such violators. I have asked officials to randomly survey during their field visits and put the fine on spot for violations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-citizens-launch-movement-against-spitting/articleshow/78370837.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s daily revenue plunges by over 90%||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is staring at a financial crisis with its daily revenue dipping by over 90%. Pune corporator and PMPML director Shankar Pawar told TOI on Monday that despite running 500 buses across both the corporation limits daily, the transport body was earning very less. “During pre-Covid times, PMPML used to earn a daily revenue of around Rs1.80 crore. Now, the daily income is between Rs11 lakh and Rs15 lakh,” he said. Pawar said that the last time PMPML earned a decent income was on March 22 when it collected Rs1.70 crore. “Taking into consideration that not more than 19 passengers are allowed per bus, majority of buses are almost empty. People are not travelling on buses and using personal vehicles. While the number of passengers ferried daily is more than a lakh, it is not enough,” he said. PMPML head Rajendra Jagtap wrote letters to the commissioners of both the corporations last week seeking financial help. Jagtap stated that the transport body does not have funds to even buy diesel and CNG or pay its staff. “Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL), which supplies CNG, is owed Rs19crore (around Rs40 crore with interests). We will speak to them and find a way out so that the buses keep on running. The PMPML board of directors will meet on October 1. We hope some solution will emerge at the meeting,” Pawar said. Santosh Sontakke, director (commercial), MNGL, said that they were hopeful of a positive solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpmls-daily-revenue-plunges-by-over-90/articleshow/78372115.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Work stress causes cardiac problems in 65% of patients under 45 years: Study||Lucknow: High work-related stress was seen as a key contributor to cardiac events in over 2,000 heart patients in an assessment undertaken by doctors at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. Sharing the information ahead of World Heart Day, vice-president of the Cardiological Society of India Prof Satyendra Tewari said: “Cardiac events are preventable, predictable, treatable and to some extent, reversible. Awareness is, however, key to all of these.” Prof Tewari said over 65% of the respondents aged below 45 years covered in the study admitted that they were experiencing job stress. “Most of them were working long hours, consuming unhealthy food and de-stressing themselves with alcohol and cigarettes. The study showed many developed lifestyle problems which affected their heart too,” he said.  Prof Tewari stated the increasing relationship between stress and heart health, especially among those below 50 years, was a matter of concern. “A number of sudden cardiac deaths are linked to physical and mental stress. Lack of awareness about the warning signs of cardiac arrest and very small window period of intervention—just three minutes—make cardiac arrest kill nine in 10 persons. What’s worse is that the classic symptoms of heart attack don’t appear in many young patients,” he explained. A multi-centric study showed that over 40% of young cardiac patients did not come with classic symptoms. The findings are important considering that Indians are genetically predisposed to blockages in the heart. In fact, the SGPGI study indicated that 10-15% of the patients covered in the study were genetically predisposed to cardiac events. Also, about 14% of the patients had a strong family history of cardiac ailments. Citing the example of a biomarker called lipoprotein-A, Prof Tewari said: “Elevated levels of lipoprotein-A were found in nearly 30% of the subjects. Responsible for blood coagulation, this biochemical aids clogging which can cause heart attack. Combined with known risk factors such as smoking, obesity and physical inactivity, this acts as a double whammy for young hearts and minds.” Likewise, he said, “lipoprotein Apo-B linked to production of bad cholesterol in the body was also found in significant range in over 20% of the patients.” Prof Tewari informed that those with high lipoprotein-A have twice the risk of heart attack. In people with both high level of lipoprotein-A and low density or bad cholesterol, the risk is five times higher.” In addition to genetic factors, lifestyle also contributes to cardiac trouble. The study noted that 34% of the patients were hypertensive while 22% had diabetes. Dyslipidemia or high level of cholesterol was found in 70% of the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/work-stress-causes-cardiac-problems-in-65-of-patients-under-45-years-study/articleshow/78374532.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||28 eateries sealed||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation soon after issuing the notification directing that no shops and eateries remain open after 10pm went on a drive and sealed Rajpath Restaiurant and several others that were not adhering to the 10pm deadline. Among the other entities sealed were MBA Chaiwalal and Black Cigarette Shop both in Vastrapur. On Sunday, the AMC had sealed 28 eateries in the city, of which 27 were in the North West and South West zones, and fined a total of 208 people for not wearing masks on Sunday night. AMC officials said that on Sunday night, the AMC teams including deputy municipal commissioners were on the streets supervising raids. Officials said that a total of Rs 4.63 lakh was collected as fines of which 45% was in the Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Thaltej and Gota areas in the North West and South West zones. AMC officials said the majority of these 28 shops were tea stall or cafes with a couple of paan shops. The officials said that since Friday the civic body has sealed 35-odd eateries, all in the western parts of the city. Officials said these units did not have any marking for social distancing nor did the owners ensure that groups sitting there followed social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-eateries-sealed/articleshow/78372188.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Maratha outfit men stage ‘rasta roko’ over quota||Aurangabad: Members of Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha staged demonstrations and ‘rasta roko’ agitation near Lohgaon Phata on Aurangabad-Paithan road for some time to draw the government’s attention towards reservation for the community. The organisation claimed that the central and state governments did not effectively present the Maratha reservation case in the Supreme Court, which brought a stay and referred the matter to a bench recently. Kiran Kale Patil, convenor of Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha, here, said the members have also submitted a memorandum to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray through the tehsildar. “We maintained social distancing while taking every precaution during our agitation in the wake of the pandemic. The agitation was peaceful and we got dispersed immediately after drawing attention of the authorities toward our demands,” he said. Kale-Patil said that the government needs to make concerted efforts to ensure reservation for the Maratha community. “As many as 42 people have sacrificed their lives for reservation.” The outfit leader said government job and Rs 10 lakh compensation should be give to the next of kin of those who died during the agitation for Maratha reservation.. “We reiterated our demand for Rs 500 crore assistance to the Annasaheb Patil Arthik va Magas Vikas Mahamandal. We would resort to severe agitation if the government failed to meet our demand within eight days,” warned Kale-Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-outfit-men-stage-rasta-roko-over-quota/articleshow/78370857.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation staff end dharna after pay promise||NEW DELHI: After a two-hour long discussion with the mayor and the commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, employees’ unions ended their protest on Monday. However, they warned of resuming it if their demands were not met by November. They had been agitating for the past 27 days. During the meeting, the employees placed seven demands, including releasing of pending salaries and other dues, equal treatment to all cadre and no priority payment to specific category, providing a roadmap for future plans and demanding a bailout package from the government of India to address the issue of financial crunch. “The mayor and the commissioner expressed their helplessness in releasing all salaries and pensions together. But they promised to allocate funds in portions, some of them before Diwali. We will go for a pen-down strike if these promises are not met by November,” said AP Khan, convener of Confederation of MCD Employee Unions. The commissioner, Gyanesh Bharti, said the salary for the month of May had been released to all categories and pension for April would be released within a week. “Efforts will be made to release salaries to all categories at par,” said Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation. Meanwhile, the issue of non-payment of salaries was raised in the House meeting of East Delhi Municipal Corporation too. The civic agency claimed that Delhi government had to pay them Rs 1,050 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-staff-end-dharna-after-pay-promise/articleshow/78373851.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||LDA might cancel map of Mukhtar kin’s residence||Lucknow: Lucknow Development Authority might cancel the map of a house owned by sister-in-law of gangster and BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari in Dalibagh as she failed to prove on Monday that the property is not constructed on ‘nishkrant sampatti’. Nishkrant sampatti’ is a term used to define evacuee property belonging to people who migrated to other places or Pakistan after the country’s partition in 1947. Such land comes under government jurisdiction. Mukhtar’s sister-in-law Farhat Ansari, accompanied by her husband Afzal Ansari, who is also BSP MP from Ghazipur, met LDA vice-chairperson SK Dwivedi on Monday to present their case in reply to a show-cause notice issued earlier. Dwivedi said, “They had submitted the layout map passed by the development authority and some other related documents, but did not provide anything which can prove that the land on which the house has been constructed does not come under ‘nishkrant sampatti’. LDA will now conduct an investigation and will cancel the layout map if nothing new comes up which goes in favour of the owner.” If LDA cancels the map, the housing unit will be deemed illegal and can be demolished. According to LDA records, Farhat got the map approved from the authority in 1995 before constructing the house. However, a recent probe revealed that LDA was not aware that the land was ‘nishkrant sampatti’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-might-cancel-map-of-mukhtar-kins-residence/articleshow/78374540.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Kolkata||I had a close shave at the same point||The fatal accident near the Biswa Bangla gate reminded me of a similar incident a year ago, when I had a close shave. Around 9.30pm, I was driving towards Salt Lake and had reached the same Biswa Bangla gate crossing, when a truck jumped the red signal and almost crashed into my vehicle from the opposite end. I somehow managed to swerve at the end moment and save myself. The biggest problem that motorists face at the Narkelbagan crossing is that trucks often flout traffic rules after dark and policing is minimal late at night. We have to be careful there, especially after 9pm. Metro work has narrowed down the stretch, leaving motorists with little space to negotiate past trucks. Lights are also not adequate there. (Dey, a cloud data architect, spoke to Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-had-a-close-shave-at-the-same-point/articleshow/78373845.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation restricts shop hours to 10pm in western areas||AHMEDABAD: After issuing warnings and appeals to the youth to follow social distancing rules and wear marks, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided that shops and establishments except medical shops along 27 stretches of road that it has listed will now have to close at 10pm. These stretches are mainly in the Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Bopal, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Vejalpur and Gota wards in the North West Zone and South West Zone. This decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who has been put in charge of Covid management in the city. Non compliance with Covid protocols, especially by the youth, was pointed out at the meeting. Gupta said while the AMC through various measures had brought infections under control, for the past 15 days it was noticed that youths were not wearing the masks or following social distancing and were seen congregating in large groups. Gupta said this was leading to increased rates of infection. Gupta said that the number of Covid patients in city hospitals was also on the rise. He said special drives were taken up to ensure that the youth follow Covid protocols but as the youth were not complying, it was decided that the AMC should restrict the operations of shops and other establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-restricts-shop-hours-to-10pm-in-western-areas/articleshow/78372196.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Restaurateurs pin revival hopes on resumption of dine-in services||Pune: After being closed for over six months, restaurateurs across the city are hoping for a bounce back as CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday assured them that they would be allowed to re-start dine-in operations from the first week of October.Restaurants, which have been hit hard due to the Covid-19 lockdown, have been surviving on home deliveries until now. Ganesh Shetty, president of the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA), said, “We have had multiple meetings with authorities regarding resumption of dine-in services. We also had meetings with the excise minister, Dilip Walse-Patil, seeking exemption or waiver of excise fees for the lockdown period or this financial year. ” Shetty stated that the standard operating procedures (SoPs) provided by the chief minister’s office would have to be followed by all restaurants. “CM has also assured revision of excise fees on a pro-rata basis against the balance operational months of this financial year,” he added. Restaurateurs stated that their establishments needed to resume operations to regenerate the income that was stagnant since the last few months of lockdown.. “Over 1,400 restaurants or cafés in Pune had to shut shops in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. If operations had not resumed, more would have followed the suit,” said Ashish Goyal, a city-based restaurateur. Arun Arora , center director for Phoneix Marketcity, Pune, said, “We thank the government for allowing bars and restaurants to resume services. We hope that the operational timings for malls and restaurants operational would be till 11:45pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateurs-pin-revival-hopes-on-resumption-of-dine-in-services/articleshow/78372174.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||District committee on banking red flags inability of banks to lend||Mangaluru: Banks in coastal districts of Karnataka are facing a piquant situation. While their deposits are going up, their inability to lend is dragging down the credit-deposit (CD) ratio. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) mandates this CD ratio to be above 60%, the ratio for Dakshina Kannada district on June 30 was 56.57% as against 57.82% in the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal year, an overall decline of 1.25%. R Selvamani, chief executive officer, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat who chaired district level review committee (DLRC) and district consultative committee (DCC) for banking here on Monday promptly red flagged the issue. The year-on-year (Y-O-Y) growth as on June 30 in 260 rural branches was 0.09%, in 147 semi-urban branches 3.75%, in 244 urban branches -2.86%. While deposits grew by 7.02%, advances grew at a slower 4.71%. The Y-O-Y growth in total business up to June 2020 was 6.17%. Selvamani said lack of off-take of credit in urban/semi-urban areas compared to rural areas, especially given the Union government’s emphasis for various employment generation schemes, is worrisome. Lending to priority sector areas (PSA) through 651 branches in DK is 71.91% and 145.25% to non-PSA, an overall achievement of 90.03% for the first quarter, the CEO observed. M B Praveen, lead district manager said even the state level bankers committee (SLBC) is concerned about banks in the coastal districts not being able to meet the RBI criterion on CD ratio. Taking note of poor achievement in disbursement to the education/housing sector that stood at 19.56% and 34.37% respectively of the quarterly target, Selvamani exhorted bankers to lay special emphasis on these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/district-committee-on-banking-red-flags-inability-of-banks-to-lend/articleshow/78370892.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Neither offline nor online: Wildlife enthusiasts struggling to get night stay bookings at Corbett||DEHRADUN: Many wildlife enthusiasts, waiting to enjoy tiger sightings at the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), were forced to postpone their visits as the walk-in booking facility has been closed by the reserve in the wake of Covid-19 and the online booking facility for night stay at the reserve also remains dysfunctional for the past three days. The night stay online booking is the most favoured choice of CTR visitors and many visitors from other states are reluctant to come to CTR without it. RK Tiwari, park warden at CTR, said, “The technical glitch is from the end of the service provider — National Informatics Centre (NIC). We have communicated the issue to them but it has not been fixed yet.” Sources said that there are problems with the one-time-password (OTP) that is sent out during the course of the booking. It is worth mentioning that the OTP facility was started by the CTR administration after recording fake bookings and involvement of several illicit tour and travel guides in the booking process for their commission. This had become the cause of poor reputation for the famous tiger reserve. Meanwhile, officials told TOI that CTR recorded 300 bookings in three days starting from September 22, when the booking process commenced. Rahul, CTR director, said, “For the day visit, booking permits to 592 people for 2,325 visitors have already been given out. Similarly, night stay booking permits were given to 336 tourists for 1676 visitors. Among these, 12 visitors are foreign nationals.” In all likelihood, CTR will be open for night stay from October 15 at the Jhirna, Dhela, and Bijrani ranges. Dhikala, the most popular range, might open for tourists from November 15. It has the highest 22 suites for night stay, followed by Bijrani (6), Jhirna (2), and Dhela (2). The CTR administration has also expressed apprehension that in the wake of stringent Covid-19 rules, there can be possibly a downward trend in the footfall of international adventure lovers to the reserve. “We get around 3 lakh visitors every year, out of which around 8,000 are foreigners. Due to the pandemic this year, we are not anticipating as much international tourist influx initially,” added Rahul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/neither-offline-nor-online-wildlife-enthusiasts-struggling-to-get-night-stay-bookings-at-corbett/articleshow/78370883.cms||Shivani Azad
September 29, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19 cases in C’nagar cross 3,500 mark||Mysuru: Covid-19 cases in Chamarajanagar district has crossed 3,500 mark and last fortnight, it witnessed 21 fatalities. The border district, which reported the first Covid case in June, touched 33 cases by the end of the month sending alarm bells to government authorities to take preventive measures. Cases continued to rise in the months that followed — 636 in July, 1,702 in August, 567 as on September 12. Highest number of cases — 1,633 was reported from rural areas, while 1,305 cases were recorded in urban areas. As per taluk-wise reports, Chamarajanagar tested positive for 999 cases, Hanur least 156, Kollegal(789), Gundlupet (694). Yelandur (370) and outside districts(30). As per the health bulletin, as many as 1,304 persons in the age group of 21-40 years, have been infected in the district followed by 76 persons between 41- 60 years, 453 persons above 60 years- old, 126 children below 10 years and 295 persons between 10-20 years. Symptomatic patients in the district are undergoing treatment at the District Covid Hospital and asymptomatic cases are being treated at Covid Care Centres. Health department has deputed 135 medical and 140 nursing staff to take care of patients on shift basis. In the wake of rising number of cases, district administration has ramped up testing in both urban and rural areas. Speaking to TOI, district health officer Dr M C Ravi said the public must wear masks to avoid contracting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-19-cases-in-cnagar-cross-3500-mark/articleshow/78371607.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Chennai||Missing fruits may return to Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: In the 1980s, thousands of devotees at the Beragani Hethai festival near Kotagiri would always return with a juicy Nilgiris orange in their hand. The customary gift of the seasonal fruit (mid November to mid February) lasted till the end of the decade, which was also the period of golden harvest for peaches, pears and plums. Growing these fruits has virtually become alien to this hill district, which was once known for their exotic flavour and taste. A variety of factors including man-animal conflict, poor management and other timber trees contributed to the axing of these trees. In a bid to revive the cultivation of fruits, the horticulture department is encouraging farmers by giving them subsidies and free saplings of the fruit trees. Thus orange, plum, pear and peach trees, as intercrops, have gradually been finding a way into the tea gardens again. Reminiscing the old days of staple jams and jellies, tea garden owner K Jayaraj says, "Oranges were never sold here by weight but in big bamboo baskets. Those days are gone. That indigenous variety has vanished now." Orange, plum and pear trees were grown as money crops and maintained as intercrop, providing shade to the tea bushes, in the Nilgiris tea estates. Since the early 1980s, the yield, especially of the orange crop, began to dwindle owing to viral diseases, poor management and the menace of monkeys and stray sloth bears, which were attracted by the fruits. The area under fruit cultivation reduced from 600 hectares during the 1980s to 80-100 hectares in 2015. "While indigenous orange trees vanished due to parasites, many farmers removed other fruit trees because of wild animals. Monkeys once used to visit the tea gardens for fruits started invading homes close by and fleeing with food," says Jayaraj, who recounts a couple of incidents where workers were attacked by sloth bears in private tea estates having plum and pear fruits as intercrop. Gradually the canopy in the estates was replaced by silver oak trees, which fetches a good price for its timber.Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department said, "The main problem, especially with the orange plantations faced was a parasite, namely Loranthus, attack. It was air-borne and also spread by birds. This kind of parasite grows on the trees and in due course eats them up. Further, in the 1990s when tea prices reduced drastically, farmers could not take care of their gardens and wanted low maintenance intercrops," he said. The indigenous Nilgiris oranges which once dominated the market, were sent to Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai among others. "Now the production is only enough for local consumption and the tourists," said Samraj. Under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, a scheme to revive traditional fruit plantations, has been urging more to plant fruit trees. According to Samraj, the extent of fruit plantation as intercrop has increased to at least 250 hectares in the past few years. It was around 70 hectares in 2017. At least 2 lakh saplings of well-grown budded ‘mandarin’ variety of orange saplings (brought from Nagpur) besides other fruit saplings were distributed to farmers in the past couple of years. "This year, we are focusing on avocado planting. At least 80 hectares of farming land and tea gardens have been selected for the plantation," said the official. The saplings will be distributed free of cost to farmers identified for the project. Around 550 saplings of the avocado fruit per hectare will be distributed. "As the district, being declared organic, the department will take care of nutrition and pest management of the fruit cultivation with organic methods," said Samraj. There had never been exclusive fruit plantations in the Nilgiris. In another 2-3 years the trees will bear fruits. Depending upon the response offarmers the scheme will be continued for a few more years, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/missing-fruits-may-return-to-nilgiris/articleshow/78374543.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka loses a teacher, writer and scholar nonpareil||Dharwad: Noted critic, writer Dr G S Amur passed away at his son’s residence in Bengaluru on Monday early morning due to old age. He was 95. He is survived by three sons and a daughter. He had shifted to Bengaluru a couple of years ago after his wife passed away. Considered one of the leading critics of Kannada literature, Amur has been honoured with Pampa Award and Sahitya Akademi award. He is said to have brought a modern outlook and academic rigour to Kannada literary criticism. His criticism played a pivotal role in helping Kannada gain a prominent place in modern literature. Amur was recently chosen for the Nrupatunga Award for his lifetime achievements, but he breathed his last before receiving it. Born on May 8, 1925, in Bommanahalli village of Dharwad district, Amur completed his post graduation from the University of Mumbai and later received his doctorate from Karnatak University. He later worked as an English professor in Karnatak University. Initially he focused on English literary studies, Amur later turned his attention to Kannada literature. Amur shot to fame with his much acclaimed critical essays on the works of Da Ra Bendre, AN Krishnaraya and UR Ananthamurthy among others. He had recalled that the environs of Dharwad played a major role in molding his career as a litterateur. Amur was known for his sharp, analytical and straightforward criticism. He wrote a comprehensive introduction in English to Bendre’s literature and also translated some of his poems. His works in Kannada include Ninda Hejje, Kannada Kathana Sahitya: Sanna Kathe, Seemollanghana, Bhuvanada Bhagya and Kathanashastra and English works are Creations and Transcreations, Forbidden Fruit and Colonial Consciousness in Commonweatlh Literature among others. In an interview to TOI, Amur had advocated primacy to Kannada and had said he had opted for English as a profession but his love for Kannada made him pursue literary activity. Stating that use of mother tongue in education and administration helps progress in its real sense, Amur had pointed out that English was evolving asthe international language, but that should not hinder the use of mother tongue and regional language from being used in day-to-day life of thepeople. Loss to the literary world Writer Veena Shanteshwar described Amur as a unique scholar, eminent writer, committed teacher and an affectionate gentleman. “He was a guide, mentor and guardian to me and hundreds like me” she said. Poet Channaveera Kanavi, editor of Manohar Grantha Mala Ramakant Joshi, Siddalinga Pattanashetti, H V Kakhandki, former vice-chancellor of Karnatak University Pramod Gai, Union minister Pralhad Joshi, industries minister Jagadish Shettar, former MLA Chandrakant Bellad and others condoled the passing away of Amur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-loses-a-teacher-writer-and-scholar-nonpareil/articleshow/78372723.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Plan to conserve ‘No-Go Areas’ as green lungs for boosting air quality||Lucknow: The environment management plan being prepared for the city will identify and mark certain ‘No-Go Areas’ which would be conserved as ‘green lungs’ by regulating development activities. The 15-year plan is being drafted on directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The 21-member District Environment Management Committee responsible for drafting the plan is headed by the district magistrate (DM) and has the district forest officer (DFO) as secretary. The committee met on Monday to discuss ways to improve Lucknow’s air quality. The committee also has on board scientists, doctors, environmentalists, academicians and other experts. DFO Awadh, Ravi Kumar said, “The plan will focus on air quality and water quality in Lucknow. We have to first assess all pollution sources and find out the level of emission. Then, we would focus on the absorbing limit of our green lungs which are forests, green areas, wetlands, river systems and other natural resources.” The plan will work out a balance between emitters (residents, vehicles and industries) and absorbers (green lungs). Associate professor at BBAU, Venkatesh Dutta will assess the city’s air quality levels, sources of pollution and suggest ways of improvement. “Air quality can be improved by mainly controlling the dust load generated from construction activities, controlling biomass and crop residue burning, repairing potholes and broken roads. Besides, all the dhabas and roadside restaurants will be asked to use clean fuels like LPG,” said Dutta. “I am taking seven major parameters for environmental management plan of Lucknow,” he added. The draft plan will be ready by October 28. “After that it will take six months to finalise and implement it,” said the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plan-to-conserve-no-go-areas-as-green-lungs-for-boosting-air-quality/articleshow/78374552.cms||Neha Shukla
September 29, 2020||India||LJP finds itself in a fix with BJP, JD(U) hardening their positions over seats||NEW DELHI: With neither JD(U) nor BJP ready to concede its demand of a "decent" share of Bihar seats, Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party on Monday appeared to be on the brink of having to go it alone in the state polls. On a day the party's founder, food minister Ram Vilas Paswan, was battling a serious health crisis in a private hospital in the Capital, NDA sources confirmed that ties with LJP were precariously poised and could snap if party president Chirag Paswan did not climb down. BJP and JD(U) sources termed the LJP's demand as extravagant and disproportionate to its actual strength. While LJP has not spelt out its bottomline , those familiar with the negotiations said it seemed ready to be persuaded to settle for 30 of the 243 seats. However, BJP sources dismissed the claim as excessive and said the allies were not ready to leave more than 20 seats, given that LJP could win only two seats five years ago. They also said while LJP had managed to win 29 seats in 2004, its performance had consistently slid from that "peak". LJP managed to eke out scores of 10, three and two in the subsequent polls. While JD(U) does not seem keen to be in the company of Chirag, who has consistently attacked CM Nitish Kumar, BJP, while desirous of continuing the partnership, is not willing to show generosity. Given JD(U)’s ever-hardening posture towards LJP, BJP realises that it will be left to foot the cost of the partnership by foregoing more seats in a situation where Kumar seems determined to stamp JD(U)'s status as the ‘senior partner’ in terms of who gets how many seats to contest. The experience of 2015, where BJP's gambit of having a string of alliances did not work with LJP and other partners managing to win only five of the 85 seats they had secured, is acting as a restraint. The absence of Ram Vilas Paswan, whose condition was described as "extremely worrying" by sources, has not helped matters with negotiators from both BJP and JD(U) finding Chirag to be "unnecessarily aggressive". Chirag has refused to cede ground during the seat-sharing talks. Over the next couple of days, however, he will find himself grappling with the tricky dilemma. A hard stance can result in the party getting marooned on its own island in a scenario polarised between NDA on the one hand and the RJD-led combine of Congress and Left parties on the other. A drastic climbdown from where he has placed the ante will also not be without consequences for the image for the young Lok Sabha MP about to formally inherit the organisational mantle from his father. On Monday, senior BJP leaders talked to top LJP members. Senior party leaders were tight-lipped about the development with some indicating that things were likely to be settled amicably. Earlier, Chirag had written three letters to PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J P Nadda citing how the coalition may not gain by going to polls with Kumar as its chief minister ministerial candidate. Sources said the LJP chief had also suggested that his party should get a couple of MLCs in the state who are nominated by the governor in addition to the assembly seats. Maintaining that there can be no compromise on the CM face, JD(U) leader K C Tyagi said, “The PM, BJP president and home minister have repeated that Bihar has progressed under Nitish Kumar. So, anybody who is questioning him is questioning the three top BJP leaders. Even if LJP fights against JD(U), it won’t be an exception as earlier it has fielded candidates against us.” Some LJP leaders said the party will remain part of the NDA at the Centre. Earlier, it had fought elections independently in Jharkhand and J&K as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ljp-finds-itself-in-a-fix-with-bjp-jdu-hardening-their-positions-over-seats/articleshow/78375334.cms||---
September 29, 2020||---||LJP finds itself in a fix with BJP, JD(U) hardening their positions over seats||NEW DELHI: With neither JD(U) nor BJP ready to concede its demand of a "decent" share of Bihar seats, Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party on Monday appeared to be on the brink of having to go it alone in the state polls. On a day the party's founder, food minister Ram Vilas Paswan, was battling a serious health crisis in a private hospital in the Capital, NDA sources confirmed that ties with LJP were precariously poised and could snap if party president Chirag Paswan did not climb down. BJP and JD(U) sources termed the LJP's demand as extravagant and disproportionate to its actual strength. While LJP has not spelt out its bottomline , those familiar with the negotiations said it seemed ready to be persuaded to settle for 30 of the 243 seats. However, BJP sources dismissed the claim as excessive and said the allies were not ready to leave more than 20 seats, given that LJP could win only two seats five years ago. They also said while LJP had managed to win 29 seats in 2004, its performance had consistently slid from that "peak". LJP managed to eke out scores of 10, three and two in the subsequent polls. While JD(U) does not seem keen to be in the company of Chirag, who has consistently attacked CM Nitish Kumar, BJP, while desirous of continuing the partnership, is not willing to show generosity. Given JD(U)’s ever-hardening posture towards LJP, BJP realises that it will be left to foot the cost of the partnership by foregoing more seats in a situation where Kumar seems determined to stamp JD(U)'s status as the ‘senior partner’ in terms of who gets how many seats to contest. The experience of 2015, where BJP's gambit of having a string of alliances did not work with LJP and other partners managing to win only five of the 85 seats they had secured, is acting as a restraint. The absence of Ram Vilas Paswan, whose condition was described as "extremely worrying" by sources, has not helped matters with negotiators from both BJP and JD(U) finding Chirag to be "unnecessarily aggressive". Chirag has refused to cede ground during the seat-sharing talks. Over the next couple of days, however, he will find himself grappling with the tricky dilemma. A hard stance can result in the party getting marooned on its own island in a scenario polarised between NDA on the one hand and the RJD-led combine of Congress and Left parties on the other. A drastic climbdown from where he has placed the ante will also not be without consequences for the image for the young Lok Sabha MP about to formally inherit the organisational mantle from his father. On Monday, senior BJP leaders talked to top LJP members. Senior party leaders were tight-lipped about the development with some indicating that things were likely to be settled amicably. Earlier, Chirag had written three letters to PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J P Nadda citing how the coalition may not gain by going to polls with Kumar as its chief minister ministerial candidate. Sources said the LJP chief had also suggested that his party should get a couple of MLCs in the state who are nominated by the governor in addition to the assembly seats. Maintaining that there can be no compromise on the CM face, JD(U) leader K C Tyagi said, “The PM, BJP president and home minister have repeated that Bihar has progressed under Nitish Kumar. So, anybody who is questioning him is questioning the three top BJP leaders. Even if LJP fights against JD(U), it won’t be an exception as earlier it has fielded candidates against us.” Some LJP leaders said the party will remain part of the NDA at the Centre. Earlier, it had fought elections independently in Jharkhand and J&K as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ljp-finds-itself-in-a-fix-with-bjp-jdu-hardening-their-positions-over-seats/articleshow/78375330.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Fractional increase in PM2.5 could raise Covid death rate by 8%: Plea||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday said it would re-engage on October 6 in finding a solution to the annual stubble burning carried out by farmers in north Indian states after amicus curiae Harish Salve said pictures released by Nasa showed that stubble burning incidents had started early this year. Meanwhile, a PIL filed by two students, claiming to be environmentalists, said stubble burning would bring the dreaded smoke to Delhi and NCR region causing massive air pollution. The petitioners cited a Harvard study to warn that even a fractional increase in PM 2.5 pollutants in the air would increase the Covid-19 death rate by 8%. If the smoke from stubble burning reached Delhi and NCR, which are still under the grip of Covid-19, it could push up the case fatality rate (CFR) among Covid-19 infected people, they said. TimesViewCovid-19 or no Covid-19, pollution caused by stubble burning has been a major cause for concern in Delhi and its surrounding areas for the past several years. Only a sustained effort and sincere commitment to end the health menace by all parties concerned can end this crisis. Track the pollution level in your cityRecent pictures released by Nasa showed more than 80 sites of stubble burning in Punjab, which is also witnessing farmer protests. The SC’s green bench has been grappling with this issue but its stern warning to the chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to stop crop burning has been largely ineffective in controlling massive air pollution in northern India, especially in Delhi. The green bench was headed by Justice Arun Mishra. But after his retirement on September 2, environment matters have not been taken up every week as was the norm with the green bench. Seeking urgent hearing of the stubble burning case, Salve told a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde that “crop burning has already started and it requires urgent steps”. The bench said it was on the same page with Salve and directed listing of the matter on October 6. The SC has been acting tough with the governments of Punjab and Haryana and had told them to incentivise farmers, rather than punishing them, to dissuade them from resorting to stubble burning after the harvest. In November last year, the SC had summoned the chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and pulled them up the lethargic work done to stop stubble burning. It had stopped all construction activities in Delhi and NCR to ease dust caused increase in pollution levels. Meanwhile, the PIL filed by the two students said though the stubble burning season was yet to begin, farmers in Punjab and Haryana had started their annual ritual as seen from pictures released by Nasa, which showed that the two states had failed in their effort and commitments before the SC to stop crop burning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fractional-increase-in-pm2-5-could-raise-covid-death-rate-by-8-plea/articleshow/78373863.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Week-long Gaajna Paryatan Mahotsav commences to promote lesser-touched tourist spots||UTTARKASHI: The traditional Gaajna Paryatan Mahotsav commenced at Thaandi village in Dunda block of Uttarkashi on Monday. The objective of the week-long fest, organised with the joint efforts of Himalaya Paryavaran Jadi Booti Agro Sansthan (JADI) and Himalayan Aero Sports Association, is to promote lesser-touched tourist destinations of the region and to boost the local economy. In the wake of Covid-19, the fest was formally inaugurated by Gangotri MLA Gopal Rawat virtually. While addressing the villagers digitally, he appreciated the efforts of the organising committee and announced an amount of nearly Rs 3 crore for the construction of a fully-equipped primary health centre in the Gaajna region. After the inauguration ceremony, villagers performed folk dances on the tunes of traditional music instruments and later, held a meeting to find out the possibilities of tourism-based employment in the region. Dwarika Semwal, secretary of JADI, said, “There are immense possibilities for tourism-based employment in the Gaajna region. Therefore, we are planning to develop Kamad-Kushkalyan tourist circuit, which will connect many tourist spots like Bhayuni meadow, Sem Mukhem, Budha Kedar, and Tehri lake. This event is one such effort to promote lesser-touched tourist destinations of the region and to boost the local economy.” He added, “During the week-long event, we will organise training sessions on paragliding, bird watching, tent pitching, and hospitality. Besides, we will also make the villagers aware of homestays and other beneficial government schemes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/week-long-gaajna-paryatan-mahotsav-commences-to-promote-lesser-touched-tourist-spots/articleshow/78370911.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic proves traumatic for special kids and their families||MANGALURU: The pandemic is proving hard on children with special needs and their families, prompting parents to urge schools to reopen. Some parents have even tried reaching out to the director of the department for empowerment of differently-abled and senior citizens, to request the government to consider reopening special schools. A parent working in Sirsi wrote on behalf of 15 others to Saadhya Residential School and Vocational Training Centre for Specially Abled, Hospet, saying he is willing to admit his son as a boarder. He said he was finding it difficult to deal with his son, who suffers from hyperactivity disorder. The boy refuses to listen to his mother and even attacks her. “Like me, there are several parents who are willing to get their children admitted to residential schools. The admissions would be at our own risk and after requisite medical tests,” he wrote. There are around 200 special schools in the state, but managements are worried about the risks involved. Arathi KT, founder of Saadhya Trust and vice-president of Special Olympics Bharat (Karnataka), said parents want to admit their children in residential schools as they cannot deal with them at home. “Learning is a continuous process and most children with special needs listen to their teachers rather than parents. Many parents are badly affected due to their prolonged stay at home,” she said. Vasanth Kumar Shetty, administrator, Saanidhya Residential School, Mangaluru, said parents must consider this an opportunity to learn and train their children. “Re-opening schools during the pandemic is risky because it is going to be very difficult to get these children to even wear masks. Children with Down’s syndrome often have a running nose. We are waiting for government orders. Even if the government grants permission, students will be observed for the first 15 days and after evaluation and assessment of each child, we will chalk out a plan with a short-term goal. In most cases, we will have to start training from zero,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-proves-traumatic-for-special-kids-and-their-families/articleshow/78371285.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Restaurateurs, retailers upset about new timings||Ahmedabad: The restriction on timings imposed by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has not augured well with businesses, especially retailers and restaurateurs. AMC has directed to shut all shops, markets and restaurants after 10pm, along some 27 road stretches across Ahmedabad, citing blatant violation of social distancing and not wearing masks by people. While some retailers have accepted the decision in the interest of public health, most are against the rules, especially restaurateurs and hoteliers. “The decision of the civic authorities is respected, however, the question continues to remain as to why retailers and restaurateurs be penalised for no fault of theirs. The decision will come as a huge blow to the restaurants and eateries and some retailers who keep their stores open till late,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). Along with roadside eateries and restaurants, even in-house restaurants of big hotels will have to shut shop for outsiders. “In-house restaurants at hotels should not entertain outside guests after 10pm. Dine-in may only be allowed for in-room guests, while encouraging in-room dining services,” said senior officials of solid waste management department of the AMC, which has been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring social distancing norms being maintained. Sources confirmed that AMC teams will conduct random checks across hotels after 10pm and if at all an outside guest is found to be dining in at the restaurant, the restaurant will be fined. Industry players suggest that in the wake of the upcoming festive season, hotel and restaurant industry will be at a major loss of revenue – a business which has barely begun recovering since a month and a half. “The business has barely recovered up to 60-70% levels against pre-Covid period. Even though garba won’t be held during Navratri, restaurants were expecting good business at night. However, with such restrictions in place, the business will once again take a major hit,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA), Gujarat. Hoteliers are also of the opinion that enforcing responsible public behaviour cannot be the sole responsibility of commercial establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurateurs-retailers-upset-about-new-timings/articleshow/78372212.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uma Bharti came in direct contact with over 55 people during her visit to Badrinath||DEHRADUN: As many as 30 people – including six priests of the Badrinath shrine -- were identified as primary contacts of former Union minister and national vice-president of BJP Uma Baharti in Badrinath which she visited on Thursday. In Joshimath, which is the gateway town to Badrinath, Bharti is believed to have met around 25 people during her two-day-long stay. Speaking to TOI, Dr GS Rana, chief medical officer of Chamoli, said that the health department has started taking samples of all these primary contacts and reports of their RT-PCR test is expected to come by Wednesday. “As per our primary report of contact tracing, she met around 55 people during her visit to Badrinath and Joshimath. Contact tracing is still going on,” he added. Meanwhile, Bharti, who soon after testing positive on Saturday, had tweeted that she had isolated herself in an ashram situated between Haridwar and Rishikesh, was moved to the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Monday. Tweeting about her move to the hospital, Bharti said that she was admitted to AIIMS as her fever had increased during the night. “If I get a positive feedback on my health from the doctors of AIIMS, then I want to appear in the CBI court of Lucknow the day after tomorrow,” she further tweeted. She also refuted allegations that she had proceeded on her journey to Badrinath against the advice of doctors. “All such allegations are baseless. I underwent a Covid test at Rudraprayag and was found negative. I was not told by doctors to stay on at Rudraprayag for two days as has been reported. I was found healthy on all parameters but still, stayed on for the second day of my accord,” she tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uma-bharti-came-in-direct-contact-with-over-55-people-during-her-visit-to-badrinath-all-her-primary-contacts-to-be-tested-over-2-days-says-health-dept/articleshow/78370897.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal sets up one more border observation post, its sixth, along the border adjoining Uttarakhand||PITHORAGARH: Nepal on Sunday established one more Border Observation Post (BOP) at Datu in Darchula district, the sixth such outpost adjoining the border with Uttarakhand that the country has set up ever since it started registering its protest on the Kalapani issue in May this year. The BOP was inaugurated by Nepalese Armed Police Force (APF) DIG Harishankar Budhathoki. Sources told TOI that while inaugurating the BOP at Datu, which lies opposite Tawaghat area of Dharchula in Pithoragarh district, Budhathoki said that the aim of setting up the BOP is to check border crime, illegal crossings, and make the border more secure. Since May, Nepal has set up BOPs at Dumling, Jauljibi, Lali, Jhulaghat and Pancheshwar areas along the border with Uttarakhand. Sources said that two more BOPs are likely to be set up shortly in Sunsera and Kauva areas of Darchula as well. Notably a few days ago, as reported by TOI, Nepal’s minister for home affairs, Ram Bahadur Thapa had laid the foundation stone of the battalion headquarters for Nepalese Armed Police Force (APF) in Chhangru area, which borders Kalapani. During the event, Thapa is believed to have told mediapersons that a multi-utility building will be constructed in the area for the APF at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore within one year. The Indo-Nepal border adjoining Nepal has been tense since May when defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 80-km-long Ghatiabagarh-Lipulekh road. The Nepalese government had claimed that the road runs through its territory. Subsequently, the Nepalese parliament also released a map which showed Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh as part of its territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-sets-up-one-more-border-observation-post-its-sixth-along-the-border-adjoining-ukhand/articleshow/78370927.cms||Prem Punetha
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops shouldn’t harass traders: GCCI||The Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) on Monday made a representation to police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava, seeking his intervention over incidents of alleged police harassment of traders. The representation was made after a video showed cops in plainclothes confronting shopkeepers for not wearing masks — when they were alone in the shop — went viral. While acknowledging the need for social distancing and wearing masks, the GCCI cited the difficulties faced by traders during the pandemic and wanted such incidents to be discouraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-shouldnt-harass-traders-gcci/articleshow/78372221.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||After success in city, Op Shakti to keep women safe in UP||Lucknow: After successfully implementing ‘Operation Shakti’ in six districts, leading to crackdown on 2,200 accused, IG Lucknow range Laxmi Singh on Monday gave a detailed presentation to the chief minister about the whole operation. The model of ‘Shakti’ implemented in Lucknow will be implemented across the state now. ADG Prayagraj zone Prem Prakash has given orders for his zone. Giving operational details of the model, Singh told TOI that all crimes against women and those under protection of children from sexual offences Act were taken up under Operation Shakti. The first step was mapping places where incidents of harassment, teasing and stalking were frequent. They were marked as vulnerable spots by the police. Later, women cops were asked to patrol along with ‘anti-Romeo squads’. Those nabbed were first counselled publicly and repeat offenders were booked, she said. Singh also said that in the next phase, names of offenders would be written by constables in the crime register along with addresses and phone numbers. The beat constables in each village would be asked to keep a record about them, while an officer of the rank of circle officer will check the register every month. She further explained that a personal bond will be made to be signed by the repeat offenders and their parents publicly. “This is to create pressure on elders to monitor their child or activities of their younger ones,” she added. If violators continue their act of indulging in crime against women, they will be booked under Gangster Act, as decided after consultation with lawyers. “Awareness campaigns in each village about crime against women will also be organised from time-to-time. The whole motive of the operation is to make women feel secure and aware of their rights,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-success-in-city-op-shakti-to-keep-women-safe-in-up/articleshow/78374561.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||The Ugly Indians pack Covid awarness with hygiene messages||BENGALURU: The Ugly Indians is partnering with BBMP to execute wall paintings and custom-designed posters on Covid-19 helplines at over 300 locations in interior areas of Bommanahalli and East Zone in Bengaluru. This project is supported by Azim Premji Foundation and is aimed at reaching those who are traditionally left out of healthcare and communication plans. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, BBMP had set up dedicated Covid helpline numbers in each zone to handle Covid-related queries and dispense information on testing and hospitalisation. The helplines, which work 24x7, have provided lakhs of Bengalureans answers to questions and set anxieties at rest. However, the Palike is facing a challenge in spreading awareness on these numbers, especially among vulnerable and disadvantaged communities as most of these people are out of the traditional media and social media loop. A volunteer from The Ugly Indians said, “These interventions achieve more than one objective — spreading awareness on the helpline and creating a space transformation that visibly improves cleanliness and public hygiene. This builds trust in vulnerable communities which the government is keen on helping and is very crucial at this point. This is particularly important in low-income and densely populated areas, as they are more vulnerable to Covid-19 and have less access to healthcare and support.” The posters used are 10ft x 2.5ft and adhere to all SWM guidelines since they are free of plastic or flex. The wall paintings are 20ft x 5ft or larger based on the size of the wall. The posters or paintings are in Kannada, English and even Urdu. Randeep D, special commissioner (solid waste management) said, “The initiative meets two objectives: Communication outreach and improving public hygiene and cleanliness. Although awareness was created using bus shelters and newspapers this will reach those areas where papers don’t reach.” The Ugly Indians had worked with BBMP teams (pourakarmikas, health inspectors and marshals) to beautify and eliminate black spots in Sagayapuram (ward 60), in Pulakeshinagar constituency and painted helpline numbers in these places. This is an example of eliminating open garbage spots and spreading word on the Covid helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-ugly-indians-pack-covid-awarness-with-hygiene-messages/articleshow/78371325.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
September 29, 2020||Goa||At 4,916, active cases show slight dip, 6 deaths take count to 408||Panaji: The state’s tally of active cases dropped marginally to 4,916. However, the mortality count went up to 408 with six casualties. As many as 438 new cases of Covid-19 were reported as against the sample size of 1,452 and 612 recoveries. Three deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim and one each from the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, primary health centre, Sanguem and a private hospital in South Goa. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said that a 59-year-old man from Sanguem, who was rushed to the primary health centre, died within half-an-hour. It was not known if he had any comorbidity. Five men — a 50-year-old from Bastora-Mapusa, a 64-year-old from Khorlim-Mapusa, a 63-year-old from Canca-Verla, a 68-year-old from Salcete and a 50-year-old from Aldona — succumbed to the virus. Of these, two had no comorbidities. On Monday, Panaji reported 19 new cases with at least five testing positive in Bhatlem. Other cases were found in Ribandar, Altinho, Miramar and Dona Paula. The majority of those who tested positive opted for home isolation. Only a few were taken to the Covid care centre at the Shama Prasad Mukerjee stadium, Bambolim. Panaji’s tally of active cases stood at 391, 86 less than that of Porvorim. In North Goa, Porvorim has the highest number of active cases . Numbers dropped at the Sakhali community health centre with the count at 365 cases. Other centres such as at Bicholim, Mapusa are also witnessed marginal dip. Valpoi and Pernem centres had 219 and 209 active cases each. Corlim primary health centre had a total of 203 active cases. In South Goa, Margao’s count was at 350, Vasco had 295 cases and Cortalim 265 cases. Covid infections reported from Ponda are under control due to higher number of recoveries reported on Monday. The PHC’s tally stood at 66.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-4916-active-cases-show-slight-dip-6-deaths-take-count-to-408/articleshow/78373886.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active cases surge in city’s west to 1,954||Ahmedabad: The number of active cases are on the rise in the city, especially in its west. The number of active cases crossed the 3,800-mark on Monday. The western part of the city reported 1,954 active cases of the total of 3,810 cases. In the first week of August, the number of active cases had dropped below 3,000. From May, when the number of cases began increasing, the number of active cases in Ahmedabad city stayed about 4,000. Since July 1, the number of active cases in the city settled at about 3,200. And for the first time, in the first week of August, the number of active cases dropped below 3,000. However, since September 1, the cases again registered an increase and this time it was the western part of the city which was reporting a spurt. According to AMC officials, on Monday morning the number of cases was the highest (679) in the West Zone comprising areas such as Paldi, Ranip, Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, and Navrangpura. This was followed by 669 cases in the areas of the North West Zone such as Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Chandlodia, and Ghatlodia. The zone with the third highest cases was the South West covering Jodhpur, Bopal-Ambli, Sarkhej, Vejalpur, and Maktampura. The contribution of other zones to the 3,810 active cases are: 367 from central, 375 from north, 548 from east, and 566 from south. Officials said that since the lockdown was relaxed, the western part of the city has had 600 cases constantly. As on Monday morning, the total number of cases in the city was 33,691 of which 28,299 were discharges and 1,760 were deaths. The city now has 84% discharge rate while the active cases are 11% of the total. A health official said that with the corporation testing aggressively and carrying out intensive surveillance, the cases are recording an uptick again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-surge-in-citys-west-to-1954/articleshow/78372289.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||City has most cases for 2nd day straight||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,404 new Covid cases, taking its total to 1.34 lakh. It was the fifth consecutive day the state recorded 1,400-plus cases. The new cases included 302 from Surat, 210 from Ahmedabad, 148 from Rajkot, 141 from Vadodara, and 95 from Jamnagar. For Ahmedabad district, it was 200-plus daily cases after 67 days whereas for Surat district, it was the second day of 300-plus cases in 67 days. Ahmedabad city on the second consecutive day recorded the highest cases in the state with 180 cases. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad reached 36,541, Surat reached 28,475, Vadodara 11,824 and Rajkot 8,952. The state also recorded deaths of 12 Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,431. Surat recorded five deaths, followed by three in Ahmedabad, two in Rajkot and one each from Vadodara and Bharuch. The total deaths in Ahmedabad are now 1,806, 757 in Surat, 182 in Vadodara and 139 in Rajkot. Gujarat recorded discharges of 1,336 patients in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.14 lakh. The discharges include 290 from Surat, 210 from Ahmedabad, 161 from Vadodara, 75 from Jamnagar, and 63 from Dahod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-has-most-cases-for-2nd-day-straight/articleshow/78372284.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Bids for conducting SPPU final year centralised online exam open today||PUNE: Entities with a minimum Rs 30 crore annual turnover, experience of conducting examination for at least three lakh students in a year and the experience of holding online examination for at least 20,000 students in a single session or concurrently can file the tender for the online examination of the Savitribai Phule PuneUniversity (SPPU). The selected player will conduct the online and offline examination, that would decide the fate of over 2.5 lakh final year students of SPPU. The university has decided on a centralised examination process and has invited online bids for it. The tenders were to be opened on Monday evening but due to technical issues, the commercial bids would be opened on Tuesday, said university officials. Meanwhile, students from university departments said that autonomous departments that had earlier released their time tables have retracted them and said that the final examinations have been postponed. “The time-table that was issued to us earlier had said that the examination would begin on October 5. But now the latest message says that as per the new circular received from the university the exams would begin from October 10 instead,” a final year commerce department student said. A senior official from the university said, “The entire assessment would be done by them and the marks will be shared with us. Post that, we would convert these marks into out of 100 or 80 or whatever the case may be and then compile the final results.” The tender documents make it clear that the examinations are required to be secured using live as well as Artificial Intelligence-based secured system. The tender documents said that a dedicated helpdesk needs to be provided by the party conducting the exam. “The university has also planned offline examinations parallel to online exams for the students who do not wish to opt for online examinations. In this scenario university already has a traditional Online Question Paper Delivery system in place. However, for those students question paper will be generated from the same question bank which is being used for online examination,” the document added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bids-for-conducting-sppu-final-year-centralised-online-exam-open-today/articleshow/78373879.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 29, 2020||Dehradun||Piles of garbage turn Haridwar’s ponds into crocodile nesting sites||DEHRADUN: About 15 days ago, a man in Dungarpur opened the door to his toilet to find a crocodile in the corner. Then, on Sunday, a farmer in Fatwa found one in his courtyard. Three days before that, a nine-year-old girl picking flowers near a pond was killed in a crocodile attack at Panditpuri. There has been an alarming spike in human-crocodile conflict in Haridwar, and the reason is garbage. Uttarakhand has witnessed sporadic instances of such conflict. In the past two and a half years, there have been 52 cases — three died, and all had entered farmlands, forest department data TOI accessed showed. Every year, around this time, floodwaters of the Suwali, Banganga and Ganga rivers recede, leaving vast stretches of marshy land for crocodiles to arrive in. This year, the surge has been extraordinary. Of the 52, there have been 24 crocodile rescues in just the past three months, and only in Haridwar’s Laksar range, a highly-placed source told TOI. “We have sounded crocodile alerts and asked residents to stay away from ponds and marshy areas, especially children and the elderly. Crocodiles with offspring are more defensive,” said Haridwar divisional forest officer Neeraj Verma. Experts attributed this to three things — the human population in the Banganga wetlands is going up, the population of crocodiles is as well, and, in what they called a “strange phenomenon”, water bodies are getting choked by solid waste, making them perfect nesting sites for crocodiles. “With heaps of waste dumped in water bodies, many ponds have turned into marshy garbage dumps. Crocodiles have begun nesting there,” said DFO Verma. The choked ponds are like the marshy patches they are partial to. So, the crocodile attacks have moved away from forest areas to human habitations. Besides, there is easy access to food. “We are patrolling the area. It has many ponds and we are flooded with calls to rescue crocodiles that have turned up where they live,” said Gaurav Aggarwal, forest range officer of the Laksar range. His team had rescued the crocodile in Satwa on Sunday. The new phenomenon has also led to new problems. “Crocodiles cannot be tranquilised. The ponds are very deep at some points and so choked in others that nets can’t be spread,” Aggrawal added. The crocodile that killed the nine-year-old, meanwhile, has not been spotted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/piles-of-garbage-turn-haridwars-ponds-into-crocodile-nesting-sites/articleshow/78370949.cms||Shivani Azad
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Daily cases, positivity rate show downward trend in UP||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh’s average daily cases and positivity rate have recorded a fall and so are active cases which have dropped significantly over the past 10 days. Active cases, which saw a sharp rise mid-July onwards, have come down from their peak of 68,235 on September 16 to 53,953 on Monday. In a report prepared by additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad on the 16 sensitive districts which had recorded 100 cases or more daily in the past week, Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar and Lakhimpur Kheri are the only three districts which have shown a rise in average daily cases on September 25-26 in comparison to cases recorded between September 18-26. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to prepare a special plan for Meerut, Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri. The CM had appointed 16 nodal officers to visit all these 16 districts and submit their reports on the basis of which action will be taken to control the virus. Gautam Budh Nagar and Lakhimpur Kheri have been asked to pull up their socks,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home. Lucknow, which is reporting the highest number of daily cases in the state, has a positivity rate of 11.2 in RTPCR cases currently with 655 average daily cases. Cases here started rising from July 3 to July 9 when 106 cases were reported daily with a positivity rate of 7.9. The city’s highest average cases of 996 were reported on September 11-17 while the positivity rate was highest at 21.5 during September 4-10. In Kanpur, current daily average cases are 240 with an RTPCR positivity rate of 6.7. The highest daily average cases of 405 were reported from September4-10, while the highest positivity rate of 24.9 was reported from July 31 to August 6. Since then, the positivity rate has been falling. Meerut’s daily average cases and RTPCR positivity rate have been rising from July 31 to August 6 and currently are at their highest at 217 cases and 11.8 respectively. In Gautam Budh Nagar, a sharp rise in cases and positivity rate was reported under Unlock-1. During June 19-25, when they started rising, the daily average cases were 85 with a positivity rate of 27.6. Currently, the positivity rate is down to 14.7 but daily average cases is 200. Lakhimpur Kheri has seen two peaks till now. Cases here started rising sharply during August 14-20 and dipped during the August 28-September 3 week when the positivity rate came down from 15.5 to 2.5. Currently, daily average cases are 168 while RTPCR positivity rate is 16.7. Awasthi said that among districts which have managed to bring down the spread of infection are Ghaziabad, Agra, Hardoi, Moradabad, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Baghpat and Lalitpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/daily-cases-positivity-rate-show-downward-trend-in-up/articleshow/78374571.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pvt hospitals to pool beds, revive helpline||Ahmedabad: On Monday morning, close to 90% of the 147 ICU beds at 64 private hospitals in the city were occupied. Overall occupancy was more than 83% of the 1,820 beds. The figures, based on an Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) update, do not include beds requisitioned by the AMC. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, told TOI that after about 20 days, the association will restart its helpline for member hospitals. “At the beginning of the month, we used to get 50 inquiries daily and would guide patients/relatives on nearest available beds,” he said. “But then the cases dipped and the service was discontinued.” Dr Gadhvi said that pooling of beds has begun through internal groups to quickly identify vacancies. “The idea is to ensure we cater to patients to the best of our capacity,” he said. For two days, Ahmedabad city has been topping the number of new patients, surpassing Surat city which had for two months retained top position. The occupancy issue is not at government-run hospitals, AMC officials said. “Ample beds are available at private hospitals under the AMC quota and at state-run hospitals,” O P Machra, the deputy municipal commissioner, told a news agency on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-hospitals-to-pool-beds-revive-helpline/articleshow/78372324.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Labourer’s son tops polytechnic engg entrance||Lucknow: Hailing from Narayanpur village on the Varanasi-Mirzapur border, 18-year-old Pankaj KumarPatel pedalled seven kms every day to reach school on time. When results of UP polytechnic entrance exam were declared on Monday, Pankaj was on cloud nine as he emerged as the state topper in the engineering group, the most sought after course by candidates. He scored 390 marks out of 400. Sonali Verma from Ambedkar Nagar emerged as topper among the girls by scoring 356 marks out of 400. “I wanted to score good, but never thought would top the exams,” said Pankaj, who lives in a rented room in Varanasi from where he appeared for the polytechnic entrance test organised by the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) council on September 12. Son of a daily wage worker Vijay Patel, Pankaj’s aim is to crack civil services. “I have always seen struggles in life. My father doesn’t miss his work even for a single day. I feel poverty should not be a hurdle in achieving success,” he said. According to details shared by additional chief secretary (technical education) S Radha Chauhan, the UPJEE Council will begin counselling for admissions to engineering and other courses from September 30. Over 3.4 lakh candidates had registered for the UPJEE for various courses. While 2.34 lakh took the exam, 2.23 lakh were declared successful. Of the total, the highest of 2.78 lakh had registered for engineering courses. Of this, 1.92 lakh took the exam, while 1.85 lakh qualified. The group A (engineering) saw 1,59,000 lakh males and 26,527 females. UPJEE is a gateway for admission to engineering and other courses in 1,382 polytechnics in the state. Of this, 150 are government-run, 19 aided and 1,213 are private polytechnics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/labourers-son-tops-polytechnic-engg-entrance/articleshow/78374587.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Students in rural areas with no network, books return for tests||PUNE: Students from rural parts of the state, who have relatives or friends in Pune, have started returning to the city to prepare, and appear for the final-year examinations scheduled by Savitribai Phule Pune University in October. Although the university has given a choice of appearing for the examination online as well as offline, students chose to return due to poor network in their villages, and because many had left their textbooks in the hostels, and had no other material to study. Some said they felt more confident about appearing for the exams in the city as it was easier to approach the officials in case of a technical problem during the exam. Tejas Sonar, a final-year mechanical engineering student said he came back from Jalgaon to Pune along with his room-mates so that they can study well for the examinations. The apartment which Sonar and his friends were staying in was kept as is by his landlord. “They also didn’t ask for rent from us for all the months that we were away. Though our parents are scared of us coming to Pune at this time, there is no other way as we study better here in our rooms,” Sonar said. Sahil Patel, a fifth-year law student from Solapur has also returned and is staying at his relative’s house in Pune. “I was staying in a rented flat but after the lockdown, we vacated it. There is no network in my village and even electricity is a major problem. If I faced a technical problem during the exam there would be no way to contact the university. But in Pune, there are lakhs of students, and if there is a technical problem, all of us will face it together and there would be a better chance of getting it resolved,” he said. Patel said some publications were also offering question banks with multiple-choice questions which he would have missed if he was back home. “I have borrowed a friend’s book but I will be buying my own. The university exams will be MCQ-based and we have no practice taking such exams. The students who are back in the city are helping others,” he said. Kamalakar Shete, a student from Ahmednagar district is also back in the city to prepare for his final year postgraduate examination.“From photocopies of notes and other study material to access to the university, everything is available in the city so despite the pandemic, we are back. We have hardly studied for the past six months, the MCQ model is new, and the university has not provided any question bank. I am quite stressed about the exam,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-in-rural-areas-with-no-network-books-return-for-tests/articleshow/78373905.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Controversial YouTuber held, charged under IT Act||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The police on Monday arrested Vijay P Nair for sexually explicit comments made against women in videos on his YouTube channel. The vlogger was picked up from his residence in Kalliyoor. A team of police officials from Museum station had earlier in the day searched the room he rented at a lodge near Gandhariyamman Kovil, here, but found it empty. He has charged with non-bailable offences, including section 67 and 67 (A) of the IT Act. Section 67 (A) of the Act states: “Whoever publishes or transmits or causes to be published or transmitted in the electronic form any material which contains sexually explicit act or conduct shall be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees and in the event of second or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and also with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees.” Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and social justice minister K K Shailaja said on Sunday the government will take stringent action against persons indulging in such activity. The Indian Association of Clinical Psychologists meanwhile initiated action against Vijay, who claims to be a PhD holder in clinical psychology from a university in Chennai. This follows revelations that no such UGC-recognized institution exists. Police also charged dubbing artist Bhagyalakshmi and activists Diya Sana and Sreelakshmi Arackal, who had manhandled Vijay. They were slapped with non-bailable sections, 294B, 323 and 452, that deal with uttering expletives in public, trespassing private property and causing voluntary hurt. The trio submitted an anticipatory bail plea in the district sessions court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/controversial-youtuber-held-charged-under-it-act/articleshow/78372308.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||High cadmium levels in fly ash at 2 waste plants in Delhi||NEW DELHI: High cadmium levels have been found in the fly ash at two out of the three waste-to-energy plants in the capital. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had recently carried out an inspection at all the three plants. In a report prepared following a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order, which had directed inspections to be carried out every four months, CPCB has asked the Bawana and the Ghazipur waste-to-energy plants to identify the source of high cadmium in the fly ash being generated. It asked them to look at solutions to utilise 100 per cent of the fly ash instead of simply dumping it at landfill sites. Experts say cadmium is highly toxic in nature and exposure to it can cause cancer in the long term. It also targets the cardiovascular, renal, gastrointestinal, neurological, reproductive and respiratory systems. At the Bawana plant, the cadmium content in the fly ash was found to be 5.12 mg/l as opposed to a standard of 1 mg/l and lesser. Similarly at the Ghazipur plant, the cadmium content was found to be 2.75 mg/l during the inspection. “The plant(s) should identify the source of cadmium and minimise the same so as to bring the cadmium concentration levels in the fly ash within the stipulated limits (1 mg/l),” said the CPCB report, a copy of which is with TOI. CPCB also found that the Ghazipur plant required a fresh consent to operate from Delhi Pollution Control Committee, after its previous one expired on December 12, 2018. The report, however, added the plant had applied for a fresh consent to operate. All three plants have also been asked to take all necessary measures to ensure that concentration levels of all monitored parameters in the stack emissions are within the stipulated limits, while also ensuring fugitive emissions within the standards set. The Okhla plant has been asked to install a continuous ambient air quality monitoring system (CAAQMS) at the earliest after pollution levels in the surroundings emerged as a concern, while the Ghazipur plant, which already has a CAAQMS, has been asked to ensure it is functioning 24x7 and displays readings outside through an electronic board. Delhi’s three waste-to-energy plants collectively produce 52 MW of power. The CPCB report has suggested proper segregation of waste to improve plant functioning and power generation, particularly at Bawana. In terms of PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentration, readings were observed to be highest outside the Bawana plant, which were around three times the standards set, while it was below the prescribed limit at Ghazipur. At Okhla, both PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels were just above the prescribed limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-cadmium-levels-in-fly-ash-at-2-waste-plants/articleshow/78373923.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CBI questions Unitac MD about Life Mission funds||KOCHI: CBI, which is probing Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) violations in Life Mission housing project at Wadakkancherry, questioned Santhosh Eappen, MD of Unitac Builders, on Monday. “He is the first accused and there is nothing surprising about questioning him. There are several details that need to be examined before proceeding with further investigation,” said a CBI officer. The project was funded by UAE Red Crescent and the acceptance of funds by the builder –directly from the foreign entity –led to the alleged FCRA violation. CBI sources said that he was being questioned to get clarity on certain details regarding funds received for the project. Sources said that CBI had already questioned him on Saturday and he was summoned on Monday. Eappen reached the CBI office by 5.30pm along with his lawyer and was let off a few hours later. Sources said CBI is also looking into the process that led to Unitac’s selection. “As per the complaint, the firm was selected without following proper tender norms. It must be found how the firm got selected for receiving funds from a foreign entity. Also, the amount of government involvement in the firm’s selection process must be investigated. If government didn’t know about the selection, that too would be probed since the project was carried out in partnership with Life Mission on government land,” sources said. CBI, which has arraigned unknown officials of Life Mission as accused in the case, has sought project details from Life Mission. CBI is likely to quiz Life Mission CEO UV Jose soon as he had signed an MoU with the UAE consulate. Other officials will also be quizzed, sources said. CBI will also quiz Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in gold smuggling case as she acted as a go-between in these dealings. A commission of over three crores was allegedly given which agencies claimed was shared between Swapna, a top UAE consulate official and an Egyptian national who was a consulate staff in Thiruvananthapuram. Eappen had given a statement to enforcement directorate that he had given commission to the persons who are accused in the gold case through bank transfers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbi-questions-unitac-md-about-life-mission-funds/articleshow/78372331.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Heart attacks are another effect of SARS-CoV2 virus, say doctors||BENGALURU: Covid-19 patients who have no history of cardiac disease are showing signs of heart attack post recovery from the infection, say doctors. They say many patients develop clots due to SARS-CoV2, leading to heart attack. Though the clinical presentation of Covid-19 is variable and still unclear, doctors agree that it’s not just a pneumonia-causing virus. There have been several cases of patients with no heart-related ailments facing acute chest pain similar to a heart attack. Dr Vivek Jawali, chairman, cardiac sciences, Fortis Hospitals, said 2-3% of Covid patients experience serious heart-related ailments largely due to variation in inflammation. In 10-12% of recovered patients, non-specific chest pain due to inflammatory changes in the chest is seen, he said, adding that in some cases patients have experienced sinus tachycardias, a condition where the sinus node in the heart sends electrical impulses faster than the normal rate, resulting in an increased heart rate. “Inflammatory cells can affect pre-existing plaques [build-up of fat in the inner lining of arteries]. This leads to heart attacks among Covid patients who have not had heart diseases earlier,” Dr Jawali said. He said some Covid patients also suffer pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis or clots in the heart chambers. Dr Sreekanth B Shetty, senior consultant and head of interventional cardiology, Sakra World hospital, said, “Of the 1,500 Covid-19 patients we have treated at Sakra so far, about 200 patients have had cardiac issues. However, cardiac issues are only a minor event in most cases and most of these patients do not need procedures like angiogram and angioplasty. A clot dissolving injection often does the trick.” However, he cautioned a full-blown heart attack where medicines have no effect could result in death. He cited the example of a 40-year-old who was brought to the emergency unit of the hospital a couple of months ago after he suffered a brain stroke and heart attack simultaneously. The man also tested positive for Covid-19. “The patient did not survive,” Dr Shetty said. While blood thinners are commonly administered to Covid patients, Dr Jawali said use of a phrase like ‘blood thinners’ is confusing. Instead words like antiplatelets or anticoagulants should be used. Antiplatelets help prevent platelets from sticking to each other and forming blood clots. “Covid patients are also given anticoagulatory medicines which help in inhibiting clot formation. This is to ensure uninterrupted flow of blood,” he said. Dr M Manjappa, interventional cardiologist, JSS Hospital, Mysuru, said since Covid-19 is a new disease, nobody has complete details and hence nothing can be said dogmatically. “It resembles pneumonia. The virus disrupts the inner clotting prevention mechanism in the veins, leading to vasculitis or inflammation in the blood vessel,” he said. “While many patients are given antiplatelet medicine during hospitalisation, others also need anticoagulatory medicines.” The most worrying factor is sudden death post recovery, after 14-20 days after discharge, he said. “For some patients we prescribe anticoagulatory medicines post discharge to dissolve blood clots and not antiplatelets alone (like aspirin),” Dr Manjappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/heart-attacks-are-another-effect-of-sars-cov2-virus-say-doctors/articleshow/78371392.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 29, 2020||Pune||Metro tunnel on Civil Court to agriculture college stretch complete||PUNE: The digging of the first tunnel on the 1.6km-long Agriculture college-Civil Court underground stretch has been completed, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation said on Monday. Two tunnel boring machines (TBMs) were placed in a shaft at the Agriculture college for digging tunnels towards the Civil Court station. Of the two machines, one reached the Civil Court interchange station site after 10 months, covering a distance of 1.6km. On Monday, the process of pulling out the machine started. Officials from the MahaMetro said, “The TBM, which achieved a breakthrough on Monday, was stopped at a distance of about 150 metres before the site of Civil Court station. A 150metre-long tunnel has been dug towards the location of TBM. On Monday, the section of rock was removed to achieve a breakthrough. When the breakthrough happened, the centre of the TBM cutter was just 10mm offset than the designated location. The permissible deviation is 100mm. This signifies the accuracy in tunnelling,” the officials added. The breakthrough has paved the way for pulling out the TBM from the tunnel. The second TBM is expected to achieve a similar breakthrough soon. MahaMetro officials said the breakthrough was achieved on schedule due to planning and execution despite the challenges of Covid-19. Utmost care and precautions were taken while following the Covid-19 protocol, they added. The TBMs have travelled via Shivajinagar- Simla office chowk, CoEP grounds and Civil Court towards the Civil Court station site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-tunnel-on-civil-court-to-agri-college-stretch-complete/articleshow/78373920.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Nasa images show fires in Haryana too||NEW DELHI: After Punjab, cases of stubble burning have now slowly started rising in Haryana as well, National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (Nasa) satellite images have shown. In fact, the smoke being generated through the stubble burning is also being captured on the VIIRS satellite imagery, which showed a high aerosol smoke count stretching across the Indo-Gangetic plains and touching parts of Delhi over the last 24 hours. Pawan Gupta, senior scientist, earth sciences at Nasa’s Marshall Space Flight Centre, said, “Though low in number, fires have started appearing in several places in Haryana. The count of fires was less than five till September 14 in Haryana but it reached between 20 and 25 on September 27.”  Track the pollution level in your cityThe satellite had captured the images of stubble burning in Punjab last week. However, no significant activity was recorded in Haryana earlier. “On Sunday, the aerosol smoke was detected all the way to Delhi,” said Gupta who analysed the satellite images. On Monday, Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was 159, in the ‘moderate’ range. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research on Monday said, “AQI has improved marginally due to high ventilation and rainfall in Rajasthan reducing dust intrusion. High surface winds are expected for the next two days. Favourable ventilation condition is likely to keep Delhi AQI in the moderate category for the next three days. Stubble burning fires observed on Sunday around Punjab and neighbouring border regions.” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said earlier in the month, “Last year, the stubble burning comprised 44% of Delhi’s pollution apart from Delhi's own share of pollutants. In Punjab, around 20 million tonnes of stubble are produced, and around 9 million tonnes of stubble were burned in Punjab in 2019. In Haryana, around 7 million tonnes of stubble are produced, out of which 1.23 million tonnes of stubble were burned last year, due to which people of Delhi had to suffer from major pollution last year.” After early signs of stubble burning had started appearing in satellite imagery, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority last week wrote to both Punjab and Haryana governments stating that action was required to ensure the situation did not get worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nasa-images-show-fires-in-haryana-too/articleshow/78373930.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||North Zone paid Rs 6.4 crore towards Covid bills||Ahmedabad: The civic body’s North Zone office in reply to a recent RTI application has claimed that it has spent more than Rs 6.4 crore in paying bills for treatment at Covid designated hospitals in the zone. The North Zone includes areas like Thakkarnagar, Saraspur, India Colony, Naroda Road, Asarwa, Meghaninagar, Saijpur, Kubernagar, Nobelnagar and Naroda. This was revealed in an RTI application filed by a Jashodanagar resident, Yash Makwana. The AMC’s health department refused to divulge details of how many patients were treated at these designated nine hospitals claiming that the zonal office did not have the information. The data requested pertains to payments made till August 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/north-zone-paid-rs-6-4-crore-towards-covid-bills/articleshow/78372358.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Drugs Free India drive in 33 districts of UP soon||Lucknow: Under the National Action Plan for reduction in use of drugs, the UP Government has given clearance for setting up of a state level Drugs Free India campaign committee to implement the campaign in 33 districts of the state. Social Welfare department said that the committee will be headed by the additional chief secretary or principal secretary of the social welfare department and will have 12 members. This will include the director general of police, principal secretary or secretary, health, a member of the Narcotics Control Bureau, principal secretary, higher education, principal secretary, education, a member of the women and child welfare department, a representative of the information department, a member of an NGO working in the field of drug control nominated by the principal secretary, social welfare, etc. The committee has been tasked with preparing an agenda for implementing the programme in UP, implementing the programmes in sensitive areas, guiding efforts of the district level nashamukt abhiyan, increasing participation in the programme, training, preparing a social media strategy, visiting hospitals, ensuring that there is no sale of cigarettes, etc, within a 100 m area around schools, taking action on reports of sale of drugs. The committee will meet once in two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drugs-free-india-drive-in-33-districts-of-up-soon/articleshow/78374601.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Bandh evokes poor response in coastal districts||Mangaluru/ Udupi/ Karwar: The Karnataka bandh, call given by pro-farmer organisations supported by opposition parties including Congress, CPM, JD(S), SDPI and like-minded forums on Monday, evoked poor response in coastal districts of the state. Normal life was unaffected in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttar Kannada districts. While a protest was held near the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Manaluru, buses, autorickshaws and other private vehicles were plying on the roads in city. While all government offices functioned normally, most of all the shops in the city and other parts of the district remained open. Mangaluru University had postponed its undergraduate and postgraduate exams scheduled for Monday in the wake of the bandh call. Security was beefed up by deploying additional forces in the district. In Dakshina Kannada district police jurisdiction, three ASP/DSP, eight inspectors, 25 SIs, 45 ASIs, 320 police personnel, 50 Home Guards were deployed. There platoons of KSRP and three DAR platoons also kept vigil at BC Road, Puttur, Kalladka, Uppinangady, Sullia and Belthangady. Meanwhile, eight platoons of City Armed Reserve and six platoons of KSRP were deployed in the city limits. Former MLC and Congress leader Ivan D’Souza said: “The amended law has diluted all other laws that protected the agriculture land in the nation. Earlier, only farmers were eligible to buy agriculture land. However now, anybody can own agriculture land. It is an attempt to throw farmers to the streets and thereby help capitalists.” Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha district president Krishnappa Salian said the bills passed by the government will prove a death-knell for farmers in the country. The bandh call evoked no response in Udupi district where educational institutions, public transport system and business and commercial establishments functioned as usual. An attempt to stop the bus service by protesters went in vain after police stopped them from interrupting the services forcefully. Police detained members of various organisations who protested near the Udupi bus stand. The bandh call also failed to evoke any response in Uttara Kannada district. Except Haliyal, life in Karwar, Sirsi, Kumta, Dandeli and Bhatkal and other major towns of the district was normal. Congress workers too did not hit the streets in any part of the district, except Haliyal. Symbolic processions were taken out by some people who were not farmers. In Karwar, life was normal and buses and auto rickshaws plied normally. Shops and fish market were open. Police stopped some activists who tried to block NH-66 near London Bridge. Activities in the commercial port and the fisheries harbour continued unaffected. About 100 workers of various trade organisations took out a procession in the afternoon and submitted a memorandum to the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bandh-evokes-poor-response-in-coastal-districts/articleshow/78372069.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Pune||MSRTC space plea at Wakdewadi terminus, MahaMetro ready to help||Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is seeking more space at Wakdewadi terminus to operate more buses and provide better amenities. The bus terminus was shifted to Wakdewadi from Shivajinagar to facilitate the Metro work at Shivajinagar. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation has constructed the new terminus at Wakdewadi as per MSRTC’s requirements since it is utilising the transport body’s land for Metro work. The MahaMetro has said that it will provide all assistance if MSRTC tables a proposal. MSRTC officials said that the proposal to seek additional space was under consideration. “We are preparing a proposal which will be sent to the state government for consideration. We are also exploring an option if MSRTC gets land on a permanent basis,” the officials said. The plot at Wakdewadi, which is being utilised for MSRTC bus terminus, belongs to the state government’s milk dairy. As per the existing plan, the Wakdewadi terminus will remain in operation at least for the next couple of years till the Metro work at Shivajinagar is underway. There is a plan to relocate the terminus to Shivajinagar after the Metro work is completed. The transport utility has said that it will require more space at Wakdewadi considering the requirements of the next couple of years. “MahaMetro will assist MSRTC if it is asked to provide more amenities at the terminus. MahaMetro is working with MSRTC at Swargate bus terminus as well. Similar assistance is being provided to the transport corporation at Swargate,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-space-plea-at-wakdewadi-terminus-mahametro-ready-to-help/articleshow/78373922.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Work on Life Mission project grinds to a halt||THRISSUR: Construction work on the controversial Life Mission housing complex and health care centre at Charalparambu, near Wadakkanchery, has been suspended. The contracting firm, Unitac, in a letter to Life Mission, said it is suspending the work as no further instructions have been received from UAE Red Crescent, which was funding the project. There were 200-odd workers employed at the construction site. Work on the four apartment complexes was stopped a couple of days back while that of the health care centre ground to a halt on Friday, some workers said. Life Mission sources said they received Unitac’s e-mail communication about suspension of work only on Sunday evening. Meanwhile, people in the sleepy village of Charalparambu are trying to reconcile with the new normal, even as the state has been plunged into multiple controversies over the project. They are baffled by the steady flow of officials, political leaders and media crew to the site, located near a forest area. There are about 120 families on the lower reaches of the hilltop housing the Life Mission project, according to municipal councillor Sathidevi Sasikumar. Though many locals are not aware of the controversies, they have their apprehensions regarding the project’s location.  “Those who will be shifted to the project flats are going to have a tough time. We understand four tube wells were dug near the housing complexes and none were found to contain adequate water. Building a proper road in the high-altitude area will also be tough,’’ says Gopalan, a resident Xavier, who works as a mason and welder, says the quality of construction of the buildings is far from satisfactory. Even the strength of the pillars needs to be verified, he said. CPM leader Anoop Kishore, former vice chairman of the municipality, however denied these charges and said the civic body has earmarked Rs 3.91 crore for providing road connectivity and water supply to the project. There are enough facilities available to test the strength of the buildings, he said. Sathidevi contested these claims and said she was not being informed about aspects of the project coming up in her ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/work-on-life-mission-project-grinds-to-a-halt/articleshow/78372342.cms||T Ramavarman
September 29, 2020||Surat||Husband missing, ailing woman seeks help to stop herself from suicide||Surat: A 60-year-old ailing woman in Valsad, whose husband has gone missing for the last one month, called up 181 Abhayam helpline after she developed suicidal tendencies. “We received a call from an elderly woman on Sunday who said she wanted to end her life because of several problems including illness. Our team immediately rushed to her house and and got the details about her situation. It seemed that her economic condition was not bad as she had retired as a nurse and was getting pension. But she had no children and her husband had gone missing for the last one month,’‘ said helpline counseller. The woman has paralysis and other illnesses and the loneliness only left her more frustrated. “We asked her to lodge a missing persons complaint of her husband with the police station and sent her to a shelter home where she is being taken care of and counselled for depression,” the volunteer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/husband-missing-ailing-woman-seeks-help-to-stop-herself-from-suicide/articleshow/78372348.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Unrest brews over revamp in Congress||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Severe unrest is brewing up within the Congress in the state as more leaders have approached the party high command against group managers. It was a rude shock for KPCC leadership when Benny Behanan and K Muraleedharan tendered their resignations from the UDF convener and KPCC campaign committee chairman posts without even informing the top brass. A day after the incident, two working presidents of KPCC Kodikunnil Suresh and K Sudhakaran, both MPs, have approached the high command alleging that the organizational revamp was done under the whims and fancies of the group managers. They have complained that those who are not affiliated to the ‘A’ or ‘I’ groups are being sidelined in the party. K Muraleedharan came out openly against the party leadership. He said there is no discussion or consultations happening within the party and the party decisions are known through media reports. “I have strong reservations over this style of functioning. But I am not ready to make it public,” he said. Senior leaders, who have no group affiliations, are upset that they were not given due recognition while revamping the party structure. They have alleged that most of the general secretary and secretary posts have been shared between the two groups. The list of nominees for the new posts was not even discussed and the decision was taken by group managers. The neutral leaders have conveyed the unrest over the party revamp to AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar who is in charge of Kerala affairs. They have also alleged that the KPCC president is just obeying the group leaders and he does not have a say in the party. The list submitted by the group leaders were handed over by the KPCC president to the party high command without even having a discussion in the party forum, they alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/unrest-brews-over-revamp-in-congress/articleshow/78372466.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s first ayurveda Covid Care Centre to open in Mysuru soon||Mysuru: The state’s first ayurveda Covid Care Centre will open in Mysuru soon. The 156-bed facility is an initiative of the Ayush department which plans to treat only asymptomatic patients with ayurvedic medicine. Treatment will be based on guidelines issues by the government and Ayush ministry. Patients will receive suggestions on healthy lifestyle practices including diet, yoga and exercise and will be taught sleep schedules to enhance immunity. Suggestions will also be given on how to cope with stress during the pandemic. The centre will function out of a boys’ hostel at Karnataka State Open University campus. Triage system is being set up to assess clinical status before admissions, which will open this week. BS Seethalakshmi, deputy director, Ayush department, said asymptomatic patients will be treated for 10 days and they will have to stay in home isolation for another seven days thereafter. Dedicated ayurveda practitioners will monitor health of patients round-the-clock and will conduct follow-up checks during the home isolation period. If a patient develops symptoms, s/he will be shifted to a Covid hospital. The CCC would be more of an isolation centre where the focus is on enhancing immunity through ayurveda medicine and other general measures. Patients have to volunteer for ayurveda line of treatment and will be provided an option once they test positive, she said. However, Shivaprasad Hudeda, an ayurveda practitioner, said, “In Ayurveda there is no authoritative treatment for Covid and no validated scientific data available too, but there is treatment for similar infections. However, 17 days is too short a period to boost immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-first-ayurveda-covid-care-centre-to-open-in-mysuru-soon/articleshow/78371574.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 29, 2020||Kochi||Probe begins into plaint on theft of idol worth Rs 2cr||Alappuzha: A 12-member police team led by Chengannur DSP P V Baby has started a probe after owners of an idol manufacturing unit lodged a complaint alleging that a panchaloha idol worth Rs 2 crore was stolen on Sunday night from their unit. DSP Baby said that the investigation is on but they haven’t got a clear understanding of the incident since there are some grey areas in the complaint. “As per the complaint, the incident took place in Panickers Granites at Karakkad along the MC Road in Chengannur around 9.30pm on Sunday. The complainants alleged that the accused, led by their former employee, reached their shop and attacked two other employees and stole the 60kg Ayyappa panchaloha idol worth Rs 2 crore. They said that they made the idol for a temple in London,” said Baby. “But we have some doubts about the incident. The place is a residential area and the theft supposedly took place around 9.30pm. If theft was the motive of the accused, the thieves would not come there at 9.30pm since it is residential area along the MC Road. The owners alleged that the accused was led by their former employee who worked for around two months till some days ago. Though the unit had CCTV cameras, all of them were defunct. We found that a six-member gang came there and attacked the employees. The investigation is on. We can share a detailed version of the incident only after arresting the accused,” the DSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/probe-begins-into-plaint-on-theft-of-idol-worth-rs-2cr/articleshow/78372356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Min sets 30-day deadline to reduce power line losses||Lucknow: UP power minister Shrikant Sharma on Monday ordered serving of show cause notice to directors of Madhyanchal and Paschimanchal power distribution companies and chief engineers of 10 districts, including Lucknow and Noida, over poor consumer service, failure to curb line losses and not providing power as per schedule. Presiding over a review meeting to assess the power supply situation, Sharma ordered the officials to bring down the line losses in 2,442 electricity feeders (1,232 in Madhyanchal and 1,010 in Paschimanchal) in 30 days. He said the state government could ensure round the clock power supply only by bringing down line losses. Sharma expressed displeasure over a large number of complaints related to wrong billing and delay in redressal of complaints. He said such instances were denting the image of UP Power Corporation Limited. He asked the managing directors of the distribution companies to dispatch special teams to get the issues examined. He reiterated FIRs be lodged against agencies issuing wrong bills and asked UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar to supervise the whole exercise. The minister also expressed anguish over the issue of distribution transformers developing snags resulting in prolonged power outages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-sets-30-day-deadline-to-reduce-power-line-losses/articleshow/78374605.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Delhi||Toxic chemicals in baby diapers a huge risk: Study||NEW DELHI: A study released by a Delhi-based advocacy organisation raises concern about the presence of toxic phthalates in disposable baby diapers available in the Indian market. Phthalates are endocrine-disrupting chemicals known to cause serious health impacts. The study by Toxics Link, What’s in the Diaper: Presence of Phthalates in Baby Diapers, has found phthalates ranging from 2.36ppm to 302.25ppm in these products collected from local markets and e-commerce sites. For the study, 20 samples from 19 brands were analysed in an NABL-accredited laboratory. TimesViewThe study should be taken seriously and health authorities must investigate further. If their investigations confirm the findings of this study, appropriate action must be taken immediately. The health of children cannot be trifled with.“DEHP, the most toxic phthalate, is restricted or banned in several children products but was found between 2.36ppm and 264.94ppm in the tested samples,” said Alka Dubey, programme coordinator at Toxics Link. Satish Sinha, its associate director, said, “Phthalates are non-covalently bound to polymers used in diapers and are easily released from the products. As a diaper is in direct contact with external genitals of infants and toddlers for several months to years, there are chances of phthalates entering their bodies through dermal absorption. This can cause adverse health impacts on the children.” Phthalates disrupt the endocrine system and can be the cause for multiple ailments such as diabetes, hypertension, obesity and reproductive disorders, said Sinha. “Scientific studies confirm dermal absorption of phthalates from diapers. Besides, the chemical can leach out in the municipal waste stream and pose serious challenges for environment.” Urging immediate steps to phase out phthalates from diapers, the study said the government needed to come up with stringent measures for packaging and labelling of the products as the tested samples did not mention ingredients and chemicals on the packets. “This is a first-of-its-kind study in the country. India has set standards for five common phthalates — DEHP, DBP, BBP, DIDP, DNOP and DINP — in various child products. However, there is no such regulation in place for baby diapers in our country,” said Piyush Mohapatra, senior programme coordinator at Toxics Link.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/toxic-chemicals-in-baby-diapers-a-huge-risk-study/articleshow/78373966.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Lucknow||Al-Qaeda suspect has no criminal history in UP, says ATS||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh anti-terrorist squad (UP ATS), which is looking into the antecedents of suspected Al-Qaeda operative from Saharanpur, Mohammed Gulnawaz, has found that he has no criminal record in the state. An ATS team visited Pullhar, the native village of Gulnawaz in Saharanpur, and found that he initially worked as a welder with a small-time steel fabrication unit and later went to Saudi Arabia where he worked as a driver. Gulnawaz, along with Shuhaib of Kannur (Kerala), were arrested by NIA from Thiruvananthapuram airport on September 22 after they were deported from Saudi Arabia for their alleged links with terror outfit Al-Qaeda. “We found that Gulnawaz belongs to a poor family. His three brothers are employed in local shops and his sister stays at home. His father Wamis is a farmer,” an ATS officer said. The ATS team tried to collect information about Gulnawaz and his family from local residents but did not find anything suspicious. Officials said while NIA is yet to share details about Gulnawaz, ATS is probing how he reached Saudi Arabia in 2008. His deportation took place after the arrest of three alleged Al-Qaeda operatives, Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen, during a raid on a settlement of migrant workers in Kochi. Gulnawaz was in touch with these men from West Bengal through Telegram app. Section 34 of IPC added in Bikru FIR In order to make the case against 42 accused strong, the district’s Chaubeypur police has added section 34 of IPC to the FIR in the July 2 & 3 Bikru ambush that claimed lives of eight policemen, including a deputy SP rank official. “We have added section 34 of IPC. When a criminal act is done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention of all, each of such persons is liable for that act in the same manner as if it were done by him alone for making case strong ,” said SP Brijesh Kumar Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/qaeda-suspect-has-no-criminal-history-in-state-says-ats/articleshow/78374634.cms||---
September 29, 2020||Meerut||As crushing season nears, sugarcane farmers seek higher SAP for the crop||BIJNOR: As the crushing season drew closer, sugarcane farmers in western UP districts have renewed their demand for a higher state advisory price (SAP) for their crop. They are also demanding their dues stuck with the mills, which recently touched Rs 8,700crore. The sugarcane growers are asking for Rs 450 per quintal SAP in place of the current Rs 325. National president of Azad Kisan Union, Rajendra Singh, said, “We have demanded that SAP be hiked from Rs 325 to 450 per quintal. Besides, sugarcane factories are not paying dues on time. New crushing season is set to begin while mills owe Rs 8,700crore to 40 lakhs farmers of the state. If SAP is not hiked and dues are not cleared before the operation of the mills, our outfit will launch a stir.” Kailash Lamba, western UP’s general secretary of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan, accused the government of being anti-farmer. “State and central governments are working against the farmer fraternity. The centre recently passed three farm bills which are totally against them. On the other side, mills are set to start, but sugarcane dues of last year are yet to be cleared.” There are 119 sugar mills in UP. Most of the mill authorities have given tentative dates of the beginning of operation of factories by the second week of October. Additional cane commissioner VK Shukla said, “Preparations have almost been made and we hope mills will start their operation from the second week of October. However, some mills intend to begin operations by November. We are trying to start the crushing season earlier than last year. It will be beneficial for farmers as they will be able to vacate their fields by harvesting sugarcane crops for sowing wheat crops. Here in west UP, most of the farmers grow wheat crops after harvesting sugarcane.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-crushing-season-nears-sugarcane-farmers-seek-higher-sap-for-the-crop/articleshow/78371035.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt again revises definition of containment zones||BENGALURU: With the virus spreading rapidly across the state post-Unlock measures, the government has again revised the definition of containment zones. Now, if there are 20 or more active Covid cases within a radius of 100 metres, the area will be declared a containment zone. The move comes in the wake of the state reporting over 9,000 new cases per day (Bengaluru alone has seen over 4,000 cases per day) and a recent circular from the health department to ensure perimeter control and to increase surveillance-related activities. “We lifted restrictions on all fronts keeping in mind the economy and the livelihood of people,” said health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, who insisted testing has been ramped up significantly. “We had also stopped hard-barricading of areas as part of measures to demystify and remove stigma associated with the disease. But with the number of cases going up, we are re-drawing containment strategies to define the area of operation and to apply perimeter control.” The boundary of the zone will be decided by mapping positive cases in the area, geographical dispersion and a well-demarcated perimeter. Deputy commissioners in districts and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner in Bengaluru will decide on containment zones. The government has also redefined buffer zones. Now a 200-metre radius of a containment zone will be a buffer zone. Door-to-door surveys are to be done on a daily basis in containment zones while similar exercises should be undertaken at least twice a week in buffer zones, the circular added. Sources admitted the pandemic is intensifying in Bengaluru, which now has the most cases among cities after Delhi. While BBMP maintains there are 16 containment zones across the city, sources say around 50-60 localities have a high concentration of Covid-infected people. “We will tighten rules pertaining to health protocols, including compulsory wearing of masks and following social distancing,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-again-revises-definition-of-containment-zones/articleshow/78371076.cms||Kiran Parashar
