September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Apartment association circulates ‘unofficial’ moral policing note targeting single residents||A snapshot of a circular allegedly stemming from a resident’s welfare association in the Whitefield and Kadugodi area went viral on social media recently. The highlight of the note was that it stated police asking non-resident owners to be extra vigilant about ‘single tenants’, as they might be storing contraband, with a suggestion to share the names and contact numbers of said tenants. In a city where it is already increasingly difficult to get a decent home on rent if you are single, or belong to a certain religion or gender, or have a certain job profile, this, obviously, led to an outcry. Netizens’ remarks varied from ‘Only bachelors and spinsters take drugs?’, Being single in India is getting to be dangerous’, ‘OMG! Is this some kind of stigma to be single?’. ‘Shaadi: the ultimate alibi’, to ‘This is frankly quite scary knowing how people can use this for cruel vigilantism.’ While some others demanded action to be taken against the concerned resident welfare association that issued this circular, the lack of any logo or seal on the circular made it difficult to track the source of this viral image. Bengaluru’s cops, however, were quick to respond with a public statement that clarified that there were no such orders issued by the police department or the government. Surekha Rao (@surerao) is one of those who shared an image of the circular on Twitter that had the cops retaliate with the statement. Bengaluru City Police tweeted a statement in response to the viral RWA circularBengaluru city Commissioner Kamal Pant, says, “Nothing of this sort has been issued from our office. We have also confirmed with Whitefield and Kadugodi police stations that no such statement was circulated.” Central Crime Branch’s Joint Commissioner, Sandeep Patil also stated that no notification has been issued from his office. Moral policing by RWAs will tarnish brand Bengaluru“A metropolitan city like Bengaluru does not need something like this to tarnish its image. Any kind of profiling of bachelors and singles living in Bengaluru would be unfair to the brand image of the city. It would mean going back to the era before many of us were born, where houses would not be rented to bachelors! Bengaluru is a mega city with mega intentions. The city is driven by our young,” says brand guru Harish Bijoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/apartment-association-circulates-unofficial-moral-policing-note-targeting-single-residents/articleshow/78390936.cms||Sunayana Suresh
September 30, 2020||Goa||Anwar takes AIFF to court over right to play||PANAJI: Anwar Ali’s battle to play competitive football despite a congenital heart condition that puts him at risk has now reached the doors of the Delhi high court. In a first of its kind case in Indian sports, the 20-year-old footballer from Punjab dragged the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to court on Monday, insisting he has the right to play. The petition will come up for hearing on Thursday. Anwar has been diagnosed with a rare condition known as apical hypercardio myopathy (HCM). The diagnosis was made last year when he moved from Indian Arrows to Mumbai City FC in the Indian Super League (ISL). Since then, he has been out of football, and his attempt now to revive his career with Mohammedan Sporting in the Second Division I-League has been halted, pending a decision from AIFF’s medical committee led by Dr Vece Paes. “The AIFF has no power to ban Anwar from playing, even if he has this condition. It is a matter between the club and the player. If the club knows my condition and wants me to play, and I want to play as well, who is the AIFF to decide that I cannot play? “It may be ethically incorrect, but am I sure to die? No. What if I don’t die? Dipendu Biswas (with similar condition) and Anwar Ali (senior) had heart attack (on the field while training), but they were never investigated. They got treated and started playing again. If the AIFF feels they have the power (to ban), they need rules and regulations. We haven’t seen any,” the player’s lawyer, Amitabh Tewari, told TOI on Tuesday. According to Tewari, the procedure followed by AIFF to keep Anwar away from football was totally arbitrary. “The AIFF wrote to Mohammedan Sporting (on September 7) directing them not to allow Anwar to do any strenuous activity, including training with the first team. This letter is illegal and needs to be quashed. The AIFF does not have the power to do this. “Some doctors may have said there is high or low risk, but irrespective of all that, there is no authoritative finding which has been given by any committee of the AIFF. The (medical) committee wrote to us (on September 26) saying no decision has been made,” said Tewari. Pained at his exclusion, Anwar had written to the AIFF asking for a personal hearing before the medical committee could decide his fate. However, when provided with a chance, the India defender didn’t turn up, insisting the exercise was a sham after being given just a four-hour notice. “Anwar has played for India U-17, India U-20 and was not tested. Had he not joined Mumbai (City) and instead joined any other club, nobody would have known about this condition. He is asymptomatic. “It was only by chance that Mumbai found out. Otherwise, nobody would have come to know. If AIFF is so bothered, they should come up with a regulation saying every player should be tested for HCM or any other condition,” said Tewari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anwar-takes-aiff-to-court-over-right-to-play/articleshow/78392817.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 30, 2020||Raipur||Naya Raipur will soon see a film city||The film industry of Chhattisgarh, known as Chhollywood is a thriving film industry in Central India that makes cinema in Chhattisgarhi language. It was established in 1965 with the release of first Chhattisgarhi film 'Kahi Debe Sandesh', which was watched by then prime minister Indira Gandhi. Check out these hangout places of RaipurIn early 2020, Culture Minister Amarjeet Bhagatto took stock of initiatives of his department and asked officials to set up a cell of Film Development Corporation in the Directorate of Culture and Archeology under which, a film city will be set-up in an area of about 300 acres near Purkhouti Muktangan in Naya Raipur, Atal Nagar. According to Amarjeet Bhagatto, the film policy is almost ready and under review. He also said that a film city will provide training to local artistes in singing, drama, acting, light, sound and camera - all essential for film production. Khairagarh University and Kamala Devi Sangit Mahavidyalaya. Raipur will collaborate in this effort, the minister said. The film city will help create a market for Chhattisgarhi films and an arrangement is being made for showing films for free to those who do not have cinema houses. The proposed project is said to be completed by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/naya-raipur-will-soon-see-a-film-city/articleshow/78393521.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Dolphins put on a show near ECR coastline||For Siddharth Chandrashekar, a surfer who belongs to the Bay Of Life Surf School, it’s a regular day out in the ocean when he spots a dolphin pod a short distance from where he is surfing. On his return to the shore, he uploads a few photos of the dolphins, which another guy had managed to capture, on his social media. ‘Dolphin sighting on ECR? Lucky you, man’ — that’s how many of his friends have been commenting on social media. And Siddharth’s reply is, ‘That’s quite a common sight’. “People travel to Maldives and Sri Lanka and pay huge amounts for dolphin sightings. Next time you think about these mammals, think about spotting them from our Chennai beaches. Of course, you have to be at the right place, at the right time,” he says. Deepthi Chavan, a resident of Injambakkam, seconds Siddharth and says, “Dolphins are spotted often on the beach stretch along the ECR. A week ago, one of my friends spotted a few dolphins while she was swimming in the sea. I have often spotted them while surfing in Kovalam.” But Deepthi warns, “You may watch them from the beach. But don’t swim in if you spot dolphins just to have a closer look at them. Don’t throw caution to the wind and put your lives at risk. Because, dolphins generally move beyond the surf zone, where there’s strong water current.” Another surfer, Mihika Goyal, says, “Last year, while I was surfing, there was a pod of dolphins that was feeding. When they are feeding, they swirl around a school of fish and then go beneath to catch them. They move the fish towards the surface before catching them. When fish slip off, they lunge into the air to catch them. Another time, a dolphin calf came really close to us and put up a great show. That was epic — jumping and somersaulting in the air.” When And where Are Dolphins spottedDr Joe K Kizhakudan, a principal scientist at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, says, “Dolphins move towards the coastline during the period from December up to March when the water is exceptionally clear. They are spotted mainly at river mouths, where mullets, which dolphins feed on, are found in abundance.” Dr Joe, who has his laboratory in Kovalam, adds, “Kovalam is one place where they are often spotted because of the mouth bar there. There are also a few fishing villages in Cuddalore where you can spot them almost every day. Fishermen use them as positive indicators for a huge tuna catch.” The ones spotted in the Bay of Bengal are mostly spinner dolphins and bottlenose dolphins, says Siddharth. “Being the world’s largest bay, it is also the most biodiverse bay. Its warm water makes it an ideal spawning site for over 12 species of whales and eight species of dolphins,” he adds. Government announces Project Dolphin Ten years after the Gangetic dolphin was declared the national aquatic animal by the Manmohan Singh government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Project Dolphin, on the lines of Project Tiger and Project Elephant, during this year’s Independence Day, in order to conserve them and develop the possibility of tourism. This project will cover both river and oceanic dolphins. To make conservation efforts fruitful, Siddharth says we should start with data collection. Talking particularly about oceanic dolphins, he says, “Lack of data is the biggest issue. We don’t know the exact seasons of migration, don’t know if it’s the same family that went and came back, etc. Once we are able to quantify this, we will be able to come up with strategies and methodologies to conserve them better.” But promoting dolphin tourism may be counterproductive, he opines. “Motor boats cause vibrations in water, so the animals won’t be able to hear each other. Dolphin calves, especially, might lose direction, and get separated from their families.” Glaring lights from ports, wharves and jetties, too, cause problems, says Dr Joe. “That will cause disorientation among these aquatic animals,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dolphins-put-on-a-show-near-ecr-coastline/articleshow/78393704.cms||Ashish Joseph
September 30, 2020||India||ICMR, state govts differ on Covid-19 testing numbers||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) announced on September 25 that 14,92,409 Covid tests had been conducted in the country on the previous day, a record high number not achieved before or since that day. However, data from 24 major states (and UTs) on the number of tests conducted in those states on that day adds up to much less. Data from these 24 states and UTs totals up to 12,01,930 tests on September 24. The smaller states and UTs not included in the list together account for less than 18,000 tests, taking the total to around 12,19,000 tests in all — more than 2.7 lakh short of the 14.9 lakh figure. While ICMR does not make state-wise testing figures public, an internal council document accessed by TOI gives a break-up of testing data from states for September 24. The document shows Telangana conducted 2,62,794 tests on that day, by far the highest in the country. The Telangana government’s figures for September 24 are much more modest at 57,621 tests. Similarly, ICMR’s numbers for Andhra Pradesh (1,87,341) are at odds with the 69,429 tests which the state government says were conducted on September 24. ICMR officials said the council does not publish state-wise testing data. “We publish only cumulative data received directly from labs. States collect data on their own, except a few states like UP that have a common portal,” an ICMR official said. Covid-19 in India: Complete coverageThe official said ICMR follows a system of direct reporting of testing numbers by labs. Any Covid test done by any government-accredited lab in the country is directly reported to the ICMR’s portal, discounting the scope for any error. A top Telangana health official said the higher numbers recorded by ICMR could be a result of a technical glitch or double-counting while merging the data. “We have not done more than 63,000 tests in a day so far. There might have been some technical error or duplication at the time of merging of data,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health in Telangana government. Read AlsoICMR's 2nd sero survey results: Here are the key findingsOne in 15 individuals aged more than 10 years were estimated to be exposed to the Covid-19 by August 2020, according to ICMR’s second national serosurvey report released on Tuesday. The survey showed that a considerable population is still vulnerable to Covid-19. Urban slum and urban non-slum areas“We have been using our own software to collect testing data and have a portal as well as an app for the purpose. The Centre too came up with a portal two months back. The data is uploaded on the spot by testing centres on our portal and it reflects in the ICMR site automatically. There could be some technical error in the process,” Rao said. Coronavirus in India: Live updatesHealth officials in Andhra Pradesh pointed out that testing numbers in the state had never crossed 80,000 in a day. The highest figure in the last six months was 77,492 tests done on September 17. “The state has neither the testing capacity nor manpower to conduct 1.87 lakh tests in a day,” an official said. ICMR’s data for September 24 also seems to be at odds with data sourced from the council by Andhra Pradesh government for its daily Covid reports. These daily reports contain the cumulative testing status for 23 major states at 9am each day, as per ICMR’s data. The testing numbers for September 24, obtained by subtracting the cumulative figures till that day from the next day’s data, also adds up to 11,94,085 for the 23 states. These figures are either identical or close to the numbers reported by individual states With inputs from Sushmi Dey & Syed Akbar Watch Covid-19: ICMR, state govts differ on testing numbers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-state-govts-differ-on-covid-19-testing-numbers/articleshow/78392824.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Pop-culture gets a Tamil twist in this Chennai doodler’s humorous sketches||From makeup to menstruation, Chennai doodler Suneha’s illustrations explore popular culture through the prism of humour. However, all of her sketches converge on one common ground — Tamil. Suneha’s viral doodles dissect humorous everyday situations, doused in Tamil references. Exploring the cross-over culture in her mother tongue was what made the process special, says Suneha, who began posting her doodles on Instagram earlier in January. “We see a lot of comic strips in English, but I wanted to explore the Tamil space. There are a few jokes and references you can only make in Tamil. I feel the Tamil comic space is still in its nascent stages on social media,” she adds. The inspiration for the comics emerged from her love for cross-over culture. This is apparent in her work. For instance, the iconic duo Tom & Jerry finds themselves in a south Indian parallel universe snacking on idlis, while Jyotika’s Chandramukhi finds herself bingeing on soaps. “I relate every tiny detail to Chennai in my mind before attempting an illustration,” the artist adds. Actor Vadivelu forms an important fabric in Suneha’s artwork — be it through sun sign traits or makeup memes. She was pleasantly surprised to see people resonate with her art on social media. A fashion designing graduate, Suneha had plans to begin her own clothing line in March, but COVID-19 had other plans. “This is when I decided to focus more on my art,” she says, adding that art is a safe haven for many on social media. “There is a lot of pressure and hate when it comes to social media. But art has always been a safe haven amidst all the negativity. It is also a great time to be an artist, because the pandemic has brought all of us the time to explore our creative sides,” she observes. The journey, however, is not always a bed of roses, she is quick to add. “I often deal with anxiety and have spoken about this through my art as well. Art blocks are something that many artists like me deal with. I do think twice before posting my illustrations on social media, often wondering if people will relate to them. But again, art is never about the validations. I am just glad people are able to find joy in my art one way or the other,” she adds with a smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pop-culture-gets-a-tamil-twist-in-this-chennai-doodlers-humorous-sketches/articleshow/78393898.cms||Sruthi Raman
September 30, 2020||Pune||Vintage car aficionados witness rare auto beauties in Pune||Those who love vintage cars, a rare, one-of-a-kind exhibit is offering them to get up close and personal with some vintage wheels from Volkswagen to a Ford. These Vintage wheels will surely be a treat for the enthusiasts to bask in the glory of magnifique cars. This meticulously honed vintage collection is owned by one such enthusiast, Dhananjay Badamikar who owns some of the best cars ever driven. The display at a mall in Viman Nagar and showcases over ten finest cars from Dhananjay's vintage wheels including Tempo Vidal (1939), Volkswagon Bettle (1969), Fordson (1940), Ford son E04 Utilecon (1929), Citron(1967) , Chevrolet (1949), Standard Herald (1962), Volkswagon Micro Bus (1970 ), Opel Olympia (1938), Fiat 126P (1972). This one-of-a-kind exhibit is sure to create an exquisite experience for vintage cars connoisseurs in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vintage-car-aficionados-witness-rare-auto-beauties-in-pune/articleshow/78394076.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||NCRB Crime Data 2019: Cases registered up 1.6%; crimes against women rise 7.3%; cyber crimes jump 63.5%||NEW DELHI: Crime rate registered per lakh population went up marginally to 385.5 in 2019 as compared to 383.5 in 2018. A total of 51.56 lakh cognizable crimes comprising 32.25 lakh Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes and 19.30 lakh Special & Local Laws (SLL) crimes were registered in 2019. This marks an increase of 1.6% in registration of cases over 2018, as per the National Crime Records Bureau report on Crime in India – 2019 released on Tuesday. During 2019, registration of cases under IPC went up by 3% whereas SLL crimes declined marginally by 0.6% over 2018. Percentage share of IPC crimes in total cognisable crimes was 62.6% while percentage share of SLL cases was 37.4% . As many as 10.5 lakh cases of offences affecting the human body were registered in 2019, which accounted for 32.6% of total IPC crimes. Hurt accounted for maximum 5.45 lakh cases or 51.9% of such offences, followed by cases of causing death by negligence (13.8%) and cases of kidnapping and abduction (10%). The cases registered under offences against the human body depict a marginal increase of 1% in 2019 over 2018 , though the crime rate (78.6) remains the same. A total of 28,918 cases of murder were registered during 2019, showing a marginal decrease of 0.3% over 2018. ‘Disputes’ (9,516 cases) were the motive for the highest number of murders during 2019 followed by ‘personal vendetta or enmity’ (3,833 cases) and ‘gain’ (2,573 cases). A total 1.05 lakh kidnapping & abduction were registered during 2019, showing a marginal decrease of 0.7% over 2018. Crimes against women registered a 7.3% increase from 3.78 lakh cases in 2018 to 4.05 lakh cases in 2019. Majority of cases under crime against women under IPC were registered under ‘cruelty by husband or his relatives’ (30.9%) followed by ‘assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty’ (21.8%), ‘kidnapping & abduction of women’ (17.9%) and ‘rape’ (7.9%). The crime rate registered per lakh women population is 62.4 in 2019 in comparison to 58.8 in 2018. The data on offences against public tranquility show a total of 63,359 cases booked under various sections of IPC during 2019, out of which rioting (46,209 cases) accounted for 72.9% of such cases. The cases of offences against public tranquility have decreased by 17.6% in 2019 over 2018. The crime rate registered per lakh children population is 33.2 in 2019 in comparison with 31.8 in 2018. A total of 7,569 cases of offences against the State were registered in 2019 as compared to 8,536 cases in the year 2018, showing a decrease of 11.3%. Out of 7,569 cases, 80.3% of cases were registered under the Prevention of Public Property Act (6,079) followed by 1,226 (16.2%) cases under The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Over 1.65 lakh economic offences cases were registered in 2019, showing an increase of 6.1% in registration over 2018 (1,56,268 cases). Out of three specified category of economic offences viz. criminal breach of trust, FCF (forgery, cheating & fraud) and counterfeiting, FCF accounted for maximum of such cases (1.43 lakh), followed by criminal breach of trust (20,833 cases) and counterfeiting (1,040 cases) during 2019. Cyber crimes registered a 63.5% jump over 2018. During 2019, 60.4% of cyber-crime cases registered were for the motive of fraud (26,891 out of 44,546 cases) followed by sexual exploitation with 5.1% (2,266 cases) and causing disrepute with 4.2% (1,874 cases). As many as 4,243 cases under provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act were registered in 2019 by state anti-corruption bureaux (ACBs) as compared to 4,129 cases in 2018, showing a 2.8% increase. Out of 4,243 cases, majority, i.e., 67.7% were trap cases (2,873) followed by 14.5 % cases relating to criminal misconduct (618). A total of 4,422 persons were arrested, 1,092 persons convicted and departmental action taken against 705 persons. Watch Crimes against women rise 7.3%, cyber crimes jump 63.5%: NCRB data 2019||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncrb-crime-data-2019-cases-registered-up-1-6-crimes-against-women-rise-7-3-cyber-crimes-jump-63-5/articleshow/78394087.cms||Bharti Jain
September 30, 2020||Goa||Sporting Clube de Goa, Churchill Brothers declared Pro League joint winners||Panaji: The Goa Football Association’s executive committee has decided to declare Sporting Clube de Goa and Churchill Brothers FC as joint winners of the Goa Professional League 2019-20. The league came to an abrupt end in March due to the coronavirus pandemic. Sporting were leading the standings and had 44 points with only two games left to be played. Dempo SC were second with 41 points, but only had a game in hand and no chance of overtaking their Panaji rivals due to an inferior head-to-head record. I-League side Churchill (37 points) were also in contention as they had five games in hand. The GFA could not conduct the remaining 13 games after directives from the government. Sporting had earlier written to the GFA and provided examples of leagues in Europe where sporting merit and points per game were used to decide champions. “The committee has taken the decision. Churchill Brothers had games in hand and we could have got to the top spot. But in the end, I want what is best for football. We have also finalised Accord as our main sponsor for next seasons Pro League which could be held in December,” GFA and Churchill Brothers FC president Churchill Alemao told TOI. The executive committee last met on January 20 and after much delays assembled at the artificial turf at Duler Stadium in Mapusa with social distancing norms being followed due to Covid-19. "It was a consensus decision as only two teams could win the title. It would be unfair otherwise for other teams as well," said GFA vice-president (North) Lavinio Rebello. The GFA has also decided not to relegate any team from the top tier which will be a relief for Corps of Signals and bottom-placed Velsao Sports and Cultural Club. GFA could not commence the First Division League while the eight teams from the Second Division League have been promoted. The association will be charging clubs their share of the Centralised Registration System (CRS). The annual general body meeting which usually is held in July is tentatively scheduled for December. "The First Division league will be stronger and teams could be divided in zones," said Lavinio. Anthony Barbosa was nominated to the executive committee from Salcete zone in place of Jose Santarita Coelho, who passed away early this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sporting-clube-de-goa-churchill-brothers-declared-pro-league-joint-winners/articleshow/78394099.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
September 30, 2020||Shimla||Himachal reports 290 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 290 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Tuesday, while 364 positive patients also recovered from the infection. The state saw two deaths from Kangra district while one death was reported from Shimla district. State has now 14,747 positive cases of which 3,573 cases are active, 10,971 patients have recovered, 178 have died while 20 have migrated out of the state. The latest positive cases include 19 from Bilaspur district, 15 from Chamba district, three from Hamirpur district, 51 from Kangra district, 14 from Kullu district, three from Lahaul-Spiti district, 15 from Mandi district, 65 from Shimla district, 23 from Sirmaur district, 59 from Solan district and 23 from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-reports-290-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/78394374.cms||Anand Bodh
September 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurgaon travellers head to Rajasthan for weekend getaways, mini trips||As travel restrictions ease up across the country following the lockdown, travellers from NCR are making up for all the vacations they missed out during summers. And as travels increase, Rajasthan has emerged as one of the top choices for Delhi-Gurgaon travellers, particularly for shorter trips and weekend getaways. Alok Kumar, a Delhi-based tour operator, tells us, "There is higher-than-usual demand and bookings for short trips to Rajasthan right now. Despite the slowdown brought about by the pandemic, the bookings are almost reaching last year's numbers for the same time. For longer vacations, people prefer places like Goa, Kerala but for weekend getaways, at least travellers from Gurgaon and the rest of NCR, Rajasthan is the top choice." Nancy Arora, who visited Udaipur for three days with her boyfriend last week, says, "Rajasthan is close enough for a road trip. Flying out seems a bit risky right now, so we wanted to avoid that. But the highway to Rajasthan is quite good and road trip is an experience, so we did that. It was a nice way to start things off after months of inactivity." The presence of not one or two but several tourist-friendly places in the state is also something that has made it popular. Aseem Singh, who visited Jaipur this weekend, says, "I initially wanted to go to Udaipur but I couldn't find a decent enough accommodation in my budget. The good thing is that since Rajasthan has enough options, I could shift my trip to Jaipur without having to sacrifice on anything I wanted to do." An aerial view of Jaipur from Nahargarh FortAnika Pandit, who did a two-city tour with her family two weeks ago, echoes, "There is no dearth of things you can do there, whether it is a desert safari type of vacation or just chilling in the city. You can visit monuments, visit a lake, or relax at the hotel. We did all this in just a five-day trip across Jaisalmer and Jodhpur." Another advantage Rajasthan has, as per travellers, are the havelis and palaces in the state, which double up as hotels and B&Bs, giving tourists a taste of luxury at affordable prices. Zaheer Sheikh, who has recently returned from a trip to Udaipur, tells us, "For smaller trips like weekend getaways, you don't get to do much sightseeing. It's usually just chilling in the hotel, which is why the accommodation must be good. That is something Rajasthan gives you. It is an experience just living there and forgetting all the work and COVID stress. On top of that, my two-day stay was only Rs 12k, which is cheap. It was a much-needed break after six stressful months for me."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-travellers-head-to-rajasthan-for-weekend-getaways-mini-trips/articleshow/78386941.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
September 30, 2020||Delhi||No special themes, limited visitors, home delivery of bhog and live streaming anjali: COVID plays spoilsport, Delhi to have a low-key Durga Puja celebration this year||Pandal hopping, pujo addas and late-night feasting in the lanes of CR Park will definitely be missed this year as Durga Puja committees across NCR plan low-key celebrations amid the pandemic. While the organisers still await guidelines from authorities on celebrations, they have already decided that this year, pujo will go digital and at most places only ghot puja (worshipping an urn symbolising the goddess) will be performed with minimum number of people. No special themes, decorations for Durga Puja this yearEvery year, puja committees plan special themes according to which the pandal is decorated. Often, these are elaborate designs that attract pandal hoppers from all over the city. But this year, all that has taken a backseat as the priority is to plan a puja without too many people. “While we are still awaiting permission to organise the annual Durga Puja in the Panchkuian Road ground, we are also looking for an alternative location, maybe a school, where it will be safer and less crowded. We are yet to decide if we are going to have an idol of the goddess or just do ghot puja,” informs Abhijit Bose, Chairman Arambagh Puja Samiti. He adds that if they save any money, it will be donated to idol makers and artistes who are invited to perform at Durga Puja pandals but won’t have any earnings this year. ‘No visitors allowed, but will live stream the puja’The most popular location in Delhi for Durga Puja celebrations, CR Park, has nine prominent pandals. Seven of these have decided to do ghot puja with no visitors. However, the puja rituals and anjali will be live streamed. “We are going digital this year since we will only perform ghot puja on Navami. It will last around six hours and only the priest and some ladies from the community will be present. Apart from them, a few committee members can visit, but a time slot will be given to them to avoid crowding. We will get in touch with the local cable guy who can live telecast the anjali and puja in the neighbouring areas,” says Ravi Kant Singha, General Secretary, Navapalli Puja Samiti, Pocket 40, CR Park. Samir Dutta, President, Cooperative Ground Durga Puja in CR Park, adds, “We will see if visitors can come on Navami on the day of ghot puja, but there will be strict rules so that social distancing is maintained.” Greater Kailash I’s Durga Bari might be among the few puja locations allowing visitors on the day of ghot puja, but there’s a cap of 50 people at any given point of time. “We will be very strict about the number of people allowed at the puja venue. There will be people on duty to ensure that there are just 50 people inside the venue to maintain social distancing. No one will be allowed to offer prasad at the venue. Whatever funds we have, most will be spent on security and sanitisation as that is of utmost importance this time,” says Ena Pathak, Treasurer, Durga Bari, GK I. Some puja organisers are also letting people order bhog online (on their social media page) and it will be delivered in neighbouring areasSome puja organisers are also letting people order bhog online (on their social media page) and it will be delivered in neighbouring areas Doorstep delivery of bhogAn important part of the Durga Puja festivities is the bhog, a traditional Bengali feast offered to the goddess daily during Durga Puja and then served to visitors. Some puja organisers have decided that people should not miss out on having bhog. Kali Mandir Society, CR Park, is one of those few places where they will have an idol, but no visitors will be allowed. They are also letting people order bhog online (on their social media page) and it will be delivered in neighbouring areas, says Sreebash Bhattacharjee, Secretary, Kali Mandir Society in CR Park. In Gurgaon, some of the puja committees have tied up with runners and couriers to deliver bhog to people’s homes. A joint celebration in GurgaonNone of the Durga Puja committees in Gurgaon will be organising a large-scale celebration. All the major puja committees have come together to form a Joint Puja Committee (JPC) this year, which has been coordinating with the administration regarding permissions and guidelines. Nitish Mukherjee, Governing Body Member from Sector 56’s Bangiya Parishad, explains, “We all sat together to discuss with the authorities on how best to organise the Durga Puja this year. We have decided not to have crowds or cultural performances. The puja rituals will be done on a minuscule scale.” While most pandals in Gurgaon won’t have an idol, some committees will live stream the puja on their Facebook pages. There will be social distancing rules in place at the pandals for those who wish to offer prayer in person. A maximum of 50 people would be allowed in the pandal at any given time. Additionally, no guest or visitor can spend more than 15 minutes inside the pandal. The organisers will keep face masks and sanitisers at the entrance and will also do mandatory thermal screening. (With inputs from Abhimanyu Mathur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-special-themes-limited-visitors-home-delivery-of-bhog-and-live-streaming-anjali-covid-plays-spoilsport-delhi-to-have-a-low-key-durga-puja-celebration-this-year/articleshow/78386383.cms||Divya Kaushik
September 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai restaurants to reopen: Expect odd-even tables, no standing around bar counters||After staying shut for over six months owing to COVID-19 restrictions, restaurants and other eateries are set to reopen in the first week of October. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Monday that restaurants, bars and eating joints would be allowed to resume dine-in services across Maharashtra, with restrictions in place. So far, many of these eateries had been operating only with takeaway services and now, dine-in will finally see the green light. Says Riyaaz Amlani, restaurateur and former President of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), “The past six months have been extremely tough for the hospitality industry. We have rallied together and lobbied hard with the government for relief. In our meeting with Mr Thackeray, we got an assurance that the state government will allow dine-in restaurants and bar operations to open up in the first week of October. They are also taking great care to ensure that there won’t be any start-and-stop of operations, which can be difficult for business.” Digital payments, acrylic partitions and no raw items on the menuRestaurants will also make adjustments on the menu. Adds Riyaaz, “There is a guideline for the dine-in menu, where the government has requested us not to put any uncooked or raw items like salads on our menus. Menus will also have to shrink in order to maintain social distancing within the kitchens. We have reduced our menus by 30% to accommodate this. An all-day menu is important as people will be opting for freshly-made food rather than cold foods. There may also be acrylic partitions between tables and payments are going digital to ensure safety.” ‘Decision will revive the restaurant business that has faced severe financial losses’Hopeful about tiding over losses incurred during the last six months, Arjun Raj Kher, brand head of a chain of restaurants, says, “The move by Maharashtra Government to reopen restaurants will help revive the business in Mumbai, which has faced severe financial losses due to the expensive real estate, management of inventories and staff allowances in the past six months. It will also kickstart the popular Mumbai culture of eating out with all safety measures laid down by the authorities. We can’t wait to host our guests and create the best memories again.” Adds Dahisar-based hospitality director, Sagar Neve, “This decision will revive the restaurant industry, which supports millions of direct employees and indirect individuals. The allowance of 50% capacity is a transition into the new normal in a slow and efficient way.” ‘We will have Covid supervisors at restaurants to address queries’Welcoming the move, Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) and Vice President of Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), says, “We thank the CM for finally understanding our plight. The officials have circulated standard operating procedures (SOPs), which we will go through. For instance, one of them is about having six-feet between two dining tables. That is not going to be easy as many restaurants have tables that are made of marble and are heavy. So, to ensure that distance is maintained, we may have odd-even seating with an empty table in between. Seating or standing around the bars will also not be allowed now as that is dangerous. Sanitisers were used only in the kitchen or washing areas pre-COVID, but it will now be available across the restaurant. We have also trained a staff of 5,000 and counting to be ‘Covid supervisors’ to address queries and help in emergencies. Our aim is to make people feel safe and welcomed.” GET READY FOR THE NEW NORMAL Expect body temperature checks before entering a restaurant  Lesser, spaced-out tables Masked staff  QR code menus Acrylic partitions  Infrared temperature gun checks Posters and audio-visual media on preventive measures about COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-restaurants-to-reopen-expect-odd-even-tables-no-standing-around-bar-counters/articleshow/78389125.cms||Ismat Tahseen
September 30, 2020||India||High alert in UP as court to rule on Babri demolition case today||LUCKNOW: Almost 28 years after the Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, a special court here will, on Wednesday, decide the fate of some of the big names of the Sangh Parivar accused of criminal conspiracy and “incitement,” which led to the razing of the structure. Besides, unknown kar sevaks are facing trial for demolishing the structure. A high alert has been sounded across the state for Wednesday. While policemen in civil clothes will be on guard in Ayodhya, 2,000 cops will be deployed at the building that houses the “Ayodhya Prakaran Court” in the Old High Court building at Kaiserbagh here. Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel have been stationed in 25 sensitive districts. If convicted, accused saffron veterans like LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Champat Rai Bansal, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Dharmadas and Dr Satish Pradhan would face maximum imprisonment up to five years. Seventeen named accused, including Bal Thackeray, Ashok Singhal, Mahant Avaidyanath, Giriraj Kishore and Vijayaraje Scindia passed away during the course of the trial. If former Uttar Pradesh CM Kalyan Singh, BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj and then Ayodhya district magistrate RN Srivastava are convicted, they may get maximum three years of jail term. The remaining accused, including BJP MPs Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh and Lallu Singh and 17 others, are also facing charges under Section 395 (committing dacoity) which may invite life imprisonment if the court records their conviction. In case BJP MPs Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, Lallu Singh and Sakshi Maharaj get two-year or a longer imprisonment term, their parliament membership may be in question. All the accused, if convicted, can move the high court to challenge the verdict. Read Also'Will not seek bail, ready to hang if found guilty': Uma Bharti ahead of Babri demolition verdictBHOPAL: Ahead of CBI court's verdict in 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti in a letter to BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda has stated that she will not seek bail and is prepared to be hanged if found guilty. Bharti has said a day back that she wantedThere were 49 accused in the case apart from lakhs of kar sevaks named in two separate FIRs lodged at the Ram Janmabhoomi (RJB) police station on the day of the demolition. The CBI took over these FIRs when it began probing the case. Additional district and session judge (Ayodhya matters), SK Yadav, who is hearing the case on a day-to-day basis since May 2017, had asked all the accused persons to be present in the court when he pronounces the judgment at 10am on Wednesday. However, sources told TOI that Advani, Uma Bharti, MM Joshi, Satish Pradhan and Mahant Nritya Gopal Das are unlikely to be present when their fate is decided. Their applications for exemption are likely to be moved by their counsel by 9am on Wednesday. While Advani, Joshi and Pradhan are likely to seek exemption on the ground of old age, Bharti has been found Covid positive and admitted to a hospital in Uttarakhand. Nritya Gopal Das, too, tested Covid positive in Mathura when he was there for Janmashtami puja. Kalyan Singh, who was admitted to a Ghaziabad hospital after getting infected by the virus a few days ago, has reportedly reached Lucknow and is likely to be present in the court. “The court can pronounce a judgment even in the absence of an accused facing trial. In such a condition, if it records conviction, the court may issue NBW seeking presence of the accused persons,” high court lawyer Arun Sinha told TOI. Special judge Surendra Kumar Yadav, on May 30, 2017, had framed charges against Advani, Joshi, Bharti, Katiyar and Ritambhara for conspiracy under Section 120 B of IPC read with sections 147, 149, 153(a), 153(b) and 505(1)(b) of IPC. Nritya Gopal, Vedanti, Bansal, Dharmadas and Pradhan are facing charges under Section 295 of IPC in addition to Sections 147, 149, 153(a), 153(b) and 505(1)(b). There will be tight security in and around the special CBI court. The CBI and defence lawyers filed separately as many as 850 pages in their written arguments. Read AlsoAyodhya hopes for closure to decades-old disputeAYODHYA: A day before the judgment in the 28-year-old Babri Masjid demolition case, Ayodhya remained stoic, sedate and silent as residents sauntered through their cho-res unhindered by barricades or thud of boots of marching securitymen unlike its date with Supreme Court’s verdict 11 months ago,Wednesday’s verdict will be the last in the service period of special judge SK Yadav, whose tenure was extended by the Supreme Court as he retired on September 30, 2019, till delivery of the verdict by September 30, 2020. Exactly 10 years ago -- on September 30, 2010 -- a three-judge bench of the Allahabad high court had delivered the verdict in the Ayodhya title suit, which was later challenged in Supreme Court.On Tuesday evening, Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey visited the court premises to take stock of the situation. “We are prepared. Special teams and routes have been chalked out to ferry the accused,” Pandey told TOI. Police said only lawyers associated with the case and witnesses would be allowed entry into the court on Wednesday. DGP (headquarters) will monitor sensitive districts like Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Kanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Aligarh and Mathura. Watch Babri Masjid demolition case: High alert in UP as court to pronounce verdict today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/high-alert-in-up-as-court-to-rule-on-babri-demolition-case-today/articleshow/78394492.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
September 30, 2020||India||India has to remain prepared for ‘no war, no peace’ situation along LAC: IAF chief||NEW DELHI: China clearly violated its own unilaterally defined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in 1959, an irregular demarcation that cuts through rivers and valleys never accepted by India, during the bloody clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15, a senior defence officer said on Tuesday. Given the current developments, India has no option but to remain prepared for a ‘no war, no peace’ situation along the LAC with permanent troop deployments, akin to the operational scenario along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. “China cannot be trusted. It will not back down from its strategy to continue pushing the LAC westwards,” another officer said. The hardened positions and prolonged deployments in eastern Ladakh, where the rival armies are gearing up for the harsh winter when temperatures dip to below 30 degrees Celsius, were also evident in an address by Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria at a webinar on Tuesday. “The present security scenario along our northern frontiers (with China) is at an uneasy ‘no war, no peace’ status. Our armed forces are prepared for any eventuality. IAF has responded with rapidity and resolve to counter any misadventure,” he said. There are reasons for the huge trust deficit in the Indian defence establishment. An earlier troop disengagement plan went awry on June 15 after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) reneged on the agreement to dismantle an observation post on Indian territory near the ‘Y-junction’ of the Shyok and Galwan rivers in the Galwan Valley. This led to violent clashes throughout the night at the site, in which 20 Indian and an unspecified number of PLA soldiers were killed. “The Y-junction is around 800 metres to the west of our Patrolling Point-14 (PP-14),” a senior officer said. “We don’t recognise China’s 1959 claim line, which runs near PP-14. But even going by that, the PLA clearly violated their own claim line and transgressed around 800 metres into Indian territory to barbarically attack our soldiers with nail-studded rods and stones,” he added. Similarly, the PLA is adamant the LAC runs north to south at ‘Finger-4’ (mountainous spur) on the north bank of Pangong Tso after occupying the 8-km stretch from ‘Finger-8’ to it since early May. This definitely alters the status quo there since the LAC, as per India, is at ‘Finger-8’. Officers said there was no sign of the PLA being ready for disengagement, leave alone de-escalation and eventual de-induction, despite several rounds of military and diplomatic talks. “There is no change in the ground position. We have to be careful,” an officer said. There are seemingly incompatible differences between India and China over the ground situation in eastern Ladakh, where the rival armies have amassed well over 50,000 soldiers each, along with tanks, armoured vehicles, howitzers, surface-to-air missiles systems, along the entire frontier. At the webinar, ACM Bhadauria said "air power” would be a crucial enabler in “our victory in any future conflict”, and it was imperative that IAF obtained and maintained a technological edge over our adversaries. “The recent inductions of Rafale fighters, along with C-17 aircraft, Chinook and Apache helicopters has provided IAF with substantial tactical and strategic capability,” he added. Watch Uneasy 'no war no peace' status in eastern Ladakh, says IAF chief||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-has-to-remain-prepared-for-no-war-no-peace-situation-along-lac-iaf-chief/articleshow/78395326.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 30, 2020||India||Gang-raped & tortured, Dalit teen dies after 15-day battle||AGRA: At 6.55am on Tuesday, the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras who had been allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village died after a 15-day battle for life. She had been referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital from Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College a day before that. “At 7am, we got the call. We want justice. The accused should not be spared,” her brother told TOI on Tuesday morning. When she had been first hospitalised, her spinal cord had been severely injured. Doctors found she was paralysed, her arms partially unresponsive and her tongue badly cut. A week later, she told police she had been dragged by the dupatta round her neck into a field by four men in her village, gang-raped and left there with a warning against telling anyone, or her family would be “shot dead”. She had been on life support. Her doctors said that the surgery she urgently needed to fix her spine was not possible until her condition improved. It never did. “Severe injuries in the spinal cord due to strangulation resulted in cardiac and pulmonary failure,” the Safdarjung PRO said on Tuesday. The girl's sister-in-law said she could have survived had she been treated better. “She needed good treatment and on time. For almost a week since she was admitted (to the Aligarh hospital), she was not attended to properly.” Saying that politicians’ statements that they “understand the family's grief” mean nothing, she added, “We did not get support because of our identity. We want the four accused to be punished.” In response, Dr Fakhrul Hoda, head of neurosurgery at JN Medical College in Aligarh, told TOI, “She was moved to the neuro ICU on the third day after being admitted... The district administration and senior police officials had asked the family to move her to Delhi earlier as well. There were no lapses in her treatment here.” Read AlsoCries for justice as gang-raped and battered UP girl loses battle for lifeAGRA: The place she was from and the place she died — two sites were brought to a standstill on Tuesday by angry protesters who demanded justice for the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died after being gang-raped by four upper caste men. As the day went by, the anger spread, with protests led byThe four men she had named — Ravi Singh (35), Ramu Singh (26), Sandeep (20) and Lavkush (19) — had been arrested earlier on charges of gang rape, attempt to murder and sections of the SC/ST Act. “With her death, Section 302 (murder) of the IPC will be added to the FIR,” Hathras additional SP Prakash Kumar said. The family runs a small dairy in the village. The girl, the youngest of five siblings, was helping her mother gather cattle fodder when she was attacked. Her mother, 46, knew she had been raped but dared not speak out for fear of reprisal, her brother had told TOI: “She was afraid of the stigma and because all of them were from the dominant caste.” Times ViewAlot has changed in rural India in recent years. What continues is violence against women and atrocities against Dalits. In this case, the two overlap. NCRB’s data shows 3.8 lakh crimes against women, including almost 34,000 rapes in 2018. Close to 43,000 crimes against SC/ST were committed, including nearly 3,000 rapes the same year. Despite stringent laws and more social awareness, the persistence of such crimes with sickening regularity underlines again that the law is only as effective as its enforcement. Fast trials and better investigation to ensure higher rates of conviction are the need of the hour.This was not the first conflict they had been in the centre of. In 2001, ASP Kumar told TOI, the girl’s grandfather had filed a complaint against family members of two of the accused — Sandeep and Ravi — based on which an FIR had been lodged under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the SC/ST Act. The case had been settled in court 14 years later in 2015. The village where they live has 60 dominant caste families and only four Valmiki families. Soon after the rape charges came to light, two companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary forces was deployed at the village. By Tuesday, police forces from four districts — Agra, Aligarh, Kasganj and Etah — joined them. Her body was being released from Safdarjung at the time of filing this report. Police forces were also deployed at Gabhana toll plaza after reports that Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad would accompany the family from Delhi to Hathras. The state has given a Rs 4 lakh compensation to the family, promising another tranche after rape charges are established, while the district has given Rs 5.9 lakh to the family. The report of the medical examination, conducted a week after she had been admitted, did not find evidence of sexual assault given the duration that had passed. “We are not considering withdrawal of rape charges from the FIR until the forensic report comes in,” ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gang-raped-tortured-dalit-teen-dies-after-15-day-battle/articleshow/78395616.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 30, 2020||India||Cries for justice as gang-raped and battered UP girl loses battle for life||AGRA: The place she was from and the place she died — two sites were brought to a standstill on Tuesday by angry protesters who demanded justice for the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died after being gang-raped by four upper caste men. As the day went by, the anger spread, with protests led by politicians across the spectrum. In Delhi, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad organised a protest outside Safdarjung Hospital, the road before the hospital blocked. In Hathras, Congress workers blocked the roads to Talab Chowk, demanding death sentence for the accused. The four accused have been arrested but the girl’s rape has not been officially confirmed two weeks since she was brutalised. In Agra, Dalit leaders staged a demonstration and burnt effigies of the four accused. In Aligarh, there was angry sloganeering throughout the day. In Mathura, Congress and Samajwadi Party workers took out a candlelight march. Read AlsoGang-raped &amp; tortured, Dalit teen dies after 15-day battleAt 6.55am on Tuesday, the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras who had been allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village died after a 15-day battle for life. She had been referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital from Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College a day before that.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted that women are not safe in UP: “The state is shaken by rape incidents in Gorakhpur, Shahjahanpur, and Hathras. Law and order situation in the state has gone out of control. Crime against women is rampant.” हाथरस में हैवानियत झेलने वाली दलित बच्ची ने सफदरजंग अस्पताल में दम तोड़ दिया। दो हफ्ते तक वह अस्पतालों में जिंदगी औ… https://t.co/qngN5MwDTj— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1601353369000...यूपी में कानून व्यवस्था हद से ज्यादा बिगड़ चुकी है। महिलाओं की सुरक्षा का नाम-ओ-निशान नहीं है।अपराधी खुले आम अप… https://t.co/sfMpyZwG41— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1601353370000BSP chief Mayawati expressed anguish and demanded support for her family. “Deeply saddened by the news of the death of the Dalit girl who was gang-raped in UP’s Hathras. BSP demands UP government to provide all necessary support to the victim’s family and her case must be taken up in fast track court to ensure quick punishment to the culprits.” Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav offered condolences to the family: “No expectation from the insensitive ruling party in the state.” यूपी के हाथरस में गैंगरेप के बाद दलित पीड़िता की आज हुई मौत की खबर अति-दुःखद। सरकार पीड़ित परिवार की हर संभव सहायता… https://t.co/ZEHkAEotMc— Mayawati (@Mayawati) 1601356041000Samajwadi Party’s member from the Dalit community Ramji Lal Suman said the stringent National Security Act must be used against the accused “so no one dares” to commit such a crime. “Police didn’t take this seriously. There are four such families, including that of the girl, living in the upper caste dominated village and such incidents break the faith of minorities.” BJP spokesperson for the UP unit, Chandra Mohan, told TOI that the party and the government stand by the family. “There will be justice. Strict and fast-track punishment for the accused will be ensured”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cries-for-justice-as-gang-raped-and-battered-up-girl-loses-battle-for-life/articleshow/78395765.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 30, 2020||Business||$3 million in NRI’s Swiss account not black money: ITAT||MUMBAI: In a case covering several financial years, the Mumbai bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has struck down the action of the I-T officer in treating $3 million — with which a Swiss bank account was opened — as “unaccounted income” in the hands of an individual, who at that point of time was a non-resident. The financial years covered by this litigation spanned from 1998-99 up to 2006-07. The I-T officer had also estimated an annual return on investments at 17% and considered approximately Rs 2.3 crore as the individual’s taxable income. Such additions were also set aside by the ITAT. Coming to the rescue of Kamal Galani, the ITAT rebuffed the motive presented by the I-T officer that a secret bank account was opened to stash “unaccounted” Indian income (black money) without paying taxes or disclosing such income in India. It upheld that the individual was not a beneficiary in the bank account which had been set up by his brother. The tax tribunal pointed out that the overseas account was opened in 1998 and at that point in time, Kamal Galani and his brother were already residing overseas for the past over 20 years. Both of them had no source of income in India during the course of their residence abroad.  The I-T officer, who had sought to tax the overseas bank funds, had failed to provide any evidence that the $3 million invested when opening the bank account was income from undisclosed sources earned or accrued from India, observed the ITAT. Galani returned to resettle in India in 2001 and has since then been duly filing his tax returns. The ITAT also noted that Kamal Galani had placed on record that the bank account was that of his brother and he did not hold any rights. His brother had also filed a letter with the I-T officer along with an affidavit and claimed the bank account was opened by him in his capacity as an NRI and the money belonged to him. The ITAT stated, “Once it was established that the assessee (Kamal Galani) was not a beneficial owner, further additions toward estimated return of income on the said unexplained money are arbitrary.” The case before the ITAT was not that of a “fly-by-night non-resident”. This term loosely refers to those individuals who change their tax residential status (which is based on the number of days stay in India over a given period) to that of a non-resident. This is done to avoid paying tax in India on their worldwide income (including overseas income). The ITAT has, in several instances in its 40-page plus order, termed the action of the I-T officer, who had sought to rely extensively on a “base note”, in bringing the funds in the bank account and making the additions to income in the hands of Kamal Galani, as “unjustified”. His brother had opened the overseas bank account with the British Bank of the Middle East, which was subsequently taken over by HSBC (Suisse). The “base note’ refers to the information of HSBC Swiss bank account holders, shared by the French government with authorities of India and other countries. This was pursuant to a whistleblower and ex-employee of the bank taking refuge in France. It is regarded as the largest bank leak with funds in the bank accounts aggregating over $120 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/3m-in-nris-swiss-account-not-black-money-itat/articleshow/78396029.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||How long will Mehbooba be detained: SC to J&K||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Jammu & Kashmir administration how long it intended to detain former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti under the Public Safety Act, which was invoked to take politicians and divisive elements into preventive custody after scrapping the erstwhile state’s special status and its division into two Union Territories last year. Hearing a petition filed by Mufti’s daughter Iltija, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta about the J&K administration’s proposal on Mufti's detention, which it said “prima facie has exceeded one year period”. The ex-CM was detained on August 5 last year when the decision was taken to scrap the state’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution. The SG said a detailed reply had been filed by the Srinagar district magistrate to every allegation made by Itlija and sought two weeks’ time to file a reply to amendments made by her to the petition challenging her mother’s indefinite detention. The bench asked Iltija's counsel Nitya Ramakrishnan why Mufti did not file the petition challenging her detention and instead her daughter did so. Ramakrishnan said since Iltija was in Delhi, it was easier for her to approach the SC. This is exactly what the J&K administration objected to. It said the J&K HC was fully functional during the lockdown period and had quashed as many as 137 detention orders since August 5 last year. “The HC is fully functional and has quashed 137 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 29 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority. The detenu has failed to disclose the reason or the justification for not approaching the HC,” it said. The bench said the petition sought permission for Mufti “to attend to the affairs of the political party and allow visits”. “Such a blanket prayer would be difficult to countenance. But we are told that the brother of the petitioner has now met her. Thus, as and when a request is made to meet her, the same should be promptly considered by the concerned authorities in accordance with law," the bench said. The administration said the real reason for detaining Mufti, even after former CMs Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released, was because of her track record in inciting trouble through her speeches. The Srinagar DM said, “In the history of independent India, the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution has always remained a contentious and burning issue. The detenu has made multiple statements, which are also in public domain, clearly inciting violence, in the eventuality of any decision being taken regarding Article 370. Considering the very peculiar geopolitical position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually. “In view of a historical decision taken to abrogate Article 370, it is the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority that in the peculiar fact situation emerging in the UT of J&K and Ladakh, the presence of detenu would pose an imminent threat of deterioration of maintaining the public order.” The DM further said, "It may not be out of place to mention that since 1990, as many as 41,866 people have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists. These figures would satisfy this court that the satisfaction of the competent authority regarding preventive measures for maintenance of ‘public order’ will have to be viewed in the context of the peculiar situation in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh for which Jammu and Kashmir PSA, 1978, is enacted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-long-will-mehbooba-be-detained-sc-to-jk/articleshow/78396116.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal horror: 2-day-old girl stabbed 100 times||BHOPAL: In a crime that has left Bhopalis horror-struck, a two-day-old girl child was stabbed over 100 times with a screwdriver, her body wrapped in a shawl and dumped beside a temple in Bhopal’s Ayodhya Nagar. This is the third murder of a newborn girl in the capital city of Madhya Pradesh in two weeks. Police are yet to identify the infant. Ayodhya Nagar SHO Renu Murab said police received information around 7am on Thursday (Sept 24) that a wrapped-up baby was lying next to a temple. Even seasoned cops shuddered at the sight when they unwrapped the little one — her body was pockmarked with puncture wounds. Initially, police thought someone had left the newborn near the temple at night and animals injured her. But the autopsy surgeon gave them the grisly truth — she had been stabbed with a screwdriver at least 100 times. Police registered a case of murder and are scanning footage from CCTV cameras in the area. They believe the child was born at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-horror-2-day-old-girl-stabbed-100-times/articleshow/78396138.cms||---
September 30, 2020||World||Biden discloses tax returns before debate, prods Trump to release his||CLEVELAND: Hours before his first debate with President Donald Trump, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden on Tuesday released his 2019 tax returns and his campaign called on Trump, who has come under fire for not releasing his returns, to do the same. Biden, due to share the stage with his Republican opponent on Tuesday evening in Cleveland, Ohio, took the step two days after the New York Times reported Trump paid just $750 in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017 - and none in 10 of the previous 15 years - following years of reporting steep losses from business enterprises. Trump had long sought to keep his personal financial records secret. Biden's taxes showed that he and his wife Jill paid more than $346,000 in federal taxes and other payments for 2019 on an income of nearly $985,000 before seeking a refund of nearly $47,000 they said they had overpaid the government. "This is a historic level of transparency meant to give the American people faith once again that their leaders will look out for them and not their own bottom lines," Biden's deputy campaign manager, Kate Bedingfield, said on a call with reporters. "Mr. President, release your tax returns or shut up," Bedingfield added. With more than a million Americans already casting early ballots and time running out to change minds or influence the small sliver of undecided voters, the stakes are enormous as the two White House candidates take the stage five weeks before the Nov. 3 election. The 90-minute debate, with a limited and socially distanced in-person audience due to the coronavirus pandemic, will begin at 9 p.m. EDT (0100 GMT on Wednesday) at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, with Chris Wallace of Fox News serving as the moderator. It is the first of three scheduled debates. Trump arrived in Cleveland aboard Air Force One, and finished a 20-minute preview visit to the debate venue shortly before Biden landed in the city at about 5 p.m. EDT (2100 GMT) with some of his top advisers: Jake Sullivan, Ron Klain, Mike Donilon, and sister Valerie Biden Owens. Biden went directly to the debate pavilion for his own walk-through. The Biden tax-returns gambit ahead of the debate shows that the former vice president is seeking political advantage on an issue that could resonate with voters: a wealthy real estate developer-turned-politician who has, according to the New York Times report, often avoided paying federal income taxes. Democrats have sought to portray Trump as a tax dodger. Trump's persistent refusal to release his taxes has been a departure from standard practice for presidential candidates. Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh issued a statement responding to Biden's disclosure, accusing him of being dishonest in public statements about his own past earnings. But Murtaugh did not address whether Trump would release his returns. The Times also reported that Trump was currently embroiled in a decade-long Internal Revenue Service audit over a $72.9 million tax refund he claimed after declaring large losses. If the IRS rules against him, he could have to pay over $100 million, according to the newspaper. BIDEN INCOME Biden's 2019 return showed most of his income came from a company he has said handles payments from his speaking and writing engagements and from a University of Pennsylvania teaching post from which he took an unpaid leave of absence after launching his candidacy. The 2019 tax returns for Biden's running mate, Senator Kamala Harris of California, also were released. Harris and her husband, lawyer Doug Emhoff, reported paying about $1.2 million in total federal taxes on $3.3 million of income for the year, according to the tax returns released on Tuesday. Vice President Mike Pence released a decade of returns before the 2016 election but no tax information since then. The combustible Trump and more low-key Biden will debate an array of urgent political challenges, including a pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 people in the United States and thrown millions out of work, a brewing battle over Trump's nomination of conservative Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, and continued protests for racial justice. Biden, 77, has held a consistent lead over Trump, 74, in national opinion polls, although surveys in the battleground states that will decide the election show a closer contest. The debate will be divided into six segments: the records of Trump and Biden, the Supreme Court, the pandemic, the economy, election integrity and "race and violence" in U.S. cities. A senior Trump campaign official told reporters aboard Air Force One that the president "knows exactly what he wants to communicate" and hopes to get into his differences with Biden on trade, "endless wars," the issue of America's "haves and the have-nots" and Biden's long career in elected office. Biden is certain to press his criticism of Trump's response to the pandemic, and highlight Trump's efforts to eliminate the Affordable Care Act, the law known as Obamacare, which has helped millions of Americans obtain health insurance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-discloses-tax-returns-before-debate-prods-trump-to-release-his/articleshow/78396147.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Patna||Bhojpuri actor from Muzaffarpur found hanging in Mumbai||PATNA: A struggling actor, Akshat Utkarsh (26), from Muzaffarpur was found hanging in his rented accommodation at Andheri West in Mumbai on the night intervening Sunday and Monday. His body was brought to Muzaffarpur and cremated on Tuesday. Akshat’s family members said they would lodge a murder case in Muzaffarpur, like the FIR filed in Patna in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Utkarsh’s uncle Vikrant Kishore brought the body by a flight from Mumbai on Tuesday morning. The joint family lives at New Area Sikandarpur under Town police station area in Muzaffarpur. Vikrant told TOI over phone they would approach Muzaffarpur SSP to get an FIR lodged against three persons, including Akshat’s flatmate Shikha Rajput and his society secretary Kishore Thakkar for hatching a conspiracy to kill him. “We will lodge a case like in Sushant’s matter,” he said. Vikrant alleged that Mumbai police neither recorded his statement nor took any written complaint from him even after repeated attempts. “The police did not call forensic experts. There were injury marks on his eye, scratches on the back and chest and behind neck. He was murdered,” he added. Vikarant said they preserved Akshat’s fingerprints and took detailed photographs of his body for use in future investigation. Akshat’s’s father Vijayant Kishore said his son had called at around 8.30pm on Sunday and said he wanted to tell something only on the condition that he would not be scolded. “However, he didn’t share anything and said he would tell on Monday. At midnight, we came to know that my son committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan with a towel. Shikha twice changed her statement and later switched off her cellphone,” he said. He said Akshat had an MBA degree and went to Mumbai for a career in acting in August 2018. “He worked in some TV serials and advertisements. He recently signed a Bhojpuri film ‘Litti-Chokha’ for which he had joined acting classes. Shooting was to commence in Allahabad next month. He had invited his friends for watching the shoot,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhojpuri-actor-from-muz-found-hanging-in-mumbai/articleshow/78393082.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 30, 2020||Patna||One more doctor in Bihar succumbs to Covid-19||PATNA: One more doctor succumbed to coronavirus infection as the state reported 1,439 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Dr Umeshwar Prasad Verma is the 27th doctor in Bihar to have lost the battle against the virus. Dr Verma was promoted as director-in-chief (mental health, disaster management and medicine control) of the health department on Thursday. He earlier served as additional director (health services). The state health department reported two more deaths, taking the toll to 894 while the Covid tally reached 1,81,471. However, 1,67,890 patients have recovered so far and there were only 12,685 active cases in the state. The health department reported one death each from Patna and Saran, which have 208 and 30 casualties, respectively. State health minister Mangal Pandey stated on Twitter that 1,702 people recovered in the past 24 hours and state’s recovery rate was 92.52%, the highest in the country. He said 1,44,535 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and 71,34,767 samples so far in Bihar. He also condoled the death of Dr Verma. Ten deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna, including that of Dr Verma. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covoid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said Dr Verma (67) was admitted two days back in a serious condition. He also had comorbidities and past history of bypass surgery, rheumatoid arthritis and thyroid. His close relatives have also tested positive. Three more died at AIIMS-Patna — from Mogalpura, RPS Colony and Achuara in Barh. While 12 patients were admitted and nine discharged on Tuesday. The new patients included those from Patliputra Station Road, Haroon Colony, Lohia Nagar and Patel Nagar. Altogether 195 new cases were reported from Patna, taking its tally to 27,655. However, 25,466 of them have recovered and 208 died, leaving 1981 active cases in the district. Covid cases reported from some other districts included Purnia (99), Supaul (68), Saharsa (65), East Champaran (58), Araria (55) and Bhagalpur (51).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-doc-in-state-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/78391385.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 30, 2020||Patna||Ticket seekers wait outside netas’ bungalows in Bihar||PATNA: With a name slip in pocket and dream of getting becoming a legislator, hundreds of ticket seekers nowadays throng the party offices and their leaders’ bungalows for a chance to contest the assembly election. Not just they sound confident of getting tickets, but also winning the election if given a chance to contest. Ram Swaroop Paswan, who had defeated Uday Narayan Choudhary of Janata Dal from Imamganj in 1995, was waiting outside the 10, Circular Road bungalow to meet RJD leaders Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. He had a slip ready in his pocket so that not to waste time if asked to send it to Rabri or Tejashwi. “Lalu ji has assured me RJD ticket this time. Even Tejashwi said I will get the party ticket if his father had assured him,” he claimed. Paswan keeps waiting whole day outside Rabri’s house for the last three days. “I am staying in a hotel. I waited till night yesterday. Today I am here since 8am,” he said. Several ticket seekers were waiting outside the bungalow of JD(U) national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh on Tuesday morning. Mohammad Imram Ali has been coming there for the last four days to get a JD(U) ticket from Balrampur against his own party’s MLA Mahboob Alam. “Electors want me to contest this time as I am more popular amid Muslims as well as Hindus,” he said. “They pressurised me to come here from Katihar. They also assured me to vote in my favour if I contest election,” he said. Abdul Malek, who accompanied him and claimed to be JD(U) farmer cell head of Barsoi block in Katihar, said Ali did not get married just to serve society. “We are in Patna for the last 12 days,” he added. There was a peculiar crowd of six-seven persons outside the bungalow of JD(U) minister Sanjay Kumar Jha. Though they claimed to be associated with JD(U), their demand was for a BJP candidate from Laukaha in Madhubani district against sitting MLA and minister Laxmeshwar Rai. Deo Dutta Sah, who claimed to be JD(U)’s Khutauna block president, said they want someone from Vaishya community to represent Laukaha. “We are rallying for Pramod Priyadarshi of BJP, who is ready to join JDU if given a party ticket. He had garnered more than 94000 votes last time,” Sah claimed. Yogendra Prasad Sah, the mukhiya of Vasudevpur panchayat, supported Deo. Waiting outside Congress leader Sadanand Singh’s bungalow was Om Prakash Paswan, the party’s scheduled caste cell president of Bhagalpur. “I want to contest from Dhoraiya in Banka, which is a reserved seat. Though I have expressed my wish to Singh, I need to come every day,” Paswan said, claiming to be the strongest contender for the seat. Paswan said he has been camping in Patna with six associates since Sunday. “I will stay here till seat-sharing issue is resolved. If Amarpur and Pirpainti seats go to RJD or CPI, then Congress will get Dhoraiya,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ticket-seekers-wait-outside-netas-bungalows/articleshow/78392385.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD offers 58+1 seats, Congress adamant on 75||PATNA: The seat-sharing issue in the Grand Alliance (GA) remains unresolved on Tuesday with RJD asking Congress to be flexible. RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha on Tuesday said his party has compromised for the sake of people of Bihar, and so should Congress. Sources said while Congress is demanding 75 seats, RJD has offered 58 with Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat, or 63 assembly seats without Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat. However, in 2019 parliamentary election, Congress had got Valmikinagar. “Definitely, we are contesting from this seat again. There cannot be any discussion on Valmikinagar seat,” a senior Congress leader said. In 2015 assembly election, RJD and JD(U) had contested 101 seats each with Congress 41. Sources said this time 25 seats have been kept for the Left parties from the 101 seats JD(U) had contested with RJD. If rest of the 76 seats are divided proportionately, RJD will get 54 extra and Congress will get 22 more. So, as per that calculation, RJD will finally get 155 and Congress 63. However, Congress stakes it claims on at least 75 seats citing its better performance than RJD in the Lok Sabha election. RJD, on the other hand, is adamant on giving 58 seats only. “If they take one Lok Sabha seat, then they have to reduce five assembly seats,” said a senior RJD leader. Jha told TOI over the phone that the bigger challenge was to defeat NDA and not to insist on one or two seats. “By now everything should have been sorted out as the process for filing nomination papers will begin on October 1,” Jha said. He even said RJD has adjusted Left parties, too, and Congress should also accept the offer given to them. “In spite of having a big mandate, we are adjusting others because our aim is to remove the anti-people government. If we do not do this, we will be the culprit,” he said. When asked if everything was all right with Congress, Jha said, “Wait for 24 hours.” Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said, “It is our right and we are not asking anyone for anything more. We said the 101 seats left out of JD(U) share should be divided equally.” Even Congress screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey had threatened to fight on all 243 seats, if not given respectable share. Sources said both sides admit that any last minute fight could harm them and such pressure politics will in no way give better results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-offers-581-seats-congress-adamant-on-75/articleshow/78392044.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 30, 2020||Business||SP Group company seeks loan rejig under RBI’s Covid scheme||MUMBAI: Shapoorji Pallonji and Company, the SP Group flagship, has formally written to banks for a restructuring of its loan obligations under the special Covid scheme announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This is the first large account of over Rs 1,500 crore to come up for restructuring and is likely to be referred to the K V Kamath-led committee, which will vet all restructuring proposals of over Rs 1,500 crore. The company, which is the group’s infrastructure and real estate business, has seen its cash flows hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Although the promoters are well-placed in terms of net worth, they are not able to leverage their assets because of the dispute with the Tata Group. Speaking to TOI, a senior banker confirmed that the company has put in an application this week to restructure their loans. The company’s total debt obligations are close to Rs 11,000 crore. “There is no problem with the group. It is largely a cash flow problem because it is an infrastructure group. It will be a light restructuring.” The restructuring came up because the expected cash flow from the pledge of shares did not materialise. The group had struck a deal with Brookfield to raise funds by pledging the stake in Tata Sons. However, the legal objections meant that the funds did not materialise. The restructuring will result in all financial creditors entering into a standstill. “It will be a light restructuring and if the group’s proposal to sell stake in Tata Sons materialises, they might not even require relief,” said a banker. The SP Group is the single-largest stakeholder of Tata Sons — the holding company of the Tata Group — with an 18.4% stake. Earlier, the company had struck a deal with private equity firm Brookfield to raise Rs 3,750 crore of debt by pledging its stake in Tata Sons. However, the deal did not go through because of Tatas taking legal objection. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court directed the SP Group to maintain the status quo until October 28. Bankers expect the setback to be temporary as the SP Group has decided to exit the Tatas. “Today, it is with a heavy heart that the Mistry family believes that a separation of interests would best serve all stakeholder interests,” SP Group had said in a statement last week. It added that it was crucial that an early resolution is reached to arrive at a fair and equitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sp-group-co-seeks-loan-rejig-under-rbis-covid-scheme/articleshow/78393307.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 30, 2020||Hubballi||Clash with China delays launch of PBS in twin cities||Hubballi: The escalating diplomatic conflict between India and China has delayed the launch of the public bicycle sharing (PBS) system in Hubballi-Dharwad. Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd (HDSCL), the nodal agency tasked with executing the project, has directed the contractor who won the bid to supply the bicycles against procuring even a single part from China. HDSCL special officer SH Naregal said that the contractor was to have imported several components of the bicycles from China, and assemble them in India. “However, following the clash between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA at Galwan Valley, we stipulated that nothing was to be sourced from China. Consequently, spare parts are being imported from Malaysia,” Naregal said. He said that the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of urban development stipulated that the cycles were to be attractive and durable. “These bicycles must also have distinctive characters so as to be readily identified as PBS cycles,” Naregal added. In order to gauge the public sentiment towards the initiative, HDSCL will launch PBS on an experimental basis along the TenderSURE road between Tolanakere and Arts College in Hubballi, with 75 bicycles available for rent. HDSCL deputy general manager Channabasavaraj said that the initiative would be launched in a fortnight. Depending on the response to the trial, HDSCL has plans to have 375 bicycles in its stable. Channabasavaraj said that they would follow the Mysuru model insofar as having automated docking stations at key locations where people could rent the bicycles and drop them later. Sources in HDSCL said that there were plans to have a 2.5-metre wide dedicated bicycling strip on various roads of the twin cities up to 16km. “This will be achieved in the first phase of the project. A synthetic track will be marked at the corner of roads for dedicated use for cyclists. The track will run along the feeder route of the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) feeder route. So people leaving for work can pick up bicycles and drop them at any of the many docking stations along the dedicated road,” a source said. PBS is being launched in the twin cities at an estimated cost of Rs 8.9 crore, with 37 docking stations set to be developed in the first phase of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/clash-with-china-delays-launch-of-pbs-in-twin-cities/articleshow/78391812.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 30, 2020||Meerut||School owner booked for threatening parents||Muzaffarnagar: A school owner in Muzaffarnagar was booked for threatening the parents of two kids of damaging their residential property, in case they failed to deposit the kids’ fees. The parents claimed they had already paid the school fees and had, in fact, taken transfer certificates from the school to take their kids elsewhere. The owner was booked under various sections of IPC, including section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt). According to a source who wished to remain unnamed, an audio clip of the mobile phone in which the accused can be heard threatening the parents was also handed over to police, which has been included as part of the investigation. The source added the incident happened in Khatauli, where a resident, Avirudh Singh, filed a complaint, stating, “Several weeks ago, we got my brother-in-law’s two kids transferred from Rajbeer Singh’s school in Khatauli to another school, by taking transfer certificates (TCs) after paying all school fees. But since then, Rajbeer Singh and his two associates have been demanding Rs 40,000 from us, threatening to harm us and to destroy our home if we don’t.” On the basis of the complaint filed by Avirudh Singh, a case was registered against school owner Rajbeer Singh and his two unnamed associates at Khatauli police station. SP (crime) Durgesh Kumar Singh said, “An investigation is being conducted in the matter, and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/school-owner-booked-for-threatening-parents/articleshow/78391821.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 30, 2020||Business||Cos should secure wages of frontline staff, give incentives||By Rituparna ChakrabortyDeepa and Laxmi are two sisters who live in Bidadi (Karnataka) with their parents. They travel each day in BMTC buses for 2.5 hours to reach their workplaces in Koramangala. Deepa works with the modern trade division of a large lifestyle consumer company as an in-shop demonstrator with monthly earnings of Rs 25,000. Laxmi works as an attendant at an essential services retail chain with monthly income of around Rs 14,000. Three months ago, Deepa got her notice pay and lost her job as in-shop footfalls simply stopped at the company where she was deployed. However, Laxmi, in spite of Covid-19, continued to report to work each day at the retail outlet. Before the pandemic, India’s job growth had been driven largely by domestic consumption. And the three job roles that were most in demand — in sales, customer care and logistics — are today most vulnerable. Consumer spending is at an all-time low. If one looks at the latest RBI Consumer Confidence Index, the outlook in the next 12 months remains subdued. Deepa and Laxmi’s predicament is reminiscent of the agony and ecstasy (if at all) of field workers in India. On one hand, they face the challenge of job loss, and on the other, the challenge of braving Covid and showing up at work (which cannot be done from home) to protect their livelihood. Hence, the question for us is what makes our outbound field workers across sales, customer care and logistics vulnerable, and what can be done to support them through this difficult phase? Here are some thoughts to assist those who are at field work during the pandemic: * Keep their fear away: While it seems a no brainer, it is important to view employee welfare during the pandemic in a way that is distinct from our pre-Covid approach. Employee’s fear and apprehension are dramatically different from the past. Hence, we need to relook at our policies. Besides intense training, making employees aware of their dos and don’ts while in the field or a store, they need to be equipped with a hygiene kit consisting of hand sanitiser sprays, gloves, surgical masks and face shields. They need to be covered under an insurance policy that takes care of their (God-forbid) Covid-related expenses as well as their immediate family members. If the company’s GMC policy doesn’t cover Covid-related expense, either that needs to be included or a separate Corona Kavach-like insurance scheme should be taken for the frontline workforce. * Secure their wages: They are the ones who are up, front and centre and are managing the show, braving Covid. If they work with a constant fear that there is a chance they may lose their wages (either through salary cuts, or furloughs), it shall affect their productivity, morale and faith in the organisation. No organisation can afford any of these, given the impact reverse migration already has had in some of these frontline roles. Incidentally, the average monthly wage is quite nominal, falling in the Rs 14,000-25,000 range. Companies must introduce an attractive incentive policy as well. * Help them with mobility: The frontline workforce relies heavily on public transport and — because of the speed at which the pandemic is spreading during the unlock process — they are not the safest option to travel in. It is leading to paranoia and pressure from families, which can lead to anxiety, fear and even absenteeism. There are economical individual mobility options (a new breed of tech startups) that have come up during Covid in many cities. It might be a good idea for organisations to work out economical corporate deals, which employees can avail of and use. Alternatively, organisations can also look at safe pooling options with not more than two employees in a four-wheeler besides the driver. If there are a large number of employees coming from certain areas, arranging for chartered buses while adhering to social distancing norms could also be an option. Corporate India has already made substantial down-payment towards the fight against the virus, unlike in many countries. However, with a bit of compassion and empathy towards our frontline workers, who have been keeping the country’s economic engine running, we can reap significant long-term upsides. If not anything one, can always use the ‘acchi dua’. (The writer is co-founder & executive vice-president, TeamLease Services)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-should-secure-wages-of-frontline-staff-give-incentives/articleshow/78394130.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Patna||Congress manifesto 'Bihar ki baat' to be ready by October 10||PATNA: The Congress on Tuesday promised to incorporate people’s demands in its upcoming manifesto christened ‘Bihar Ki Baat’. Speaking at the Sadaquat Ashram, the party’s manifesto committee chairman, Rajeev Gowda, said, “While we listen to the people, they (NDA) are in the habit of enforcing their ‘mann ki baat’ on the people.” Congress Legislative Party leader Sadanand Singh claimed that the ‘Bihar Ki Baat’ manifesto would focus on the problems of the farmers, youths and teachers of the state. The leaders promised to fill all government vacancies within 18 months of forming the government in the state. They also assured equal pay for equal work, removal of the term ‘niyojit’, strict implementation of minimum support price system and resumption of sugar and jute mills. State manifesto committee chairman, Anand Madhab, urged people to give their suggestions on www.biharkibaat.org, 1800 121 000033 or manifesto@biharkibaat.org. “Our manifesto will be ready by October 10,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-manifesto-to-be-ready-by-oct-10/articleshow/78392113.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 30, 2020||Patna||Byelection for Valmiki Nagar LS seat on November 7||PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday announced the byelection for Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat on November 7, the day polling for the third and last phase of state assembly election will be held. As per the schedule, filing of nomination papers will begin on October 13. Byelection in Valmiki Nagar was necessitated following the death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahto in February this year. Mahto had defeated Congress candidate Shashwat Kedar Pandey by more than 3.54 lakh votes in the 2019 parliamentary election. Contesting as the NDA nominee, Mahto had polled 6,02,660 votes. BSP’s Deepak Yadav had finished third position by securing 62,963 votes. Though none of the two major alliances — NDA and GA — have so far declared their candidates for the byelection, JD(U) is likely to contest for the seat from NDA and Congress from the GA camp. As per the discussion going on in the political circles, JD(U) is likely to field one of three sons of late Mahto. “Mahto’s elder sons Ramakant Prasad and Manoj Kumar are businessmen. His third son Sunil Kumar is in politics and may be fielded by JD(U) from Valmiki Nagar,” Binod Kushwaha, who served as personal assistant to the late Mahto, told TOI. Kushwaha said Mahto had himself brought his youngest son Sunil into politics. When asked whether Sunil had got an assurance from JD(U) for the party ticket, Kushwaha said, “Once JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar had assured Mahto’s family that Sunil will be the political heir to late Mahto.” In Patna, some senior JD(U) leaders admitted that Sunil would most probably be fielded there, but the NDA is yet to decide its candidates either for the assembly polls or parliamentary byelection in Bihar. Shashwat, who is the son of former Congress MP Manoj Pandey and grandson of former Bihar CM Kedar Pandey, is already campaigning in the constituency through virtual methods. “Besides Shashwat, four other Congress leaders have started lobbying for the party symbol from Valmiki Nagar. Right now, we are focused on finalizing seats for assembly polls with ally RJD. We will look into the Valmiki Nagar bypoll issue later,” state Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha told TOI. State Congress’s another spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said Valmiki Nagar is their natural seat and the party’s central leadership would take a decision on the candidate at an appropriate time. The Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat comprises six assembly segments of Valmiki Nagar, Ramnagar (SC), Lauria, Narkatiaganj, Bagaha and Sikta in West Champaran. BJP has its MLAs from Bagaha, Ramnagar and Lauria — former IAS officer Raghav Sharan Pandey, Bhagirathi Devi and Vinay Bihari, respectively. Narkatiaganj is represented by Congress’ Vinay Verma. JD(U) minister Khurshid alias Firoz Ahmad is MLA from Sikta while Independent MLA Dhirendra Pratap Singh alias Rinku Singh represents Valmiki Nagar assembly seat. Rinku had supported Mahto in the last parliamentary election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/byelection-for-valmiki-nagar-ls-seat-on-nov-7/articleshow/78392146.cms||Madan Kumar
September 30, 2020||Patna||No road, no vote: Saran villagers||CHHAPRA: The call for ‘no road, no vote’ is gaining momentum ahead of the assembly election, with residents from many villages of Saran district threatening to boycott the polls. Even as the authorities are trying to increase the voters’ turnout in the ensuing assembly election through Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP), many villagers are singing a different tune. Some panchayats under Manjhi, Garkha (reserved) and Chhapra assembly segments have given a poll boycott call for non-fulfilment of their demand for proper roads. They now say ‘sadak nahi, to vote nahi (no road, no vote)’. Due to lack of road, people are forced to migrate as employment and health facilities are not easily accessible to them, said many villagers. In a meeting held at Sonevarsha under the Manjhi assembly segment last Sunday, locals decided not to vote. “We voted in the Lok Sabha elections 2019 in the hope that we would get road connectivity, but now we feel cheated,” said a villager present at the meet. According to the locals, pedestrians and vehicle owners are unable to negotiate the Manjhi-Sonevarsha-Jaitpur road which is lying in a dilapidated state. “Since 1985, this road remains in the same condition,” said a Sonevarsha native Dharmendra Singh. Similarly, villagers from Kotwa Patti Rampur, Raipur Bindgawan, and Badahara Mahaji under Garkha have also given a call to boycott the polls. They alleged that villages in ‘diara (riverine)’ areas like BalwanTola, Bindgawan, Kutuubpue and Chakia have failed to get road connectivity despite several assurances by the authorities concerned and they have no option but to walk the muddy stretch. Saran DM-cum- district electoral officer Subrat Kumar Sen said: “We are unable to take up new projects as the model code of conduct is in force. However, if the work has already been sanctioned, we would expedite it. I will direct the returning officers concerned to look into the matter and resolve the issues at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-road-no-vote-saran-villagers/articleshow/78392231.cms||H K Verma
September 30, 2020||Business||Education loans drop as Covid shuts admissions||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Covid-19 pandemic has turned 2020 into a reboot year for the education loan business with the first quarter being a washout due to the lockdown. According to the country’s second-largest education loan company, Avanse, while growth has been hit, lenders are not fearing defaults in their high-value loan for overseas education. This is because the Indian diaspora is focused on the STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) education stream where employment opportunities are much better than average. According to Avanse Financial Services CEO Amit Gainda, the first quarter saw only 20% of last year’s disbursements. The second quarter ending September is expected to be better with volumes at 45% of last year. He expects an increase in lending in the fourth quarter when students start borrowing for admissions to the spring semester. “What Diwali is for consumer loans, the fall and spring admission seasons are for education loans. The US is the biggest destination, but fall admissions have been deferred due to the current situation. Despite this, we believe that admissions will pick up during spring intake,” said Gainda. Avanse was originally part of Wadhawan Global Capital, promoters of DHFL Group, but was sold to Warburg Pincus last year. The company has brought in additional capital by raising $15 million through external commercial borrowing. It raised this fund from World Business Capital. The loan is backed by US International Development Finance Corporation and is valid for 10 years. “As a prudent practice, we are adequately capitalised, which could mean a slight negative carry. But we believe that it is important to be well-capitalised during these testing times,” said Gainda. The bank has also raised capital by subscribing to long-term bonds under the RBI’s liquidity programme. “We do not expect problems with asset quality. According to an analysis that we did of our portfolio when US unemployment rates peaked at 14%, it was in low single digits for students we had funded,” said Gainda. He said this was because hiring continues for analytics, machine learning and technology, which is where Indian students excel. The total educational loan market in India is Rs 93,000 crore with the bulk of the loans with banks. For banks, education loans — which stood at Rs 68,229 crore in end-September 2019 — have shrunk to Rs 65,100 crore in end-July 2020. In value terms, a large chunk of these loans is for higher education overseas. Tougher visa norms have already taken a toll with loans coming down from a peak of Rs 72,000 crore in September 2017. This year loans for edutech, which provide for remote learning through apps, have grown sharply. However, the value of these loans is low and they have a much shorter term, unlike those for overseas education that are repaid by students after completing education. Last year, Avanse funded the education of 69,000 students and achieved a portfolio size of Rs 2,682 crore. This year, however, loans are expected to be only 75% of last year due to the Covid pandemic. Despite the fall in applications, the company expects growth to pick up in the third quarter. According to Gainda, first-quarter disbursements were low because of the lockdown and the fact that students wanting to study overseas also wanted the classroom experience and did not want to do an international course online from India. However, now many institutions have structured hybrid courses where the initial semester will be online and subsequent ones will move to the classroom as the pandemic abates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/education-loans-drop-as-covid-shuts-admissions/articleshow/78393655.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 30, 2020||Business||Half of Indians not prepared for financial emergencies due to ill-health||Mumbai: Nearly half of Indians are not prepared to face a financial emergency that could arise as a result of the primary breadwinner coming down with a lifestyle disease or Covid complications. The pandemic has however raised awareness about being cautious not just about health but also saving for financial protection, according to a survey on financial immunity conducted by SBI Life Insurance. “The good news for the overall health of the country is that eight out of 10 people surveyed said they are focused on building physical immunity,” said Ravi Krishnamurthy, president, SBI Life Insurance. The countrywide survey has shown that the pandemic has increased awareness of lifestyle diseases. “A good number of people felt that stress and anxiety affect mental and physical immunity. The top three reasons for stress are attributed to: Financial security against critical illness, a family member getting infected by a lifestyle disease or Covid-19, and job or income loss,” said the report by SBI Life. According to Krishnamurthy, the pandemic has brought out the need for critical insurance and seven out of 10 Indians, who do not own a critical illness cover, expressed an intention to buy one within three months. The survey found that the top three products associated with securing the family’s future are life insurance (80%), health insurance (77%), and fixed deposits (68%). Krishnamurthy said that given the lack of protection, the insurance regulator’s move to introduce a standard term insurance policy was very welcome as many people found it difficult to choose. He added that critical illness cover will help to provide a financial back-up for expenses in addition to life insurance. India has become the second-most affected country in the world after the US, in terms of Covid-19 cases. Figures released by India’s health ministry at the beginning of September confirmed that the total number of Covid cases reached 5.7 million, surpassing Brazil, which has 4.5 million confirmed cases. According to the SBI Life report, it is now clear that the coronavirus affects everyone differently; like in the case of people with low immunity such as older citizens or people having existing diseases, the damage could be intense, whereas in the case of younger folks, having strong immunity can help fight the virus, the impact could be milder if treated early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/half-of-indians-not-prepared-for-financial-emergencies-due-to-ill-health/articleshow/78394934.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||Under-construction building collapses, three workers killed||Vadodara: Three persons died and one was injured after an under-construction building collapsed in Bawamanpura area near Panigate on Monday midnight. The building was occupied by four construction labourers who were working on the site. A major call was declared by the Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services (VFES) as initially there was no information on how many persons were feared trapped. Locals said that they heard a big sound around 12.05 am on Tuesday and rushed towards the accident site. Three persons identified as Ritu Patel (19), Pradeep Patel (18) and Vakita Patel (28) were brought out in unconscious state, while Vakita’s husband Kamlesh Patel (30) who was rescued around 3.45 am told the rescuers that just four of them were living in the building. All of them were taken to SSG Hospital. Pradeep, Vakita and Kamlesh succumbed later during the treatment. According to the police, all of them were from Banswada in Rajasthan and were working as construction labourers in Vadodara. Firemen, on reaching the spot, started moving the debris but later called in excavating machines to move the heavy concrete slabs to rescue the trapped persons. Due to darkness, portable inflatable lights were also brought in to help in the rescue work. Several vehicles were damaged as the debris fell on them. “Staff of over 30 firemen and officers were deployed for rescue work. Removal of debris continued till Tuesday evening to ensure that nobody else is trapped,” said fire officer, Om Jadeja. Fire department sources said that the four-storey building tilted in front and fell on the road. According to locals, the building was being constructed after demolishing a 30-year-old building. It is believed that the building was to house a hospital. However, authorities have not been able to confirm it as there are no whereabouts of the builder as well as the architect. The victims’ relatives said that Vakita and Kamlesh’s children have been left orphaned now. The couple had left their four-year-old son and two-year-old daughter back in their village with other family members. The other victim Pradeep was Kamlesh’s cousin. A case of accidental death has been registered at the Panigate police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/under-construction-building-collapses-three-workers-killed/articleshow/78391603.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar farmers to get benefits of farm bills: Minister||PATNA: Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday that the Centre has created Infrastructure Development Fund of Rs1 lakh crore to provide technological support to the farmers. As part of the same, Rs10,000 crore would be spent on food processing units, he added. Addressing the farmers at BJP office here through virtual medium from Delhi, Tomar said the agriculture reforms Bills passed by Parliament would help in orienting the farmers to adopt global agricultural practices based on new technologies, which would increase their income. Accordingly, the farmers of Bihar would also be benefited by the new trend, he added. Tomar said the M S Swaminathan Commission had made the recommendations in this regard, but the UPA government at the Centre could not implement them. He said Bihar was the first state in the country to abolish the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act to open the market to its farmers for selling their produce. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said the PM Modi government was committed to increasing the farmers’ income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-farmers-to-get-benefits-of-farm-bills-min/articleshow/78391417.cms||Abhay Singh
September 30, 2020||Business||e-LCV pioneer, Etiro raises of $3m in Series A||Chennai: Hyderabad based retrofitted e-LCV pioneer, Etiro has announced the raise of $3 million in Series A round from HNI investors based out of Singapore. The group of investors is led by serial investor, Janardhan Rao, founder of Triumph Global Group, a Singapore head-quartered international commodity trading house with a consolidated revenue of over $900 million. The investment will fuel the company’s foray into new electric vehicles in three wheelers and bicycle product lines. Touro, Etrio’s three-wheeler brand is scheduled for market launch in October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-lcv-pioneer-etiro-raises-of-3m-in-series-a/articleshow/78392588.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 30, 2020||Madurai||Villagers oppose setting up of textile park in Virudhunagar district||Madurai: People from two villages in Virudhunagar district staged protest on Monday opposing the establishment of a textile park within the limits of their villages, for which chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone last year.Thamaraikulam and Pottalkulam are two villages in Thulukkankulam panchayat union in Kariapatti block in Virudhunagar district. A public hearing for the establishment of a textile park between these villages was held on December 14, 2016, with the then Virudhunagar district collector A Sivagnanam presiding over it and people from the villages of Thamaraikulam, Karaikulam, Esalimadai, Settikulam, Keela Kanchirankulam, Mela Kanchirankulam, Thulukkankulam and C Pudur had opposed it even then. The had alleged that a textile park would lead to digging of big borewells, which would affect their agriculture, as the groundwater-level would go down.When soil tests were done and there were attempts to dig the borewell in the designated site on June 22, 2019, the people opposed it. But, CM Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for The Rs 200 crore textile park to come up in 100 acres on August 25, 2019.The firm that has taken the tender for the textile park came to the designated site on Monday, to commence work and many villagers staged a protest. Over 200 police personnel were deployed due to the protest. These villagers said that they would intensify their protests if the authorities did not listen to their requests.Police officials and revenue staff held discussions with them but the villagers refused to give up. They said that the authorities should conduct another public hearing and take a decision of the park only after getting the feedback of the farmers and locals of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-oppose-setting-up-of-textile-park-in-virudhunagar-district/articleshow/78395316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Varanasi||Cattle, liquor smuggling emerge as lucrative trade||Varanasi: Cattle and liquor smuggling have seemingly emerged as the most lucrative business for the criminals active in 10 districts of Varanasi zone, also known as citadel of mafia dons of east UP, in recent years. The trend becomes evident by the police records which reveal that 147 new criminal gangs have been registered in past nine months among which 64 are gangs of cattle smugglers while 31 are of liquor smugglers and hooch manufacturers. Talking to TOI, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Intensifying the drive against organized crime in the state, the process of booking the criminals under Gangster Act, registering their gangs and opening history sheet of each of the gang members was initiated with the beginning of this year. From January 1 to September 15, the zone police registered 147 new criminal gangs of which 64 are involved in cattle smuggling and illegal slaughtering while 31 gangs are of liquor smugglers and hooch manufacturers, and other 52 gangs are of criminals in different categories including looters, thieves, chain snatchers, drug peddlers, and vehicle lifters. Till 2019 end, the Varanasi zone had 455 gangs registered in all categories, said the ADG mentioning that with the registration of new gangs in past nine months the total figures of criminal gangs have become 602. The officials said that among 455 gangs registered in 10 districts till 2019 end, the number of cattle and liquor smuggling gangs were comparatively low than those in other categories. He added, 719 persons involved in cattle smuggling and illgal slaughtering had been arrested and booked under Gangster Act while four of them were booked under NSA. Criminal history sheet of 265 had been opened while properties worth Rs 4.60 crore of 46 of them had been seized. Under the drive against liquor smuggling and hooch manufacturing, the police booked 170 criminals under Gangster Act, 61 under Goonda Act and opened history sheet of 54 apart from registering 31 new gangs and confiscating properties of Rs 9.59 crore belonging to 44 of them. The ADG said that figure of arrests made in the cases registered under Excise Act was 4,753. Police recovered 1.89 lakh liters of Indian Made Foreign Liquor, 1.70 lakh country liquor while 365 hooch manufacturing units were unearthed while around 100 raw material were also destroyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cattle-liquor-smuggling-emerge-as-lucrative-trade/articleshow/78413550.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Patna||Top MHA adviser, CRPF DG in Patna to review preparations ahead of polls||PATNA: Senior security adviser to the Union home ministry, K Vijay Kumar, along with CRPF director-general AP Maheshwari reached Patna on Tuesday to take stock of security preparations ahead of the three-phase assembly polls, especially in areas affected by left-wing extremism (LWE). Kumar, a 1975 batch Tamil Nadu cadre IPS officer, who was earlier CRPF DG, advises the MHA on security-related issues of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and LWE-affected states across the country. Altogether 16 districts of Bihar are Maoist affected, according to the MHA. Most of these districts will go for polling in the first phase on October 28, pushing the requirement for heavy security arrangements. A massive deployment of forces would take place for the assembly election. Police headquarters sources said Kumar along with Maheshwari and several other senior police officers held a meeting on Tuesday evening soon after they arrived in Patna. “Sleuths of the Intelligence Bureau, special branch of the state police and others were present in the meeting presided over by Kumar. CRPF officers including IG (Bihar sector) GVH Giri Prasad were also present in the meeting focussed on security-related issues in the state,” a police headquarters source said. Headquarters sources also said Kumar and Maheshwari may take up an aerial survey or go for physical inspection to Gaya on Wednesday after which they are likely to fly to Ranchi. Sources said both top officers landed at Patna airport in a BSF aircraft around 5.30 pm. Their visit coincides with the Election Commission team which also reached Patna to take stock of the poll preparedness on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/top-mha-adviser-crpf-dg-in-patna-to-review-preparations-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78392081.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 30, 2020||Patna||Women and children suffer most in Covid pandemic||PATNA: Women and children in the state have suffered the most during the coronavirus pandemic, said PP Ghosh, director of Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) on Tuesday. Speaking at a webinar on ‘Financing critical social services during Covid-19 in Bihar’ based on the study -- Socio-economic impact of Covid-19 pandemic on children and women in Bihar -- by ADRI and UNICEF, Ghosh said, “While several steps have been taken by the government to pacify the adversities of other vulnerable sections, including the migrant labourers, a little has been talked about the manifold impact Covid-19 has had on the women and children in the state.” Urvashi Kaushik of UNICEF said that the pandemic has posed a grave impact on the health, nutrition and protection services offered to the children of Bihar. Prof Barna Ganguly of ADRI said the crisis has not just impacted children but also snatched away the means of livelihood for many in the state. The demand for work under MGNREGA has doubled during the lockdown as compared to last year in the state, she said. A panel discussion was also held on the efficacy of online teaching methods adopted by schools during the pandemic. Education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “Although we have the software for online education, but lack of hardware has restricted the access of virtual classes to many students in the state.” Finance department principal secretary S Siddharth said, “Despite the decrease in its overall revenue collection, the Centre has released its share for Bihar, which is being utilized to mitigate the crises.” Atul Prasad, ACS of social welfare department, said timely government responses have smoothened the severity of Covid-19. “The state government has created a digital registration dashboard which has been a silver lining for sustaining supplementary nutrition and other services of the social welfare department,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-children-suffer-most-in-covid-pandemic/articleshow/78391436.cms||Arunima Lal
September 30, 2020||Patna||‘BJP does not have princes, but self-made young leaders’||PATNA: As all political parties are talking about youth, the newly appointed BJP youth wing national president, Tejasvi Surya, tells TOI’s Sheezan Nezami about his party’s plan in the ensuing Bihar assembly polls. Excerpts: All political parties are wooing youth. What is the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) strategy to attract youth in Bihar?The aspiration of youth in Bihar is the aspiration of the 21st century. They do not live in the lantern era anymore. They discuss startups, entrepreneurship and agro-business. So, clearly, the opposition is completely disconnected from the aspiration of the 21st century youth of Bihar. We are building AIIMS, IITs, bridges, highways, ring roads and industries. Loans are being given under Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana to make young self-dependent. In 15 years, they (RJD) created 70,000 jobs. In 15 years of NDA rule, 6.5 lakh government jobs were created in Bihar. This is what we are doing. You are the youth wing president of India’s largest party. How do you see the youth of Bihar?Bihar has always championed social equality from the time of Lord Buddha, who stood for equal opportunity for all. But unfortunately, opposition parties have never given space to young people. Other parties believe ‘young of today’ are ‘leaders of tomorrow’ and keep them waiting. But PM Narendra Modi believes ‘youth of today’ are ‘leaders of today’ and gives them opportunity. The young people of Bihar are very smart. Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has promised 10 lakh government jobs if he comes to power. What will you say?Does he (Tejashwi) think of creating jobs in a Cabinet meeting? Young voters of Bihar are very smart and he can’t fool them. There are many young faces in Bihar politics, like RJD’s Tejashwi and Chirag Paswan of LJP. Don’t you think BJP lacks a youth icon in Bihar?Every single young leader in BJP is self-made and all of them are our face. We don’t have princes; we have leaders. Chirag does not seem to be happy with JD(U)?Chirag ji is a very good friend of mine and I am sure he will stay in the NDA because he knows the popularity of PM Modi. How difficult it is to reach out to voters in the prevailing pandemic situation?Every challenge is an opportunity. BJP is very tech-savvy and so is Bihar’s youth. All young voters have smartphones and it is easy to reach every household. BJYM will prove to the world how a unique outreach could be successfully done. The United States, which will have elections after us, will be following us. How many seats do you think will NDA win in Bihar?We will form the government with an overwhelming majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-does-not-have-princes-but-self-made-young-leaders/articleshow/78392354.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 30, 2020||Business||Forensic audit information to stock exchanges must: Sebi||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Tuesday made it mandatory for all listed entities to disclose to the stock exchanges any forensic audit that a company carries out. The entity is also required to intimate to the exchanges when a forensic audit is initiated, the regulator said after its board meeting earlier in the day. To make debt funds less risky for investors, Sebi has decided that from now on debenture trustees should carry out an independent audit of the collateral against which the company is issuing the debentures. During the board meeting, Sebi also approved a proposal to facilitate setting up of a limited purpose repo-clearing corporation, which could help deepen the debt market. Sebi further said that a person informing the regulator or a company about any violations relating to insider trading could do so within a period of three years from the date of violation. It also made changes in the rules so that the informant for insider trades should include specific information. These refer to details of securities, trades by the suspect and unpublished price-sensitive data based on which the insider trading is alleged, it said. Relating to forensic audits, a Sebi release said this decision has been taken “to address the gaps in availability of information on forensic audit of listed entities”. At present, listed companies usually do not make forensic audits public, mainly for fears of negative impact on the stock price and the company’s brand. However, forensic audits initiated by regulatory or enforcement agencies have been excluded from this list. Relating to debenture trustees, the company issuing the debentures should create a “recovery expense fund at the time of issuance of debt securities”, Sebi said. The trustees shall carry out continuous monitoring of the asset cover, including obtaining mandatory certificate from the statutory auditor on a half-yearly basis, it said. The Sebi board decided to introduce a code of conduct for fund managers, including chief investment officers and dealers of fund houses. “The chief executive officer will be responsible to ensure that the code of conduct is followed by all such officers,” it said. The board also permitted fund houses to become self-clearing members of recognised clearing corporations to clear and settle trades in the debt segment of recognised stock exchanges, on behalf of its mutual fund schemes, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/forensic-audit-info-to-ses-must-sebi/articleshow/78393552.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Madurai||In Madurai, people reluctant to test now: Docs||Madurai: The number of daily Covid-19 cases continues to remain steadily around 100 or less in Madurai with the positivity rate at less than 4%. However, with a section of the public fearing to go for Covid-19 testing, doctors and health officials remain vigilant. This was especially in the wake of some patients testing negative for Covid-19 in RT-PCR test but indicating being positive in CT scan, which is not counted in the official Covid-19 tally of the state government. “Compared to previous months, the public are more afraid to come forward for testing unless they are severely ill. Though there is more general awareness about the disease, many are underestimating its seriousness and deadly nature. They misunderstand that it will come and go like a cold,” said a doctor at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Doctors also said that Covid patients have been facing stigma and shame in society unlike other diseases. “Fear of being isolated and labelled as a person or family with Covid-19 is keeping patients away from seeking medical care in time. It is sad that now when we are more equipped to treat the disease, people are hesitating to come forward for testing. Home isolation is allowed now but it does not mean patients can simply stay at home if they have Covid-19. Doctors’ monitoring is a must. Pulse and oxygen saturation levels must be monitored to avoid complications or worsening of the disease,” said Dr VN Alagavenkatesan, a general physician. In private labs which perform Covid-19 testing, though testing is allowed without even a prescription, hardly a few people are voluntarily turning up for testing, said officials. CT scan and RT-PCR test, which are the two most used means for diagnosing Covid-19, are also posing confusion among patients. Some patients are showing lung involvement indicating Covid-19 in CT scan but testing negative for it in RT-PCR test and vice versa. Dr P Prem Ananth, a consultant interventional pulmonologist, said that ideally a person should opt for a Covid-19 test, around 3-5 days after onset of symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-madurai-people-reluctant-to-test-now-docs/articleshow/78395321.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 30, 2020||Goa||Prominent educationist Surlakar passes away||Panaji: Mohandas Surlakar, a well-known name in socio-cultural and literary circles of Goa, passed away on Tuesday. He headed and served on several important cultural bodies in the state, most prominently the Gomantak Rashtrabhasha Vidyapith and was known for having contributed to the promotion of Hindi in Goa. “I am deeply pained by the passing away of my Guru Mohandas Surlakar Sir. He was disciplined & equally affectionate teacher in Model English High School, Margao,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Surlakar later joined T B Cunha High School at Aquem, Margao and served as headmaster till his retirement. “He was a soft spoken person and always took interest in literature & social work,” said Kamat. Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said also condoled Surlakar’s death. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prominent-educationist-surlakar-passes-away/articleshow/78393286.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Varanasi||Rs 2.8 crore fund approved for handicraft artisans||VARANASI: The handicraft artisans of Kashi and adjoining areas will soon get a major boost to overcome the Covid crisis, as a fund of Rs 2.8 crore was approved on Monday for the ‘integrated project for development and promotion of handicrafts of Varanasi’, an ambitious time-bound project of the Ministry of Textiles. Crafts identified based on the estimated number of artisans in each cluster include zari/zardozi, terracotta, wooden handicrafts, artificial jewellery and soap stone. Institutional support is being provided under one umbrella with a measurable outcome, and it dovetails various promotional schemes for impactful results. The textile secretary Ravi Capoor gave a green signal to the project during a video conference on Monday and directed the district officials to start the project immediately after Dussehra. During Covid-19 lockdown, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal had sent a proposal for the implementation of the project under which the craftsmen of all the 10 GI (Geographical Indication) tagged goods of eastern UP would be covered. The GI-tagged goods of eastern UP include Banaras brocade & saree, handmade carpet of Bhadohi, Banaras gulabi meenakari craft, Varanasi wooden lacquerware & toys, Mirzapur handmade dari, Nizamabad black pottery, Banaras metal repoussé craft, and Varanasi glass beads, soft stone undercut work and Ghazipur jute wall hanging. The divisional commissioner will himself monitor the project. He nominated the joint commissioner (industry) Umesh Singh as the nodal officer of the project. Agrawal said that 2,000 artisans would be given latest tool-kits, while 1,200 artisans would be trained in different trades. Under training programme, a two-month training in ‘design and technical upgradation’ and ‘craft skill upgradation’, and a five-day ‘soft skill upgradation workshop’ will be held. Besides, a catalogue of handicrafts would also be prepared for publicity, said the commissioner, adding that the project would be completed in six months. GI expert and facilitator Dr. Rajni Kant of Human Welfare Association said that the project would be a major milestone in the promotion of handicrafts of this region. “It is an excellent opportunity for the GI-goods artisans of Varanasi region to combat the Covid crisis,” he said. The project will set an an example for post-GI initiatives like skill upgradation, training, market linkages, and distribution of tool-kits to artisans who continued to work during this crisis, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rs-2-8cr-fund-approved-for-handicraft-artisans/articleshow/78395320.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Second woman executive officer alleges harassment by public representative in Uttar Pradesh, FIR filed||BIJNOR: The husband of a city council chairman was on Tuesday arrested following a complaint by an executive officer (EO) who alleged that he was meddling in the affairs of the nagar palika in UP’s Amroha district. Deepika Shukla, EO of Joya nagar panchayat in Amroha, had alleged that she was being forced to give tenders to a few people, apparently favourites of the chairman’s husband. Based on her complaint, an FIR was registered against Zahid Hussain, the chairman’s husband. He was arrested on Tuesday morning. It comes two days after EO of Meerut’s Sardhana municipal corporation was transferred after leveling a similar allegation against MLA Sangeet Som. It was the 17th transfer of Amita Varun, who had joined as EO in Sardhana in September last year. Soon after the EO Shukla’s allegation, district magistrate Umesh Mishra set up an inquiry and police protection was granted to her on Saturday. “I was being pressured by the representative's husband and my staff as well. They wanted to take tenders of development work. I was extremely upset and unable to sleep. There was danger to my life from them. I met the district magistrate on Saturday and narrated my ordeal to him,” Shukla said. The DM said, “EO approached me on Saturday. She collapsed suddenly while talking to me and was taken to hospital for treatment. Now her condition is normal. Probe is on. She was granted police protection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2nd-woman-eo-alleges-harassment-by-public-representative-in-up-fir-filed/articleshow/78391853.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 30, 2020||Goa||Officials beef up security at Colvale jail||Panaji: Necessary changes have been introduced at Colvale central jail to tighten security after two inmates fled– including a rape accused who escaped on September 22. Jail authorities are in the process of conducting an inquiry to establish how the 32-year-old inmate fled the prison. “We have our hypothesis, but we are still yet to figure out how he may have escaped,” said a senior jail official, adding that a clear picture will emerge only after the inquiry. The other accused, Hemraj Bharadwaj who was facing trial in a narcotics case, fled from Colvale jail last month while he was tasked with dumping waste in the dust bin. “Police haven’t traced both accused,” the official said. “We can understand his (Hemraj) case, as he was close to the exit, but the second case has been baffling,” the officer said. “We need to know how he escaped so that loopholes which the investigation may unearth, are plugged. Besides, we also want to know whether he received any assistance from our staff so that we can fix responsibility,” he said. Three staff—an assistant jailor and two jail guards— were suspended in connection with this incident. Authorities suspect that the rape accused may have taken advantage of the heavy rain to flee. However, officials said they will wait till a thorough inquiry is conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/officials-beef-up-security-at-colvale-jail/articleshow/78393294.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hubballi||Haveri med college may run from engg college building||Haveri: The much-awaited Haveri Government Medical College (HGMC), located in Devagiri, is all set to function from the Government Engineering College building from the next academic year (2021-22). According to norms, there is no provision to start classes in a private building on a rental basis. So the medical college authorities have chosen a government building to start with. The authorities are in touch with All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to get permission to function from the government building, and are hopeful of getting the same. Meanwhile, the works on the HGMC building will take off shortly with the tender process having been finalised. HGMC special officer Dr Uday Mulagund said that they have to start first batch of classes from 2021-22 academic years at any cost as they have already completed the necessary formalities. Meanwhile, owners of some private hospitals and buildings are ready to rent out their buildings for the medical college. “But we can’t take any of them. We can only choose government building to run the classes till HGMC has its own building,” he explained. Mulagund said that they have inspected many government buildings in Haveri, “but most of them are unfit to run classes”. “The government engineering college is suitable for us because it has educational environment. We have approached AICTE for providing us some classrooms in their premises. We hope they would consider our appeal,” he said. Speaking on the tender process on HGMC building works, an engineer said it has been completed and KBR Infratech Construction Company has bagged the project by bidding Rs 347 crore. It will house academic blocks, hostels for boys and girls, quarters for dean, principal, teaching/ non-teaching staff and nurses,” the engineer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/haveri-med-college-may-run-from-engg-college-building/articleshow/78391841.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Allahabad||Inter-district illegal liquor gang busted, 2 arrested in Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: A special team of district excise department’ officials on Tuesday busted an inter-district gang involved in the production of illegal liquor and arrested two of its key members near village Meha Jagir area. The excise department also seized two SUVs, 2209 country made liquor bottles of different brands, ceiling machine, 4500 Windes Lime, 3228 Blue Lime, fake wrappers, 638 QR codes, two bottles of caramel, 2218 fake caps, 2500 unfilled bottles and 200 litre spirit from their possession. The arrested gang members identified as Basant Lal Jaiswal and Ram Kumar Jaiswal are residents of Manda (Prayagraj) and Mirzapur respectively. District Excise Officer (Prayagraj) SB Modwel told TOI, “Acting upon a tip off that large scale manufacturing of spurious liquor was being done at a remote village – Meha Jagir in Manda tehsil, a joint team of excise department and police conducted a raid and managed to catch two of the key members. The illegal liquor was smuggled to many UP towns as well as neighbouring states.” “A case under sections 60, 63,72 of Excise Act and sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 472 of IPC was registered with Manda police in this connection,” he added. However, four other accused including Rakesh Jaiswal, Rajendra Jaiswal, Surendra Jaiswal and Dinesh Jaiswal, residents of Manda managed to give a slip to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/inter-dist-illegal-liquor-gang-busted-2-arrested/articleshow/78395332.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Madurai||6 months on, Covid warriors turn resilient, understanding||Madurai: Six months ago, fear and uncertainty crippled their work. But now, Covid-19 warriors from Madurai involved in providing health care for Covid-19 patients say they have come a long way, learning and adapting as days went by. “It was chaos in the beginning as much was unknown about Covid-19. Patients too had to be convinced and persuaded to understand that what they had was Covid-19. It required a lot of patience and understanding,” said Dr N Uwaraja, head and consultant emergency physician at a private hospital, who was leading a team exclusively for Covid-19 care. During the course of the lockdown, many staff members at his hospital were infected, creating panic. He said it was also the first time they were dealing with a pandemic disease wherein attenders could not be present with patients. “It was an extremely difficult and challenging time for us doctors, suffocated and dehydrated in PPEs, attending to patients the best we can with limited knowledge of treatment of the disease. I saw many patients’ kin panic when their loved one was in isolation. There were some patients who died soon after admission, whose relatives were unable to see their loved one even for one last time,” said Dr Uwaraja. For Covid-19 patients, the hospital staff were often the only ones caring for them while in treatment. R Amudha, 52, an experienced staff nurse at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), said it was not too different for them than Florence Nightingale, founder of nursing, caring for soldiers in war. “Being on duty at the Covid-19 ICU, for many patients we were the ones to be with them in their final moments. Apart from nursing them, we had to give the patients psychological support as well. Sometimes it got to me and I couldn’t help feeling emotional. It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience,” she said. Unfortunately, the nurse soon had an even more close-up experience with Covid-19 after she tested positive after her second duty in the Covid-19 ward. \ “While I was very much hopeful that I would recover and soon return to work, I would be lying if I said I never felt helpless and cried myself to sleep when in isolation for treatment,” said Amudha. Another set of Covid-19 warriors involved in providing health care were emergency technicians (EMTs) working with ambulances. “We handle about 150 cases per month now. Most of the cases I handled were of suspected Covid-19 patients. In March, when I started out on duty at the airport, I was really afraid of infecting my family by accident, especially with a 6-month-old baby at home. However, thankfully, all my tests so far have been negative,” said M Marimuthu, an EMT with GVK-EMRI 108 Ambulances. The 25-year-old said that despite the long hours on duty, things got easier as days went by. For the 18-member team of scientists and technicians at the Madurai Medical College Virology Lab, which is running tests for Covid-19 samples non-stop, the lab had become their home. “From around 500 samples in March to processing 4,000 samples now, we have come a long way, running shifts round-the-clock ensuring no delays in test results. Thankfully, none of us tested Covid-19 positive. Though it is not as easy as before the pandemic when we handled much less number of samples, we can say we got used to the work. In fact, now with the dengue season coming, we would have to be more prepared,” said one of the scientists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6-months-on-covid-warriors-turn-resilient-understanding/articleshow/78395325.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 30, 2020||Goa||NGT: Finalise eco-sensitive zones in Western Ghats by December 31||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has set a deadline of December 31, 2020, for the Union environment ministry to finalise demarcation of the eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) in the Western Ghats, covering six states, including Goa. Just because states have requested some areas to be excluded does not justify the delay in demarcating the ESZ, the tribunal has said. The fourth draft notification on ESZs expired on September 26, without demarcation of the areas. Goa has recently sought exclusion of 37 villages from ESZs. “Even if the lockdown period is to be excluded, there is no justification for continued delay merely because the states have sought exclusion of area from-eco sensitive zone. Let the needful be done now before December 31, 2020. For any default thereafter, direction to stop salary of the advisor, ESZ Division, MoEF&CC will be operative,” the NGT has said. The tribunal has asked the Union ministry to file a compliance report before it and the matter is set to be listed again on February 11, 2021. The NGT order comes in an application filed by Goa Foundation calling for early finalisation of ESZs. “There is demand for more and more exclusion by those who claim the need for ‘development’ while need for ‘environment protection’ does not allow acceptance of such demands. This aspect needs to be finalised and has been pending consideration for the last about eight years,” the order states. The Union environment ministry wants to come out with a single notification covering eco-sensitive areas in all states through which the Western Ghats run. Once notified, all polluting activities will be prohibited within the earmarked zone. But each of the states raised concerns at different points stating that the areas within the proposed notification have undergone demographic and infrastructural changes since the time of submission of the Gadgil committee report and the high level working group (HLWG) report under Dr Kasturirangan. States have, therefore, sought exclusion of certain areas that are otherwise included in the draft notifications and HLWG report. Some have also proposed inclusion of new areas as compensation for areas left out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-finalise-eco-sensitive-zones-in-western-ghats-by-december-31/articleshow/78393290.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Not pedestrian-friendly transport||Ahmedabad: When the BRT was inaugurated in October 2009 in Ahmedabad, it was envisioned to be pedestrian friendly transport system. Cyclists and even those on wheelchairs were assured a safe place. But in 2019, a decade after the inauguration, when a road safety agency analyzed 57 accidents in the BRT corridor, they found 22 serious accidents that killed 17 people and most of them were pedestrians. Iskcon Crossroads, Lokmanya Tilak Bagh and Janata Nagar BRT were pointed out as accident spots which were vulnerable to accidents. A road safety agency RAASI-India analyzed the reasons for these accidents for the city police and the state government. A total of 112 road users — 70 were in vehicles and 42 of them were pedestrians — were involved in the 57 accidents in the BRTS corridor. Most of these accidents involved the bus. A total of 11 people had died in these accidents. Out of total accidents, 30% were fatal while 39% accidents included serious injuries and 32% of total accidents were minor injury accidents. An in-depth analysis of these accidents also revealed that eight pedestrians had died because of speeding and illegal corridor use by other vehicles. The report states that of the 57 accidents RAASI conducted a spot analysis of 39 accidents in which 37 accidents were caused within the BRTS corridor and not at intersections in which 10 people lost their lives. The Narol-Naroda stretch and the BRTS stretch towards Bopal also was turning into an accident spot. The study claims that the accident locations need to be analyzed for infrastructural changes to reduce the accidents and its severity. “After understanding the kind of accidents and their frequency at position we are providing some countermeasures to prevent the accidents in future,” said the report. “The AMC’s has been provided with a copy of the report which has also suggested some design changes to reduce accidents,” says a senior AMC official in the traffic department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/not-pedestrian-friendly-transport/articleshow/78393330.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Madurai||Rotary club donates glucose boxes to GRH staff||Madurai: The Rotary Club of Madurai Next Gen, as part of its programme-- ‘Project Healthy India’-- on Tuesday, handed over 2,000 boxes of one kg glucose powder to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) dean Dr J Sangumani to be distributed to the hospital staff. The club president Dr Ramanan Srinivasan said that amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it was planned to provide health kits to those in need. Products worth Rs 4 lakh were provided by Dabur company for distribution. In a small gathering on Tuesday, Dr Srinivasan, along with secretary of the club, Ramprakash and other members handed over the boxes that also contained 2,000 toothpaste tubes to the GRH dean. “We are also planning to distribute 4,000 tetra pack boxes of 1 litre fruit juice to sanitary workers of Madurai Corporation North Zone by coordinating with sanitary inspectors,” added Dr Srinivasan. The club has also been actively involved in welfare activities and relief work like Miyawaki forestation, job fairs, and ‘Happy Schooling’ to provide aid and skill development to government-run schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rotary-club-donates-glucose-boxes-to-grh-staff/articleshow/78395336.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Goa||Draft rules: Homestay, B&B operators oppose registration||Panaji: The federation of homestays and bed and breakfast (B&B) operators have raised objections to the draft tourism rules that make their registration mandatory. Debunking the alleged false narrative that they operate illegally, the federation said many of them have registered under the central tourism ministry over the past several years, as Goa tourism had not yet acknowledged the concept. Homestays and B&Bs have been clubbed together in category ‘D’ under the draft tourism rules. The homestay and B&B federation of India said that measures taken for streamlining tourism trades are appreciated, but they are cumbersome. It has submitted suggestions to the tourism department. The draft rules were open for public suggestions and recommendations for over a month, and they are likely to be finalised in the next fifteen days. “A narrative is being created by tourism stakeholders in Goa with an aim to demonise homestays and B&Bs,” said federation president Francis Coelho. “It is very damaging to the concept of homestays and B&B.” He said the state needs to move with the times and tourists what they desire. Instead of supporting the micro industry, he said, they are being penalised. He said the Centre has clearly defined and articulated in its policy that registration for homestays and B&Bs is voluntary, but the Goa government has proposed to make the process mandatory. Homestays, he said, is a form of employment to local youth, and they should not be compelled to go through the lengthy process of obtaining permission from different authorities, including a clearance from the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB). Coelho said that the Kerala government has taken measures to promote homestays, like reduction in registration fees, while the process of registration has also been simplified. The Goa government, too, must introduce similar measures to encourage homestays and B&Bs, he said. The federation has requested the government to introduce separate guidelines applicable to them, as well as a single-window clearance system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-rules-homestay-bb-operators-oppose-registration/articleshow/78393305.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Allahabad||Two houses of Atiq’s aides demolished||PRAYAGRAJ: Continuing the crackdown against unauthorised properties of former MP Atiq Ahmed and his henchmen, a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration on Tuesday demolished two houses belonging to the former MP’s aides at Beli area. These houses were constructed illegally by Rashid and his close relative after grabbing government land. The joint team reached the site in Beli area on Tuesday morning, but had to face protest from a group of women, who started shouting slogans against the administration’s move to demolish the building. The women did not allow to enter anyone into the house and even closed the main gate. However, adequate presence of police force, including women police, foiled their attempt and they vacated the houses. The joint team then started the process of demolishing the houses of two henchmen of the former MP. PDA official Alok Pandey said, “The houses were constructed by the henchmen of the former MP, Rashid and his brother, after grabbing the state land and both the houses were spread across 400 square metre and 300 square metre area and were worth Rs 6 crores.” He also added that the joint team has also bulldozed another house which was left earlier and this land was also grabbed by the jailed don and his associate in Beli Gaon locality. A senior cop said, “The district administration, PDA and police have prepared a list of structures/houses and building which were illegally grabbed by henchmen of former MP and made constructions. The district administration, PDA and police have taken already cognizance that Ahmed and his accomplices had illegally grabbed state and nazul land in different parts of the city and a drive to free them from their illegal possession is on.” Two days back, the joint team had demolished a lodge and house belonging to key members of Atiq gang at Beli Gaon area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-houses-of-atiqs-aides-demolished/articleshow/78395351.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Mysuru||Manasagangotri campus out of bounds for walkers||Mysuru: Manasagangotri campus will again remain out of bounds for morning and evening walkers in the wake of rising number of Covid cases in the district. Both the varsity campus and the Kukkarahalli Lake, which the varsity maintains, were closed to the public since March. However, in the first week of September, after Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) issued an order to open all the parks and playgrounds, the varsity authorities opened the gates of Kukkarahalli Lake for the walkers. Speaking to TOI, Yathish, a morning walker said, “The University of Mysore is not a private property to close its gates and stop the public from entering the campus.” “Hundreds of people visit the campus for a walk everyday. All the walkers wear masks and maintain social distance. Still the authorities have closed the gates of Manasagangotri for walkers,” he added. The ban on campus has forced people to walk in the Kukkarahalli Lake area, said Abhilash, another walker. “The lake area is overcrowded both morning and evening and there is a high risk of the virus spreading. The Lingambudhi Lake managed by the forest department and the Karanji Lake maintained by Mysuru Zoo are too far for people who live in the south part of the city to travel every day,” he said. University of Mysore vice-chancellor G Hemanth Kumar told TOI that the varsity is holding several exams and the gates were closed for the safety of students. “We have opened Kukkarahalli Lake for the walkers. The Manasagangotri campus gates will be opened for public when the coronavirus cases reduce and all the exams are held,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/manasagangotri-campus-out-of-bounds-for-walkers/articleshow/78391893.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Upendra Kushwaha forms 3-party front with BSP||PATNA: Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha on Tuesday announced his alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Janwadi Party (Socialist) to contest all the 243 seats in Bihar assembly election to he be held from October 28 to November 7. The seat-sharing formula among them has not yet been thrashed out, though. “People have reposed faith in me for better school educational facilities and improved healthcare system, which I am committed to providing them. I may have changed my paths, but my ‘manjil’ (destination) remains the same to give a better alternative to the NDA or the grand alliance (GA),” Kushwaha said at a press conference here. Accompanied by BSP state coordinator Ramji Singh Gautam and Janwadi Party (socialist) chief Sanjay Singh Chauhan, he said, “At present, we are three parties together, but other like-minded parties can also join us in future.” While Janwadi Party (socialist) is a relatively new outfit, BSP led by former UP CM Mayawati has been in the Bihar’s electoral arena since long. It has won a few assembly seats in the bordering districts of UP since 1995. At least on paper, BSP and RLSP together might pose problems for both the NDA and GA in western Bihar districts and even throw up dark horses amid three-cornered contest, which now is a certainty, observers felt. Thereby, Kushwaha ended the uncertainty about his political combination after severing ties with the RJD-led GA a week ago, followed by his overtures to the BJP. Kushwaha said the three-party combination would have no truck either with the GA comprising RJD, Congress and the Left parties, or the NDA that has JD(U) and BJP as major partners. The third alternative to be cobbled together by him was earlier also touted to include Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) led by former MP Pappu Yadav and even the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan. However, reports on Tuesday said Chirag and the BJP brass have decided the number of seats that his party would contest. On Tuesday, Kushwaha did not mention either of the two parties. Kushwaha ridiculed CM Nitish Kumar and the BJP for pitching their campaign on the plank of 15-year NDA rule versus the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule. Comparing CM Nitish to an average schoolboy (read NDA) who says that the 17 marks he has fetched is better than the student (read RJD and its allies) who has fetched 15 marks! “People of Bihar want an alternative to the NDA and GA,” Kushwaha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-forms-3-party-front-with-bsp/articleshow/78393322.cms||Abhay Singh
September 30, 2020||Madurai||‘Be aware of progress in medical care’||Madurai: On the occasion of World Heart Day on Tuesday, Dr A Mathavan, director of cardiac sciences, Hanna Joseph Hospital, Madurai, has urged heart patients to be aware of advanced technologies available for quality cardiac care. “Medical technologies are advancing by the day and surgeons now advise cardiac procedures that are less invasive, less traumatic and which reduce the chances of recurrence of cardiac ailments,” said Dr Mathavan. The senior interventional cardiologist with over 20 years of experience explained how technological advancements are aiding diagnosis and treatment of heart patients. “For treating artery blockages of the heart, the procedural results can be further optimized using intravascular ultrasound which allows the surgeon to view the coronary artery inside-out,” said Dr Mathavan, who is working towards establishing an advanced cardiac centre at Hannah Joseph Hospital.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/be-aware-of-progress-in-medical-care/articleshow/78395346.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Nashik||In Nashik city, cured patients outnumber new cases in Sept||Nashik: An analysis of the Covid-19 cases in the city in the last six months has revealed that the total number of recovered patients in September has outnumbered the positive cases recorded so far this month. The death rate of 0.9% in September is also the lowest compared to the previous months. Both the positive cases and the death rate had gone up significantly in June, July and August. Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have cautioned citizens not to get carried away by this positive trend as the Covid-19 cases could spike anytime. Both officials and citizens should not lower their guard, said the civic body. “By June end, we would trace upto 22 contacts (both high-risk and low-risk) of the positive patients. Now, we have increased tracing upto 35 contacts per patient to eliminate the risks,” said civic officials. The ‘Nashik mission zero’ was launched in the second half of July with the help of an NGO Bhartiya Jain Sanghatna, which provided 20 mobile vans to find Covid-19 suspects and conduct rapid antigen tests. “Moreover, we also conducted a survey of comorbid patients in the city and found over 35,000 such patients. The tracing and testing of suspects and providing immediate treatment to the patients not only increased the recovery rate but also helped bring down the death rate in the city,” said officials. When contacted, city covid officer Avesh Palod said, “We deployed over 400 teams of health officials and employees in the containment zones to find Covid-19 suspects and conducted tests aggressively. This led to a rise in the recovery rate.” Moreover, around 85% of the total patients were asymptomatic and were provided treatment at homes, said Palod. “We have increased the bed capacity up to 4,000 in both civic as well as private hospitals. Around 30% of the beds are vacant due to a rise in the number of recoved patients,” said Palod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/in-nashik-city-cured-patients-outnumber-new-cases-in-sept/articleshow/78395353.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli dist reports 506 fresh cases, 22 casualties||Kolhapur: Sangli district reported 506 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 22 deaths on Tuesday. The total number of cases has reached 35,826, out of which, 1,331 patients have succumbed to the infection. As many as 7,420 patients are undergoing treatment and 27,075 have been discharged. Meanwhile, Walva taluka has emerged as a new coronavirus hotspot in the district after it registered a spike in positive cases as well as casualties. According to officials of the district administration, till Monday, Walva taluka reported 3,833 positive cases — the highest in rural areas of the district. The taluka has reported 126 Covoid-related casualties so far. Walva taluka has surpassed Miraj in terms of Covid-19 cases. At present, Miraj taluka has 3,464 positive cases while the death toll stands at 165. Shirala, which once used to record the highest number of patients, has 1,547 cases at present. The taluka has reported 37 deaths so far. In addition, Tasgaon taluka has reported 2,156 patients and 76 deaths. Palu taluka, on the other hand, has registered 1,977 cases along with 69 deaths. All ten tehsils in Sangli district have crossed the four-digit mark in recording Covid-19 patients. Jat taluka on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border has the lowest number of patients – 1,286. It has recorded 21 deaths so far which is also the lowest in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-dist-reports-506-fresh-cases-22-casualties/articleshow/78393319.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Surat||Schools ready for 25% fee cut in Gujarat, says education minister||GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: In what will bring respite to more than 30 lakh students at 20,000 schools in the state, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said that self-financed schools have agreed to cut tuition fees by 25% for the period from June 2020 to March 2021. He said schools will not levy additional charges including transport fees. All schools will have to adjust their fees in the coming months if parents have paid full fees from June, he added. The authorities of various self-financed schools had earlier this month agreed to the state government’s proposal to cut tuition fees by 25% for the 2020-21 academic year. The decision was arrived at during a recent meeting between education minister Chudasama and representatives of various schools last week. The school authorities initially proposed a 20% fee cut for parents who are unable to pay the fees due to Covid-19, but this offer was rejected by the government. The government remained firm on its demand for a 25% fee cut for all school students to which school trustees finally agreed, sources said. In a meeting between Chudasama and associations of parents of school students, many members demanded a 50% fee cut. The association members had earlier demanded a full waiver of school fees for 2020-21. All Gujarat Vali Mandal has been of the view that the government should consider mass promotion of students from playgroup to Class VIII for the academic year 2020-2021. Schools in the state have been closed for more than 180 days due to the coronavirus pandemic and only 40% of students have been able to attend online classes, the association wrote to the chief minister recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/schools-ready-for-25-fee-cut-says-education-minister/articleshow/78399294.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Schools ready for 25% fee cut in Gujarat, says education minister||GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: In what will bring respite to more than 30 lakh students at 20,000 schools in the state, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said that self-financed schools have agreed to cut tuition fees by 25% for the period from June 2020 to March 2021. He said schools will not levy additional charges including transport fees. All schools will have to adjust their fees in the coming months if parents have paid full fees from June, he added. The authorities of various self-financed schools had earlier this month agreed to the state government’s proposal to cut tuition fees by 25% for the 2020-21 academic year. The decision was arrived at during a recent meeting between education minister Chudasama and representatives of various schools last week. The school authorities initially proposed a 20% fee cut for parents who are unable to pay the fees due to Covid-19, but this offer was rejected by the government. The government remained firm on its demand for a 25% fee cut for all school students to which school trustees finally agreed, sources said. In a meeting between Chudasama and associations of parents of school students, many members demanded a 50% fee cut. The association members had earlier demanded a full waiver of school fees for 2020-21. All Gujarat Vali Mandal has been of the view that the government should consider mass promotion of students from playgroup to Class VIII for the academic year 2020-2021. Schools in the state have been closed for more than 180 days due to the coronavirus pandemic and only 40% of students have been able to attend online classes, the association wrote to the chief minister recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/schools-ready-for-25-fee-cut-says-education-minister/articleshow/78399293.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||Cases fall below 120 after 3 weeks||Vadodara: For the first time after September 5, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district dropped below 120. Out of 4,346 samples tested in the 24 hours since Monday evening, 119 samples were found positive taking the total number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city so far to 11,682. On September 5 too, 119 positive cases were detected in the city out of 2,349 samples that were tested in 24 hours. The number of cases have been increasing since then and reached 135 in 24 hours on September 19, but after this, the numbers have shown a southward trend. Despite the falling numbers, the officials are not letting their guard down and have asked hospitals and health department functionaries not to stay on their toes. As many as 86 persons diagnosed with Covid-19 were discharged from hospitals or home quarantine on Tuesday. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed the death of one more person due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. With this, the total number of persons who died due to Covid-19 reached 194. The number does not include those Covid-19 patients who died due to comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cases-fall-below-120-after-3-weeks/articleshow/78391634.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Schools ready for 25% fee cut in Gujarat, says education minister||GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: In what will bring respite to more than 30 lakh students at 20,000 schools in the state, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said that self-financed schools have agreed to cut tuition fees by 25% for the period from June 2020 to March 2021. He said schools will not levy additional charges including transport fees. All schools will have to adjust their fees in the coming months if parents have paid full fees from June, he added. The authorities of various self-financed schools had earlier this month agreed to the state government’s proposal to cut tuition fees by 25% for the 2020-21 academic year. The decision was arrived at during a recent meeting between education minister Chudasama and representatives of various schools last week. The school authorities initially proposed a 20% fee cut for parents who are unable to pay the fees due to Covid-19, but this offer was rejected by the government. The government remained firm on its demand for a 25% fee cut for all school students to which school trustees finally agreed, sources said. In a meeting between Chudasama and associations of parents of school students, many members demanded a 50% fee cut. The association members had earlier demanded a full waiver of school fees for 2020-21. All Gujarat Vali Mandal has been of the view that the government should consider mass promotion of students from playgroup to Class VIII for the academic year 2020-2021. Schools in the state have been closed for more than 180 days due to the coronavirus pandemic and only 40% of students have been able to attend online classes, the association wrote to the chief minister recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-ready-for-25-fee-cut-says-education-minister/articleshow/78393346.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||Schools ready for 25% fee cut in Gujarat, says education minister||GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: In what will bring respite to more than 30 lakh students at 20,000 schools in the state, Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said that self-financed schools have agreed to cut tuition fees by 25% for the period from June 2020 to March 2021. He said schools will not levy additional charges including transport fees. All schools will have to adjust their fees in the coming months if parents have paid full fees from June, he added. The authorities of various self-financed schools had earlier this month agreed to the state government’s proposal to cut tuition fees by 25% for the 2020-21 academic year. The decision was arrived at during a recent meeting between education minister Chudasama and representatives of various schools last week. The school authorities initially proposed a 20% fee cut for parents who are unable to pay the fees due to Covid-19, but this offer was rejected by the government. The government remained firm on its demand for a 25% fee cut for all school students to which school trustees finally agreed, sources said. In a meeting between Chudasama and associations of parents of school students, many members demanded a 50% fee cut. The association members had earlier demanded a full waiver of school fees for 2020-21. All Gujarat Vali Mandal has been of the view that the government should consider mass promotion of students from playgroup to Class VIII for the academic year 2020-2021. Schools in the state have been closed for more than 180 days due to the coronavirus pandemic and only 40% of students have been able to attend online classes, the association wrote to the chief minister recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/schools-ready-for-25-fee-cut-says-education-minister/articleshow/78399292.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kanpur||Three interstate ATM hackers held in encounter in Jhansi||JHANSI: Three persons involved in a number of ATM frauds in several parts of the country were arrested in Jhansi on late Monday late night after a brief encounter. They were produced in front of the media on Tuesday.Jhansi: Three persons involved in a number of ATM frauds in several parts of the country were arrested in Jhansi on late Monday late night after a brief encounter. They were produced in front of the media on Tuesday. Briefing their crime details, SSP Jhansi Dinesh Kumar P informed that all the three accused—Sachin Singh Sansi, 26, Monti Sansi, 23, and Arjun Sansi, 24, hail from Saharanpur and have been involved in a number of similar cases across the country including West Bengal, Gujarat, Assam, Uttarakhand, MP and UP. “All have been carrying a number of ATM cards and country-made guns along with them,” added the SSP. “They used to lead a lavish life and move in expensive cars. In Jhansi, they have been operating for the past several days. In the name of helping out, the trio would swipe the cards of gullible people or transfer the fund online within minutes,” said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-interstate-atm-hackers-held-in-encounter/articleshow/78395359.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sad to see battles over money from daughters’ marriages: Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court lamented that due to the low sex ratio in some areas of the state, legal battles are being fought for financial considerations from the marriages of daughters and not for their protection and happiness. The high court was dealing with a habeas corpus petition filed by a man seeking custody of his wife, who was twice abducted by her family, claiming that she had been married off five years ago in a barter marriage. The case pertains to Patan district. The HC had reunited the woman with her new husband and ordered police protection to the couple for two months but as soon as court proceeding ended on September 11, she was abducted by her uncle and grandfather and was beaten up. The court was shocked to learn that the woman was married off in a barter marriage, but both marriages did not last. The woman’s parents started the divorce procedure according to the community’s traditions. They were required to pay Rs 5,000 to their deity to finalize the divorce, but did not pay the sum and the divorce was not finalized. They showed this as an excuse for keeping her away from her new husband. On the other hand, the petitioner, the woman’s new husband, told the court that his wife was being separated even after he paid Rs 3 lakh to her father, who denied having received the money. This aspect disturbed the HC, which said, “It is quite shockingly apparent that in the areas of the state where there is a depletion in sex ratio, more and more such illegal and unpalatable incidents are being noticed and the saddest part is that the legal battles are fought over daughters, neither for protecting her nor with a desire to ensure her happiness, but only with a view that the giving away of the bride in lieu of monetary consideration become possible.” The judges further observed, “Malice of exchange marriages, payment of consideration to the parents of girls and changing money for marrying a girl, child marriages, multiple marriages of the girl at a very young age are some of the startling revelations noticed in habeas corpus petitions.” As the woman’s parents did not complete her divorce procedure by paying Rs 5,000 to the temple and there was no formal seal of approval to her divorce, the HC offered her legal aid so she can formally obtain a divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act. During a hearing on Monday, the woman complained that despite police protection, she was kidnapped by her family members and beaten. The couple told the court that they decided to shift from Patan district to Kutch. The high court ordered strict police protection for them in Kutch district too. The HC ordered the Patan SP to identify the lapse in security because of which the woman was abducted, and ordered action against the erring police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sad-to-see-battles-over-money-from-daughters-marriages-hc/articleshow/78393341.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Business||Indiabulls raises Rs 630cr from stake dilution in UK arm||MUMBAI: Indiabulls Housing Finance, one of the leading private sector mortgage lenders, on Tuesday said it has raised another Rs 630 crore by diluting part of its stake in UK-based bank Oak North. After this stake sale, its holding in the bank will be 7.5%. The company is also launching another bond offering to mobilise about Rs 625 crore and has rolled out a buyback programme to mop up all its bonds maturing in the next one year. In a release to the exchanges, the company said that among the NBFCs which are rated AA and AA+, it is at the top of the table in terms of both raising bonds and fresh equity during the current fiscal. Indiabulls Housing Finance has raised Rs 2,780 crore through bonds so far in the current fiscal and Rs 1,832 crore through the equity route, “adding to the regulatory equity capital of the company”, boosting its capital adequacy ratio. These successful bond raisings indicate that the market for papers which are rated below AAA, the top rated ones, is reviving. For about five months since late March this year, the demand for papers rated below AAA had dried up completely, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indiabulls-raises-rs-630cr-from-stake-dilution-in-uk-arm/articleshow/78393342.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur dist registers 352 cases||Kolhapur: Solapur district registered a surge in coronavirus cases on Tuesday with the addition of 352 patients. With this, the total number of patients in Solapur rural swelled to 24, 572 while that of the city has reached 8,412. The district also recorded eight Covid-related casualties, of which, five were from the city. At present, the total number of deaths in the rural areas stand at 669 and 473 in the city. Officials of the district administration said that the maximum number of cases from Solapur rural have been reported from Malshiras taluka. As many as 93 new patients were found in Malshiras, taking the tally of positive patients to 4,059. The taluka has reported 78 Covid-related deaths so far. Meanwhile, Pandharpur taluka registered 33 fresh Covid-19 cases. At present, the taluka has 4,882 positive cases. It has also recorded 115 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-dist-registers-352-cases/articleshow/78393340.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Cases dip for the first time in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 205 Covid cases on Tuesday, the lowest number in a day in the last few months. However, the daily deaths (25) continue to remain high. The main reason for the dip in the cases is the drop in tests being done per day. On Tuesday, 841 swabs were tested by RT-PCR and 341 by rapid antigen test. In private labs, 151 swabs were tested. Normally around 2,800 swabs are tested every day. The health officials said that the swabs of symptomatic and close contacts of patients are being tested. The total number of cases in Kolhapur district has reached 43,982, out of which 1,423 patients have succumbed to infection. As many as 33,297 patients have been discharged and 9,262 patients are undergoing treatment. On Tuesday, Kolhapur city reported just 46 cases. The bed availability in Kolhapur Municipal Corporation run Covid Care Centres has improved. A week ago, the 12 centres had 102 oxygenated beds and 430 non oxygenated beds available for patients. The number has gone up to 121 and 461, respectively, now. The KMC is planning to convert the non-oxygenated beds to oxygenated beds. Show-cause notice KMC’s senior officers have issued show-cause notice to DOT Covid Centre. The officials found two ventilators provided to the centre lying unused. The ventilators were made available from Isolation Hospital. Covid patients from the centre had raised the issue through social media. Over 500 cases in Sangli Sangli district reported 506 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 22 deaths on Tuesday. The total number of cases has reached 35,826, out of which, 1,331 patients have succumbed to the infection. As many as 7,420 patients are undergoing treatment and 27,075 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cases-dip-for-the-first-time-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78393335.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||Hundreds take to streets over police ‘inaction’ in ex-MLA’s murder case||BAREILLY: Days after former MLA Nirvendra Mishra died in a brawl over a land dispute in Trikolia village in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, hundreds of his supporters led by ex-MLA’s son Sanjeev Mishra staged a protest in Palia town, demanding action against then circle officer Kuldeep Kukreti. Three policemen were suspended while Kukreti was attached to the district headquarters after the family accused Kukreti of being hands in glove with the land mafia. A three-term MLA, Nirvendra Mishra (73) died on September 6. The autopsy report confirmed the cause of his death as a heart attack. It was for the first time when followers of Mishra, who had been protesting peacefully in the village since his death, took to the streets. A heavy police force was deployed in the town to ensure peace during the protest. The protesters were also supported by Samajwadi Party leaders. The protest was lifted after Sanjeev handed over a memorandum to sub-divisional magistrate Amresh Kumar. “We will continue protesting until the government takes necessary action against CO Kukreti, who was behind the conspiracy of my father’s murder,” alleged Sanjeev. The SDM said, “We will forward the memorandum to the governor. We have, meanwhile, asked the protesters to wait until the probe ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hundreds-take-to-streets-over-police-inaction-in-ex-mlas-murder-case/articleshow/78390742.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 747 patients, 21 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district on Tuesday registered 747 new Covid-19 cases along with 21 casualties, taking the total number of patients to 36, 617. Of the total number of patients in the district, 26,497 have recovered from the contagion. The district has recorded 1,117 deaths so far. At present, Satara district has 9,003 active patients. Officials of the district administration have said that Satara taluka has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the last few days. The taluka has reported a surge of 267 patients, of which, 123 are from the town. Karad taluka, on the other hand, reported 118 new cases, including 31 from the town. The taluka has witnessed a drop in the number of Covid cases in the last three days. Malkapur and Umbraj have reported seven and four cases respectively. Meanwhile, Phaltan taluka reported 84 patients, including 28 from the town. Somanthali and Vidhni reported nine and eight cases respectively. Wai registered 26 cases, including nine from the town. Patan tehsil added 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-747-patients-21-deaths/articleshow/78393362.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kanpur||Cop seen kicking woman in Hamirpur, video goes viral||JHANSI: In an undated video that went viral on Tuesday, the Station Officer of Kotwali in Hamirpur is seen kicking and abusing a woman pleading for mercy. The 25-second video shot inside the police station shows a woman sitting on ground and crying in presence of her son. SO Kotwali, Shyam Pratap Patel is seen abusing the woman and kicking her while holding a phone in his hand. The SO and a cop are seen in the video, both wearing masks. The undated video went viral on Tuesday morning and became talk of the town, drawing criticism. Locals shared the video on various social media platforms. After the matter came to the notice of SP Hamirpur Narendra Kumar Singh, he ordered an enquiry into the incident. The SP directed Circle Officer Sadar, Anurag Singh to conduct a probe and submit report at the earliest. Talking to TOI, Singh said that the video is old and he has ordered an enquiry into the incident.  “The cop seen in the video is Shyam Pratap Patel who is currently posted as SO in Kotwali. I have ordered an enquiry and will take further action on the basis of the report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-seen-kicking-woman-in-hamirpur-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78395363.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Daylight robbery: IPS officers live next door||Ahmedabad: The robber who entered a residential society and robbed the son of nephrologist Dr Prakash Darji of valuables worth Rs 52,000 was acquainted with the locality and dared to enter into the society despite it having the houses of two retired IPS officers. Retired IPS officer S M Katara is a neighbour of Dr Prakash Darji. Another retired IPS officer, V M Parghi, lives in the same society at walking distance from Darji’s house. “The society is located behind a big private hospital, it has houses of retired IPS officers, government servants and doctors. Despite this, the robber entered and robbed the young man. It seems there was a lack of security and he selected the corner house, which suggested he knew about the house,” said a police officer. The incident caused a shockwave in the posh neighbourhood which is home to the city’s rich and famous. “Such a flagrant robbery, where a man enters the society and the targeted house and robs a boy at knifepoint is scary. This cannot be happening in neighbourhoods like ours which have good security and have police officers as residents,” said a neighbour, who says the society has 54 bungalows and all residents are on edge after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daylight-robbery-ips-officers-live-next-door/articleshow/78393356.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||DyMC Sangwan pays mask fine||Ahmedabad: Deputy municipal commissioner Nitin Sangwan was spotted recently without a mask in a photo on Twitter. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary forest and environment, who is in-charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, said, “The matter was brought to my notice and within an hour, I instructed the officials to issue a fine of Rs 1,000 to the DyMC.” Sangwan was deputy municipal commissioner of the west zone and was recently transferred as DyMC, smart city. Sangwan in a statement said, “Negligent behaviour should not get unnoticed, irrespective of position. The rules apply equally to all. I once again apologize for the negligent behaviour which caused embarrassment to not only AMC, but to all the citizens of Ahmedabad.” A senior officer from the AMC said that Sangwan had recently tweeted a photo where he along with others are seen flagging off a cycle rally. In the picture, Sangwan is without mask. The photo went viral on social media with people pointing out that even the DyMC is not wearing a mask. Later in the evening, the solid waste department team was instructed to issue a fine of Rs 1,000 which Sangwan promptly paid. The DyMC later tweeted the receipt and apologized on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dymc-sangwan-pays-mask-fine/articleshow/78393451.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda goes past 10k-mark with 197 new Covid cases||Chandrapur: The district went past 10,000 total Covid-19 cases with the detection of 197 new patients taking the total to 10,009 on Tuesday. The day also saw the discharge of 186 patients and total recoveries have now climbed to 5,876, leaving 3,984 active cases. With the death of 45-year-old from Tukum in Chandrapur city, the toll has now risen to 149. While it has taken 151 days for Chandrapur to reach the mark of 10,000 cases, the last 1,000 patients have come in just three days. Statistics suggest that after the 2000-mark was achieved on August 29, the district is adding 1,000 positive cases in just five or less days. The gravity of surge in infection could be understood from the fact that district has witnessed a rise of 8,000 patients in just one month. While there is outcry over the lack of beds in government and private hospitals, the administration’s efforts to curb the surge through initiatives like public curfew and ‘My Family-My Responsibility’ have failed to curb the spread. The municipal corporation has shared a weblink to show the real-time availability of beds for Covid patients, but it only shows the paid beds available in private hospitals. There is no information about the government beds, where treatment is free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-goes-past-10k-mark-with-197-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78394833.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four get life sentences for kidnapping builder||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court on Tuesday punished four persons with life imprisonment for kidnapping a city-based builder and demanding Rs 5 crore ransom and accepting the money in cheques in April 2018. Four persons — Aniketsingh Pal, Bhupat Rabari, Shrikrushna Tomar and Anand Tomar — were convicted by additional sessions judge Ashok Sharma for hatching a conspiracy and abducting a builder, Rajnikant Patel (60) from Naroda. They have been held guilty of abduction, demanding ransom, criminal conspiracy and assaulting Patel. The court awarded life in jail for kidnapping for ransom and criminal conspiracy. It awarded minor punishments for assault. The court also imposed fines of Rs 26,000 on each of them for different offences, said additional public prosecutor Bharat Patani. The court, however, acquitted one accused, Akash Pal, for want of adequate evidence against him. Patel, a partner in Galaxy Group Builders, was kidnapped in his own car from the Naroda-Dehgam road. He was taken to Mount Abu and held in captivity. The kidnappers used Patel’s phone to demand the Rs 5 crore ransom. Patel’s family told them they had only Rs 50 lakh. Cops told Patel’s family members to keep the kidnappers engaged in negotiations. Finally, the abductors agreed to take the money in cheques. Meanwhile, police traced them and they were nabbed on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border while returning to Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-get-life-sentences-for-kidnapping-builder/articleshow/78393367.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha’s active cases breach 2,000 mark||Wardha: The district crossed the 2,000-mark for active cases after 133 fresh coronavirus cases and four deaths were reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 79 patients were discharged and the active patient count stands at 2,015. 133 patients (90 men and 43 women) tested positive out of 652 test reports and the caseload of the district reached to 4,454. Cases were reported from Wardha (63), Hinganghat (31), Arvi (11), Selu (10), Ashti (8), Deoli (6), Karanja (3) and Samudrapur (1). A 77-year-old and a 58-year-old from Wardha, an 85-year-old from Deoli and a 75-year-old from Arvi died due to coronavirus. A total of 2,317 patients have been discharged after getting cured of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardhas-active-cases-breach-2000-mark/articleshow/78394854.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 30, 2020||Goa||Coal projects: Civil society challenges govt to debate||Panaji: Goyant Kollso Naka, a people’s movement opposing coal transportation through Goa, has challenged the government to a public debate on coal related infrastructure projects in the state. “We demand that the government either participates in a public debate with our representatives if they wish to challenge our findings and facts, or to accept our findings and cancel all clearances given and acquisition proceedings for coal related infrastructure projects,” convener Antonio D’Silva said. “On enquiry, most of the politicians have responded that they are not aware of the Sagarmala programme and other documents revealing coal plans. Despite their ignorance, the politicians, especially from the ruling party, are not willing to accept the facts and arguments we are placing before them. Hence our demand,” he added. The NGO on Tuesday announced a yatra across the state beginning on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2 from Chandor-Guirdolim, the old capital of Goa. Representatives will travel to different villages to spread awareness among the people regarding threats faced by coal. “We found that most Goans are not aware of the diabolic plans to convert Goa into a coal hub. We are mobilising ourselves to share relevant documents and policies of the government so that Goans can become aware of the facts and participate in deciding the future of our State,” D’Silva said. The NGO has studied the Sagarmala programme, MPT’s master plan, National Waterways Act 2016 and other related documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coal-projects-civil-society-challenges-govt-to-debate/articleshow/78394864.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Remdesivir shortage in western Maharashtra||Kolhapur: The three districts in western Maharashtra – Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur, are facing shortage of remdesivir injection for the past couple of days. Each of these districts has been reporting hundreds of Covid-19 patients every day. Senior officials in the Satara and Kolhapur administration and food and drug administration confirmed to TOI that the shortage was being experienced after a batch of remdesivir was withdrawn for quality control. Sources from FDA confirmed that a batch had been recalled before it was distributed and it would take a couple of days for the supply to be restored. In Kolhapur too, the medicine is in short supply at the public and private hospitals. The relatives have been told to get it from the chemists. In the meantime, Kolhapur health administration has placed order of 2,000 vials of remdesivir with the state. The state authorities have assured the demand will be met in phases. A senior FDA official requesting anonymity said, "There are problems on part of the suppliers. We are in touch with the suppliers and ensuring to make the injections available as much as possible to the retailers." Senior FDA authorities assured that there is adequate stock available with the state and supply was being restored. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh admitted lack of enough supply of remdesivir but expressed confidence the situation would be improved within a day or two. “We are taking all the measures to ensure smooth supply of the injection. We have ordered in bulk for the government and private hospitals as well for the chemists,” he said. Sources in Satara administration said that the district needs minimum 150 injections every day as 500 to 700 new patients are found every day. Nearly 5% of the patients are in critical condition. Sources said that the administration received 5,274 injections for government and private hospitals and all the stock was used for patients. In a video message, Singh admitted that remdesivir situation was grim in the district. Former Lok Sabha member and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti has sent a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray complaining that remdesivir was being sold in the black market for Rs 5000 to Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/remdesivir-shortage-in-western-maharashtra/articleshow/78393348.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Control room to give info on bed availability||Nashik: In view of the inconvenience faced by people from the rural areas in getting beds at the district Covid hospitals, the Nashik civil hospital will soon be setting up a control room with a helpline number to address the queries of Covid-19 patients and their relatives about admission in government Covid facilities across the district. The staff at the control room will have all the data of the dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) and the dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) regarding the availability of doctors, number of vacant cots, etc, so that the people calling the helpline number can be informed about the Covid facility from where they should be taking treatment. District civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said, “We are in the process of starting the control room soon. The control room will have a doctor, a data entry operator and other staff. On getting a call, the doctor at the control room will guide the caller on where the the Covid-19 patients can be admitted.” Most of the times, Covid-19 patients are unnecessarily brought to the Nashik civil hospital, the nodal hospital for treating Covid-19 patients, when they can be treated at a DCHC or even a Covid care centre (CCC) if they have mild or medium symptoms. As a result, the beds at the civil hospital get occupied and critical patients, who actually need oxygen or ventilator support, do not get the beds. The doctor at the control room will take all details about the patient, confirm whether he/she has tested positive for Covid-19, take the patient’s oxygen level and other health parameters and then tell the patient or his/her relative whether he/she should be brought to the Nashik civil hospital or be admitted in a DCHC at the taluka level, since all the DCHCs are now equipped with oxygen beds. Raokhande said that once the control room was set up, the helpline number would also be created and be made available to citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/control-room-to-give-info-on-bed-availability/articleshow/78395361.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Edu trust officials booked for bid to steal Rs36.51 crore||slug: AUTO MNC COMPLAINT Aurangabad: The economic offences wing of Aurangabad city police has booked the office-bearers of an educational trust for allegedly attempting to steal Rs 36.51 crore from the bank account of a multinational automobile company. A fake cheque with forged signatures of the MNC’s two senior executives hailing from Japan were deposited in the bank, said police on Tuesday. The cheque was deposited with the bank’s branch in the Waluj industrial area by two women holding bank accounts in the name of a registered educational and cultural trust having office at Khultabad, said police. City police commissioner Nikhil Gupta has asked the investigation team to find out the source that has leaked the bank account numbers and sample signatures to the racketeers. When contacted, Gupta told TOI, "We are keen to find out the source from where the bank account details, including the account number, and sample signatures were leaked. We have asked the investigation team to reach to its roots." Investigation officer Amol Satodkar of the EOW said the involvement of an inter-state racket in the case and the possibility of some insiders from the bank cannot be ruled out. Based on a complaint lodged by Ajit Jadhav, a senior executive of Toyota Motors Pvt Ltd, the suspects have been booked under IPC sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 471 (fraudulently use a document as genuine), 473 (counterfeiting a seal), 120-B (criminal conspiracy). According to the complaint, Toyota has its India headquarters in Bengaluru and has partnership with Kirloskar Motors Pvt Ltd. Their joint account is with a private bank with a branch in the Bidadi industrial area of Bengaluru. The company received a phone call and an email from the bank on September 4, requesting a confirmation about the cheque deposited with it for transferring Rs 36.51 crore from the joint account. The bank executives cross-checked with the higher-ups in the company as well as their partner company, only to find that the said cheque was neither signed by the senior executives nor issued by either of the partner companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/edu-trust-officials-booked-for-bid-to-steal-rs36-51-crore/articleshow/78393372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC reserves order on PIL against online rummy||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday reserved its order on a PIL that is seeking a ban on online gambling, particularly the game of rummy. The petitioner advocate, Amit Nair, filed the PIL and urged the HC to declare illegal gambling in the virtual space or on the internet through mobile or computer, particularly online rummy, and in violation of the Gujarat Prevention of Gambling Act. The petition contended that the present law does not expressly regulate online gambling. The petitioner’s lawyer, Bhargav Hasurkar, contended that the menace of online gambling has only increased with the advent of new technologies. It was recorded that online gambling increased by 21% during the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the lockdown period. It was clarified that the PIL was not against online gaming, but only against the gambling aspect of online gaming. It was submitted that there are several advertisements that pop up while accessing mobile apps and on social media enticing people to start playing rummy online by offering a small amount as credit and promising lakhs in return. Even film stars have been roped in by such websites for endorsement. The PIL also acknowledged Section 13 of the Gambling Act which exempts games of skill, but asserted that the degree of chance is high in online games and there is always the possibility that one may be playing with a robot/AI as an opponent. The petitioner cited various court orders and laws to show how different states are dealing with online gambling activities. He cited a Kerala high court order, which says that playing rummy as innocent pastime is no offence. It is a game of skill, but if it is played with stakes, it is an offence. He also submitted that Andhra Pradesh has banned online rummy and poker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-reserves-order-on-pil-against-online-rummy/articleshow/78393375.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Eager to restart, hotels & restaurants hire local staff||Nashik: Hotels and restaurant managements in Nashik are on a hiring spree as the state government has announced that they can restart their business from next month. The owners said that as the hotels and restaurants have been shut for the past six months due to the Covid-related restrictions, most of their employees, including the cooks, have gone to their homes in other states — mostly Odisha, West Bengal, MP and Uttarakhand. Moreover, it would not be possible for them to return to Nashik immediately as there are few trains operational right now. According to the hoteliers, they are in touch with their employees. However, some of the employees are reluctant to return to Maharashtra given the scale of the Covid crisis here. As an alternative, many hotels and restaurants have started scouting for local manpower so that they can restart their businesses. “Around 70% of the staff in hotels and restaurants are from other states. We have started calling the staff, asking them to return. But transport is a major problem. Most are unable to return due to the limited number of trains,” said Sanjay Chavan, president of Association of Hotels, Bars and Restaurants (Abhar). “Initially, we will have to manage with the local manpower. Most of the hoteliers have started recruiting new staff,” said Chavan. “We are waiting for the government guidelines to restart hotels and restaurants. Earlier, I had a staff of 45, including 30 from other states. But they went to their hometowns during the lockdown. We are calling them back and providing fare also. Some have made the bookings, while others are waiting,” said Shailesh Kute, owner of a well-known hotel in the city. “I myself am ready to serve the customers in case the staff do not return. I want to start my restaurant immediately,” added Kute. “All of my employees have gone home. We are requesting them to return, but it will them a month or two. We have started parcel facilities with two cooks, but the response is poor,” said Rohan Rai, owner of a famous city restaurant. “The question is how many customers will come to restaurants now. We have adopted a wait and watch policy and will take a decision after the government gives its permission,” said Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/eager-to-restart-hotels-restaurants-hire-local-staff/articleshow/78395364.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 30, 2020||Kanpur||Two girls elope, marry each other at temple in Bithoor||KANPUR: In yet another incident of same-sex marriage, two girls in their early 20s ran away from their homes in Barra area to get married to each other. The incident came to light after the mother of one of the girls lodged a complaint of theft against her daughter. Based on the complaint, an FIR was lodged at city’s Barra police station and investigations were launched. “On Monday, a police team had been sent to Navipur in Kanpur Dehat to find the girls on the basis of their mobile phone location,” said Inspector Barra police station Satypal Singh. He added, “The police asked the girls to reach the police station. However, when they reached there the police were shocked as both of them arrived in red colour attires and wearing garlands. The girls, who hail from Barra area of the city, told the cops that they are neighbours and confessed that they had deep feelings for each other and got married on August 25 at a temple in Bithoor. The duo were staying at their relative’s place in Navipur in Kanpur Dehat.” The inspector further said, “As per the Constitution, they have the freedom to live as they will, and we will ensure that the law is followed.” According to locals, the two girls had eloped on September 22 after the parents of one of the girls gave a public notice in newspapers of evicting her from family. The two lived in the same locality and have known each other since childhood, they told TOI. Another local said, “Their relationship had led to altercation between their family members on several occasions. The two had threatened that if separated they will commit suicide. We intervened and pacified them.” After they allegedly eloped, one girl’s family complained to the local police that she had stolen jewellery and eloped from home. The police traced the couple and arranged a discussion between the two and their kin in police’s presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-girls-elope-marry-each-other-at-temple-in-bithoor/articleshow/78395365.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati sees fall in active Covid-19 cases for fifth straight day||AMRAVATI: The Covid-19 scenario seems to be improving in the district with every passing day. The district continued to post more recoveries than new patients for the fifth day at a stretch. While 259 patients won their battle against the virus, 190 contracted it on Tuesday to record a fall in active cases for the fifth consecutive day. While the 190 new patients took the caseload to 13,077, the 259 recoveries took the total number to 10,567 for a recovery percentage of 80.81. The district also reported three deaths, all males from the city, today to take the toll to 282. This has left 2,228 active cases that include 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 998 placed in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-sees-fall-in-active-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-straight-day/articleshow/78394856.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Business||No need for e-pay gateway to deduct tax if e-tailer does it||BENGALURU: The income tax (I-T) department on Tuesday evening said payment gateways facilitating e-commerce transactions don’t need to deduct taxes if the e-commerce platform has deducted it already. For proper implementation, e-tailers and payment gateways may have an understanding on the same, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) circular said. Earlier, industry stakeholders had said that tax was being deducted twice — once on e-commerce operators who are facilitating sale of goods or services or both, and once on payment gateways which also happen to qualify as e-commerce operators for facilitating the service. The government had introduced earlier this year a new withholding tax on e-commerce transactions in the Union Budget. Essentially, companies like Amazon India and Flipkart will withhold an additional 1% tax-deducted-at-source (TDS) while making payments to merchants who sell goods on their platforms. This would be in addition to the GST tax deduction that e-tailers charge online sellers. After the Union Budget, e-tailers had requested the government to do away with this levy, saying it will impact working capital availability of sellers and create huge compliance burden for e-commerce platforms. This will come into effect from October 1, CBDT said. Further, it clarified that online insurance aggregators or agents don’t have to deduct the same tax if they are not involved in the transactions between insurance companies and the buyer of insurance policy, subsequent to the first year. Platforms like PolicyBazaar had requested the government for this differentiation. However, the insurance company shall be required to deduct tax on commission payment, if any, made to the insurance agent or insurance aggregator for those subsequent years, the tax department added. “In case of gig economy which includes delivery, drivers, plumbers, electricians, etc, they are all now liable for 1% TDS if they deliver their services through an online e-commerce operator,” startup think-tank IndiaTech CEO Rameesh Kailasam said. Other clarifications included that deduction won’t be applicable to transactions in securities and commodities which are traded, cleared and settled through recognised stock exchanges or recognised clearing corporation located in International Financial Service Centre. On motor vehicle sales, it added that in case of sale to consumer, receipt of sale consideration for sale of motor vehicle of the value exceeding Rs 10 lakh would not be subjected to tax deductions under sub-section (lH) of section 206C of the Act if such sales are subjected to TDS under sub-section (IF) of section 206C of the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-need-for-e-pay-gateway-to-deduct-tax-if-e-tailer-does-it/articleshow/78393461.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||EC decides against holding byelections||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There won’t be bypoll for Kuttanad and Chavara assembly constituencies as the election commission on Tuesday decided not to announce the schedule for the same in these constituencies. The commission – which announced the schedule for one Lok Sabha and 56 assembly seats spread across 12 states on November 3 and 7 –decided not to announce bypolls in seven assembly seats across Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal ‘at this stage’. The decision was taken based on inputs received from the chief secretaries and poll officials in these states, the poll panel said in a press release.  The term of the legislative assemblies of the four states would end on different dates between May and June next year. Following the announcement of bypoll schedule earlier this month, the government had convened an all-party meeting on September 11 and the meeting urged the election commission to abandon bypolls. With bypolls scheduled in November and general elections to assembly expected in April-May, the new MLAs will only have around five months in office. Chief electoral officer of Kerala Teeka Ram Meena also wrote to the election commission, detailing the Covid-19 situation in state and the short tenure that remained. The election commission estimated that around Rs. 15 crore will have to be spent for conducting bypoll at the two constituencies as Covid-19 situation demanded additional arrangements that will lead to additional expenses. The decision of election commission was welcomed by LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ec-decides-against-holding-byelections/articleshow/78393387.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Adani gears up to take over Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in November||AHMEDABAD: Diversified business conglomerate Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL) is geared up to take over operations, maintenance and development of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad in November, according to top sources privy to the development. AEL had emerged as the highest bidder for the proposed privatisation of SVPI airport on public-private partnership (PPP) model with the Airports Authority of India (AAI), when the tender for this was floated in 2019. AAI has begun the handholding process for the airport operator to-be from September 11, if well-placed sources are to be believed. “The company has already begun its 60-day observation period with the AAI. As part of the process AAI will handhold the new operator for the various processes and activities involved and help the takeover process,” said a source. It is also learnt that the process of handing over has already begun and AEL will take over the airport any time before November 15. The company has already signed a concession agreement with AAI. As part of this, AEL will get the rights to operate, manage and develop the airport, currently being run by Airports Authority of India (AAI), for a period of 50 years. The Air Traffic Controller (ATC) will continue to operate under the AAI and security will be managed by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). An email query to Adani Group regarding the takeover did not elicit a response. In February last year, AEL bid Rs 177 as the per-passenger fee to be paid to AAI. SVPI airport in Ahmedabad clocked record-high footfalls of 1.14 crore passengers in 2019-20 according to data from the AAI. Going by the Rs 177 per passenger fee bid, AAI’s annual revenue will be at least Rs 200.78 crore from AEL for the city airport alone. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a drastic fall in footfalls at SVPI. In August, passenger movement declined by 81% year-on-year, due to widespread apprehensions about travelling and restrictions imposed by corporate houses. It remains to be seen how much revenue the company and consequently AAI will earn after taking over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adani-gears-up-to-take-over-svpi-in-november/articleshow/78393398.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu postpones exams amid strike of non-teaching staff||Aurangabad: Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) on Tuesday indefinitely postponed all final-year exams which were scheduled to start from October 1 due to the ongoing strike of non-teaching staff. The development has irked students and parents as the exams concerned have been already delayed considerably due to outbreak of Covid-19. Bamu vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole on Tuesday afternoon held a meeting with the deans of all the faculties and examination authorities, following which a decision to postpone the exams was taken. “It is not possible to conduct the exams due to current pen-down agitation by the members of non-teaching departments. The revised time-table of examinations will be released soon,” Yogesh Patil, head of the examination department of Bamu said. Meanwhile, Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU), Nanded, has not taken any call on its scheduled exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-postpones-exams-amid-strike-of-non-teaching-staff/articleshow/78393436.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Mumbai men nabbed with MDMA drugs, hashish||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police nabbed two suspects in the early hours of Tuesday noon and recovered MDMA drugs and Hashish from their possession. City police has sought the help of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in following the due procedure. The suspects were nabbed after commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta received a specific tip-off about the same. He formed an independent police team led by inspector Rameshwar Rodge and hand-picked assistant inspectors Rahul Rode, Syed Mohsin and sub-inspector Bhosle from different parts of the city to ensure the successful trapping of suspects in the case. The trap was laid near Hotel Panchvati in the city. Soon after an SUV with given description was spotted, two suspects travelling in it were zeroed down and frisked. Police arrested them with 13gm MDMA and 28gm hashish. The suspects have been identified as Asif Ali Qureshi (41) of Kurla and Nooruddin Syed (40), a driver hailing from Bandra in Mumbai. Police have also seized the SUV which is said to be registered in the name of a former corporator. “This is the first case of seizing MDMA and Hashish in the city and we assume it to be tip of an iceberg. We will ensure uprooting entire racket,” Gupta told TOI. MDMA drugs, which go by the chemical name Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, are also referred to as ecstasy and are classified under psychotropic substances while Hashish is a drug made from resin of cannabis plant. Deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode Patil, citing preliminary probe, said, “We suspect the duo to be habitual drug peddlers. Our probe has revealed that Qureshi is a frequent visitor to Aurangabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mumbai-men-nabbed-with-mdma-drugs-hashish/articleshow/78393389.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Urban pockets in Nashik dist observe janata curfew||Nashik: Citizens and traders in many parts of the district have started voluntarily observing janata curfew in a bid to reduce the spread of the Covid-19 infection. Government health officers said that the decision of the janata curfew had been taken at the respective municipal council or gram panchayat level and the administration was not forcing the citizens. The villagers of Nandur-Shingote in Sinnar taluka, about 50 km from here, have started observing week-long janata curfew from September 28 to October 4 in view of the rising infections in and around the village. Recently, two Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection in the village, which led to concerns among the villagers. With the exception of essential services, all the commercial establishments have decided to observe the week-long bandh. The decision was taken jointly by the gram panchayat members and the traders of the village. With the exception of flour mills, hospitals and medical stores all the establishments will remain closed. Meanwhile, traders in Deola taluka also called a taluka-wide week-long janata curfew from Wednesday. Taluka medical officer Subhash Mandage said that nearly 50 people were identified as covid positive on Sunday in one area of Deola town. Further, there have also been a couple of deaths from Covid-19 recently. “We have been spreading awareness among people to simply follow basic norms like wearing masks and maintain social distancing in public places. However, the traders want a complete bandh to break the chain of infection,” he said. A few days back, janata curfew was also observed in Andarsul in Yeola taluka and a fortnight back it was also observed by the traders in Kalwan taluka. Kalwan taluka medical officer said the response was good and the infection rate dropped by about 10% after the janata curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/urban-pockets-in-nashik-dist-observe-janata-curfew/articleshow/78395372.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corona case forces two-day NCLT closure||Ahmedabad: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Ahmedabad bench on Tuesday decided to shut its office and courtrooms for the next two days after one staff member tested positive for Covid-19. In a notice, the tribunal said that matters to be taken up on September 30 and October 1, will be listed for hearing in due course. Last month, the Gujarat high court ordered NCLT to draw up a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the purpose of conducting hearings. This happened after a litigating firm questioned the mode of virtual hearings at the NCLT. Earlier, the high court twice shut itself and suspended all judicial functioning for a few days after some of its staff members at the Sola campus tested positive for Covid-19. The last shut down was two weeks ago, when employees were tested after the HC decided to open a few courtrooms for physical hearings. Following the detection of Covid-19 cases on its campus, the HC postponed its plan to open courtrooms and continued virtual hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-case-forces-two-day-nclt-closure/articleshow/78393466.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||8 Covid-19 deaths in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: The district witnessed 8 deaths on Tuesday. 194 new positive patients were reported, of whom 127 are men and 67 women. Yavatmal city alone has recorded 70 positive patients. 275 patients are currently present in the isolation wards. There are now 8,470 total cases, of whom 6,966 have been discharged. The death toll is 265 so far in the district. The deceased on Tuesday include a 70-year-old man and 58-year-old woman from the city, a 70-year-old woman from Wani, a 64-year-old man from Pusad, a 30-year-old man from Mahagaon, a 65-year-old man from Babhulgaon, a 63-year-old man from Ralegaon and a 70-year-old man from Arni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-covid-19-deaths-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78394861.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kanpur||All Ganga ghats to get beautified||KANPUR: All ghats of Ganga from barrage to Jajmau will be decorated on the lines of Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati river. The officials have started preparations to execute the Ganga river front development project after they got a nod from the chief minister and appreciation from the Prime Minister. The project which was made in 2013 was commended by the then president of the World Bank but later it was put on shelf. Under this project, provisions were made to prepare a pathway parallel to Ganga from the barrage to Jajmau with decoration of all its ghats. Now, the officials would implement the project with certain changes like providing a sitting facility at the ghats, decorating them with milky lights and installing swings for children. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi AdityanNath who visited the city on December 14 last year to review the Namami Gange project had offered prayer to Ganga at the Atal ghat. Both the leaders visited the selfie point at notorious Sisamau nullah and witnessed the cleanliness of Ganga. The then divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde had presented the riverfront development project to them which appealed to them and they asked him to give shape to the project. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath recently gave a green signal to implement the project. The divisional commissioner directed Neeraj Srivastava, coordinator of high level integrated development committee to ask the IIT-K experts to study the project and make changes. Srivastava said a 11.5 km long pathway parallel to the river would be constructed from the barrage to Jajmau and vacant places at the ghats would be developed as picnic spots. He said religious and historical significance would be displayed on walls of ghats and the picnic spots. “Besides developing some new ghats a boat club will also be a part of the project”, Srivastava said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/all-ganga-ghats-to-get-beautified/articleshow/78395378.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||New cases fall further, but so do no. of samples tested||Bhubaneswar: The state on Tuesday witnessed a further drop in new Covid-19 infections with 3,067 people testing positive for the virus. However, the number of tests done in the past 24 hours — 41,452 — was also significantly low. With this, the tally of positive cases soared to 2,15,676. Fifteen more people died, raising the virus death toll to 828. The number of new cases declined for the third day in a row, but so did the number of samples tested. The 3,067 new cases are the second lowest in 24 hours on any given day in September, after 3,025 on September 1. The number of samples tested was also among the lowest this month. Amid apprehensions that fewer cases were detected because of fewer tests, additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said, “That is an obvious corollary to be drawn. However, there are other markers to indicate the situation is improving and new infections are falling.” Mohapatra said there was a fall in positivity rate from around 9% to around 7% over the past few days. Moreover, the number of distress calls received from patients needing urgent intervention has also fallen drastically while the number of people getting cured has improved. All these points indicate the situation is on the path of improvement, he said. Mohapatra added that there was a temporary decline in the number of tests for the past some days due to some laboratory technicians getting infected. The number of tests would go up again, he said. Meanwhile, BJD MP Sasmit Patra and five more MLAs tested positive for the virus. This raised the number of MLAs found infected in the run-up to the assembly session to 20. Khurda (555), Cuttack (230) and Puri (178) continued to add the bulk of new cases. Cuttack with 20,161 total cases surpassed Ganjam’s (20,097) to become the district reporting the second highest infections after Khurda (30,267). The new deaths include three each from Khurda, Cuttack and Balasore, two from Puri and one each from Balangir, Jharsuguda, Nabarangpur and Sundargarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/new-cases-fall-further-but-so-do-no-of-samples-tested/articleshow/78392013.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||Serum to make extra 100 million vaccine doses||NEW DELHI: Serum Institute of India will produce up to an additional 100 million COVID-19 vaccine doses for India and low and middle-income countries in 2021.The company made this announcement taking forward the collaboration between SII, Gavi, Vaccine Alliance and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The expansion follows August's announcement of up to 100 million doses to be delivered by the collaboration and bringing the total now to be delivered to up to 200 million doses of vaccines Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine producer, will manufacture an additional 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, on the back of a further $150 million at-risk funding under its collaboration with Gavi (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation) and the Gates Foundation, reports Rupali Mukherjee. This takes the total to up to 200 million doses to be rolled out by 2021, under the partnership, of which “at least half or 100 million doses are committed to India”, sources told TOI. The vaccine is expected to be priced around Rs 225-250 per dose for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), including India. The Gates Foundation is providing at-risk funding of a further $150 million to Gavi taking this collaboration to a total of $300 million to support this alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/serum-to-make-extra-100-million-vaccine-doses/articleshow/78396158.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt likely to ease curbs further, but schools may not reopen anytime soon||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is thinking about permitting more economic activities under Unlock 5.0, which will begin from next month, to boost the economy further and create more livelihood options. However, schools and educational institutions are likely to remain shut. The national capital is among the most open cities in the country with malls, markets, hotels, gyms, yoga centres, serving of liquor in bars and dine-in services in restaurants being given permission to operate. Cinema halls, entertainment parks, swimming pools, however, still remain closed. Unlock 4.0 saw the central government permitting many more economic activities, including resumption of Metro services. As a result, Delhi Metro is back to its operating timings that existed in the pre-lockdown period. After gyms and yoga institutes were allowed to open, cinema hall owners started raising their demand to be permitted to resume operations, which have remained suspended since the lockdown was announced in March. Cinema hall owners said they had accrued huge financial losses and would open with strict social distancing, wearing of masks, sanitisation and in compliance with other guidelines. “We are going to organise a meeting with the owners of cinema halls. They have been demanding permission to restart their business, which can create thousands of jobs,” said Chamber of Trade & Industry convener Brijesh Goyal. A source said though Delhi government wants to implement all economic activities with immediate effect, it’s not keen on giving permission to schools, colleges and educational institutes to open. The government, through an order on September 18, had directed schools to remain closed till October 5, thereby overriding speculation that institutions would be allowed to open partially from the fourth week of September. “The government favours allowing all economic activities, including cinema halls, with strict preventive measures. However, schools will not be allowed to open unless the government is sure about the safety of children. The government is closely monitoring the Covid situation. According to the existing scenario, schools won’t be allowed to open anytime soon,” said a source. Earlier, weekly markets had been allowed to open on a trial basis for a couple of weeks. Later, the government extended the trial period till September 30. Because of vulnerability of shoppers to the Covid-19 infection, strict compliance to guidelines is being ensured in the markets. Delhi Disaster Management Authority would review the Covid-19 situation after taking into account the report of committees of experts. The experts had been asked to prepare reports to allow the government to fine-tune the Covid-19 management strategy before taking a final decision on allowing more economic activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-likely-to-ease-curbs-further-but-schools-may-not-reopen-anytime-soon/articleshow/78393510.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 30, 2020||Kanpur||Lab technicians stage protest, Covid sampling hit||KANPUR: Around one hundred lab technicians of Rapid Response Teams and contact tracing teams staged a protest at Ursula Horsman Memorial Hospital on Tuesday. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra and chief development officer Dr Mahesh Kumar reached the UHM Hospital and calmed them. Later, CDO denied any protest and said there was some unrest due to delay in work order. According to sources, several employees had joined the services through outsourcing during the corona pandemic period. The employees were demanding their appointment letters and salary and lodged protest with the CMO and refused to go to work. As a result, sampling and Covid examination work was affected. The employees said they work for RRTs, but had not been given appointment letters. Later in a meeting, CDO Dr Mahesh Kumar told the lab technicians that corona was under control in the city due to their efforts. He said such protests were not in public interest. Later, talking to reporters, the CDO said the lab technicians were working with rapid response teams and were performing their duties well. They would get Rs 500 incentive on collecting samples more than the given target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lab-technicians-stage-protest-covid-sampling-hit/articleshow/78395405.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||‘To prevent next pandemic, ban commercial wildlife markets’||Nagpur: The full human and environmental impact of commercial wildlife markets have been revealed in a new report from the Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) released on Tuesday. “These markets are responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic currently sweeping the planet, as well as many other diseases which have made the jump from animals to humans. Commercial wildlife markets also deplete wildlife populations and cause significant cruelty to animals,” says the report EJF, a UK-based non-profit organization working internationally to protect environment and human rights, has called countries for a complete global ban on commercial wildlife markets. “There have now been more than 33 million global confirmed cases of Covid-19. As the world reels from the human and economic impacts of the pandemic, attention has turned to finding its source. There is substantial evidence to suggest that the pandemic first emerged from Wuhan’s commercial wildlife market, with the coronavirus jumping from animal hosts to humans,” the report said. It said, 75% of emergent diseases make this same jump from humans to animals, and past diseases to do so include Ebola, MERS, SARS and many more. Commercial wildlife markets, with a huge range of species crammed together in tiny spaces, are the perfect breeding grounds for new pandemics to develop. While some small local bans on commercial wildlife markets have been introduced, they do not go nearly far enough to protect us. To break the chain of transmission and prevent another Covid-19, EJF’s new report ‘Why ban commercial wildlife markets?’ says that commercial wildlife markets must be closed, globally and for good. “Commercial wildlife markets don’t just have a devastating effect on humans, but also on wild animals. While they remain legal, it is easy to smuggle illegally caught wild animals like pangolins, the world’s most trafficked mammal, into legal outlets. Globally, one in five vertebrate species are caught up in the wildlife trade. Once they arrive in commercial wildlife markets, animals are kept in horrific conditions, in small cages between which faeces, saliva and blood travel easily,” the report said. EJF’s executive director Steve Trent said, “Hopefully we will not see another coronavirus develop in the next few months or even years. But we should expect it in decades to come, unless bans on commercial wildlife markets are put in place and enforced worldwide. We have the opportunity here to safeguard species threatened with extinction, reduce cruelty to animals, and protect our economy and health at the same time. Why would we not take this simple, hugely beneficial, cost-effective action?” EJF’s report supports medical professionals, global health experts and conservationists, and says, “Banning commercial wildlife markets will not make another deadly pandemic impossible, but it is a first step on the road to making it much less likely.” Commercial wildlife markets are an ideal mixing bowl for novel pathogens to come into contact with humans, as well as with intermediaries which can help the emergence of new diseases along. In addition, the illegal wildlife trade, which has serious implications for people living near trafficked species and threatens many species globally, is impossible to tackle while legal trade in the same species continues, the report revealed. WARNING BELLS RINGING * Commercial wildlife markets are not the only source of zoonotic disease, habitat loss and deforestation is also bringing humans into closer contact with wildlife. * 75% of the emergent diseases have their origins in wildlife. * Covid-19 has caused hundreds of thousands of deaths around the world, alongside incredible suffering and economic devastation. * This pandemic, believed to have originated in a market in Wuhan, China, is only the most recent disease to have made the jump from humans to animals — this was also the case for SARS, MERS, Ebola and many others. * These diseases are transmitted to humans by proximity with animals. Any environments where many species with potentially novel pathogens are clustered together will create an extremely high risk of the emergence and transmission of new diseases. * Banning commercial wildlife markets will not make another deadly pandemic impossible, but it is a first step on the road to making it much less likely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-prevent-next-pandemic-ban-commercial-wildlife-markets/articleshow/78394937.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra's SOP for restaurants: Share customer info with civic bodies for tracing, if needed||MUMBAI: No entry to customers whose body temperature exceeds 100.4 degree F and those who display Covid symptoms. Only disinfected bottled water must be served on the table. Customers’ details must be shared with the municipal corporation and health authorities for contact-tracing, if needed. These are some of the points in a nine-page standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the state government for restaurants that are to reopen in the first week of October. “We have received the SOP and most restaurant owners will agree with the proposal. Our priority is that restaurants open as early as possible. If there are shortcomings in the SOP, we will once again take up the issue with the chief minister,” a restaurateur told TOI. Restaurateurs say as per their discussions with the CM, they expect the government to allow them to operate at 50% capacity, though the SOP is silent on this subject. “In fact, the CM had even agreed for 60% capacity if a restaurant is really big,” he said. The SOP states the restaurant layout will have to be modified keeping a minimum distance of one metre between tables. All customers must be screened at entry for Covid symptoms. They must be allowed entry only if using face masks. Hand sanitizers must be placed in all public areas. Digital payment must be encouraged. If practicable, they could set up separate entry and exit points, put up green and red lights outside washrooms to indicate if they are occupied. Disposal menus must be used to reduce chances of transference of the virus and contactless menu via QR code is recommended. Buffet service is to be avoided, and if allowed, social distancing must be stringently followed.  The state has also prescribed an SOP for garbage disposal, staff areas, their transportation, uniforms and dining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-sop-for-restaurants-share-customer-info-with-civic-bodies-for-tracing-if-needed/articleshow/78395142.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed EGS scam: Two suspended, three dismissed||AURANGABAD: Beed zilla parishad CEO Ajit Kumbhar suspended two clerical employees of the zilla parishad and terminated services of three contractual employees after an internal inquiry concluded that they were involved in the alleged Employment Guarantee Scheme (EGS) scam. The preliminary inquiry found that he mandatory records of several works carried out under EGS in Kej panchayat samiti were either recorded nor maintained. The inquiry is being carried out by a committee headed by deputy CEO D B Giri. While junior assistant A S Dange and extension officer M B Gaikwad have been suspended, services of assistant project officers S U Thorat, S A Bangar and V C Munde have been terminated. Kumbhar said a departmental inquiry has been ordered and 20 teams have been formed to audit all the works done under EGS. He added that the internal inquiry was the result of a specific complaint alleging misappropriation of funds and not maintaining records. Kumbhar said, “As the exact amount is not known, we did not file a police case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-egs-scam-2-suspended-3-dismissed/articleshow/78393476.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Home isolation: Why you aren’t in it alone||NEW DELHI: Virendra Singh spent just a few hours of panic after testing positive for Covid-19. The 50-year-old was comforted when he soon received a call from the local government dispensary. “Mr Singh, you have tested positive, but no need to fear. You can defeat Covid in the comfort of your home,” reassured the caller. Then an Accredited Social Health Activist, or ASHA volunteer, visited his house in a protective suit, gave him an oximeter and medicines, and briefed him and his family about the home isolation protocols. Perhaps the most incredulous aspect of home isolation was the constant communication that Singh had with the health authorities. It began with Singh receiving a phone call in which the caller motivated the virus-affected man to remain positive and then noted his pulse rate, oxygen saturation level, body temperature and urine output. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-isolation-why-you-arent-in-it-alone/articleshow/78393473.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||MLA urges CM to set up film city in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Efforts are on to relocate the film city recently proposed by UP CM Yogi Adityanath from Noida to Pilibhit, citing its natural beauty, vast forests, network of rivers, canals and lakes and “picturesque” surroundings. Babu Ram Paswan, the BJP MLA from Puranpur, met Yogi on Monday and filed a detailed note on why the film city should be set up in Pilibhit. Paswan later said the CM has assured he will consider the proposal and send a survey team to Pilibhit soon. Appreciating Paswan’s efforts, Bollywood actor Rajpal Yadav has shared a video on Facebook, promising to push the proposal with the CM. Paswan claimed comedian Raju Shrivastav, the president of UP Film Development Council, has also extended support to his proposal. “Shrivastav has promised to meet the CM and take up this matter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mla-urges-cm-to-set-up-film-city-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78388821.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||AHNA holds meeting with insurance firms over claims||Ahmedabad: Member hospitals of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Tuesday conducted a meeting with the leading insurance firms to iron out the difference in health insurance for Covid-19 patients. Senior members said that the primary bone of contention for the hospitals was non-inclusion of PPEs and N95 masks in the insurance cover.Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that with rise in number of cases in the western city parts, there is rise in the patients getting admitted to the private hospitals. “A large number of these patients have health cover for a range of ailments. While some of the insurance companies consider Covid-19 treatment under the existing package, some are yet to include it. While there is a new policy covering Covid-19 for a few of the insurers, the issue the patients face is about what is included in the cover and what’s not,” he said.AHNA members said that the treatment charges are now decided by the government and they are asking the insurers to abide by that. “We are hopeful of resolution soon,” said a senior member. “Another round of discussion is going to take place on Wednesday about overall hospitalization policies.”Experts said that Covid-19 poses a challenge for the hospital to decide on the course of treatment in several patients. Calls start trickling in on helplineThe bed availability remained an issue for the Amdavadis on third consecutive day with 83% overall occupancy and 88% ventilator occupancy as on Tuesday evening. Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) revived its helpline where the callers can ascertain bed availability at the hospital of their choosing and also know the availability near their areas. On the first day, the helpline received more than 10 calls. “Along with rise of cases in city areas, the hospitals are also getting a large number of patients from periphery. We are observing the occupancy trends and also from where the patients are getting admitted,” said a senior AHNA member.AHNA Covid-19 helpline: 079-26403333/26409999||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-holds-meeting-with-insurance-firms-over-claims/articleshow/78393557.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Follow SOP to keep coronavirus at bay: Puri temple to priests||BHUBANESWAR: Wary of the alarming rise in Covid infection among servitors of Jagannath Temple, Puri, and apprehension of disruption in daily rituals of the deities, the shrine administration on Tuesday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to prevent further spread of the deadly virus among them. The temple administration has warned of registration of police cases against servitors if they flout the home isolation norms. Though the Jagannath Temple has been shut since March 20, the conduct of daily rituals by the servitors has remained unaffected. While around 420 servitors have so far been infected by the virus, at least 322 of them had tested positive in the last one month. Ten servitors have already succumbed to Covid virus. The state government has told the Orissa high court that it would not open religious places, including the Jagannath Temple in view of the pandemic. “We have issued strict guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus among the servitors. The aim is to keep the servitors away from Covid and ensure smooth conduct of the daily rituals. Following allegations that some servitors did not wear masks, we have made it mandatory for all servitors to cover their faces with masks in the temple,” said Jagannath temple’s administrator (development) Ajay Kumar Jena. The temple body said the government’s existing ban on spitting in public places would be strictly implemented. “Action will be taken against servitors, who spit inside the shrine. FIR will be registered against those servitors, who visit the temple before 17 days of recovery from Covid infection,” Jena said. Thermal screening, which used to be practised at the four gates of the temple in April and May, would resume. The temple administration said the daily rituals of the deities have not been affected so far. At present, around 2,130 servitors render their hereditary services in the temple. Some of the servitors conduct rituals of the deities every day whereas others carry out duties on specific days in a year. Every day, 80 or 90 servitors are required to perform around 20 or 22 rituals in the shrine. Amid global concerns over Covid-19 outbreak, the state government conducted Rath Yatra on June 23 in a restricted manner following the directive of the Supreme Court. Around 1,150 servitors were engaged to perform Rath rituals and pull the chariots only after they tested negative for Covid. For the first time in history, devotees were barred from taking part in the grand festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/follow-sop-to-keep-virus-at-bay-puri-temple-to-priests/articleshow/78392036.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Laws enforcers must change attitude, say activists||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A day ago, CM Pinarayi Vijayan said that Kerala will think about introducing new laws if existing laws are insufficient to tackle the menace of online attacks against women. Though this announcement brings hope, social activists and cyber experts believe that the lethargy of the executive might scuttle the momentum of this movement. Lawyer and social activist J Sandhya said more than the absence of a legislation, the issue here is the lackadaisical attitude of law enforcers. “For example, in the case of YouTube vlogger there were multiple complaints filed by women from various parts of the state. There was no action from the police until the video of the man getting attacked by the women hit social media,” she said, adding that she was also one of the complainants. She had first mailed her complaint to the hi-tech crime inquiry cell last Friday and within five minutes she got a reply that the agency was not competent to take her complaint. Then, she had mailed her complaint to the state police chief. “Many are blaming women for the violence. But, the bigger violence is the system’s apathy,” said Sandhya. She added that thousands of complaints against online harassment of women are being dismissed by the police claiming that there was no proper law to register a complaint, often citing the SC’s action of striking down Section 66A of IT Act. In June, there was a hue and cry when a teacher, who took online class for primary school children on the first day of the academic year, was targeted online. Then lawyer Harish Vasudevan launched a campaign demanding proper legislation against the menace. He kept mailing various officials, including the CM, speaker and state police chief demanding a legislation. But, he received a positive reply only from the speaker and that too for his second mail, almost a month after it was sent. “The speaker replied that the proposal for a new legislation requires statutory examination and consequent follow up action by the law department,” Vasudevan said. Reacting to the recent incident, MP MV Shreyams Kumar demanded amendment of IT Act to stop mass bullying in cyber space. “The act needs amendments in tune with fast changes in technology so that violence in cyber space can be curbed,” he said. CPM leader P Rajeev wrote on Facebook that many people were seeking the reinstatement of the draconian law of Section 66A of IT Act amid this campaign, which should not be entertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/laws-enforcers-must-change-attitude-say-activists/articleshow/78393482.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
September 30, 2020||Nashik||148 tonne of biomedical waste collected from home-isolated patients in Nashik||Nashik: The civic administration has collected a total of 148 tonne of biomedical waste from home-quarantined patients in the city since the onset of the Covid-19 outbreak six months ago. Of this figure, 113 tonne of biomedical waste was collected in the last two months between August 1 and September 29.Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said they have been collecting biomedical waste and other waste of home quarantined patients in the city through separate vehicles.“We have deployed special vehicles to collect biomedical waste like masks, gloves, injections, etc. All of it is treated at the biomedical waste treatment plant here in the city,” said officials.“There has been a rise in biomedical waste due to a surge in the number of patients who are in home-quarantine. Around 85% of total confirmed cases recorded in the city were asymptomatic. Asymptomatic patients, who had facilities of getting quarantined at their residences, were given treatment at their homes,” said officials.Those who had no facilities at homes were admitted in the Covid care centres (CCC) run by the municipal corporation. “There were some asymptomatic patients who got admitted in the health facilities because they feared that their treatment at home may not be up to the mark compared to the treatment administered in the health centres,” said officials. The collection of biomedical waste from home quarantined patients was negligible from April to June as only 12 tonne of waste was collected during those three months.The civic body collected 22 tonne of biomedical waste from home-quarantined patients in July and per day collection was 0.74 tonne. In August, NMC collected 55 tonne of biomedical waste and the average collection per day was 1.76 tonne. In September, NMC collected 58 tonne of biomedical waste and per day collection was 2 tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/148-tonne-of-biomedical-waste-collected-from-home-isolated-patients-in-nashik/articleshow/78395407.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kamdhenu Aayog charts roadmap to make gaushalas profit-making units||Ahmedabad: ‘Gaushalas’ or cow shelters, have been known to be places where abandoned or other cows are housed and fed, as the cow is revered in the country. Earlier this month, the state government announced a Rs 100 crore assistance to ‘panjrapols’, after representations that donations to cow shelters had dried up because of Covid-19 pandemic and organizations were struggling to feed the cattle.But this perception of `gaushalas’ being just places of service for cattle might change soon. The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), a body constituted by the government of India, has asked Ahmedabad-based Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) to prepare an action plan, where entrepreneurship models can be implemented across gaushalas to make them professionally managed profitable bodies even as several products of commercial value are made from the cow.A day-long national conclave on “Cow-based Entrepreneurship: Potential, Opportunities and Challenges” was held at EDII on Tuesday.“We have asked EDII to be the nodal agency to work out an action plan, where entrepreneurs and startups can explore profitable business opportunities from products available from the cow. We intend to change the concept that ‘gaushals’ are mere centres for service to the cow. They have the potential to become means of economic empowerment of thousands of people,” RKA chairman Vallabh Kathiria said.“EDII has regional centres across the country. There are several products from the cow that have commercial value. We will conduct four-week duration programmes of capacity and skill building for entrepreneurs in the field. Also, we will work towards making gaushalas professionally managed bodies,” said Sunil Shukla, director general, EDII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kamdhenu-aayog-charts-roadmap-to-make-gaushalas-profit-making-units/articleshow/78393525.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Duo held for Vastrapur robberies||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Tuesday detained two persons including a minor, for their alleged involvement in the robbing of two persons in Thaltej and Vastrapur areas in the wee hours of Friday. Police said they got an input that the suspects, a 16-year-old boy and Suresh Prajapati, 22, were at the BRTS stand near Jaymangal Society in Ghatlodia and rushed to the spot. Police apprehended the two and on searching the minor’s school bag, police found a country-made pistol and two live cartridges. The duo would keep their weapon in the school bag to avoid suspicion. The two were sent for Covid-19 tests and a case under the Arms Act has been lodged with the Detection of Crime Branch. Police are yet to learn where the accused got the firearm from and if they are involved in other offences. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/duo-held-for-vastrapur-robberies/articleshow/78393470.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three buried alive while digging pit in Barmer||JAISALMER: In a tragic incident, three people were buried alive in a pit when the earth caved in while digging for a water tank at a hamlet in Baytu area of Barmer district on Tuesday evening. The water tank was being dug at a house in Darjion-ki-Dhani under the MGNREGS. After five hours of rescue operation using JCB machines, the bodies were recovered at 8.30pm. Doctors on the spot declared the three men dead. The bodies have been kept at a mortuary. Confirming the accident, Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that one Dala Ram Darji, 40, was getting a water tank dug in his house under MGNREGS works. Darji was digging along with two others, Prema Ram, 60, and Achal Dan, 25, both residents of Kharda Charnan. After digging the pit 20 feet deep, suddenly the earth caved in and all three got buried under it. A large number of villagers gathered at the spot and tried to rescue the three. After the Gida police station and administration were alerted, Baytu SDM, deputy SP and a rescue team, under Gida police station SHO Bhanwara Ram and Gida tehsildar, reached the spot and started the rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-buried-alive-while-digging-pit-in-barmer/articleshow/78394938.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Industries department launches helpline||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a bid to further enhance the of "ease of doing business" in state, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Tuesday, launched a dedicated toll-free helpline service, investment facilitation centre and the updated version of the single-window clearance portal to make investment processes fast, efficient, effective and transparent. Vijayan also unveiled the e-newsletter "Investor Konnect" of the industries and commerce department, intended for strengthening the communication channel with the leaders of industry and related fields via video conferencing facility. "The interventions and initiatives of the government in the last four years have transformed Kerala into an ideal investment destination. Investors themselves have acknowledged this and efforts of the government have yielded concrete results," he said. "Unfortunately, Kerala had for quite some time suffered from an impression that it was not an investor-friendly state, though that was not entirely based on the objective situation. But that has changed. Now investors enjoy total confidence in Kerala," Vijayan said. Noting that no industrialist in state would now complain of disruptions by workers, the chief minister said that whatever unhealthy practices that existed in isolated pockets have been resolved by taking the trade unions into confidence. If such tendencies rear their heads again, authorities should take stern action, he added. Industries minister EP Jayarajan, who presided over the function, said that manufacturing health, medicinal products and devices is an area that would offer great scope in the post-pandemic period. The toll-free number 1800 890 1030 will provide all information on investment-related queries. Linked to a call centre hired for the purpose, the facility will also provide handholding support and act as a channel for investor community to access information. The service will be available from 8am to 8pm on all working days. The centre set up in KSIDC will receive, track and resolve all investment related issues. A one-point centre for all investment related matters, it will serve as the back office for the single-window board and the proposed investment bureau. The upgraded version of Kerala single window interface for fast and transparent clearance portal (KSWIFT 2.0) will considerably reduce the strain of physical interaction by entrepreneurs for securing licences and clearance. Launched in 2019, K-SWIFT had 16 departments and agencies in the system for issuing as many as 33 licences, clearance and permits. Since entrepreneurs have been demanding that even the renewal of licences be made available on the platform, KSIDC and NIC had worked together and revised the system to include renewal of licenses in 16 departments. This will allow existing industrial units to register on the portal and get renewals for licences and permits issued through the corresponding line departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/industries-dept-launches-helpline/articleshow/78393542.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kanpur||9 cyber cops sent to lines||Kanpur: Nine policemen including in-charge of the cyber police station were attached to Police Lines on Tuesday over dereliction of duty. “Following complaints against these policemen IG (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal himself conducted an inspection on Monday night and directed officials to sent them to lines over dereliction of duty,” said police sources. “Complainants apprised us that the cops on duty, instead of registering their complaint, used to turn them away or ask them to visit the police station of their locality to file FIR pertaining to cyber offences,” said IG. After inquiring into the matter, the IG found out that nine cops including the station in-charge did not assist victims in filing a complaint, said the sources. The cyber police station, with the posting of 18 policemen, was launched on the premises of Traffic Lines about four months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/9-cyber-cops-sent-to-lines/articleshow/78395415.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nashik||GB gives nod to publish Greenfield township draft||Nashik: During the special meeting of the NMC’s general body (GB) on Tuesday, mayor Satish Kulkarni gave approval to the smart city development corporation’s proposal to publish the draft of the Greenfield township project and invite suggestions and objections from stakeholders. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) will publish the draft. Suggestions and objections from farmers will be entertained for a period of 30 days after the draft is published. After the hearing on the suggestions and objections is held, the final draft will to be sent to the town planning department of the state government by October 15. As per the draft of the township project, farmers will get 55% of the plot they give for integrated development of the areas while infrastructure like roads, public amenities, etc are to be developed on the remaining 45%. Farmers will get developed plots with well-equipped modern amenities, green belt, water supply, sewage supply lines, wide roads, parking spaces and host of other facilities.  In September last year, the GB of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had given its approval to the proposal of the township project. Thereafter, the NMSCDCL had declared its intention of developing the new township project on 753 acre in Makhmalabad area of the city and prepared the draft of the township project that had been sent to the town planning department for its approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gb-gives-nod-to-publish-greenfield-township-draft/articleshow/78395416.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||MS University to promote innovations, incubate startups||Vadodara: M S University will set up Maharaja Sayajirao Incubation Startup and Entrepreneurship Centre (MSISEC), to provide state-of-the-art facilities to startups and innovators. The centre will not only be open for students of the university and colleges in and around Vadodara but also for any individual who wants to turn into an entrepreneur with his or her innovative business ideas. At a time when renting an office space is a daunting task for budding innovators, startups and entrepreneurs, the university will provide the physical space through which they can operate. At the same time, the centre will provide basic facilities like net access, web and data domains, mentoring and activity support to the start-ups and innovators to accelerate their growth and progress. “I am happy to share that university’s syndicate body has sanctioned Rs 40 lakh for setting up the MSISEC, for which civil work will soon start at the Veer Savarkar Bhavan,” MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas told TOI. “MSISEC is being set up to provide all kind of infrastructural, intellectual and mentoring support to innovators as per guidelines of Gujarat government,” he said, adding that a step ahead the university has also been informed that it has been selected for setting up centre under Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) for central Gujarat. AIM is central government’s flagship initiative to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country. The university had earlier established center for startup and innovation, centre for incubation, centre for internship, apprenticeship and mentorship and centre for career counselling and training and placement under the office of career advancement for students in October 2018. “The centre for startup and innovation spread awareness among students and teachers towards the support available for innovation and converting these into startups under student startup and innovation policy (SSIP) policy of state government and as a special focus area of the university,” said Dr Akash Pandey, assistant director of the centre. The centre for incubation, on the other hand, extended physical and virtual incubation to startups with support in various activities of startups. Both the centres conducted various awareness activities, events, workshops, webinars and encouraged participation in state and national-level innovation competitions. “Students and teachers of the university have responded excellently with more than 50 innovation proposals received for support and 20 such projects being supported currently by the office,” said Pandey. “There are 15 startups actively supported by the centre for incubation varying in domains from technical to social and IT-based to dramatics,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ms-university-to-promote-innovations-incubate-startups/articleshow/78391699.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 48 more Covid-19 deaths, most in a day in two months; toll now 5,320||NEW DELHI: The national capital reported 48 Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, the highest in over 70 days, pushing the death toll to 5,320. The infection tally rose to over 2.76 lakh with 3,227 more people contracting the viral disease. This is the highest number of deaths reported in a day since July 16, when the city recorded 58 fatalities. On September 26, Delhi had recorded 46 deaths, 42 the next day and 37 on September 28. The 3,227 fresh cases reported on Tuesday came out of the 59,102 tests conducted the previous day. The total number of cases has climbed to 2,76,325, stated the latest bulletin issued by Delhi’s health department. The active case tally in the city rose to 27,524 on Tuesday from 27,123 the previous day. “The demand for ICU beds without a ventilator is high. Covid-19 patients, who develop severe respiratory distress, are given standard oxygen therapy initially but when that doesn’t help, non-invasive ventilation is considered,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said. Lok Nayak has 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. Of this, 654 are occupied. Dr Kumar said they have added a facility for non-invasive ventilation on nearly 160 beds. At present, Delhi has a total of 1,643 ICU beds, without a ventilator, for Covid-19 patients. Of them, data shows, 1,228 (75%) are occupied. Officials in the state health department said many beds are occupied by patients from neighbouring states. The number of beds with ventilator support is 1,319 of which 510 (39%) are vacant. There are about 16,000 Covid patients across the city who are under home isolation, officials said. “Most patients are able to recover well at home itself. Only those with pre-existing co-morbidities require admission even if they have milder symptoms,” said a senior doctor. Covid-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month with September 16 recording 4,473 cases, the highest single-day spike till date. The daily surge in cases in Delhi had breached the 4,000-mark for the first time on September 9. Over the last 29 days, Delhi has recorded 876 deaths due to Covid-19. It is nearly 45% more than the number of fatalities recorded in the state in the month of August when 481 people died due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/48-more-covid-19-deaths-most-in-a-day-in-two-months-toll-now-5320/articleshow/78393548.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Without a college? You can apply afresh for undergraduate seats||KOLKATA: Several colleges have reopened their admission portals, seeking fresh applications to their undergraduate courses, to fill the seats lying vacant even after several rounds in the first phase. In some institutes, the number of vacant seats in general and reserved categories together add up to more than 200, adding to principals’ worries. Calcutta University has given its affiliated colleges the freedom to fill the seats either by inviting fresh applications or publishing provisional merit lists from the first phase. Accordingly, some institutes have not invited fresh applications yet. Instead, they are still waiting for the students, whose names had appeared on the merit lists in the first phase but had not taken admission, to come forward. The higher education department has instructed all colleges affiliated to state universities to fill up all vacancies and wrap up the admission process by October 30. This year, the entire process is being conducted online to ensure there’s no crowding at colleges so that the risk of the spread of the novel coronavirus can be minimized. At Basanti Devi College, applications in the second phase will be invited till October 3 after which, a provisional merit list will be published on its website. “Seats are vacant in subjects, like philosophy, Sanskrit, economics and BA and BSc general courses. But all seats have been taken for English, Bengali, political science, history and statistics,” said an official on the admission committee. At Vivekananda College, too, the admission portal has been reopened and fresh applications invited. “This is an opportunity for those candidates, who failed to fill forms in the first phase. We have a few vacant seats in some subjects, for which we have invited fresh applications,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, principal of Vivekanada College. In the last couple of years, the higher education department extended the admission deadline multiple times so that all vacant seats are filled at the end of the process. “In some colleges, 30%-40% seats used to remain vacant while, many students, who had not got admission anywhere till then, did not even get to know about those vacancies because they were not publicised properly. The deadline has been extended till October 30 so that everybody gets a fair chance,” said an official of the higher education department. Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College, which has vacant seats in subjects, like Bengali, education, history and philosophy, has gone ahead to publish merit lists from the first phase. Lady Brabourne College has also extended admission deadline. Institutes, like Charuchandra College and Shyamaprasad College, have reopened their portals for fresh applications. AJC Bose College has just concluded its second phase of applications. New Alipore College, too, has reopened its portal for fresh applications though authorities have categorically specified that there is no vacancies in subjects, like anthropology, English and journalism and mass communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/without-a-college-you-can-apply-afresh-for-undergraduate-seats/articleshow/78393559.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Outfits demand EWS certificate for Maratha youths||Kolhapur: Maratha outfits are demanding issuance of certificate of Economically Weaker Section (EWS) to the students and youth from the community seeking admissions and jobs till the Supreme Court vacates the interim stay given to Social and Economical Backward category. Marathas were given reservation by forming new category of SEBC. However the apex court stayed the reservation. The state government has filed request petition to vacate the stay, however till then have extended SEBC facilities to EWS category which has 10% reservation. Dilip Desai, one of the conveners of Sakal Maratha Samaj forum, said, “The legal battle is expected to continue for long time. Till then, many poor students and youth will have to struggle in getting admissions and jobs. The government has asked Maratha youths to apply through EWS. However, the administration is not issuing certificates for EWS.” The students from the community have complained to the forum that the administration has stopped issuing the SEBC certificates and they are told that they are not eligible for EWS. Harish Patil, student from Morewadi said, “I am seeking admission for undergraduate professional course. I did not have SEBC certificate. I have applied for EWS, but the officials at tehsildar’s office have asked us to wait till clear directions from the state government. Also they told me that I can get centre’s EWS certificate but not for state reservation. I need state certificate as I am seeking admission in state quota.” Sakal Maratha Samaj forum has written to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray threatening to seal all 12 tehsildar offices if the state EWS certificates are not issued as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/outfits-demand-ews-certificate-for-maratha-youths/articleshow/78395425.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Upgrade security systems at branches: Bhubaneshwar cops tell banks||BHUBANESWAR: Drawing flak over the two bank robberies across the capital city this month, the commissionerate police on Tuesday issued an advisory to banks and asked them to enhance their security measures. Unidentified miscreants robbed Rs 2.78 lakh from an Indian Overseas Bank’s branch at Nandan Vihar here on September 7 and Rs 9.5 lakh from the Bank of India’s Barimund branch here on Monday. Police are yet to make any headway in both the cases. “We have found that many banks do not have adequate security systems in place. They have not deployed security guards nor installed an alarm signal system. We have issued letters to improve their bank security protocols,” deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Dash said. In the advisory, police have asked banks to immediately deploy private security guards with licenced firearms. Banks have been advised to install hidden cameras in their establishments and provide body-worn spy cameras to their staff. “We have asked the banks to regularly conduct security audits of their branches. Besides CCTV cameras, they should place spy cameras in hidden locations,” another police officer said. However, police said the bank robberies were not alarming. “This year, we have so far come across only two robberies, which took place this month. The banks that are located in isolated places, especially on the outskirts, should take more precautions,” the officer added. Police said the banks should improve their emergency siren systems. Though many banks have already them, the facilities need to be upgraded. They may install a direct hotline or autodial to the nearest police station or the control room. In the hotline system, they will automatically receive an alert if someone presses a secret button. Banks have been advised to inform their local police whenever they transport a huge amount of cash from one branch to the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/upgrade-security-systems-at-branches-cops-tell-banks/articleshow/78392063.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Disbursals of housing loans decline by 47%||Ahmedabad: Thanks to the lockdown, fresh disbursals for housing loans took a major hit in the quarter that ended on June 30, 2020. According to the latest report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), the fresh disbursals declined by 47.2% in the first quarter of 2020-21, against the same period in 2019-20. Loan disbursals stood at Rs 4,351 crore in the first quarter of 2019-20 which came down to merely Rs 2,298 crore in the same period this year. Industry players suggested that slump in the real estate sector during the lockdown caused the loan disbursals coming to a standstill. “During the lockdown, people could not really venture out and the registered offices of developers were closed, so were the site visits. The decline in demand was one of the major factors that impacted the loan disbursals,” said sources. In fact, the total advances for housing loans in Gujarat grew only by 23.55% during the said quarter, from Rs 72,693 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 89,818 crore in 2020-21. According to a report by real estate consultancy firm, Knight Frank India, home sales in Ahmedabad alone declined by 94% whereas new project launches by 68% in April-June quarter mainly due to the Covid-prompted lockdown. The Ahmedabad market saw only 252 residential units being sold in the second quarter of the current calendar year as against the sales of 3,987 units during the same period in 2019, mentions the latest report by Knight Frank India. Housing sales declined by 69% to 2,520 during January-June 2020 from 8,212 units in the same period last year. Similarly, new launches also dropped by 23% to 2,627 in first half of 2020 as against 3,398 in the same period of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disbursals-of-housing-loans-decline-by-47/articleshow/78393567.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||State reports 1,381 new cases, 11 deaths in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat reported 1,381 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1.36 lakh. The state’s daily tally of new cases dipped below 1,400 for the first time in five days. Over the past 11 days, the state has recorded fewer than 1,400 cases only twice. The new cases included 311 from Surat, 195 from Ahmedabad, 148 from Rajkot, 129 from Vadodara, and 91 from Jamnagar. This was one of the highest daily number of new cases for Surat district. The total number of cases in Rajkot district crossed 9,000, settling at 9,100 on Tuesday evening. The total number of cases in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 36,736, 28,786 and 11,953, respectively. The state also recorded 11 Covid deaths, taking its total death toll to 3,442. The deaths included four from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Rajkot and Gandhinagar. The total deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 1,809, 761, 184 and 140, respectively. Some 1,383 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of discharged patients in the state to 1.15 lakh. The discharges included 275 from Surat, 238 from Rajkot, 236 from Ahmedabad, and 86 from Vadodara. The number of active patients in Gujarat is now 16,703, nearly the highest ever for the state. The share of active cases dipped to 12.3% of total cases, whereas the share of discharged and deceased patients was 85.2% and 2.5%, respectively. Gujarat in these 24 hours carried out 62,338 tests, taking the total number of tests conducted to 43.56 lakh. State health department officials said that the figure represents 959 tests per day per million people. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 5.92 lakh persons in quarantine of whom 431 were in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-reports-1381-new-cases-11-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78393563.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Flashback: Ground Zero Ayodhya doused fires on night of demolition as India burnt||AYODHYA: On the tumultuous evening of December 6, 1992, when frenzied kar sewaks razed the Babri mosque, fires engulfed the country, but ground zero Ayodhya doused the flames before it could spiral into an inferno. As mobs ran amok through the streets and bylanes of Ayodhya, the temple town displayed its intrinsic fabric, woven around brotherhood and cohesion, to firewall the flood of hate. Residents still recall how Hindus of Ayodhya stopped mobsters in their tracks and formed a protective ring around their Muslim brothers, who then numbered just 4,500. Temple doors were flung open for Muslims and sadhus stood guard outside. Recalling the night horror, chief priest of Saryu Kunj temple adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi, Mahant Jugal Kishore Saran Shastri, said, Muslim families of Rajghat, Mirapur Bulandi and Dorahi Kuan, faced the brunt of attacks on the day of demolition. Many took refuge in the house of a gardener, Parag Lal Yadav. Speaking to TOI, Parag Lal’s son Ajay, said, “Ramzaan Ali and his wife were fleeing from a mob when their baby slipped out of their hands and fell. When rioters tried to toss the infant into the blaze sweeping the neighbourhood, I stood up to them and claimed the child was mine. Today, the boy, Munna, is sprightly young adult, who runs a taxi business in Ayodhya.” Sadiq Ali, president of Ayodhya Muslim Welfare Society, said, “Mahants and seers of Hanumangarhi temple, 100m off the Babri epicentre, formed a cordon around Muslims, who took shelter inside. They shielded them till kar sevaks left.” Sayyad Akhlaq Ahmad Latifi, ‘sajjada nasheen’ and peer of 500-year-old mausoleum — Khanqaahe Muzaffariya — adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi, recalls the siege of the dargah and how he still owes his life to his Brahmin driver. “Amidst flying dust, stones and surging passions, thousands of kar sevaks surrounded the dargah and my house. They smashed the door and set my house ablaze. My driver, Ram Nath Tiwari, along with then Ramjanambhoomi police station in charge Parmanand Shukla came to our rescue. They cut through the crowds, deflected the mobsters and helped us slip out through a rear alley. A small bus was arranged for us. My driver, Tiwari, drove at breakneck speed to reach us to safety in Faizabad. Anurag Shukla, a resident of Ayodhya, said, “There were around 60 Muslim homes in Godiana locality of Raiganj, where I reside. I still remember the night when mobs stormed our neighbourhood and enquired about our Muslim neighbours. Senior citizens of the area, including Ram Chandra Mishra, Ram Shankar Shukla and K C Shrivastava displayed rare courage and gumption to stop the mob from moving towards Muslim dwellings. They defiantly told kar sevaks they cannot harm their Muslim neighbours, with whom they share a relationship for generations. And at least 80 lives were saved and their properties remain untouched.” A dental surgeon with a government-run hospital, Ramapati Bhaskar, still remembers smoke billowing from the dwelling of Waliullah, a tailor who lived a few metre off the razed Babri mosque. I sprinted uphill and rescued his family and gave them shelter in my house. Somehow, the word spread that I was sheltering Muslims and the mob reached my doorstep. But me and my wife held our nerve and deflected the rioters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flashback-ground-zero-ayodhya-doused-fires-on-night-of-demolition-as-india-burnt/articleshow/78395426.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 30, 2020||India||CBI invokes Sec 91 for first time in Kerala to demand Periya case diary||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an unprecedented move that pits the CBI in a head-on confrontation with Kerala police, the central agency has ordered the crime branch to produce the case diary and related documents of the Periya twin murder case after it failed to secure them despite several requests. The Kerala high court had directed transfer of all files in the case to CBI. The CBI order summoning the files, under Section 91 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC), is seen as a prelude to invoking Section 93 of the CrPC that empowers the agency to undertake a search and seize the documents after obtaining a warrant from the court. “It is for the first time in Kerala that the agency has been forced to resort to legal recourse, as the state has refused to cooperate even after the agency requested to transfer the case diary several times, both formally and informally. It has seriously hampered the investigation, which is being monitored by the Supreme Court,” said an officer, not wanting to be named. This move comes even as Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala told the media on Tuesday that the LDF government was on the cusp of bringing an ordinance – similar to the one by the Rajasthan government -- to hamstring the CBI, a charge that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan denied later in the day. A single bench of the high court had ordered the transfer of investigation of the murder of Youth Congress activists Kripesh and Sarath Lal in Periya, Kasaragod, on February 17, 2019 – allegedly by CPM cadres -- to the CBI on September 30, 2019. A division bench and the Supreme Court had subsequently upheld the order. The CBI had, on the basis of the single bench order, transferred the case from the principal sessions court, Kasaragod, to the chief judicial magistrate court in Ernakulam, where it filed the FIR in the case. However, it needs the original case diary and other documents to take the probe forward. It is learnt that the latest CBI move was triggered by a communique from state police chief Loknath Behera last week, saying police have doubts about the “mode of transfer” of the case diary to the agency and the matter has been referred to the director general of prosecution for legal opinion. “It could only be seen as a time-buying or delaying tactic on the part of police,” a CBI officer, who requested anonymity, said. The state police was criticized by the opposition and the victims' families for not conducting a fair. Section 91 of CrPC empowers a court or any officer in charge of a police station to issue summons to a person, who is in possession of any document and anything else necessary for any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceeding. The state police, on its part, maintained that it has been advised to wait till the Supreme Court disposes of the matter. “The government has moved the Supreme Court and we have received a legal opinion in this regard. On the basis of the legal opinion, we are waiting for the Supreme Court to dispose of the matter,” said Behera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-invokes-sec-91-for-first-time-in-kerala-to-demand-periya-case-diary/articleshow/78396279.cms||KP Saikiran
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad to allow return of research scholars||HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) is all set to reopen its doors for research students from October. The university has identified about 100 science research scholars who will return to the campus, but only after producing a Covid-19 negative report. The test, the university has stated, will have to be conducted not more than 72 hours prior to the date of proposed entry — of the scholar — into UoH. The university has given preference to third to fifth year science research scholars. “Senior students were given preference as their work is at a more advanced stage. Not just that, their accommodations in hostels are single rooms. They’ll have to get a negative antigen test result before returning to the campus,” said Vinod Pavarala, task force chairperson and UoH spokesperson. The university has identified a newly-built hostel with 200 rooms that will be utilised as a quarantine facility for those coming from other states. “Students will have to spend seven days at this facility before shifting to their hostel rooms. Food will be provided to them at this facility. They will have to get an undertaking signed from their parents that they are aware of the guidelines and that they will abide by all the Covid-19 protocols issued by the health centre,” said Pavarala, adding that all these internal guidelines might change in case the Centre revises its earlier decision in unlock 5.0 . Meanwhile, the task force’s decision to compulsorily submit a Covid-19 negative result, has not gone down well with students. Citing reasons such as cost of test, accessibility to testing centres and delay in getting test results, students have demanded that the varsity relax the norm. “This clause must be relaxed and the university should arrange proper quarantine and isolation facilities for all students who are returning phase-wise. If any student shows any symptoms of Covid-19, then test facility and treatment should be arranged through the health centre with insurance cover,” read a letter issued by the UoH students union to the task force. Close to 1,500 research scholars are expected to return to the university in a phased manner. By November, the university expects to allow social science and humanities research scholars too, to return to the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-to-allow-return-of-sr-research-scholars/articleshow/78393586.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||‘Outsiders’ come up against new 80-20 barrier in PG admission||KOLKATA: The decision to reserve 80% post-graduation seats for home university students and setting aside only 20% for outside applicants has come as a disappointment for several candidates who had planned to apply to Presidency University, Jadavpur University and Calcutta University. At the same time, authorities of several universities are worried about the possibility of their UG students moving out of the city for higher education, which will leave several vacancies in the ‘home’ category. Earlier, 60% seats in a university were kept aside for home students and candidates from other varsities could apply for the rest. But given the pandemic and the risk involved in travelling to newer places, the higher education department has decided to change the equation and reserve 80% seats for home university students. A senior Presidency University teacher said the problem with the decision would become prominent when there might not be enough takers for PG seats. Presidency being one of Bengal’s top-tier universities, several graduates from there take admissions to postgraduate courses at IITs and other engineering and technology schools running science programmes. “Several students find seats at IISc and other institutes from top universities. So, once the requisite number of applications does not come in (for home seats), we will open the seats for other university candidates,” said a Bikash Bhavan official. Another problem, said teachers, was the inverted pyramid structure at some universities, where they had more PG seats than that in UG subjects. Rabindra Bharati University is one of them. Multiple arts departments there have 90 seats in the UG programme. “But the number increases to 150 in the post-graduation level,” said vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri. He added the university, after offering seats to all its UG candidates, would invite applications from other university students for the remaining seats.  Saheli Banerjee, a UG history student awaiting to appear for her final-semester examination from a college in Bankura, felt the division of PG seats should have been kept unchanged. “The earlier provision of allotting 60% seats to home university students and the rest to others was better. Due to the pandemic, many students from the districts have cancelled their plans to travel to other states or countries for higher education, but many like us, want to study in prestigious universities in Kolkata. Now, the chances of getting in will be slimmer,” she said. The decision to alter the PG admissions criteria to 80-20 this year was taken, keeping in mind the possibility of “limited mobility” outside the state or abroad because of the current pandemic. “During Sunday’s meeting with education minister Partha Chatterjee, the 80-20 reservation was also a proposal from some VCs who believed most students from their UG courses would prefer to continue to study at their universities, particularly the new ones,” said a higher education department official. Another higher education official pointed out that a few VCs had initially demanded that no seat would be offered to candidates from other universities this time. “Only after others pointed out the NIRF rankings would be doomed if all seats were reserved for own university students and that it would lead to lowering the scores in other international rankings, it was decided to settle for 80-20 reservation in the 2020-21 session,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/outsiders-come-up-against-new-80-20-barrier-in-pg-admission/articleshow/78393596.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Youth dies, 4 others injured in accident||Nashik: A 22-year-old youth died and four others sustained serious injuries when the car they were travelling in rammed into a truck near Pimpri Phata on the Mumbai-Agra highway around 7am on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Ashish Bhavsar, a resident of Chalisgaon. Police said that of the four who have been injured, the condition of one of them, Niket Randive, is critical and has been admitted to Nashik civil hospital. Police said that the victims, all residents of Chalisgaon in Jalgaon district, had gone to Mumbai as one among them, who is a professor in Goregaon, Mumbai, had gone to the capital for some work. Igatpuri police said the truck driver had reduced the speed of the vehicle near a speed breaker at Pimpri Phata on the highway, as a result of which Bhavsar, who was driving the car on the return journey, ended up ramming the car into the truck. Igatpuri police have registered a case of accidental death and were in the process of registering an offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-dies-4-others-injured-in-accident/articleshow/78395428.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bypolls for 8 assembly seats on November 3||GANDHINAGAR: The much awaited byelections for eight assembly seats in Gujarat will take place on November 3. Votes will be counted on November 10, said statements issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the chief electoral officer (CEO), Gujarat. The bypolls are expected to be a keenly contested affair after eight Congress MLAs resigned before the Rajya Sabha election earlier this year, reducing the Congress’ strength in the assembly and paving the way for three BJP candidates to be elected to the upper house of Parliament. Five of the eight Congress MLAs who quit the party before the RS election, have joined the BJP and are expected to be fielded by the BJP from the same seats that they won on Congress tickets in 2017. Political observers say the BJP and Congress are likely to share the honours in the bypolls, winning between three and five seats each. In the last round of assembly byelections, the BJP lost three of the six seats in bypolls held in the backdrop of the BJP’s grand showing in the 2019 general election, where it romped home winning all 26 Lok Sabha seats in Gujarat. This time though, the BJP is wary of overconfidence among the party ranks and has begun preparations for the elections, appointing one leader from the party and government to oversee preparations for elections. The eight assembly bypolls will also be the first big election for the BJP under its new state president C R Paatil. Any seats won by the BJP will be a gain, as all eight seats were won by the Congress in the 2017 assembly election. For the Congress, a good performance will boost morale ahead of the local body elections scheduled to be held soon after the assembly bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bypolls-for-8-assembly-seats-on-november-3/articleshow/78393599.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Criminals in ‘kar sevak’ garb triggered violence: Defence||Lucknow: Advocate KK Mishra was just another lawyer practising in the Lucknow district court till Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) approached him in 2010 to defend senior BJP and Sangh leaders in the high-profile Babri Masjid demolition case. Defending 25 of 32 accused, Mishra on Tuesday told TOI the Local Intelligence Unit (LIU) report of 1992 had stated anti-social elements sneaked into Ayodhya and were bound to spark off law and order problems to malign kar sevaks and members of Hindu outfits, who reached Ayodhya in large numbers. “The district administration could not identify them since they were many in number and seamlessly mingled with the kar sevaks,” he said. Mishra said, officials could not zero in on anti-social elements as most were dressed as kar sevaks. Mishra said, his defence was significant given the fact many ‘kar sevaks’ suffered injuries in brick-batting on the day of demolition. “Nischit roop se patthar chalane wale kar sevak nahi the…,” he said. As far as political leaders were concerned, they were trying to control the situation. “There are video clips that show many leaders, including then working president of VHP Ashok Singhal being pushed around,” he said. “Agar woh log VHP ke hote toh Singhal ji ki baat mante …na ki unko dhakka dete. (If the people were from VHP, they would have listened to Singhal),” Mishra said. During his digital deposition before CBI court in July, Advani had denied involvement in the conspiracy to demolish the Babri mosque. The BJP leader had pleaded innocence, saying he was being unnecessarily dragged into the case, owing to political reasons. He had said he would put up his defence at an appropriate stage. Mishra said, the case has been tried as a criminal one under various sections of Criminal Procedure Code. “Ye mamla pechida kabhi nahi tha…Bus thoda time zyada lag gaya hai (The case was not complicated. Only much time was consumed,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/criminals-in-kar-sevak-garb-triggered-violence-defence/articleshow/78395429.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vlogger made to disable YouTube video||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: City police authorities have initiated steps to take down the videos on the YouTube channel of Vijay P Nair, who courted controversy by attacking women’s rights activists through his sexually-tinged posts.  As a start, he was made to disable public access to a particular video that triggered widespread anger and culminated in his manhandling by women activists. ‘’We sent a request to YouTube to take down the video in question and we received a reply that any such action can only be taken after a detailed perusal, which needs time,” said deputy commissioner of police Divya V Gopinath. Considering the possibility of a public outcry, cops made Vijay change the privacy settings of the video to private access, the DCP said. Following this, he was produced in court and subsequently remanded in judicial custody. State cyber police will start their investigations on Wednesday. An order to this effect was issued on Tuesday. The FIR was registered by museum police. Police have already downloaded the entire content of Vijay’s YouTube page. The evidence will be handed over to cyber police, museum station house officer J Santhosh Kumar said. Regarding the physical harassment cases filed by the YouTuber and his assailants, the DCP said investigation is progressing with caution. At present, both parties have approached court seeking anticipatory bail. The court has sought a report from the investigation team in this regard. The report would be filed on Wednesday. The team meanwhile is scouring for other independent sources of evidence, such as surveillance camera visuals of the incident. “Even though non-bailable charges have been invoked against both parties based on their complaints, the police would resort to procedures such as arrest only after a thorough investigation,” she said. Anticipatory bail to film director Santhivila DineshIn another development, a local court here on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to film director Santhivila Dinesh after dubbing artist Bhagyalakshmi accused him of defaming her through social media. A case was registered by museum police based on the recommendation of the city cyber cell, which recorded Bhagyalakshmi’s complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vlogger-made-to-disable-youtube-video/articleshow/78393590.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Babri case: CBI court under security cloak ahead of verdict||LUCKNOW: UP director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthy has sounded high alert across the state on Wednesday in view of the pronouncement of verdict in Babri demolition case. While cops in civvies will be on the guard in Ayodhya, 2,000 policemen will be deployed at the building which houses the Ayodhya Prakaran Court in the Old High Court building at Kaiserbagh in Lucknow. Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel have been stationed in 25 sensitive districts and a vigil is being maintained at public places. All district police chiefs have been instructed by the DGP headquarters to conduct regular security drills and carry out checking at all bus stops, railway stations and district borders. “Police chief of zones have been directed to keep vigil and report suspicious movements or inflammatory social media messages,” he said. Deputy Inspector General of police, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar told TOI that cops would be deployed in civvies, while units of PAC and RAF had been deployed at all crucial points. In Lucknow, police commissioner Sujeet Pandey visited the court premises to take stock of the situation. “We are fully prepared, special teams and routes have been made to ferry the accused,” he said. “All the DCPs and senior officers have been instructed to patrol in their respective zones,” he said. Police said only those associated with the case would be allowed entry to the court on Wednesday. ADG, Prayagraj zone, Prem Prakash said cops in the zone have been instructed to hold peace meetings. Checkings have been intensified in Kanpur and Varanasi districts too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-alert-cbi-court-under-security-cloak/articleshow/78395439.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Taxpayers make a dash for Suvidha Centres||LUDHIANA: With a day left for availing 10% rebate on property tax, water supply, sewage and disposal dues, long queues of payers dotted the offices of the municipal corporation on Tuesday. The rebate will end on September 30 for the current year. The maximum rush was for property tax payment. The officials said they were expecting a similar rush on Wednesday too. “In order to ensure social distancing, we had stopped other public-dealing works and only tax collection was going on at most of the counters. Even as there is an option of online payment for all categories, most of the residents are preferring manual payment,” said an official. MC Zone D superintendent Rajiv Bhardwaj said, “There was rush at Suvidha Centre, but we allowed only a few people at a time to avoid crowding. Similar rush is likely on Wednesday as well.” MC Zone B superintendent Abdul Satar said, “We had six counters for property tax payment and two for water supply, sewerage and disposal charges’ payment.” About property tax on paying guest accommodations, hostels and migrant quarters, residents had many a query. Some of them said due to lockdown, they did not get rent from tenants and so how could they pay tax for the entire year to the civic body that too in advance. The officials, who did not have any information about it, said payment was being made by some and after September 30, they would start door-to-door inspection and ask defaulters to clear the dues. It is for the first time that even water supply, sewerage and disposal dues are also being collected in September. Earlier, their bills were issued twice a year. ‘90,000 yet to clear property tax dues’ MC superintendent Vivek Verma said, “A day is left for availing 10% rebate and people should make optimum use of the chance. Almost 90,000 tax payers, comprising mostly malls, cinema halls and other establishments that remained closed due to lockdown, are yet to clear the property tax dues The MC earned around Rs 3.5 crore from property tax on Tuesday. From April 1 to September 29, the tax brought around Rs 36 crore in its kitty. This year, the MC started sending one-time bills for water supply and sewerage dues. With this, it claims to have recovered Rs 27 crore to date against Rs 8.5 crore collected from April 1 till September 29 the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/taxpayers-make-a-dash-for-suvidha-centres/articleshow/78392105.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Centre mulling ‘airshed mgmt’ to tackle air pollution in cities||NEW DELHI: As air quality of a city is not a localised phenomenon and mostly influenced by external factors, the Centre is planning to focus on a new approach of dealing with the menace through airshed management. Though city-specific mitigation measures under the ongoing National Clean Air Programme will continue, regional airsheds will be scientifically identified under the new approach to control polluting sources beyond city boundaries and enable policy-makers to deal with the issue in a holistic manner. Track the pollution level in your city“Airshed, consisting of a geographical unit having common flow of air due to topography and meteorological constraints, will deal with the menace in bigger areas by factoring in all sources of air pollution across states,” said an official, adding that CPCB has been pitching for it for long. The issue will also be discussed in a review meeting on air pollution in NCR on October 1. The meeting, chaired by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, will be attended by environment ministers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. “There’s no magic bullet for mitigation of air pollution. There are meteorological and geographical factors. It gets exacerbated by man-made factors every year during 2-3 months. The Centre, Delhi, neighbouring states and citizens need to work in synergy. It’s a shared responsibility,” said Javadekar on Tuesday. He was speaking on the measures taken by the Central government in the past few years towards mitigation of air pollution. The CPCB, meanwhile, issued directions to 11 thermal power plants (35 units) located within 300 km of Delhi to comply with new emission norms of SO2 and NOx within stated timeline, varying from December 2020 to December 2022 for different units. As the meeting on October 1 is called in the backdrop of beginning of stubble burning episodes in Punjab, the ministers will discuss various interventions including the one developed by the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) to help farmers deal with it. The IARI’s low-coast technology uses bio-chemical that decomposes stubble and turns it into manure. Referring to critical months, officials in the ministry said the ‘ventilation index’, defined as the product of wind speed and mixing height, was a significant factor affecting Delhi's air quality. “Impact of stubble burning on Delhi can well be understood by the concept of ‘ventilation index’ in winter which is dominated by cold and dry air. The ground-based inversion with low wind conditions makes the air stagnant and creates an unfavourable condition for dispersion,” said an official, adding the severity is further escalated due to rise in local and regional air polluting sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-mulling-airshed-mgmt-to-tackle-air-pollution-in-cities/articleshow/78393606.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Fire audit at Covid hospitals, safe homes||KOLKATA: The fire and emergency services department has conducted audit of several Covid hospitals and safe homes across the state and informed the respective hospitals about the preventive measures that should be taken immediately. The officials of the department are compiling a report and will send it in details to the health department within a week’s time. “At present, we have conducted an audit at 83 Covid hospitals and 147 safe homes across the state. We have already identified the loopholes in the fire-fighting mechanism in the Covid hospitals and safe homes. We are sending recommendations to the state health department, suggesting the remedial measures in this regard,” said Manoj Agarwal, principal secretary of the state fire and emergency services department. The audit was initiated after a fire incident at a Covid hospital in Ahmedabad on August 7, which had killed eight people. Sources said 25 hospitals in Kolkata, 18 in South 24 Parganas and 15 in North 24 Parganas have been advised corrective measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-audit-at-ncov-hosps-safe-homes/articleshow/78393602.cms||Saibal Gupta
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bank deposits see record 11.4% Q1 growth||Ahmedabad: After stagnation in banks deposit growth in previous years, deposits grew by a record 11.4% in the first quarter of 2020-21 against the same period last year. According to the latest report of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), deposits in private banks have grown at double the rate of nationalized banks. While deposits of private banks grew by 17.8% from Rs 1.85 lakh crore in the first quarter of 2019-20 to Rs 2.18 lakh crore in the same period of 2020-21, those of nationalized banks grew by just 7.12% from Rs 3.23 lakh crore to Rs 3.46 lakh crore. Bankers said private sector banks have been outshining nationalized banks for a few years now and the trend sustained over the last quarter as well. Total bank deposits in the state during the quarter grew by Rs 80,502 crore from Rs 7.05 lakh crore to Rs 7.85 lakh crore. “The growth was a function of restrictions on spending,” said Thomson Jose, branch banking head, Gujarat, HDFC Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bank-deposits-see-record-11-4-q1-growth/articleshow/78393633.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||All IITs to have online counselling||KOLKATA: Students who qualify for admission to the 1,341 seats at IIT Kharagpur will not have to visit the institute for counselling, unlike previous years. They will be given a login ID that will help them participate in online counselling from wherever they are located. All IITs will follow a detailed online admission process this year for which a series of meetings are on and rules are being framed and announced by the Joint Seat Allocation Authority 2020, which is responsible for virtually hand-holding candidates till the admissions are over. The last hurdle is, however, yet to be over. Till last year, at the counselling stage, students would visit the campuses with their original documents for verification. It was only after faculty members met them and checked their documents did they get the green signal for admission. However, this year, physical verification of documents will be put on hold till the pandemic crisis is over and students are able to attend classes on campuses. Chances are that after virtual verification, candidates will get provisional admission and will be allowed to join first-year classes online. “As of now, we will accept documents online and wait for things to improve. However, a detailed online admission procedure is being uploaded step by step. Things will get clearer after the results are declared on October 5,” said Ashoke Kumar Pradhan, IIT Kgp JEE chairman. Candidates who secure a rank will have to indicate their choices for institutes and departments online from October 6 onwards. Seat allocation drills will be held from October 12 to 14, after which seat allocation rounds will start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-iits-to-have-online-counselling/articleshow/78393637.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 30, 2020||Kochi||From piers to poor planning, engrs’ body fires 14 queries||KOCHI: The Association of Structural and Geotechnical Consulting Engineers has written to DMRC principal adviser E Sreedharan seeking answers to 14 questions regarding demolition of the Palarivattom flyover. The association also promised to extend support for its reconstruction. It said the pier and pier caps of the flyover are in an irredeemable condition, as per a report submitted by Sreedharan to the government. The report goes on to say the structure can be strengthened by jacketing, but then the life span of piers and pier caps cannot be guaranteed for next 100 years. Since reconstruction will only involve replacing existing girders with new ones, the association sought to know how the life span of the flyover can be guaranteed for 100 years without reconstructing piers and pier caps. The association said replacing the existing reinforced cement concrete (RCC) girders with prestressed concrete girders without conducting a load test is a violation of the contract reached with the construction agency. The government cannot recover compensation from the agency in this scenario and the state exchequer will be at a loss. What is the benefit of a four-lane flyover in Palarivattom which will fail to address traffic woes after just 15 years considering the volume of vehicles taking to the roads, it asked. Vytilla and Kundannoor bridges are six lane ones, which can better cater to rising traffic volume. The association wondered what made Sreedharan point out that the cost of repair work by IIT Madras is underestimated, and why were IIT experts not called to clarify? “We sent the letter to E Sreedharan on Monday and are awaiting his reply,” said Anil Joseph, former president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/from-piers-to-poor-planning-engrs-body-fires-14-queries/articleshow/78393617.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Won’t allow autopsy till murder FIR filed’||LUDHIANA: Two days after the death of Nakul Mehra, 19, of Mayapuri, Tibba, his kin refused to allow the post-mortem until the police registered a murder FIR in the case. While Nakul’s kin alleged that he was beaten to death, police said he died in an accident. On Saturday night, Nakul along with his two brothers — Karan and Arjun — had gone to a dhaba near Shivaji Nagar crossing. There, they had an argument with the dhaba workers. After a clash, the trio left, with the dhaba workers chasing them, said his kin. Karan said, “Arjun and I were on a bike and Nakul on another. Near Samrala chowk, Nakul’s bike collided with a truck and he fell on the road. The dhaba workers, who were chasing us, thrashed him and fled. Nakul died because the accused thrashed him brutally and not because of accident.” Nakul’s maternal uncle, Rocky, said, “The cops are showing the CCTV footage till Nakul’s bike collided with a truck. When Nakul was lying on the road, the accused came there and thrashed him. The police are not listening to us. We will not give autopsy permission till a murder case is filed.” The police have registered a case against the truck driver for causing death by negligence and the dhaba workers and their accomplice for beating up the three brothers. Assistant commissioner of police (central) Waryam Singh said, “We have the entire CCTV footage. Nakul met with an accident and got severely injured. Meanwhile, the accused reached there, thrashed the brothers and escaped. The preliminary investigation suggests that Nakul died of accident injuries. However, it will be ascertained with an autopsy. But the family is not agreeing to it. We are trying to convince them as autopsy will help confirm the cause of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wont-allow-autopsy-till-murder-fir-filed/articleshow/78392098.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Food business sizzles, drive-thru, home deliveries get bigger slice||LUDHIANA: Business has started picking up almost two months after dine-ins were allowed. According to the owners of cafés, food outlets and restaurants, though the turnout is not the same as it was before lockdown, the numbers are up as compared to August and earlier months. However, takeaway, home delivery and drive-thru orders are higher than dine-ins. Vinod Arora, general manager of a café in Sarabha Nagar, said, “Customers have started coming for dine-ins during weekdays. Ever since the last week of July when dine-in was allowed, there was a negligible footfall. But from the second week of September, we have seen a huge improvement and customers are coming even in the afternoon, which is a good sign.” According to Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Ludhiana, “There has been an increase in the number of customers as residents also know that the hospitality industry is leaving no stone unturned to ensure their safety. However, there has been a significant change in the trends, as more and more people are opting for takeaways and consuming food in cars. Besides, the kitty groups are now organising get-togethers at homes and farmhouses and order food. This will help in improving the situation for food outlets, but even if they get a houseful every day for the next three months, the losses incurred during lockdown will not be offset.” Rahul Sharma, a fast food chain employee, said, “There has been an increase in our business from the past few days. Customers have started coming, but this time orders for drive-thru have increased.” Safety measures promised by outlets have been reassuring residents. Reema Arora, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “For five months, we did not go out for dinner. Finally, last Saturday we went to a restaurant on Ferozepur Road for dinner. We chose the restaurant after seeing the promotional video in which the management had advertised their safety measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/food-business-sizzles-drive-thru-home-deliveries-get-bigger-slice/articleshow/78392110.cms||Mohit Behl
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||8.53 lakh migrants returned to Odisha after lockdown: Minister||BHUBANESWAR: As many as 8,53,777 migrants returned to Odisha after the lockdown imposed in March, labour and employees state insurance minister Susanta Singh told the assembly in a written reply on Tuesday. The state government has made registration of all returnees to Odisha mandatory. Answering questions from the opposition, the labour minister said the state government has no official data on the number of migrants, who have returned to their workplaces, after the unlock process started. Official sources said maximum number of people have returned from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Kerala though no official data is available on the return from individual states. Of the 8.53 lakh migrants, who returned to Odisha, over four lakh people are believed to have returned only to Ganjam. In a separate reply, Singh said only two migrants have died while returning from various states after train and bus services were suspended from March 24. On a query on financial assistance extended to the family of the deceased, the minister said the information is being collected. Unofficial sources, however, suggested death of migrants while returning home. In another reply, the labour minister said the state government has paid Rs 9 crore to the East Coast Railway towards the transport expenditure of the migrant workers in shramik special trains. The money was paid for running 277 shramik special trains, said the minister. The money was reportedly sanctioned from the chief minister’s relief fund. The state government had earlier announced that it will bear transport expenditure of migrant workers returning to the state by sharmik special trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/8-53l-migrants-returned-to-odisha-after-lockdown-minister/articleshow/78392115.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops bust OLX fraud gang, 5 held from Rajasthan||HYDERABAD: A gang posing as armed forces and paramilitary personnel and duping people wanting to buy or sell items through OLX, an online marketplace, was busted by Cyberabad police. Five gang members were arrested by police, who camped in Rajasthan to nab them. During the interrogation, the gang members confessed to have committed 40 offences in Telangana — 15 in Cyebrabad, 18 in Hyderabad, six in Rachakonda and one in Nizamabad. Two mobile phones, 12 ATM cards, 21 SIM cards and Rs 1 lakh cash were recovered from them. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar on Tuesday said a 10-member special team headed by inspector M Ravinder Reddy almost spent about a month in Rajasthan developing clues with the help of local police and arrested the accused. Ravinder Reddy said during the operation, SI Rajender suffered a minor injury when the Rajasthan police vehicle they were travelling in was attacked by angry locals. “In Motia village which has 2,000 population, we noticed hundreds of villagers standing in queue at an ATM centre to withdraw cash. In a single day, aboutRs 20 lakh cash of OLX fraudsters was withdrawn from the ATM,” the inspector said. Sajjanar said main accused Rukhmin (26), who has studied up to first year Intermediate, has criminal record. “Earlier, he worked for a friend Asif, who used to cheat people by offering to sell or buy items on Olx. Rukhmin used to withdraw money transferred into bank accounts by Asif and take 8% commission. Later, Rukhmin formed his own gang,” Sajjanar said. Rukhmin hails from Nagar in Bharatpur district. The other accused are Saikul Khan (25) of Dhana village, Sharukh (20) of Lavan Ghati and Rakham Khan (26) of Mundiya village (all from Bharatpur district) and Murfeed (23) from Daura in Mathura district of Uttar Pradesh. Sharukh, who also studied up to Intermediate, used to o provide Rukhmin bank account details along with ATM cards and SIM cards to activate e-wallet accounts on different people’s names. He pays Rs 10,000 to the bank account and Rs 2,000 for SIM card activated with fake ID details of people from other states. Rukhmin provides bank accounts and e-wallet accounts to Murfeed, Saikul and Rakham, who are school dropouts. They contact gullible people posing as armed forces or paramilitary personnel wishing to sell a car or a two-wheeler. They also contact victims posing as buyer of the products they want to sell and by asking them to scan a QR code sent to receive the payment on Google Pay or Paytm, siphon off money by sending them code to send money instead of receiving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-bust-olx-fraud-gang-5-held-from-raj/articleshow/78393640.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality dips to season’s worst, may turn ‘poor’ next week||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality is gradually deteriorating and may turn “poor” by the first week of October, with stubble burning likely to start contributing soon. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) touched 177 (moderate) on Tuesday— the highest so far this monsoon season. The AQI was recorded at 159 (moderate) on Monday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s daily bulletin. The capital’s air quality has been deteriorating over the past 48 hours due to an increase in dust pollution. Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said that local dust was the primary factor now, with north-westerly winds raising dust over the past couple of weeks. “Delhi has seen no rain recently and conditions are dry. Local sources are also contributing, leading to a spike in pollution. Stubble burning is not playing a significant role yet, but may contribute next month,” added Srivastava. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) on Tuesday said the withdrawal of monsoon had started in the region with PM10 currently the primary pollutant. “The overall Delhi AQI is in the middle-end of the moderate category as forecast. PM10 is the lead pollutant and dust is the main contributor. High surface winds and good ventilation conditions are expected for the next two days, which are likely to keep Delhi AQI in the high moderate category. By October 2, AQI may reach the higher end of moderate to lower end of the poor category,” said SAFAR on Tuesday. “An increase in stubble burning fires was observed on Monday around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions. However, significant impact is not expected for Delhi in the next two days,” SAFAR added. LS Kurinji, a research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said north-westerly winds generally tend to contribute to Delhi’s air, whereas Delhi usually records south-westerly winds at this time of the year. “Stubble burning has started in some regions of Punjab and Haryana. Similar fire events were observed in late September in 2019 as well, but it did not impact Delhi’s air quality as the region experiences southwesterly winds during the time. Satellite-derived fire events’ data over the last few years indicates that stubble burning reaches a peak between end-October and early-November. During this period, the wind direction changes to northwesterly, which aids in carrying smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana to NCR and beyond,” added Kurinji. An AQI is classified as “good” when it is 50 or below, “satisfactory” between 51 and 100, “moderate” between 101 and 200 and ‘poor’ when it is between 201 and 300 on the CPCB’s index. Delhi has been witnessing its cleanest year in terms of air quality, with the lockdown contributing to a major extent. The capital has already recorded five “good” air days this year, the most since 2015, when the AQI was launched. Four such days were recorded in the month of August alone. Watch Delhi’s air quality deteriorates to season’s worst, may turn ‘poor’ by the first week of October||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-air-quality-dips-to-seasons-worst-may-turn-poor-next-week/articleshow/78393626.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Three researchers get CDRI Award for drug discovery||Lucknow: Three young researchers were given the CDRI Award 2020 on Tuesday for their exemplary contribution to drug discovery and development. CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) awarded Bushra Ateeq in biological sciences for conducting excellent research and drug discovery for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Ateeq is an associate professor and a senior fellow of the Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance in the department of biological sciences and bioengineering at IIT-Kanpur. Another young scientist to be awarded in the field of biological sciences was Prof Surajit Ghosh in the department of bioscience and bioengineering at IIT-Jodhpur. Ghosh was awarded for the development of efficient cell-penetrating peptides which has tremendous implications in medicine as it enables drug delivery inside a cell. For outstanding work in the field of chemical sciences, Dr Ravi Manjithaya received CDRI Award 2020 in chemical sciences. He is presently working as associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-researchers-get-cdri-award-for-drug-discovery/articleshow/78395453.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||KCHR says no to ‘private’ excavation in ‘govt’ land||KOCHI: Days after PAMA Trust announced significant findings from their excavations undertaken in private land in Pattanam early this year, Kerala Council of Historical Research (KCHR) has written to them denying permission for exploration in the land they own. One of the reasons that weighed against them was that PAMA is a private agency. V Karthikeyan Nair, who holds the charge of director, KCHR, said they wrote to PAMA based on a decision of the executive committee and consultation with the state government, which has asked the council to undertake excavation on their own. A letter sent by the higher education department on May 6 this year asked KCHR to avoid entrusting excavation in Pattanam in Ernakulam district with any other agency and instead take it up themself. It also asked the council to take strict action against ‘encroachment’. “We have plans to excavate the land in the future and would be hiring research associates to analyse the artefacts found during previous excavations,” Nair said. The letter dated September 18 also informed PAMA, headed by former KCHR director P J Cherian, their inability to provide them with financial grant and other assistance as requested, based on a decision of the executive committee. “We are only a custodian of the land. So when the request came we referred to the state government as excavation could cause damage to the site and would have financial implications,” said Nair, adding that the government could reverse the decision in the future. Though KCHR is an autonomous body, they have to depend on state government for funds. PAMA Institute for the advancement of trans-disciplinary archaeology, which has a licence from ASI, had to stop excavating the land at Othin Kaadu on February 28 after KCHR filed a police complaint over alleged trespass and accused it of tampering with a heritage site by setting fire to vegetation. Michael Tharakan, chairman, KCHR, said they have been preparing to undertake excavations at Pattanam on their own. “We have not planned the modalities and need to bring in established archaeologists,” Tharakan said. He also said there is a view that since Pattanam is a densely-populated area, no further excavations should be undertaken and instead modern technology should be used. Rajan Gurkkal, chairman of the archaeological advisory committee, which according to him ‘unanimously’ recommended against PAMA being allowed to excavate the KCHR plot at Pattanam, said, one of their concerns was that it was a private agency. KCHR also had an issue with Cherian related to ‘liability’ of submission of a mandatory report to ASI, which had led to the national body rejecting a council request for licence earlier, he said. R V G Menon, chairman, PAMA, said the directive does not seem to bar the trust from excavating private land. “If KCHR desires to do the excavation themselves let them do it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kchr-says-no-to-private-excavation-in-govt-land/articleshow/78393659.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Arrangements in place for Andhra University entrance tests||VISAKHAPATNAM: All arrangements are ready for the conduct of EdCET-2020, said convener Prof R Siva Prasad on Tuesday. Speaking to the media here in Andhra University, Prof Prasad said the examination will be held online on October 1. “The exam will be conducted at 50 centres in 17 cities/towns. Students will be allowed in the exam hall premises from 9:30 am. We will not allow students even if they are late by one minute. The applicants should adhere to Covid-19 precautions such as wearing a mask and using sanitizer. Students should carry the hall ticket and an identity card,” said Prof Prasad. The entrance examination has drawn around 16,000 applications, including 4,658 in mathematics methodology, 2,035 in physical sciences, 4,779 in social sciences, 3,321 in biological sciences and 865 in English. Meanwhile, director, directorate of admissions, Andhra University, Prof DA Naidu said the Andhra University common entrance tests – AUCET/AUEET-2020 — will commence from October 13. The exams will be held in two sessions till October 15. Candidates are advised to download their hall tickets from the university website, www.audoa.in, from October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/arrangements-in-place-for-au-entrance-tests/articleshow/78390960.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Central departments owe over Rs 6,811 crore to Delhi Jal Board: Raghav Chadha||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said that central government departments, including railways, and municipal corporations owed over Rs 6,811 crore to DJB. Notices have been issued to the regional offices of these departments asking them to pay their dues within 30 days, he added. The issue of pending water and sewerage charges has been lingering on since 2012-13. DJB had also raised the matter of pending dues in 2017. Chadha said that seven government agencies had not paid their dues since long. Railways owed Rs 3,283 crore to DJB, CPWD about Rs 190 crore, DDA 128 crore, Delhi Police Rs 614 crore, the east municipal corporation Rs 49 crore, the north corporation Rs 2,466 crore and the south corporation owed over Rs 80 crore to DJB, he added. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic condition of the state government is in bad shape. Delhi government is planning to finish all such pending transactions in a bid to improve the economic condition. If the dues are not cleared within the stipulated time, the board shall be constrained and left with no other option but to initiate coercive actions until the full and final payment is recovered,” he added. Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation, said that the dispute of bill payment arose due to commercial category charges being imposed on government departments. “They are even charging our big hospitals and polyclinics. Moreover, commercial rates are being imposed. I challenge them to cut the water connections. Delhi government departments also owe more than Rs 4,000 crore in property taxes,” the mayor added. Deepak Kumar, the public relations officer from Northern Railway, said that railways was regularly paying the monthly water bills to DJB for the water supply, but it had reservations with regards to the number of water bills as some connections did not exist on site and large number of connections were found unmetered. “Railways has made references on this matter to DJB for the same. However, the water bills of each connection need to be reconciled jointly by DJB and railway officials along with site survey and the payment of reconciled amount thus arrived will be made,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/central-depts-owe-over-rs-6811cr-to-djb-chadha/articleshow/78393646.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Film festival to entertain kids stuck at home||NEW DELHI: With most children largely confined to their homes because of the pandemic and anxiety and fear almost constantly surrounding them, Kiran Nadar Museum of Art (KNMA) in collaboration with Children’s Film Academy has launched a film festival titled “Children’s Talkies” to entertain and educate them. The film festival for young adults and children, which began on September 26 and will continue till November 7, is offering an outlet for their imagination. While upbeat stories of courage and resilience in the face of adversity are being featured, they are followed by conversations with the acclaimed directors of the films. The festival, which is hosting national and international films by many reputed names from the world of cinema, is also aimed at promoting family bonding and universal empathy in the face of a life-changing crisis. The films can be accessed on KNMA’s social media handles and website. The organiser of the event stated that the spellbinding power of films was undeniable. “It is imperative that children learn to understand varied nuances and acquire the skills to express themselves through this medium,” KNMA added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/film-festival-to-entertain-kids-stuck-at-home/articleshow/78393713.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||60,000 candidates to take Telangana ICET today||HYDERABAD: Close to 60,000 candidates will appear for the Telangana State integrated common entrance test (ICET) for admission into MBA and MCA courses on Wednesday. The examination will be held in two sessions – morning (9.30 am to 12 pm) and afternoon (3 pm to 5.30 pm). Like every year, the Telangana ICET is being conducted by the Kakatiya University on behalf of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education. “The qualifying percentage of marks in the entrance test is 25 per cent (i.e. 50 marks out of total 200 marks). However, for candidates belonging to scheduled castes or scheduled tribes, no minimum qualifying percentage of marks is prescribed,” reads the notification issued by the ICET convenor. In view of Covid-19, the number of examination centres have been increased this year. All the candidates will have to follow Covid-19 protocol like physical distancing at the examination centres. Students will have to mandatorily wear mask and carry a hand sanitizer with them inside the examination hall. There are close to 200 MBA and 50 MCA institutions with an intake of approximately 30,000 seats in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60000-to-take-telangana-icet-today/articleshow/78393627.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||MSME NPAs up by Rs 1,090cr in a year||Ahmedabad: Slowing demand, the lockdown amid the pandemic situation which caused the economy to shrink had an adverse impact on the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Gujarat, leaving them grappling with shortage of working capital, while adding to their bad loan burden. The latest report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) suggests that the gross non-performing assets (NPA) for the MSME sector grew by Rs 1,090 crore in just a year. The NPA burden grew from Rs 8,974 crore in the first quarter of 2019-20 to Rs 10,064 crore in the same period of 2020-21 – up 12%, according to the report. The 166th SLBC meeting was held on Tuesday. Explaining reasons, Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham – Gujarat state council, said, “Even before the lockdown, MSMEs were adversely hit due to the slump in demand in the domestic as well as international markets. This is particularly true for small manufacturers in the textile, automobile and auto component sectors, among others. In the first quarter, most industries were not functional due to the lockdown, lack of demand and halting of exports, led to the drying up of sources of income for MSMEs. At the same time, labour shortage imposed additional constraints on business operations, impacting their productivity.” “Since MSMEs don’t have huge financial reserves, loan repayments are bound to get impacted and therefore, the bad loan burden would have gone up,” he further said. Working capital shortage was also one of the key reasons for weakened loan repayment capacity. “Payment cycles got stretched due to the pandemic and lockdown as production, supply and demand all came to a standstill. This was one of the key reasons for piling bad loan burden for MSMEs,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). Interestingly, the bad loan burden marginally declined in the first quarter of 2020-21 against the last quarter of 2019-20. In the last financial year, the gross NPA burden for MSMEs stood at Rs 10,481 crore, which declined by a marginal 4% in the quarter that ended on June 30, 2020. However, industry sources revealed that this was due to the moratorium announced by the Union government. “As various players opted for moratorium and accounts were not classified as NPAs by banks, the quarterly decline in gross NPA was seen. However, industries have been grappling with working capital concerns thanks to the pandemic,” said an industrialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/msme-npas-up-by-rs-1090cr-in-a-year/articleshow/78393662.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Nilanjana Chatterjee’s sister a key witness in hit and run case||KOLKATA: Cops have introduced Nilanjana Chatterjee’s sister as a key witness in the Anandapur hit and run case on September 5 when she had been injured trying to save a 31-year-old bank official. Her sister, whose name is being withheld on request, was travelling in another car behind that of Chatterjee. Cops said that Chatterjee’s sister had come put of the car and heard the cries of the bank official. However, she did not move forward to try to stop the accused, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, from fleeing the spot. She claimed to have seen from a closest possible distance how the accused had fled after hitting Chatterjee. Along with Satpati, Chatterjee’s sister has also identified the accused during the test identification parade at Presidency jail on September 24. According to the police, her statement before the magistrate will bolster the case after the bnak official told the court that she had a misunderstanding with Pandey, her fiance. “I had braked in such a manner that the car, in which Pandey was travelling, got blocked by the cars of mine and my wife’s sister. This is the reason why Pandey had no other option than reversing to flee,” Deep Satpati, husband of Chatterjee, told TOI. Cops hinted that they would file the charge sheet in the case once they received the final forensic reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nilanjanas-sister-a-key-witness-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/78393635.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Balasore Sadar, Tirtol bypoll on November 3||BHUBANESWAR: Balasore Sadar and Tirtol are among the 54 assembly seats across the country where byelection will be held on November 3, the Election Commission of India said on Tuesday. Counting will be held on November 10. Bypoll in the two constituencies was necessitated following the death of Balasore Sadar MLA Manmohan Dutta of the BJP and Tirtol legislator Bishnu Charan Das of the BJD. While Dutta passed away in June, Das died a month later. Political parties in the state have geared up to finalise candidates and start campaigning amid the pandemic. The byelection is a prestige battle for the BJD and the BJP, with both desperate to retain their respective seats. The Congress, too, is hoping to give a fight. The Balasore Sadar assembly segment is part of Balasore Lok Sabha seat represented by Union minister Pratap Chandra Sarangi. The saffron party is weighing various options, including fielding Manmohan’s son Manas from there. There are a number of aspirants for the BJD ticket though former MLA Jiban Pradip Dash is considered to be the front-runner. In Tirtol, Raj Kishore Behera, who unsuccessfully contested the 2009 and 2014 assembly elections on a Congress ticket, have recently joined the BJP and is among those in the race for a ticket from the party. BJD insiders said the party is considering various options such as fielding Bijay Sankar, son of Bishnu Charan. Others in the race include former MP Kulamani Samal and Minati Behera, the chairperson of the state women’s commission. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/balasore-sadar-tirtol-bypoll-on-nov-3/articleshow/78392142.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake soldiers held for kidnapping, extortion||HYDERABAD: Four persons were arrested for posing as Army personnel, cheating, kidnap and extortion, using air rifles etc. The accused had kidnapped a businessman from the city and taken money from him. Nagaraju Raghu Varma, a driver from West Godavari of Andhra Pradesh, Kallepally Rajesh from Madhapur, L Rama Krishna from Yousufguda, and Rabdya Jore Singh, a student of Nizam College and native of Kamareddy district, were arrested by the Madhapur Special Operation team. Nagaraju Raghu Varma created fake ID cards and purchased army uniforms, fake gallantry awards and one dummy pistol. He introduced himself as an army officer and cheated several people by promising to provide jobs in the Indian Army and took about Rs7 lakh from them. According to police, Raghu took rented cars and affixed army stickers to make them look like army vehicles. “He attended various social programmes and opening ceremonies of shops in uniform in his native and put cut-outs of him in his local area,” VC Sajjanar, Cyberabad commissioner of police, said.“Pretending to be military intelligence, they picked up the victim and took him to an isolated location. They said his father’s friend is a notorious criminal, terrorist and illegal arms dealer and are going to encounter him. After scaring the victim, they extorted Rs 26,000 from him,” police said. On September 5, posing as an army officer, Raghu along with his associates allegedly kidnapped and extorted money from businessman G Nikhil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-soldiers-held-for-kidnapping-extortion/articleshow/78393652.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal minister plea for no power cut during exams||KOLKATA: The state higher education department has requested the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited and CESC to provide uninterrupted power supply between October 1 and October 18, when all the state-run universities will conduct their final year and terminal semester examinations. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Tuesday tweeted about the request, which has gone to the power supply agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/min-plea-for-no-power-cut-during-exams/articleshow/78393670.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Brothers held for raping two minor girls in West Godavari district.||ELURU: Two youths, including a minor, were booked for allegedly raping two 16-year-old girls and impregnating them in Dwaraka Tirumala mandal in West Godavari district. Village elders later performed a wedding between the 17-year-old minor boy and one of the girls. The minor boy then lodged a complaint that a child marriage had been performed, following which police intervened and booked cases against five persons for carrying out a child marriage. Cases under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Sections 376 (rape) and 312 (punishment for causing miscarriage) of the IPC were booked against the two youths. According to DSP Eluru sub-division in-charge G Pydeswara Rao, two brothers aged 17 and 19, own agricultural land in Dwaraka Tirumala mandal. The brothers developed a relationship with two 16-year-old girls who would work the fields. In time, the minor girls became pregnant, causing an uproar in the village. On September 27, village elders performed a wedding between the 17-year-old boy and one of the minor girls. The groom took photographs of the wedding and lodged a complaint, stating he was a victim of child marriage. Upon investigation, police booked the brothers for rape. The minor girls were sent to Eluru government hospital for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/brothers-held-for-raping-two-minor-girls/articleshow/78390994.cms||Samson Raj
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||Tyre tube used for crossing river||Vadodara: Every evening when Chapak Tadvi, a farmer living in Dhamasiya village of Chhota Udepur district, leaves for his home, he waits until he finds somebody to help him reach his home. Not that he is looking for a lift on a bike, but Tadvi wants someone from his village, who can pull an inflated tyre tube, on which he is supposed to be perched, to cross the Ashwin River. For around a decade now, the tyre tube of a tractor has been the only ‘vehicle’ for over 50 farmers of Dhamasiya and Ghodisimel villages in Naswadi taluka to help them cross the river so that they can reach their farmlands and come back. The villages are on the southern bank of the river while the farms are spread over 200 acres on the northern bank. In the absence of a bridge and using the nearest ones mean detouring for 15 to 25 kilometres, villagers were forced to rely on this tyre tube after a couple of crocodiles were sighted. “We had to find a solution since there was a scare of crocodiles and not everybody in the village own a bike. Somebody proposed the idea of using a tractor’s tube and since then we have been relying on this tube to cross over,” said Vipin Bhil, sarpanch of group gram panchayat of Dhamasiya and Ghodisimel. During heavy rains, the two banks are completely cut-off as the river which is 20 feet deep throughout the year flows in full spate. “Nobody crosses the river during monsoon as there are possibilities of getting drowned,” Bhil said. Thankfully, no untoward incident has happened in all these years. “I have swum for decades to cross the river and now am forced to use this tube. Despite making representations to political leaders, nothing has happened so far. Even if we get a small boat, we can cross the river safely,” said Tadvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tyre-tube-used-for-crossing-river/articleshow/78391898.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Goods worth Rs 7.70L burgled, man points finger at 2 daughters||Nashik: Three cases of house break-ins and thefts were registered at different police stations in the city on Monday. In the first incident, registered with Upnagar police, a 73-year-old man from Lavte Mala, Jai Bhavani Road in Nashik Road, alleged that his two daughters and one of their sons stole cash and valuables — all amounting to Rs 7.70 lakh — when he was away from home between August 1 and September 27. The man alleged that his daughters had a duplicate key of the bungalow which they used to enter the house when he was not there. Senior inspector at Upnagar police station Sunil Rohakale said that no arrest has been made so far as it seemed to be a household matter. The daughters accused of the theft claim that their father must have given all the money and jewellery to their sister, who lived in Pune, and lodged a false complaint against them. In another case registered with Gangapur police, an unidentified burglar broke the lock of a shop in the College Road area on the intervening night between Sunday and Monday and decamped with Rs 15,000 cash and a laptop worth Rs 20,000. In another theft registered with the Ambad police, unidentified burglars broke into house in the Savata Nagar, Cidco area and stole cash and jewellery totalling to Rs 1.44 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/goods-worth-rs-7-70l-burgled-man-points-finger-at-2-daughters/articleshow/78395466.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Aarogya Vatika comes up at Vikasnagar in Lucknow||Lucknow: Taking forward its campaign of planting herbal plants with high medicinal value in city parks, Navbharat Times, along with Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP), Lucknow Municipal Corporation and Pradhanmantri Jan Kalyan Prachar Prasar Yojna (Lucknow) inaugurated ‘Aarogya Vatika’ at Vikasnagar, Sector-6 Mandir Park on Tuesday. ‘Aarogya Vatika’ is a special health corner initiated by Navbharat Times where herbs and plants with high medicinal value and the ones that are immunity boosters will be planted in various city parks in different areas to aware citizens about the health benefits of these plants available in our surroundings. All the parks under Lucknow Municipal Corporation have been chosen for the initiative. Plants like tulsi, giloy, ashwagandha, stewia, lemongrass, khas, among others were planted by citizens by maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar also took part in the plantation and hailed the efforts of NBT. CIMAP scientist Sandeep Singh explained the health benefits of various medicinal plants and how they resemble different body parts. Pradhanmantri Jan Kalyan Prachar Prasar Yojna, Mahanagar, chairman Ajeet Pratap Singh appealed to citizens to cooperate in the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-comes-up-at-vikasnagar/articleshow/78395473.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Two arrested for running illegal call centre in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar police busted an illegal call centre in Salt Lake and arrested two persons on Monday evening on charges of diverting international internet calls to Indian phone numbers by bypassing the legal connection gateway, which caused revenue loss to the Union government. The accused, Mohit Singh (29) and Mohammed Shadaab (28) were arrested from their Salt Lake office after an FIR had been lodged with Bidhannagar cyber crime police station by a senior official of the department of telecommunications, Government of India. The accused, who were booked under Indian Telegraph Act and IPC sections dealing with forgery and cheating, were produced in a Salt Lake court on Tuesday and remanded in three-day police custody. Cops said that apart from the revenue loss, the accused posed a threat to national security by diverting the calls illegally. Cops seized a laptop, a computer server, a switch used to divert international calls illegally, four mobiles, several debit cards, ID cards and other documents connected with the case. “The two youths had illegally installed the telecom set-up and used a system to divert voice calls from international numbers to Indian phone numbers, bypassing the legal connection gateway. This has caused heavy revenue loss to the Union government,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-arrested-for-running-illegal-call-centre/articleshow/78393669.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD, BJP flexing muscles, Akalis ask for house meet||LUDHIANA: Ripples of the SAD-BJP divorce are being felt at the local level now. Amid speculation that the local BJP leaders have started luring councillors who are part of the opposition, the SAD members met mayor Balkar Sandhu on Tuesday, requesting him to call a house meeting. While Akali leaders have been claiming maximum number of councillors after the Congress, BJP leaders are reportedly trying to pull independent councillors to their side. Akali councillors claimed they met Sandhu and asked for a house meeting as this year only one convention was held in March and that too for discussing the municipal corporation budget. “As of now, we have maximum number of councillors in the house after Congress and there is no truth in SAD house members joining the BJP,” said senior Akali Dal councillor and leader of opposition Harbhajan Dang. Justifying the request for a house meeting, he said many development-related issues have been lying pending. “In the last house meeting held in March, we could not raise issues from our wards,” he added. On the other side, BJP district president Pushpinder Singhal said, “Only time will tell what will happen. We are looking forward to strengthening our organisation at every level in Punjab.” The mayor confirmed, “The Akali Dal councillors are demanding a house meeting. But as per directions of the Punjab government, before a house meeting all the councillors will have to undergo a corona test.” Regarding majority in the opposition, he added, “As of now BJP councillors haven’t approached me, but I will have to consult the legal advisor in case they come forward to prove majority.” Earlier too, SAD councillors had met the mayor and demanded action against the contractors and officials as many samples collected from roads had failed the test. They had also demanded action against officers responsible for change in design of the Jagraon Bridge. The councillors claimed no action has been taken over both the demands. Number game at MC house Party ---- Councillors Congress -- 63 Akali Dal - 11 BJP - 10 LIP - 7 Independents -- 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-bjp-flexing-muscles-akalis-ask-for-house-meet/articleshow/78392133.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Capping drains will make desilting costly affair: Experts||HYDERABAD: Following untoward incidents related to open drains, there has been increasing demand for the capping of drains in the city. However, some activists and residents have opposed the idea of closing drains at present. Madhulika Choudhary, founder of NGO Dhruvansh, said that stormwater drains must not be capped, but rather fenced to prevent untoward incidents. “The problem is that stormwater and sewage intermingle in our drains. This is a problem because once these drains are capped, desilting will become an expensive affair.” Besides this, Choudhary says that garbage that gets stuck in these drains cannot be removed easily. Addressing fears of vector-borne diseases, she said, “this is only a problem when the nala water is stagnant, which is mostly not the case.” Recently, following chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s orders, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is planning to cover open stormwater drains roughly stretching about 400km. Major Shiva Kiran, vice-president, United Federation of RWAs (UFERWAS) said the urgent need of the hour was to separate stormwater and sewage drains. “With effective door-to-door collection of waste, junk should not find its way into our nalas. Since it is, there is a gap that needs to be fixed,” he said. Agreeing, environmentalist Subba Rao said: “The question that must be raised is why are stormwater and sewage drains the same. If these drains are closed, sewage could cause a build-up of harmful gases such as methane.” He added that the carrying capacity of most drains was very less. “Owing to this, whether closed or open, stormwater will overflow on to the road, so capping is not a permanent solution,” Rao said, adding that removal of encroachments on drains must be the first priority. The capping work is to be taken up at a cost of Rs 300 crore, said mayor Bonthu Rammohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/capping-drains-will-make-desilting-costly-affair-experts/articleshow/78393651.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government introduces universities bill amid protests||BHUBANESWAR: The contentious Odisha Universities (amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced in the assembly on Tuesday by higher education minister Arun Sahoo amid opposition from members of the BJP and the Congress. The oppositions MLAs alleged the legislation will take away the autonomy of state-run universities and lead to excess government interference. Senior Congress MLA Taraprasad Bahinipati also tore a copy of the bill in the House. Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said the bill is unconstitutional and encroaches upon the rights of the Centre, as explained in the concurrent list of the Constitution. Mishra, a noted lawyer, said the state assembly has no right to introduce the bill. “What was the extraordinary circumstances which necessitated the promulgation of the universities ordinance during a time like this?” Mishra asked. The Congress veteran alleged that through the bill, the government is trying to take control of state-run universities. “The quality of higher education will deteriorate. The future of our students will be in danger if the bill gets passed,” said Mishra. BJP MLA Mukesh Mahaling also opposed the bill, saying it contradicts the UGC Acts and regulations. “Educationists are strongly opposing the proposed legislation. It will lead to a fall in the standard of higher education in the state,” Mahaling said. The BJP leader opposed the provision of central recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff by Odisha Public Service Commission and state selection board, respectively. He condemned the involvement of the regional director of higher education in matters related to the universities, as proposed in the bill. The government promulgated the universities ordinance on September 4 aiming to bring all state-run universities under one law. Some controversial provisions in the bill, which has faced opposition from educationists, include abolition of the senate and inclusion of state government nominee in selection of vice-chancellors. The amendments also has provision to increase the tenure of vice-chancellors from three to four years and enhancement of upper age limit for holding the office of vice-chancellor. In his statement, the state higher education minister rubbished the charges made by the opposition that the bill will reduce the autonomy of the universities. “I want to clarify that the bill will rather increase the autonomy of the universities. Misinformation is being spread about the bill, which I will clarify in detail during the discussion. Since the number of state-run universities have increased from four to 14 over the years, we need one legislation to run the universities,” said Sahoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-introduces-varsities-bill-amid-protests/articleshow/78392132.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Keesara bribe case: ACB nabs five more persons||HYDERABAD: Five more persons were arrested by the ACB on Tuesday in a criminal misconduct case registered against Keesara tahsildar EB Nagaraju, who was caught accepting a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore on August 14. A second case was registered against Nagaraju, based on the inquiry conducted by the vigilance and enforcement department, for illegally issuing passbooks for 24 acres of land in Rampally to Dharma Reddy, a farmer of Rampally village in Keesara, and others using forged documents. K Venkatesh, computer operator of Keesara tahsildar office, K Srikanthh Reddy, son of Dharma Reddy, realtors Rao Venkateshwar Rao, Ch Venkata Jagadishwar Rao and Ch Bhaskar Rao have been arrested for their involvement in the case. The ACB had already arrested Dharma Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/keesara-bribe-case-acb-nabs-five-more-persons/articleshow/78393668.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Explain confusing circular on fraud accounts, HC tells RBI||HYDERABAD: Wondering whether RBI’s master circular issued to prevent banking frauds was filled with confusion leading to different interpretations, the high court on Tuesday directed RBI to clarify whether the banks should wait for the trial court judgements to act in respect of accounts that were declared as fraud. When will penal consequences follow? Immediately upon declaring a bank account as a fraudulent one? Or should they wait till an FIR is registered, chargesheet filed and judgement pronounced by a trial court, the court asked. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy ordered the RBI to file its affidavit by Oct 8 on these aspects. The bench came across conflicting arguments on these issues while hearing a petition filed by Rajesh Agarwal of BS company challenging the SBI’s decision to declare his account as fraud account. SBI which lent him Rs 1,500 crore, got a forensic audit done on the account and declared it as fraud account. It drew its power to do so from the RBI’s master circular that asked all banks to declare such suspicious accounts a fraud accounts. Petitioner’s advocates contended that they were not given opportunity to explain their case before declaring their account as fraud. Appearing for SBI, Advocate General B S Prasad argued that the master circular issued by RBI envisaged no such procedure. RBI counsel B Nalin Kumar said that this is an internal communication for banks to prevent frauds. The circular sets in motion a process through which banks inform each other about a fraudulent account and would also keep the probe agencies informed. This internal communication by itself would not result in automatic prosecution and hence there is no need to hear the version of the account holder, the RBI counsel said. To a pointed query as to when would the penal consequences commence in respect of fraud accounts, the RBI counsel said that there would be a complaint, followed by a chargesheet, trial and judgement by a trial court. Only then will the penal consequences like blacklisting by other banks and denial of further loans by other banks start. SBI counsel refuted this line of interpretation and said that the master circular envisages a clear process to declare certain accounts as fraud and banks need not wait till the pronouncement of judgement by a trial court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/explain-confusing-circular-on-fraud-accounts-hc-tells-rbi/articleshow/78393667.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Nepali hawker found dead in Kolkata, cops suspect suicide||KOLKATA: A 40-year-old citizen of Nepal, Puran Prasad Limbu, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in an under-construction building at Parnasree in Behala. Prima facie, cops suspect that Limbu might have either committed suicide or died due to excessive drinking. According to locals, the victim used to run a fast food centre outside a departmental store at Pathakpara. However, his business was worst-hit owing to the lockdown and he had been reeling under financial constraints. His business did not pick up as was expected by him in the pre-Puja season, which was said to have turned him alcoholic. Limbu had come to the city almost eight years ago and was popular in the area for selling Tibetan dishes, rolls and other items. Cops have sent his body for post-mortem to Vidyasagar Hospital to ascertain whether he committed suicide or had a natural death. “His wife and children had left him because of his addiction to drinking. He used to sleep on the pavement near the departmental store and took to more drinking. We are investigating the case,” said DC (SWD) Nilanjan Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nepali-hawker-found-dead-cops-suspect-suicide/articleshow/78393691.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,000 Covid cases, nine deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 2072 new Covid-19 positive cases and nine deaths as the caseload in the state rose to 1,89,283. So far, 1116 persons have died of the deadly virus since the pandemic broke in March. While 1,58,690 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection, 29,477 patients are under medication at home and in hospitals across the state. The case fatality rate which is a measure of the patients succumbing to the virus as compared to the number of patients contracting the virus dropped further below one percent in the state, while the average case fatality rate in the country is nearing two percent. The recovery rate in the state is 84 percent as against the country average of 83 percent. This means 84 out of 100 patients are recovering in the state. A total of 54,308 tests were done in the state on Tuesday, taking the total count of tests done so far in the state to 29.4 lakh. With this, the samples tested per million figure has touched 79,206 in the state. GHMC recorded 283 cases- the highest among districts. This was followed by 161 new cases in Ranga Reddy, 160 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 139 cases in Nalgonda, 109 cases in Karimnagar, 92 cases in Khammam, 85 cases each in Bhadadri Kothagudem and Warangal Urban. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-2k-covid-cases-nine-deaths/articleshow/78393677.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Day-long bandh hits normal life in Agency areas||VISAKHAPATNAM/ RAJAHMUNDRY: The one-day call to bandh (Manyam Bandh) by various tribal associations under the banner of Girijana Sangham and GO No 3 Sadhana Committee, demanding an amendment to GO No 3 that was scrapped by the Supreme Court, evoked a good response in tribal pockets of Agency areas in East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Tuesday. Normal life was affected in many pockets with business establishments remaining closed and most public and private vehicles off the roads. However, protestors did not stop emergency vehicles and interstate goods and passenger vehicles. Tribal activists visited government offices, banks and tourist places, seeking the support of staff to observe the bandh and close offices, hotels and restaurants. Speaking to TOI, K Surendra, an activist in the Araku Valley region, said the scrapping of GO No 3 would deprive educated tribal youth in the Agency of employment opportunities as the GO stipulates that teacher posts in tribal areas must be filled only by tribal candidates. “We will intensify our protest in the coming days for a constitutional amendment to GO No 3,” he added. In East Godavari district, protestors demanded the government issue a special DSC notification to fill teacher posts in scheduled areas with candidates from Scheduled Tribes and merge tribal villages under non-scheduled areas with scheduled areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/day-long-bandh-hits-normal-life-in-agency-areas/articleshow/78391019.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Salem||Salem collects Rs 14L from Covid norm violators||Salem collector S A Raman on Tuesday said health department officials had collected Rs 14.7 lakh as fine from 7,100 people, including commercial establishment owners and shopkeepers, for violation of Covid-19 prevention measures in the district so far. While chairing a meeting with commercial establishment owners and shopkeepers on the day, he said many of them, including grocery shop owners, vegetable vendors, tea shop owners and hoteliers, were not following the government guidelines. “Many people are not wearing face masks and not maintain social distancing.” The collector warned that Rs 200 will be fined from individuals for not wearing face masks, Rs 500 for violating quarantine norms, Rs 500 for spitting in public places and not maintaining social distancing, and Rs 5,000 from beauty spas, saloon shops, gyms, commercial establishments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-collects-rs-14l-from-covid-norm-violators/articleshow/78393689.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Conduct more Covid-19 tests in prisons: DG||Lucknow: Concerned by the rise of Covid-19 cases in jails, Director General of Prisons, Anand Kumar has directed all superintendents of police and district magistrates to ensure aggressive testing, isolation and contact tracing and moving inmates lodged in temporary jails to main jails only after following prescribed protocol. In some cases, prisoners were shifted from temporary to main jail without following protocol because of which infection spread in main jails, Kumar said. The lapse defeated the purpose of temporary jails acting as a buffer to prevent infection from spreading, resulting in increase in cases in main jails, the DG added. Kumar cited the examples of districts which set up L1 hospitals in jail barracks to treat asymptomatic inmates and deployed medical personnel and succeeded in curing all infected inmates. Kumar said Covid protocol has to be followed strictly and barracks be turned into L1 hospitals to treat infected inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/conduct-more-covid-19-tests-in-prisons-dg/articleshow/78395485.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Vet varsity releases vaccine for duck disease||THRISSUR: Minister for forests and animal husbandry K Raju has released a vaccine for duck riemerellosis developed by Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU). The minister on Friday also inaugurated virtually the new buildings of the Academic Staff College and the Centre for Human Resource Development in Meat Science and Technology at KVASU’s College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (CVAS) campus at Mannuthy. Riemerellosis, which was earlier known as ‘new duck disease’, is a bacterial disease and was reported first in the recent past in Kerala from Wayanad district in 2008. Subsequently it was reported from other parts of the state also. The infected ducks showed clinical signs of hurdling, lack of coordination of neck and mostly they die within couple of days of infection, said Dr Priya P M of the CVAS, who led the team that has developed the vaccine. Due to the similarity of organism and its illness, most often, riemerellosis is misdiagnosed as pasteurellosis, a well-known bacterial disease of ducks against which routine vaccination is practised in the state, she said. Death of ducks due to the disease has been reported from Kuttanad and nearby places in April this year and the farmers there have complained of huge financial loss following this, she said. The antibiotic therapy became ineffective or costlier, once the organism reaches the brain, Dr Priya said. Recurrence of infection was noticed in some farms, and it was realised that the disease can be controlled effectively only through the development of vaccine. The disease causing bacteria, known as Riemerella anatipestifer, was isolated and extensive research has been carried out from 2010. The vaccine was developed at the veterinary microbiology department of the college. Vice-chancellor of KVASU Dr M R Saseendranath launched the chicken lollypop developed by the meat technology department of the university. Director of entrepreneurship of KVASU Dr M K Narayanan said the buildings have been constructed at a cost of Rs 2 crore allocated under the Nabard-RIDF programme. Director of the academic staff college Dr S Maya said the new building will play host to orientation programmes for the freshly recruited faculty members as well as refresher courses and short-term faculty improvement programmes for the teachers in service. Dr B Sunil, director of the Centre for Human Resource Development in Meat Science and Technology, said trainings would be provided at the new building to the farmers and others who are interested in meat production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vet-varsity-releases-vaccine-for-duck-disease/articleshow/78393700.cms||T Ramavarman
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Mask only vaccine against Covid now: Health officials||HYDERABAD: Mask is the only vaccine available against Covid-19 for now, said Telangana’s health authorities on Tuesday, urging those without co-morbidities to be equally vigilant. “As per statistics, 45% of Covid-19 deaths were reported among people with no other disease, while 55% people who had co-morbidities died of coronavirus. Therefore, nobody should take chances,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana state. Speaking at a press conference, he added: “Everyone should follow protocols, save themselves so that others can be saved. With more and more public places opening up, taking adequate precautions are necessary. For now mask is the only vaccine for Covid-19.” While Dr Rao urged IT companies and business entities to begin full-fledged operations, as the livelihood of thousands of people are directly or indirectly dependent on it, he advised everybody to take all precautionary measures. With restaurants, bars and pubs open, he asked those visiting these places to strictly adhere by social distancing norms — apart from using a mask. Citing a recent gathering at the inauguration of Durgam Cheruvu Cable bridge, the official urged people to avoid mass gatherings like these. “Political parties must also to adhere to corona rules when holding meetings,” he said. In another important announcement, health authorities urged people to demand an RT-PCR test even if the antigen test is negative. On the brighter side, Dr Rao said that the case load is on the decline in the state. The positivity rate was the highest in June (23% ) it has now come down to 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mask-only-vaccine-against-covid-now-health-officials/articleshow/78393687.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gang of land grabbers arrested||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda special operation team on Tuesday arrested a gang of land grabbers for trespassing, cheating and criminal conspiracy. The accused were identified as Golanukonda Muthyalu, Vadde Sathaiah, Gudeboina Shyam Prasad and Mohammed Anwar.  V Sathaiah who owned agriculture land in Bibinagar, sold it to meet his expenses. He approached a real estate broker, Muthyalu, who arranged a party for purchasing the land. The complainant from Bibinagar purchased a portion of the land in 2019. The duo meanwhile, hatched a plan to resale the same property and fraudulently got the already sold land on Sataiah’s name. Later the accused, removed boundary stones of the complainant’s land and started levelling the plots for development. When the owner of the land found out about this, the gang threatened him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gang-of-land-grabbers-arrested/articleshow/78393679.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Government under pressure from TRS leaders over Aasara applications||HYDERABAD: After the state government recently approved over 36,000 pending applications for Aasara pensions in Medak, Siddipet and Dubbak, the TRS has come under tremendous pressure from its own leaders who are demanding that the government approve pending Aasara applications in other districts as well which are poll-bound. In all, over 4 lakh applications have been pending with the state government for nearly a year now. These applications are in addition to nearly eight lakh new Aasara pension beneficiaries identified after reducing the age limit to 57 years from 65 years for eligibility to avail benefits under the scheme. The 4 lakh applications were withheld pending scrutiny for various reasons such as insufficient information, lack of proof of age, and others. However, there is no guarantee that these applications would be cleared in the near future as the state revenues have been hit due to the pandemic. But owing to the ensuing Dubbak bypoll, the pending applications for Aasara pensions were scrutinised and cleared in Medak and Siddipet districts. Officials defended the move saying that only eligible applications were being cleared after scrutiny and it was a routine exercise and not connected to elections. However, the TRS leaders are now seeking approval of Aasara pension applications in the districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam as these are poll-bound districts for the two Graduates MLC constituencies and GHMC elections. The Congress and BJP termed the clearance of pending applications a clear-cut move in view of the ensuing bypoll to Dubbak constituency. Former deputy chief minister of the Congress, Damodar Rajanarasimha, said that it is good that the poor are going to get Aasara pensions at least due to elections but demanded that the TRS government approve all the 4 lakh pending applications too in the state. The Congress and BJP leaders demanded that the state government should also start giving Aasara pensions to all new beneficiaries aged between 57 and 65 years in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-under-pressure-from-trs-leaders-over-aasara-applications/articleshow/78393678.cms||Roushan Ali
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress MLA moves HC to defer civic elections||Ahmedabad: The Congress MLA from Dariapur, Gyasuddin Shaikh, on Tuesday moved the Gujarat high court seeking directions to the State Election Commission to defer civic body elections which are due by the end of this year. In his PIL filed through advocate Anand Yagnik, the legislator cited the Covid-19 pandemic to restrain the election commission and to postpone the coming elections for local bodies – municipal corporations, municipalities, district and taluka panchayats. He has sought deferment of the notification till the situation returns to normalcy and the number of Covid cases are reasonably and considerably reduced. Elections are scheduled for later this year in six municipal corporations for 642 councillors, in 42 municipalities for 4,488 councillors, in 33 district panchayats for 1,100 members and 4,397 members of 250 taluka panchayats. The PIL contends that elections are the opposite of social distancing with organization of public events that deliberately bring together people to exchange ideas. Looking at the worsening Covid situation in Gujarat, the holding of polls and campaigning by candidates will only aggravate the scenario and elections will result in more infections and deaths. He also contended that people are scared of the virus, and “the present situation would restrict citizens from actively participating in elections as well as posing grave danger to officials on election duty”. Shaikh sought court directions to the election commission to take into consideration the present Covid situation and take a decision on holding elections in consultation with the department of health and family welfare. The HC is likely to hear the PIL later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-mla-moves-hc-to-defer-civic-elections/articleshow/78393680.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC carries out demolitions on reserved Sarkhej plot||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) carried out a major demolition drive near Sonal Crossroads in Sarkhej. This was the second major drive in the area.Construction had been carried out on a reserved plot. AMC officials said since this was a sensitive area, adequate police protection was sought. The official said some 18 shops, nine each on the first and second floor were constructed on the reserved plot and these were demolished.Officials said that an area of 1,800sq feet was freed of encroachment. Meanwhile in another area, some 23 shops built on 2,100 square feet was demolished. In all, 3,900 sq feet was freed of encroachments.Three shops on the 18-foot TP road and 7.5-foot TP road were also demolished. This drive was the second in the area. The AMC had earlier demolished some houses that were constructed illegally.A Congress councillor said that the drive aimed at pleasing BJP councillors who had recently asked AMC officials to carry out a demolition drive in minority-dominated areas. The drive in Sarkhej, especially in Juhapura, was to please these councillors who had challenged the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-carries-out-demolitions-on-reserved-sarkhej-plot/articleshow/78393693.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: Bathukamma festival saree distribution from October 9||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the Bathukamma festival, the state government has spent Rs 317.81 crore on Bathukamma sarees, the distribution of which is set to commence on October 9. Addressing media on this, MA&UD, Industries and IT minister KT Rama Rao said that since 2017 the state government has distributed four crore sarees. It has produced 30 lakh metres cloth and has spent about Rs 1,033 crore on Bathukamma sarees. This year too, the sarees will be distributed through local women groups. “The sarees have been produced with 287 kinds of designs and a total of 99 lakh sarees will be distributed this time,” said Rao. He added that the education department is giving government school uniform orders to power loom weavers. Similarly, the women and child welfare department is also giving Anganwadi orders to the weavers and even the sarees in KCR kits are produced by the weavers of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bathukamma-saree-distribution-from-oct-9/articleshow/78393682.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Products labelled ‘natural’ may have harsh chemicals||HYDERABAD: Experts warn against mindless use of products advertised as natural and giving protection against infections including Covid-19. While there is a flurry of such products in the market and e-commerce companies which have gained popularity in the recent past, many in the city have landed in hospitals due to complications on using them. “I have seen at least 15-20 cases of patients during the last three months who have used so-called magic products and preparations hoping to boost their immunity but instead suffered with gastritis and other complications. Many people have been using random products for three to four months which has caused them more harm. In one case, the patient who was on antiviral drugs used some herbal preparation simultaneously which complicated things further. He came back with hepatitis,” said Dr Shafi P, consultant critical care and infectious diseases, Omega Hospital, Malakpet. Some experts say that in order to market their products, increase customer base and multiply sales, a few companies have been making claims that their products are natural, despite chemical ingredients in their products. “How can a product blended with essential chemical ingredients be labelled natural? Perhaps this is happening due to lack of proper regulation and certification procedures in place,” said Dr Manish Sharma, consultant, Indian Medical Academy for Preventive Health (IMAPH). “A baby product which is being advertised as a deeply nourishing body wash has potassium sorbate which can cause serious skin irritation,” added Dr Sharma. Talking about the transparency, the claims of the products the new-age companies are making and their certification, Dr Chandrakant S Pandav, Former HoD, Department of Community Health, AIIMS, New Delhi, and president, Indian Public Health Association, said, “To safeguard the consumers from getting fleeced, we need stringent regulation and certification to ensure the authenticity of the products. To this end, the government must come up with strict guidelines and form an independent body that looks into the authenticity of the claims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/products-labelled-natural-may-have-harsh-chemicals/articleshow/78393762.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Sonu Sood urges people to plant more trees, protect environment||HYDERABAD: Everyone should do their bit to save the environment and plant saplings as well as protect them, said actor Sonu Sood, who was in the city on Tuesday and participated in the ‘Green India Challenge’. The actor planted a sapling at Ramoji Film City, where he was shooting, in response to the challenge given by director Srinu Vaitla. “In a post-Covid-19 scenario, the need to save the environment has come to centre-stage,” the actor said. The ‘Green India Challenge’ was started by Rajya Sabha MP Joginapally Santosh Kumar and has till now seen the participation of several actors and politicians. Sood has been in the limelight for his philanthropic work during the Covid-19 crisis, especially with regard to migrants. The actor has helped several migrants stuck in cities reach their homes during the coronavirus- induced lockdown. In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana too, the actor has responded to requests for help. The actor is currently shooting for Alludu Adhurs with Bellamkonda Srinivas, Nabha Natesh and Prakash Raj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sonu-sood-urges-people-to-plant-more-trees-protect-environment/articleshow/78393688.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Agriculture varsity seeks GI tag for Tandur tur dal||HYDERABAD: Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University (PJTSAU) at Rajendranagar on Tuesday filed an application with the Geographical Indications (GI) registry in Chennai seeking GI tag for Telangana’s famous Tandur red gram, or tur dal.  The Tandur red gram, which has 22% protein content and is known for its high quality, is grown in four districts over 2.8 lakh hectares and fetches a profit of around Rs 270 crore in business, including exports. In the application filed, university registrar Dr S Sudhir Kumar said, “Tandur is famous for production of red gram and many dal mills are located in and around the town. The dal cultivated in the region is popularly known as Tandur pappu. Tandur red gram is mainly cultivated in Vikarabad district of Telangana. The cultivation of the dal began at least 3,500 years ago.” He added that archaeological evidences of the red gram from 14th century BC have been found at a few neolithic sites in the Deccan Plateau of which Tandur region is a part. From India, it travelled to east and west Africa. The tur dal grown in Tandur has a good taste and takes less time to cook compared to tur dal from other regions. Most of the farming community of Tandur region is engaged in cultivating the dal. “The wide range of suitable soil types, natural resources and the most congenial climatic conditions supported by Research and Extension activities makes Tandur red gram a predominant cash crop in Tandur region,” said the university scientists in the application. The deep black soil in Tandur is rich in nutrients, especially potassium. Tandur is also known for its huge limestone deposits, thus, its soil is also rich in calcium, which imparts specific quality traits to the Tandur red gram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-varsity-seeks-gi-tag-for-tandur-tur-dal/articleshow/78393699.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 149 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district continued to see a spike in Covid cases as it recorded 149 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 4,093. As many as 3,115 Covid patients recovered and were discharged so far in the district as 126 Covid patients were discharged on the day. With slight improvement the recovery rate stands at 76.1% Of the new cases, 40 people tested positive after visiting other districts, while remaining were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-149-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78393705.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SCR keeps MMTS rakes ready, awaits Centre’s nod||HYDERABAD: It’s been six months since MMTS, which is the suburban rail system in the city, stopped its services due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) and TSRTC resumed operations recently but MMTS remains the only public transportation that is still unavailable for commuters in the city.  SCR conducted a trial run on the Secunderabad-Malkajgiri and Medchal-Moula-Ali routes as part of the phase-II project recently. SCR, which is waiting for an official order from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Railways, is making sure they are ready to resume operations as soon they get a go ahead by ensuring all the MMTS rakes are fit and well-maintained. “By regularly checking the rakes and conducting other maintenance activities, we are taking all necessary steps to start operations at any moment. The batteries, brakes, wheel alignment and functioning of engine and other motors are being checked regularly at the Electrical Multiple Unit (EMU) car shed at Moula Ali,” said a senior official. SCR operates 12 rakes on Secunderabad-Lingampally, Hyderabad-Lingampally and Secunderabad-Faluknuma sections. After lockdown restrictions were lifted partially, SCR operated Shramik special trains to transport migrant workers and is currently operating special passenger trains. With 25 local stations, apart from three major divisions of Secunderabad Kacheguda and Hyderabad, the MMTS runs 40 kms and handles 1.60 lakh passengers every day, while generating a revenue of nearly Rs 10 lakh per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-keeps-mmts-rakes-ready-awaits-centres-nod/articleshow/78393696.cms||Moulika.KV
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU PhD entrance test from Nov 1||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University has announced that the entrance test for admissions to doctoral degrees will be conducted from November 1. The distribution of PINs will begin from September 30 after which students can register for the exam from October 6 to October 15. The exam results for master’s courses are still pending so students who are confident of getting the qualifying score for PhD courses can register for the entrance exam, said sources. The entrance test, conducted by the University Grants Commission (UGC), will be for admission to 37 courses at GU. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the online examination is yet to be conducted for master’s programmes. Candidates require minimum 55% in master’s programmes to qualify for PhD courses. Admission will not be given to students who fail to score 55% marks, said sources. After clearing the PhD entrance test, candidates are required to give a personal interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-phd-entrance-test-from-nov-1/articleshow/78393708.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Vaccine from Hyderabad by year-end, hopes governor||HYDERABAD: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday said a vaccine to tackle Covid-19 would be a reality soon from Hyderabad. She said the entire world is looking towards Hyderabad to come out with an effective vaccine. Interacting with reporters after a word with scientists at Bharat Biotech campus in Genome Valley, the governor said the scientists and researchers in Hyderabad have been working tirelessly to unveil a vaccine to prevent and fight Covid-19. She expressed the hope that the vaccine might be out by the end of this year. “Bharat Biotech has been working on vaccines for a long time. It has supplied three billion vaccine doses so far to treat various diseases,” she said. She said not only Telangana and India, the whole world is eagerly waiting for the scientists to come up with an effective, affordable and safe vaccine. She said the Covid-19 vaccine must be cost-effective so that everybody could afford it. Expressing anguish over the death of stalwarts, celebrities and commoners due to coronavirus, the governor said the new vaccine must benefit all people irrespective of their socio-economic status or their country of living. The governor presented a badge of honour to Suchitra Ella of Bharat Biotech for leading the research on Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-from-hyd-by-year-end-hopes-guv/articleshow/78393697.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nashik||Retired employees of NDCC Bank stage sit-in agitation||NASHIK: Over 100 retired employees of the Nashik District Central Co-operative (NDCC) bank staged a sit-in agitation at its head office building in the city on Monday seeking receipt of fixed deposits (FDs). There are around 300 retired employees whose FDs collectively amounting to Rs 100 crore are trapped in NDCC Bank for the past two to three years. Despite repeatedly taking up the matter with the bank management, the employees are not getting their FDs back. President of Maharashtra state co-operative banks employees federation Vijay Mogul said, “Earlier, the employees would get a rate of interest on the FD regularly since 2017. Now, they are neither getting the rate of interest nor the principal amount of the FDs for the past three years as the bank is facing financial problems. Many retired employees need their money for medical and other purposes and are waiting to get back the money deposited in the bank, said Mogal. When contacted, CEO of the NDCC Bank Shailesh Pingle said the bank was unable to pay the money to the deposit-holders due to lack of liquidity. “We are starting recovery of the loans from the defaulters from November 1. We are also introducing the one -time settlement scheme for the defaulters for maximum recovery of the debts,” said Pingle. Mogul said that the bank has received a crop loan waiver amount of Rs 915 crore from the state government. “The government has directed us to disburse the amount to those farmers whose crops loans have been waived,” said Pingle. “We have sent a proposal to the office of the joint registrar, cooperatives, Nashik division, to give the money of the deposit holders. The department has sought some details, which we are in the process of submitting. We will give back some amount to the deposit holders once we get an approval from the office of the joint registrar,” said Pingle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/retired-employees-of-ndcc-bank-stage-sit-in-agitation/articleshow/78395490.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to cross one crore Covid tests mark today||LUCKNOW: In all probability, Uttar Pradesh will be achieving the one crore Covid-19 tests mark on Wednesday. With more than 1.6 lakh tests undertaken in the past 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the state reached 99.37 lakh on Tuesday. With an average of about 1.5 lakh tests in a day, UP is poised to cross the one crore mark on Wednesdy, health officials said. “UP government’s commitment to testing has helped in keeping the count of cases and deaths lower than many other states,” said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad. He added that seven new level two Covid-19 care facilities will get operational over the week. “With this, all the 75 districts of UP have at least one level one and level two health care facilities for Covid-19 care. However, prevention of the disease was still simpler,” he said Later, ACS, home and information, Awanish Awasthi stated that the CM had given clear instructions of increasing Covid-19 testing among the high risk population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-to-cross-one-crore-covid-tests-mark-today/articleshow/78395500.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Car in wrong lane near ORR leaves 1 dead||HYDERABAD: A 31-year-old man was booked for culpable homicide after driving his car on the wrong side and hitting three vehicles, which resulted in the death of a man, on the service road of Outer Ring Road in Narsingi. Vankayalapati Srikanth, from Gandipet village, on Sunday evening hit a scooter, an auto and a bike before managing to bring his car to a halt. Gujjanti Shankar, who was riding the scooter, died on the spot after a head-on collision. The accused, who was travelling from TSPA to Gachibowli, drove his vehicle negligently. “While overtaking a car, he changed his lane to the opposite direction of the traffic flow on Manchirevula crossroad near Gold Fish constructions. He had a collision with the victim, Shankar, on the opposite side,” said Cyberabad traffic police.  He was arrested on Tuesday from his house and booked for culpable homicide. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-in-wrong-lane-near-orr-leaves-1-dead/articleshow/78393703.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Nilagiri MLA tests positive for coronavirus again after 2 months||BHUBANESWAR: MLA Sukanta Nayak, 54, had first tested positive for Covid-19 on July 6 and had been discharged from hospital after 10 days. Now, after a gap of over two months, Nayak again tested positive for Covid on September 26 when he undertook an RTPCR test before the start of the assembly session on Tuesday. Nayak’s case has baffled experts. They are not sure of whether to treat it as a relapse or re-infection. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) authorities said they were studying these cases. “We are analysing both samples of the person (the MLA) who has tested positive twice after a gap of 2.5 months. It is too early to say anything,” said Sanghamitra Pati, director of ICMR-Bhubaneswar. Nayak said he had been asymptomatic when he was tested for the first time , but had a fever when being tested for the second. “I have asthma. Since childhood, I have religiously gargled with lukewarm water dailyday. After I tested positive in July, I imposed total restriction on my movements. I stayed in a Covid hospital for 10 days and took all the medicines as advised. I don’t know how I tested positive again,” he said. Medical experts said a genome test of the viral strain was needed to confirm whether the patient had been reinfected or not. This has not been done in case of Nayak yet. “Since the person was detected positive in RT-PCR test, there is a chance that the test has picked up a residual viral nuclear fragment, live or dead. The clinical status of the patient is important,” said Rakhi Ludam, nodal officer at Sum Covid Hospital here. Nayak’s may be an isolated case as he tested positive again after 82 days, but a large number of patients in the city are testing positive for Covid-19 even after 30, 40 and 55 days. The case of senior BJP leader and MLA Debi Prasad Mishra is another example. He had first tested positive for Covid-19 on August 30, and again on September 27. “I was surprised when I tested positive again even after taking medicines as per doctor’s advice. When I asked the RMRC director about this, she said my cycle threshold (CT value) or viral load was on the borderline and I may not be able to infect others. This happened probably because I did not take rest for 15 days as advised and went out on work after 10 days of testing positive for the first time,” he tweeted. Doctors said the virus could stay in the body for 40 to 50 days and it was the dead virus that showed positive in the test. They added that the patients cannot infect others after 10-15 days of being infected. “The virus may remain in the body for up to 40 days post-infection but becomes non-infective after 9 to 11 days,” said E Venkata Rao, professor in community medicine at SUM Hospital here. Intensive care specialist Ayashkant Sahoo said even if a Covid patient was cured, a fragment of viral RNA remained in the body, throwing tests off course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mla-tests-ve-for-virus-for-second-time-in-over-2-months/articleshow/78392301.cms||Minati Singha
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hemanth killing: Police get six days custody of main accused||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said that they will file a chargesheet in Hemanth’s caste killing case as soon as they can and seek for trial in a fast track court. The commissioner also said that the young couple had not informed police about their stay at TNGOs colony and the frequent visits of Avanthi’s family members. “After marriage, the couple and their families were counselled at Chandanagar police station. Subsequently they had not contacted the police. Even after shifting to Gachibowli police station limits, they never informed police about shifting to a new house or facing any threat from family. We will not spare any accused and will seek for trial in a fast track court,” Sajjanar said. Police summoned Avanthi and her husband Hemanth’s family members to record their statements on Tuesday. “Recently, Avanthi made some allegations against certain people including her brother Ashish Reddy in relation to the case. She also did not inform local police any time about feeling threatened by her family members. So we called them to get some more details about the case,” Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu said. Police said that though Avanthi and Hemanth’s family said that they had not noticed any suspicious activity by the accused near their house in TNGOs colony in Gachibowli, it came to light, during the investigation, that the absconding accused Krishna has conducted recce at the house multiple times. Meanwhile, police got six days custody of Avanthi’s father Laxma Reddy and her uncle Yugender Reddy. The duo will be interrogated from Wednesday. The commissioner said that the young couple had not informed police about their stay at TNGOs colony and the frequent visits of Avanthi’s family members||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hemanth-killing-police-get-six-days-custody-of-main-accused/articleshow/78393752.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB gets four-day custody of ACP||Hyderabad: ACB court granted four days custody of accused ACP, Y Narasimha Reddy on Tuesday. ACB has so far unearthed Rs 80 crore worth alleged disproportionate assets located in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, belonging to ACP Y Narasimha Reddy. The ACP is currently in judicial remand in Chanchalguda central prison. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-gets-four-day-custody-of-acp/articleshow/78393714.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing woman’s body found||Hyderabad: Body of a 60-year-old domestic helper-cum-cook who went missing two days ago, was found in Ibrahimpatnam limits. The victim’s face was partially burnt, while her ornaments were missing. The victim, B Maisamma, from Vanasthalipuram left home two days ago. When the family failed to find her, they lodged a missing complaint. On Tuesday 2 pm, a local found her body at Koheda road in Ibrahimpatnam and alerted the cops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-womans-body-found/articleshow/78393712.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||85 MLAs make it to assembly on Day I, Naveen joins from home||BHUBANESWAR: Masks and headgear in place, seats turned into cubicles with glass partition and MLAs maintaining distance from one another marked the first day of the monsoon session of the assembly, which kicked off on Tuesday. In a first, chief minister Naveen Patnaik attended the assembly through video-conference from Naveen Niwas, his residence, while many senior legislators joined the session from the state secretariat and others from the district headquarters. Despite the Covid threat, 85 out of the 145 legislators (two seats are vacant owing to the deaths of sitting MLAs) attended the session in the assembly hall, while nine other MLAs, including the chief minister, attended from alternate places. The rest did not attend. Among the safety protocols introduced by speaker S N Patro to contain the spread of Covid-19 were glass panel segregation to minimise contact between MLAs, reorganised seating arrangements and mandatory wearing of masks. Most of the MLAs had also undergone Covid test prior to the start of the monsoon session. Though the MLAs generally stand while speaking as a mark of respect to the chair, this time they were allowed to do so while sitting. As per tradition, the house paid tribute to former President Pranab Mukherjee, two sitting members who died recently, 10 other former members, two Odia jawans – Chandrakant Pradhan and Nuturam Soren – martyred in Galwan valley in June and three other martyrs of Odisha Police. The assembly also paid tribute to the Covid warriors of the state who laid down their lives for the service of the people. The first half was adjourned till 3pm after obituary reference. “While I was doubtful about the smooth conduct of the session because of Covid-19, it went well with the blessing of the almighty and cooperation of all,” said the speaker. “Since the session is being conducted in an extraordinary situation, we have taken all safety precautions. The first day went well. Many members have raised issues. I sincerely hope for a productive session,” Patro added. “It’s a new and unforgettable moment for us. I have attended many sessions earlier but this is a completely different experience. Smooth and elaborate arrangements have been made by the speaker to facilitate all members to participate in the session,” said six-time BJD MLA Amar Prasad Satpathy. Congress legislator Mohammed Moquim also appreciated the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/85-mlas-make-it-to-assembly-on-day-i-naveen-joins-from-home/articleshow/78392263.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 30, 2020||Agra||UP is shaken: Opp netas question state of law & order||AGRA: The place she was from and the place she died — two sites were brought to a standstill on Tuesday by angry protesters who demanded justice for the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died after being gang-raped by four upper caste men. As the day went by, the anger spread, with protests led by politicians across the spectrum. In Delhi, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad organised a protest outside Safdarjung Hospital, the road before the hospital blocked. In Hathras, Congress workers blocked the roads to Talab Chowk, demanding death sentence for the accused. The four accused have been arrested but the girl’s rape has not been officially confirmed two weeks since she was brutalised. In Agra, Dalit leaders staged a demonstration and burnt effigies of the four accused. In Aligarh, there was angry sloganeering throughout the day. In Mathura, Congress and Samajwadi Party workers took out a candlelight march. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted that women are not safe in UP: “The state is shaken by rape incidents in Gorakhpur, Shahjahanpur, and Hathras. Law and order situation in the state has gone out of control. Crime against women is rampant.” BSP chief Mayawati demanded support for her family: “Deeply saddened by the news of the death of the Dalit girl who was gang-raped in UP’s Hathras. BSP demands UP government to provide all necessary support to the victim's family and her case must be taken up in fast track court to ensure quick punishment to the culprits.” Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav offered condolences to the family: “No expectation from the insensitive ruling party in the state.” Senior Samajwadi Party leader from the Dalit community Ramji Lal Suman said the stringent National Security Act must be used against the accused “so no one dares” to commit such a crime. “Police didn’t take this seriously. There are four such families, including that of the girl, living in the upper caste dominated village and such incidents break the faith of minorities.” BJP spokesperson for the UP unit, Chandra Mohan, told TOI that the party and the government stand by the family. "There will be justice. Strict and fast-track punishment for the accused will be ensured." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-is-shaken-opp-netas-question-state-of-law-order/articleshow/78393731.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||US virtual education fair in October||HYDERABAD: For the benefit of students keen on pursuing higher eduction in the USA, EducationUSA virtual education fair will be held on October 2-3 and October 9-10. According to the US Consulate, US University Graduate Virtual Fair for students seeking Masters degree or PhD programs in the US will be held on October 2-3 from 5.30 pm to 10.30 pm. Similarly, for high school students seeking Bachelor’s programs in the US, US University Undergraduate Virtual Fair will be held on October 9-10 from 5:30 pm to 10:30 pm. “Given the current challenges of Covid-19, this virtual fair provides an opportunity for Indian students to interact directly with university representatives from over 100 US colleges and universities,” reads the press release. Participants will gain information about academic programmes, campus life, financial aid options, application procedures and safety precautions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-virtual-education-fair-in-oct/articleshow/78393795.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Government clears proposal for Rs 3,000 crore loan to fund paddy purchase||LUCKNOW: The cabinet cleared a proposal for providing cash credit limit of Rs 3,000 crore to food department for the paddy purchase starting from October 1. In a meeting presided over by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, cabinet allowed Uttar Pradesh State Food and Essential Commodities Corporation Limited to take a Rs 3,000 crore loan from nationalised bank for the purpose. The government will provide guarantee for loan. The cabinet also gave its nod to the promulgation of UP Population Survey and Record Operations Rules, 2020 for the implementation of Union government’s Swamitva Yojana to map ownership of residential land in 1,08,648 villages. Under the scheme, drones will be used to determine property records. The cabinet also approved hiring of retired teachers of medical institutes and armed forces medical services as contractual professors in newly established medical universities and institutes. The decision has been taken to fill up posts in University of Medical Sciences in Saifai, Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Postgraduate Institute in Noida, Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida and Super Speciality Cancer Institute in Lucknow. They will be hired for Rs 2.2 lakh per month. The cabinet also cleared a proposal under which self-help groups under State Rural Livelihood Mission have been tasked with production and procurement of food material for supplementary nutrition through take home ration and morning snacks at anganwadis. The child development and nutrition department and state rural livelihood mission will sign an MoU for this. As per proposal, an expenditure of Rs 4,190.62 crore is expected on this exercise, divided equally between the Centre and the state. Amendments to the Ground Water Rules, 2020 were also approved. The rules were promulgated in February 2020, but the timelines specified for many works could not be met due to lockdown. Therefore, the rules are being amended to extend time for various projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-clears-proposal-for-rs-3000cr-loan-to-fund-paddy-purchase/articleshow/78395578.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman held for murdering hubby||Coimbatore: A woman was arrested for murdering her husband over a family dispute at Thirumal Street near Variety Hall road here on Tuesday. Police said S Franklin Britto, 35, from Thirumal Street near Variety Hall road here, was working in a private firm. He got married to Carolin, 27, three years ago. During the pandemic, he lost his job and pledged his wife’s gold ornaments to run his family for the last five months. After the unlock 4.0, he started to go for work from last month. On Tuesday around 9.30 am, the couple fought with each other and the neighbours rushed to the house where they found Britto in a pool of blood. The neighbours informed Variety Hall road police and took Britto to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where he was declared brought dead. Police picked up Carolin and held inquiry with her. She told the police that she was arguing with her husband over the pledged gold ornaments and she kept a knife at her hand when the argument happened between them. When he tried to pull her, unfortunately, she stabbed on her husband’s abdomen who suffered severe blood loss and died. Police registered a murder case against Carolin and arrested her on Tuesday evening. She was remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-held-for-murdering-hubby/articleshow/78393785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police goes beyond India’s borders to crack money heist||NEW DELHI: At a time when uncertainty prevails over relations between India and Nepal, in a rare joint operation Delhi Police and Nepal Police acted to apprehend criminals from the city who had crossed the border. The exercise required the Delhi cops to venture to the other country, and their movement was facilitated by their Nepalese counterparts. The Delhi Police team was pursuing a gang of criminals who were on the run after a heist at a businessman’s house in west Delhi. On September 25, police were alerted by the family about the robbery through a call to the police control room. In the complaint, members of the family said they had hired a domestic help some days earlier through a Gurgaon-based placement agency. On the day of incident, the help administered sedatives to the businessman's wife and made away with cash and jewellery with help from her accomplices. An FIR was filed and Deepak Purohit, DCP (West), formed a special team under Anil Sharma, SHO of Rajouri Garden police station, to investigate the case. The team scanned footage from the entire CCTV network of the area, apart from Facebook profiles of the suspects while activating informers. A detailed Google Map analysis was simulated to ascertain the escape route of the suspects. It was then that the cops learnt there were Nepalese members in the gang, who were trying to cross the border. “Immediately, a team comprising sub-inspector Arvind, head constable Vinod and others was dispatched to Banwasa on the Indo-Nepal border,” a police officer disclosed. Simultaneously, details were shared with border pickets, and vigil was stepped up as the Delhi probe teams closed in. Around this time, the cops were tipped off by an informer that the suspects had changed route and were headed for Gauriphanta border to the house of one of the accused, a Nepalese national. Investigators reached that border point, briefed the staff of the police post there and laid a trap for the accused. The team spotted two of the suspects — Mohan and Sumit — but they fled into a forest. The duo evaded the pursuers and crossed the border. The Delhi Police teams alerted the border patrol and the moved into Nepal after a senior officer coordinated with his Nepalese counterpart in Kanchanpur, who gave verbal permission for the Delhi cops to enter that country. The fleeing duo was nabbed soon after and 440 grams of gold recovered from them. During a spot interrogation, they revealed details of their other associates, including the domestic worker, Bhavna alias Bindu alias Bhawneshwari, and her accomplice Shiv Bhul. The two men led the cops to Shiv hiding nearby in Nepal, though Bhavna managed to give them the slip. Shiv confessed to a Delhi address where a part of the booty was hidden. The details were shared with the teams in the control room at Rajouri Garden and a raid was conducted at the house in Jehangirpuri. Two kilograms of jewellery were retrieved, apart from other valuables and documents stolen from the west Delhi house. The pursuit tea expressed its gratitude to the Nepalese police forced and returned to Delhi. The area DCP is learnt to have written to police commissioner S N Shrivastava to reward the team for its efforts. The formalities regarding the custody of the accused was also initiated. When contacted, a senior cop said, “The case property and accused persons are being brought here in a legal manner. Further investigation regarding the absconding accused is under way.” Police are digging into the antecedents of the accused and their involvement in recent criminal cases. Watch Delhi cops go beyond India's borders to crack case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-police-goes-beyond-indias-borders-to-crack-money-heist/articleshow/78393789.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP, Swiss firm Zurich AG to sign final Jewar airport deal on Oct 7||Noida/Lucknow: Zurich AG, the Swiss company selected to build the Jewar international airport, and the UP government will sign on October 7 the final agreement that will pave the way for work to begin on the ground.  The move comes almost 11 months after Zurich AG emerged as the concessionaire through bidding. The airport project has got the crucial security and environmental clearances from the Centre, but the date for signing the final agreement was deferred twice because of restrictions on international air travel in wake of the pandemic.  The first date for signing the deal was July 2. However, Zurich sought a 45-day extension because of the restrictions and the date was pushed to August 17. A third deadline — October 15 — has now been set by the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the UP government’s nodal agency for the project. Zurich officials have confirmed they will visit India on October 7 and sign the agreement.  “This agreement will open a new chapter of economic development in the state. The UP government is committed to revolutionising the civil aviation sector to ensure seamless air connectivity. Jewar will soon emerge as the civil aviation hub on the global map. The chief minister is directly monitoring the project.” said Surendra Singh, director of civil aviation directorate and special secretary to the CM.  On Tuesday, the state cabinet also decided that all public utilities are being displaced because of the construction of airport would be re-constructed by the department concerned. The cabinet also permitted the extension of the bid validity to March 31 next year, keeping in view the pandemic.  The 1,334 hectares required for the first phase of the project have already been acquired from six villages. A total of 8,971 families would be affected by the project. Of them, 3,627 families will have to be rehabilitated because their houses will be brought down. The district administration has identified land in Jewar Bangar village for rehabilitation, but a fresh survey is being conducted to calculate the area of the plots that will be given to each family.  The October 7 meeting that will be held to sign the deal will be attended by the CEO of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), Arun Vir Singh, Noida Authority chief Ritu Maheshwari and Surendra Singh. Directors of the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle formed by Zurich on January 22 this year, will also be present. Senior Zurich executives Daniel Bircher and Martin Schmidli will fly down to India for signing the pact. Officials said while Arun Vir Singh would be the competent officer, Maheshwari and Surendra Singh would sign as witnesses.  Zurich, which had committed to shelling out Rs 400.97 per passenger during the bidding process, will not only build the airport, but also manage and operate it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-swiss-firm-zurich-ag-to-sign-final-jewar-airport-deal-on-oct-7/articleshow/78395548.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Could have remained at large my entire life: Delhi Police SI after surrendering||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police sub-inspector Sandeep Dahiya, who is accused of shooting at his girlfriend and a passerby in outer Delhi’s Alipur and killing his father-in-law in Rohtak, was arrested from Rohini on Tuesday morning. Before his arrest, Dahiya released a detailed version of the circumstances that led him to go on the rampage for around 24 hours. He claimed that police wouldn’t have been able to catch him and he could have remained at large his entire life, but he didn’t run as he wasn’t a coward. He further claimed that his girlfriend had installed CCTV cameras in his room and snooped on his calls. He cited some witnesses from the police station where he was posted, including some women cops, to support his actions. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said, “On Sunday evening, Dahiya and his woman friend got into an argument and he shot at her. He then drove towards Narela and Kundli and, later, reached his wife’s maternal village, Bainsi, in Rohtak district of Haryana at night. He shot dead his father-in-law in the morning and returned to Kundli where he stayed the night. His car was spotted in Sector 3, Rohini. He was taken into custody while walking towards his car. He was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.” During questioning, Dahiya said he had animosity towards his in-laws. He had fired at his woman friend after an altercation. Two hours before his arrest, Dahiya sent a detailed text message explaining his side of the situation. He sent 16 points in the message, starting from the circumstances that led to his actions and even details about the cases he was handling. He also gave police the password of his mobile phone and laptop for retrieval of important case files and documents. “I had a happy family and tried to keep my marriage alive, but my father-in-law ruined it. My family members wanted me to remarry as I was their only son. In November 2019, I met a woman who deeply loved me. As she didn’t like my pictures with other women, I closed my social media accounts. Since my wife was not divorcing me, I told her about it. She suggested we get married secretly. The next day I met her parents, who taunted her saying that she was getting married to a man with two children,” Dahiya wrote in the message. Dahiya claimed his woman friend would ask him to be on video call throughout his night duty. He had saved her number as “Baliyan” on his phone. At the end of the message, he mentioned that policemen had a lot of work, so he didn’t want to bother them and was waiting for them at Singhu border. Watch Delhi: Killer cop arrested after catch me if you can message||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/killer-cop-held-after-catch-me-if-you-can-message/articleshow/78393838.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Airlines fly the extra mile to get round six-city partial ban||KOLKATA: With no notification yet from either the state government or the civil aviation ministry on lifting the partial restriction on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and three other cities to Kolkata, some airlines have rejigged their October schedules in such a way that they can take off for Kolkata from these cities six days a week while adhering to the state government’s thrice-a-week guideline. On Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday, multiple airlines will be operating flights that will take off late at night to ensure that when they touch down at Kolkata airport, it will be past midnight and technically Monday, Wednesday or Friday when flight operations are allowed. This was done after airlines realized the need to salvage flights in October, for which bookings had already been made, anticipating that the restrictions on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad would be scrapped by the state government due to the festive season. Times ViewBoth flyers and the industry have started wondering what purpose is served by having fewer flights from some of the country's biggest cities; hundreds of passengers are anyway flying out of and into Kolkata from these select cities by using other airports (a flyer from Delhi can arrive here on any day of the week by using, say, Jaipur for a connecting flight). Every Covid-containment rule must be followed if we are to contain the virus's spread. But these rules must be thought out and should be explained well.“On October 1, all flights to Kolkata from Mumbai, Nagpur, Ahmedabad and Pune have been cancelled. But we are operating late-evening flights from Delhi and Chennai. The flight from Delhi will take off at 11pm while the flight from Chennai will depart at 10pm. Both will reach after midnight, when flights from six cities are allowed to land at the airport,” an IndiGo official said. TOI on Monday had reported that all airlines had opened bookings on all days in October in anticipation that the state government may relax the three-day-a-week restriction for direct incoming flights from the six cities. But they were forced to alter their schedules after Kolkata airport authorities said the thrice-a-week schedule would continue till a fresh notification is issued. “The state government has not issued any fresh instruction. This implies that the previous notification, which stated that direct flights from six cities can land in Kolkata only three days a week from September 1, will continue for now. The three permitted days are Monday, Wednesday and Friday,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. The travel trade fraternity has also written to the state government, requesting scrapping of curbs on flights from October 1 in view of the festive season. Sources said Kolkata airport authorities had spoken to the government on the issue, following queries on social media from people intending to travel in October. The authorities have also written to the ministry of civil aviation. As airlines started cancelling October flights, miffed passengers took to social media with queries. “My flight 6E 282 Delhi-Kolkata-Port Blair on October 3 is cancelled. I got the message. Can u please tell me why?” asked Mohammed Salim, tagging IndiGo and Kolkata airport in his post. However, some flyers, like entrepreneur Suman Sen, who has a October 1 Mumbai-Kolkata ticket on a Vistara flight, said he was yet to be informed about any cancellation by the airline. “After reading the news reports, I had called up the customer care number of the airline, but was told that the flight was still scheduled for this Thursday. I am in a fix now,” said Sen, a Salt Lake resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airlines-fly-the-extra-mile-to-get-round-six-city-partial-ban/articleshow/78395022.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Traders want footfall to translate to sales||KOLKATA: After a long dry spell, the footfall of Puja shoppers is surging back slowly at three of the important shopping districts in the city — Gariahat in south, New Market in central and Hatibagan in north Kolkata. Hawkers and traders at these shopping districts are now banking on three weekends before the Puja for some brisk business. But their hope largely hinges on the resumption of suburban railways to bring the buyers back. “Thankfully, Puja shoppers are slowly streaming in. Since Unlock 1.0, our sales have been nosediving. Even after Mahalaya, the market did not pick up. We were very depressed. Finally in the last few days, people have started streaming in,” said Mohammed Akram of Grand Arcade in central Kolkata. Aurobindo Saha of New Market said, “Shoppers are very careful while buying things now.” Even though the people are yet to burst into a shopping spree, traders and hawkers have not shied away from stocking up on the latest fashion trends. The Puja market, which has so far been marked largely by window-shopping, is now likely to boost business. “We still have three weeks to go. The growing footfall is strengthening our hope,” said Debraj Ghosh, secretary, Gariahat Indira Hawkers’ Union. Assocham in its 2013 report ‘West Bengal Cashing on Durga Puja Celebration’ had pegged the Puja economy of 2019 as big as Rs 1.5 lakh crore with the compound annual growth rate being 35%. More than one third of this economy was based on shopping. The Puja economy contributes over 10% to the state’s GDP. “Thus, the Puja shopping can improve the current state of our regional economy,” said Hiranmoy Sarkar, an economist. Cash is the blood in the economy, despite all the big talk going around on e-payment, he added. Puja shopping has been one of the indicators of people’s economy. Puja bonus plays a key role in their shopping binge. However, the bonus is uncertain for most of the employees in private organizations. I haven’t done even 10% of my usual Puja business. But sales will pick up soon. We are not expecting a bumper sale, but even low-key steady revenue flow will mean a lot,” said Tuhin Das, a trader at Hatibagan. Most of the traders felt that resumption of train services is crucial to facilitate a shopping binge. “Nearly, 60% of our buyers come from the northern and southern suburbs of the city. Without trains, we don’t expect them to come to the city markets for their Puja shopping,” said Gautam Ghosh Dastidar of Gariahat market. All three market districts are significantly connected by suburban and Metro railway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-want-footfall-to-translate-to-sales/articleshow/78395015.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Aunt, nephew elope to get married, brought back||VADODARA: Cupid-struck a woman who falls in love with her own nephew six years younger to her and if that wasn’t all, both elope to get married too! However, ending this incestuous infatuation, kin in Godhra taluka of Panchmahal district managed to locate the lovebirds and brought them back to the village on Saturday. Matters of the heart came to light after the relatives solicited Panchmahal district Abhyam team for intervention i n the case. When the team of counsellors reached the village and spoke to the boy and the woman as well as their families, they realized the depth of the feelings. According to the counsellors, Meeta (name changed) who was widowed recently had come to stay at her parents’ place along with her teenage son and a daughter. One of her distant cousin Kalpana (name changed) resided nearby. While Kalpana, a divorcee and has a daughter, is 24 years of age, Kishore, Meeta’s son, is 18. Both got along like house on fire, but nobody in both the families suspected that the blaze would soon singe their relationship. After both went missing, their family members concluded that they have eloped and started searching for the duo. Soon they learnt that the lovebirds were nesting in Saurashtra and contemplating marriage. However, before that happened, they were brought back to the village. Counsellor Hina Makwana said that she along with the sarpanch of the village spoke to the boy and also Kalpana and tried to convince them against pursuing their relationship any further. The sarpanch also agreed to ensure that the matter was resolved amicably. In the meanwhile, Kalpana too agreed to shift elsewhere and also stay away from the teenage nephew, said Makwana, adding that the counsellors were privy to the ‘aunt-nephew’ relation at a much later stage during counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/aunt-nephew-elope-to-get-married-brought-back/articleshow/78392510.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Vadodara||Bhil to train civil services trainees||Vadodara: Former national archery champion Dinesh Bhil will once again train civil services officers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) next month. Bhil, who runs an archery academy at Naswadi taluka of Chhota Udepur district, had trained officers in November last year too. Bhil has been invited again to conduct training sessions on archery for trainee officers of the academy. These officers will serve as district collectors, superintendent of police and income-tax commissioners in future. Bhil will conduct these sessions from October 12-30. Last year, Bhil was called for a four-day hands-on training session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bhil-to-train-civil-services-trainees/articleshow/78391914.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Make Mahakumbh a great success, CM asks officers||LUCKNOW: Directing officials to start preparing for the Mahakumbh in 2025, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that the organisation of the event should be remembered for its “exemplary arrangements and grandeur”. Speaking during the review of Prayagraj division, the CM praised the 2019 Kumbh organisation, saying that the event had been highly successful and said that the 2025 Mahakumbh should be even grander. He said that development works in Prayagraj should be planned keeping in mind the event. The CM also said that Kalpvas for the coming Magh Mela in Prayagraj should be organised as per Covid protocol. The divisional review included Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratagarh and Fatehpur districts. There are 30 mega-projects worth Rs 50 crore each being implemented in the division. The CM directed the officials to expedite the construction work of Rajju Bhaiyya University in Prayagraj and to fast track the Rs 1,600 crore Smart City Mission. The CM observed that parking is a huge problem in the Prayagraj and said that multilevel parkings should be constructed in the city. He also said that the construction of the Lal Bahadur Shastri Homoeopathic Medical College has been pending since the past 25 years and should be completed fast. He also directed the officials to complete the construction of medical colleges in Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and Fatehpur so that the teaching may be started there from the next session. The CM also complimented the Prayagraj administration for construction of community toilets in the district, for which it also won an award on Monday under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan. The CM laid stress on 100% geo-tagging of toilets constructed under the PM Awas Yojana, CM Awas Yojana and Swachh Bharat Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-mahakumbh-a-great-success-cm-asks-officers/articleshow/78395592.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 20 flat owners booked for illegal water connection||HYDERABAD: Criminal cases have been registered against 20 flat owners, including the property owner, of an apartment in Old City on Tuesday for obtaining an illegal water connection. The illegal water connection was identified during a raid conducted by the vigilance wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB). A complaint was lodged with the Dabeerpura police under sections 269, and 430 IPC, against Mohammed Taqi and other 19 tenants/owners of Metro Classic Apartment at Noor Khan Bazar in Dabeerpura. The vigilance wing found that the property owner had restored the water connection, which was disconnected on April 19 this year, and drawing water. As a result, the water board lost around Rs 10 lakh revenue due to restoration of water connection towards non-payment of connection charges for MSB and water consumption charges, a release from the HMWS&SB said. After the vigilance wing found illegal water connection on the premises.of Metro Classic Apartments, the water board's records were verified and it was noticed that the occupants did not obtain permission for a new water connection. When asked to produce the permission, if any, granted by competent authority as required under HMWS&SB Act, 1989, the owner and other 19 flat owners failed to produce any documents pertaining to the illegal water connection, according to the official. HMWSSB deputy general manager (E) Darulshifa Section confirmed that the water connection was illegal and hence disconnected it on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-flat-owners-booked-for-illegal-water-connection/articleshow/78393808.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man sexually abuses boy, imprisoned||COIMBATORE: A 54-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old boy for the past one week near Kovilpalayam on the outskirts of the city. The Kovilpalayam police identified the accused as C Daniel, a native of Pudukkottai district. A cook at a mess, he was staying in a rental house near Kovilpalayam. “Daniel had invited the boy to his house every day last week. The boy became unwell on Monday and when his mother inquired, he revealed the incident to her,” a police officer said. The boy’s mother lodged a complaint with the Kovilpalayam police, who registered a case and arrested Daniel, who was produced before the special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) cases in the city and lodged in jail under judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-sexually-abuses-boy-imprisoned/articleshow/78393801.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Multiplexes hope to be ready for Diwali crowd in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Multiplexes in the city appear unlikely to resume operations before Durga Puja and are now looking at a pre-Diwali date to open, subject to the Centre and state issuing clear guidelines for operations well in advance. Speaking to TOI on Tuesday, multiplex exhibitors said they would need at least a fortnight from the date the guidelines are issued to put everything in place so that operations could resume. While regular maintenance of theatres have been underway all along and many multiplexes in malls have also sanitized seats, the officials pointed out that operations in the city cannot commence in isolation and would start only when cinemas open across the country. “Standalone cinema halls that screen only Bengali movies can start if they can source content. Multiplexes on the other hand screen English, Hindi and Bengali movies. To line up the content, cinemas have to begin operations nationally. We also need some big-ticket movies to bring audiences back to the halls and that’s more likely around Diwali,” said an official of a multiplex chain. Multiplexes have internally worked on guidelines. The initial seating plan is to keep a seat empty after each transaction. This will enable families and friends to watch the movie together and minimize the loss of seats. For instance, in a row with 10 seats, no seat has to be kept empty if a 11-member group watches the movie. But if couples purchase tickets, only four couples can be accommodated and one seat has to be sold to a single viewer to ensure social distancing. Similarly, if single people walk in to watch a movie, only six seats can be sold in a row. “QR code-based and online booking of tickets will be encouraged. There will be no in-seat food & beverage service. Sanitizers will be placed at strategic locations. Alternate basins and urinals will be made available,” said an official of another multiplex. Even as exhibitors wait for the Centre and the state government to issue SOPs, mall operators hope things normalize soon as it will translate to higher food & beverage sales as well. An official at Quest Mall said cinemas could add nearly 40% to food court sales as cine-goers usually eat before or after a movie. Other malls — South City, City Centre I & II, and Mani Square — are also keen on the cinemas reopening as it would mean the last decisive step towards normalizing operations. “The theatres were the first to shut shop prior to lockdown and will be the last to open. There isn’t enough clarity on when that will happen. But we are hoping it will be soon,” a City Centre official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/multiplexes-hope-to-be-ready-for-diwali-crowd/articleshow/78395017.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 30, 2020||Delhi||North corporation suspends 22 AAP councillors for ‘disruption’||NEW DELHI: The mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday suspended the leader of opposition, Vikas Goel, and 21 other AAP councillors for the next three House meetings for allegedly disturbing proceedings and raising an issue that was not on the agenda. The House, which usually meets once every month, was called primarily to discuss non-payment of salaries but the AAP councillors were demanding suspension of the medical health officer for alleged corruption, said a BJP councillor. A vigilance inquiry has been ordered, but Goel claimed they had objected to the appointment three months ago, but no concrete result had come out of the probe. AAP councillors also claimed that they were suspended for questioning the deliberative and executive wings for not giving reply to their short notice on increasing revenues. “We were ready to hear all points but the first priority was discussing the growing financial crisis. We invited councillors to place their suggestions to increase revenues. But AAP councillors wanted to divert attention by creating ruckus because their own government is not releasing our dues,” mayor Jai Prakash said after the meeting. Goel said the BJP-led corporation always shared figures of funds due from Delhi government, “but what about the funds generated from our own resources and never collected”. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak later called the suspension undemocratic and announced that the councillors would hold a daylong sit-in protest outside the mayor’s office. “BJP is so scared to get exposed that they are trying to stop AAP’s voice. The intimidation tactics of BJP will not silence our voice,” he said. “Currently Delhi is the dirtiest city in the country and AAP wanted to discuss this matter and the pending salary issue,” Pathak claimed. In a reply to a question raised by Congress’ Mukesh Goel on increasing revenues, the departments submitted a list of steps, including an increase in general trade licence fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corporation-suspends-22-aap-councillors-for-disruption/articleshow/78393858.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS plays it safe, to field Solipeta wife from Dubbak||Hyderabad: Putting an end to speculation, the TRS leadership has decided to field Solipeta Sujatha, wife of deceased MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, from Dubbak where bypoll will be held on November 3. Senior party leaders said chief minister and TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao would officially announce the candidature of Sujatha in a couple of days. Sitting MLA Ramalinga Reddy, a four-time legislator, had died on August 6, which necessitated the bypoll. The ruling party is hopeful of winning the byelection without any trouble. Ramalinga Reddy had won the 2018 election with a thumping 62,500-vote majority against his Congress rival M Nageshwar Reddy. The TRS is banking on developmental work and sympathy votes. The party leadership has taken the byelection as prestigious as scoring a less majority in November 3 polling would give ammo to the opposition parties to take on the government. “The government’s popularity is at stake. So, we are taking this poll seriously,” a senior leader said. Finance minister T Harish Rao and Medak MP Kotha Prabhakar Reddy have already started campaigning in the assembly constituency for the past couple of weeks and highlighting how the government has implemented various welfare schemes for the people. “People have faith in KCR and the TRS government. They have been enjoying the fruits of welfare schemes taken up by the state government which were never visible before,” Harish Rao said. TRS is also ensuring that all villages vote en masse in favour of the ruling party. For instance, Palle Pahad villagers unanimously passed a resolution that they would vote for the TRS. The party is also poaching leaders from other parties, especially Congress and BJP, before the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-plays-it-safe-to-field-solipeta-wife-from-dubbak/articleshow/78393835.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong gears up to give tough fight in bypoll||Hyderabad: The Congress is making a serious effort to give a tough fight to the ruling party in the bypoll to be held on November 3. Of the total 146 villages in the constituency, Congress is appointing one senior leader as in-charge of two villages each and other leaders as in-charge of 10 villages each. Non-payment of proper compensation to Mallanna Sagar project oustees, neglect of Dubbaka Assembly segment at the cost of Gajwel and Siddipet constituencies, which are represented by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and finance minister T Harish Rao, and other local issues are being highlighted by the party to win the hearts. Local party leader K Venkat Narasimha Reddy, Siddipet Congress president T Narsa Reddy, Sravan Reddy, are among the front runners to get the party ticket to contest the by-poll. Former deputy CM Damodar Raja Narasimha and his wife Padmini were given the option to enter the Dubbak by-election fray but they have not evinced interest.  N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the party candidate for Dubbak by-poll would be announced soon and they were working out strategies to turn the tables on the ruling TRS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-gears-up-to-give-tough-fight-in-bypoll/articleshow/78393842.cms||Roushan Ali
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP to fine-tune poll strategy||Hyderabad: The political heat in Dubbak has intensified with BJP all set to fine-tune its poll strategy. Sources said the party would replicate the same strategy it had adopted in Karimnagar and Nizamabad Lok Sabha elections where it had emerged victorious in 2019 polls. The party rank and file has already made a tour of all the mandals in the constituency. Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao, who was BJP candidate twice, has already visited several households and wooed the electorate that he deserved a chance this time. Though the party is yet to announce his candidature, Rao has already hit the campaign trail. A similar strategy was adopted by the BJP in Karimnagar and Nizamabad MP elections where even before the candidates’ names were officially announced, party workers went around the constituencies seeking support for them. Many workers from these two districts were already roped in to campaign in Dubbak constituency. Raghunandan Rao had a 13% vote share in the 2018 election and came third. Senior leaders like E Peddireddy, Mothkupalli Narasimhulu and Chada Suresh Reddy were made mandal in-charges for the party campaign. Lone party MLA in the assembly T Raja Singh has already toured the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-fine-tune-poll-strategy/articleshow/78393848.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Traffic to be diverted on some routes||Lucknow: As many as 450 traffic cops will be on duty from Amausi airport to the old high court for managing the traffic flow during the Babri demolition verdict on Wednesday. To ensure smooth flow of traffic, including ferrying of ambulances, diversion will be enforced on some routes from 9 am till evening. There would be complete restriction on the movement of traffic from CDRI (old building) trisection to telephone exchange crossing near collectorate. The movement of traffic will be diverted towards Shaheed Smarak, Subhash crossing, and Kaiserbagh. Traffic from Parivartan Chowk will not be allowed to move towards Telephone exchange and will be diverted towards Kaiserbagh. For ambulances going towards KGMU and for roadways buses the diversion will be from Hanuman Setu via Nadwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/traffic-to-be-diverted-on-some-routes/articleshow/78395604.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong may give opinion to SEC today||Hyderabad: Congress is likely to submit its opinion on Wednesday to the State Election Commission (SEC) about the usage of paper ballot or electronic voting machines for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. SEC had sought the opinion of political parties and major political parties such as BJP and TRS have already given their opinion. The BJP has strongly favoured elections through EVMs while the TRS has preferred paper ballot system. Telangana Congress’ election coordination committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy, responding to the letter by the SEC, said that the party would take an expert opinion before responding to it. Both options are not risk-free in terms of Coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-may-give-opinion-to-sec-today/articleshow/78393844.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal passage on Yamuna removed||YAMUNANAGAR: After the matter was highlighted by a few Yamuna activists, officials of the irrigation and water resources department (IRWD) got an unauthorised makeshift passage removed in Gumthala mining zone from the Yamuna river on Saturday. An official of IRWD said the illegal passage was constructed by a mining contractor on Yamuna River in Gumthala village in violation of directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). It was reportedly constructed to undertake legal and illegal mining activities in the river. IRWD official Vinod Kumar, executive engineer (XeN) at Hathni Kund Barrage (HKB) Division, Jagadhri said on Saturday, the department received information that a mining contractor had constructed a passage on the Yamuna river in Gumthala village and inspection was marked to the sub-divisional officer (SDO) concerned. “The mining activity in Yamuna was suspended due to monsoon and it started on September 15. A mining contractor developed a makeshift passage for mining activities,” said XeN Vinod. Satyendra Singh, SDO, HKB Division, Jagadhri said, “I visited the mining site in Gumthala village on Saturday and got a makeshift passage constructed on the Yamuna river removed. I also warned the contractor that if he constructed any passage on the Yamuna river in the future, a case would be registered against him.” Sources said there were several legal mining sites in Jathlana area of the district and some of the mining contractors constructed illegal makeshift passages across Yamuna river for the commission of mining activities. Advocate Waryam Singh, state president of Haryana Anti Corruption Society said it takes about 10 to 12 days to construct a makeshift passage on a big river like the Yamuna. “Several mining contractors construct illegal makeshift passages on Yamuna river for legal and illegal mining activities on the river bed. In record of papers, the officials are conducting checking on a daily basis but then how did a contractor manage to develop a passage before their eyes?” questioned advocate Waryam Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-passage-on-yamuna-removed/articleshow/78395031.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 30, 2020||Gurgaon||11-year-old ‘steals’ Rs 20 lakh from Jind bank||JIND: A young boy, estimated to be around 11 years old, has been accused of stealing Rs 20 lakh from a branch of Punjab National Bank located in front of District Rural Development Agency in Jind on Monday. The theft was first noticed late on Monday evening when cash was being counted and matched in the branch at the end of the day. The bank employees unsuccessfully tried to match the cash transactions made during the day for hours but each time found a discrepency of Rs 20 lakh. They finally approached the police late in the night about the ‘missing money.’ After scanning CCTV footage, the police found that a young boy had ‘stolen’ the cash. The boy, who is yet to be identified, can be seen committing the theft in a professional manner in the footage. When the cashier left his cabin, the boy who was already in the bank crept into the cabin and kept the bundles of cash in his bag and left immediately. Bank manager Vishvajit Sinha said “there were four bundles of Rs 5 lakh each inside the cashier’s cabin. The bank was overcrowded as it had opened after a two-day weekend and the cashier forgot to lock his cabin in a hurry.” After the CCTV footage was scanned, the bank manager too pointed a finger of suspicion at the boy in the footage and claimed that he had stolen the missing cash. Civil Lines SHO Hari Om said the money was stolen due to negligence of the bank cashier as the latter didn’t lock his cabin when he went to toilet. Along with his team, the SHO investigated the incident after visiting the crime spot on Tuesday morning. “We are investigating the incident from all the angles and have sought credit and debit record from the bank officials. It was a huge amount. How can the cashier can leave his cabin open without any security? I have asked the bank manager and cashier to visit the police station to join the investigation,” investigation officer (IO) Virender Singh told TOI. The SHO added that the entire incident was captured on CCTV installed in bank. The boy and another suspect can be seen walking out of the bank along with a bag. “We have booked the two unknown accused under Section 380 (Theft in dwelling house,) and launched a probe,” he said. Meanwhile in Karnal, The crime investigation team of Panipat police claimed to have busted a gang of motorcycle thieves by arresting two of its members. The police have recovered 19 motorcycles from their possession. The accused have been identified as Manowar of Nagla Rai and Ravinder of Isopur village in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh. The minor’s act was caught on CCTV camera. He comitted the crime when the bank cashier left his cabin unlocked and went to washroom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/11-year-old-steals-rs-20l-from-jind-bank/articleshow/78395028.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for disrespecting court||Coimbatore: A 36-year-old man was arrested by the Race Course police for attending a court proceeding in an inebriated condition at the special court for POCSO cases here on Tuesday. Suresh from Sivananda Colony, was arrested by the Saravanampatti police for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl in 2018. Later, he obtained bail and came out from Coimbatore central prison. Police filed chargesheet before the special court for the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) act and the trial was held against Suresh before the court. On Tuesday, he came to the special court in an inebriated condition. The special court judge J Radhika noticed it and ordered the Race Course police to register a case against Suresh for disrespecting the court. Immediately, a team of Race Course police rushed to the court and took Suresh to the police station. Immediately, he was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for blood test to find whether he consumed alcohol or not. Later, he was arrested, and further investigation is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-disrespecting-court/articleshow/78393840.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BJP urges poll body to use voting machines in GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: The BJP on Tuesday represented to state election commissioner C Parthasarathy to use EVMs in the forthcoming GHMC polls. A team of BJP led by MLC and former city unit president N Ramchander Rao met SEC and urged him that GHMC elections should be conducted using EVMs only. BJP leaders, in a representationm pointed out that Covid-19 had caused panic among people who, they said, were stepping out only when there is a necessity. “In this backdrop, it is convenient for the general public to exercise hteir franchise through electronic voting machines,” they said said. Speaking to the mediamen after submitting the representation, Ramchander Rao said TRS and AIMIM were worried over losting the GHMC elections if they are conducted through EVMs. “We also brought to the notice of Election Commission that EVMs are used in Bihar assembly election as well,” he said. He said during the pandemic, safety of the people should be of paramount importance. Hyderabad being a major IT hub, voters should be comfortable with EVMs, he added. He also appealed to the people to seek election through EVMs for their own safety. The Election Commission had sought opinions of the political parties on usage of EVMs or ballot papers for GHMC polls. The ruling TRS favoured the use of ballot papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-urges-state-poll-body-to-use-voting-machines-in-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78393837.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Dubbak bypoll on November 3 amid Covid norms||HYDERABAD: Elections to the Dubbak assembly constituency will be held on November 3 amid strict Covid-19 guidelines. While EVMs will be used in the byelections, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has also given online options for candidates for filling up nomination papers, paying deposits and obtaining the elector’s certificate. Stressing that the mandatory Covid-19 protocol must be followed at all costs, the ECI on Tuesday said only two persons can accompany a candidate during filing of the nomination papers. Even the number of vehicles is restricted to two only. The bypoll was necessitated following the death of TRS legislator Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy (57). The MLA, who was also the assembly estimates committee chairman, had died of a heart attack on August 6 in a private hospital in Hyderabad. The ECI instructed polling officers to identify large halls and ensure social distancing norms during the nomination process, polling and counting. Gloves will be provided to the officers handling EVMs and VVPATs. ECI sources said an auxiliary polling station would be set up if there are more than 1,000 voters to avoid crowding. So far, each polling station has 1,500 voters. Social distancing, wearing of masks, thermal scanning and use of sanitisers are mandatory for all poll-related activity, sources said. A nodal health officer will also be appointed for Dubbak segment to oversee the measures. Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said preparations for the polling are in full swing. “We will do the first-level of EVM and VVPAT checking on Wednesday,” he told TOI. He said with the announcement of the poll schedule, the model code of conduct came into effect on Tuesday. “We have communicated to the state government and district authorities regarding the model code,” Goel said. The CEO said they were yet to get any instructions regarding online filing of the nomination papers. The nomination form is available on the ECI website, which can be downloaded, filled up and filed in person with the returning officer. Candidates may deposit security money through online mode. However, they can also deposit the cash in the treasury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-bypoll-on-nov-3-amid-covid-norms/articleshow/78393864.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Ban on home isolation pushes up no. of cases in Covid care centres||Coimbatore: The district recorded 572 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases past 31,000-mark. The total cases stood at 31,489. Though the number of cases discharged stood at 534, the number of active cases continued to inch upward at 5,156. The district also recorded one more death on Tuesday taking the toll to 425.As the number of active cases continued to increase, the Covid care centres in the district including CODISSIA began getting full. This compared to last week when each hall in CODISSIA had almost 100 beds free. As of Monday morning, 1,390 people were in Covid care centres. “CODISSIA has now become full, prompting us to add more than 150 beds in D Hall. We have also begun using the other Covid care centres in Sasurie College in Annur and Karunya University campus in Madhampalayam,” said a senior health department official.While many mildly symptomatic patients are opting for Covid care centres, people who can afford it are choosing to get hospitalized. “Since we had to opt for institutional treatment, we opted for a private hospital who could give us a good room, round the clock care by doctors and food,” said Kanagavalli, 58, who got herself and her husband admitted in a private hospital on Avinashi Road despite only having a sore throat and feverishness.Meanwhile, the government has also begun work to increase bed strength at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital. “We have more than 4,000 beds in Covid care centres to treat asymptomatic patients,” said collector K Rajamani. “We are now focusing on adding beds for the symptomatic patients. While ESI Hospital will have 180 more beds by next week, CMCH will have 200 more beds within the same time,” he said.There are 950 people on home isolation and the district administration does not plan to let the number increase. They had banned home isolation since Saturday. “We have decided to completely stop allowing home isolation for even mildly symptomatic patients for a few days, hoping that it will prevent spread of the virus to their own family members, neighbours and domestic help,” district collector K Rajamani said. “Many of them are following the required discipline are the cause for further spread.While earlier home isolation was being allowed only for people without senior citizens and children under five in their houses and who have a separate room and toilet for themselves, this rule was relaxed to a large extent from September 1. “However, we have now decided to become much stricter with officials inspecting the house, facilities and other people in the house before permitting it, based on the director of public health’s instructions,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ban-on-home-isolation-pushes-up-no-of-cases-in-covid-care-centres/articleshow/78393872.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Murder of NIA officer in UP: Properties of main accused to be attached||Bijnor: Police in Bijnor district have begun the proceedings to attach the properties of a notorious criminal who is also the main accused in the murders of National Investigation Agency (NIA) DSP Tanzeel Ahmad and his wife four years ago. The NIA officer was shot at least 24 times allegedly by Munir with two guns-- a 9mm pistol and the other .32 caliber pistol on April 3, 2016. His wife, Farzana, was also shot thrice and succumbed a few days later in a hospital. Munir was arrested after three months on June 28 that year. Since then, he is in Tihar jail and the charge-sheet in the case was filed last year. DSP Tanzeel had handled several high profile cases involving terror outfits. He was also part of the team which probed the Pathankot attack. Now, as part of its drive against notorious criminals, local police had decided to attach the properties of Munir. He is facing over 30 criminal cases. Before him, immovable assets of 18 criminals have been seized in the district. According to sources, Muneer has a plot in Bijnor’s Seohara area, and a tiles shop in Moradabad. Superintendent of police (rural) Sanjay Singh said, “Police have seized a plot of Muneer worth Rs 28lakh. Besides, the process for the seizure of a shop of his father worth Rs 27lakh is underway. We have sought a nod from authorities concerned for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/murder-of-nia-officer-in-up-properties-of-main-accused-to-be-attached/articleshow/78391111.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Bihar will shower trust on us: Owaisi||Hyderabad: Bihar’s people will shower us with their trust and you will see how we will move ahead, said AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi while speaking at Darussalam on Tuesday. He said the people were looking for a viable option as they were disappointed with both RJD and JDU. “We have entered into an alliance with Devender Prasad Yadav, a five-term MP, as the United democratic Secular Alliance, for this reason,” he said. Countering allegations that the MIM was being seen as the B-team of the BJP, Owaisi said, “There is data to show that the MIM contesting the polls will benefit the BJP. In Bihar, we fought for one parliamentary seat, where not the BJP, but the Congress won.” He said the party was looking forward to a good outcome in the Bihar polls. On the farm bills, the MIM chief said the bills were unconstitutional. “The Prime Minister is forgetting that their partner Shiromani Akali Dal left their side over this bill. JDU, with whom the BJP is fighting the elections in Bihar, has also expressed unhappiness and there has been opposition from a section of the RSS. The PM must get his own house in order.” Moreover, without a majority, the bill was bulldozed in the Rajya Sabha in an unparliamentary way, said Owaisi. “The aim of the bill is not to benefit the farmer, but corporates. The aim is to promote, protect and make rich all those corporates who have helped during the elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bihar-will-shower-trust-on-us-owaisi/articleshow/78393853.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Bypoll in 7 Uttar Pradesh assembly seats on November 3||LUCKNOW: Setting the stage for high-stake electoral battle, the Election Commission on Tuesday announced the schedule for bypolls on seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. Amid coronavirus pandemic, polling will be held on November 3 while counting of votes will be done on November 10. The seats that will go to polls are Naugaon Sadat, Bulandshahr, Tundla, Bangarmau, Ghatampur, Deoria and Malhani. Six of these were won by Bharatiya Janata Party in 2017. The Election Commission has withheld the bypoll on Suar assembly seat citing legal complication. The seat fell vacant following the disqualification of Abdullah Azam, the son of SP MP Azam Khan, by the Allahabad high court on the ground that he was below 25 years of age when he filed his nomination papers in 2017. The EC will issue a formal notification for byelections on October 9. Candidates will have to file their nomination by October 16. Malhani seat was won by veteran leader of the Samajwadi Party Parasnath Yadav in 2017 assembly elections. The seat fell vacant after his death on June 12 this year. The remaining six seats were won by the BJP. The saffron brigade is already geared up to test political waters while the opposition will seek to wrest the seats to send out a message to the electorate ahead of the crucial 2022 assembly elections. The Mayawati-led BSP, which normally stays away from byelections, has already sprung a surprise by announcing that it would contest the bypolls. The Congress is also seeking to consolidate its position in UP like SP which aspires to muscle its way back to the electoral centre-stage in UP after being squarely defeated by the BJP in 2017 assembly elections. Ghatampur seat in Kanpur Nagar and Naugawan Sadat in Amroha district fell vacant after sitting BJP legislators, Kamal Rani Varun and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan, died of Covid-19 on August 2 and August 16, respectively. Deoria and Bulandshahr seat had fallen vacant following the death of sitting MLAs, Janmejay Singh and Virendra Singh Sirohi, on August 21 and March 2, respectively. Bypoll was necessitated on Tundla seat after former UP minister SP Singh Baghel resigned after his election to Lok Sabha (from Agra seat) last year. Bangarmau assembly seat in Unnao district fell vacant following the disqualification of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, an influential Thakur leader, who got convicted in the rape of a minor in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bypoll-in-7-up-assembly-seats-on-november-3/articleshow/78395618.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Painter travels between Hyderabad & Bahrain 6 times on fake passport||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old painter from Kamareddy, who travelled to Bahrain six times since 2010 using a passport obtained on a different name, has been arrested by RGI Airport police after he was sent here on Emergency Certificate by Indian Embassy. The accused, G Balu, 38, is a car painter from Ramreddy mandal in Kamareddy district. In 2010, Balu obtained a passport in the name of Ravinder Ratula through an agent and went to Bahrain for work. Subsequently he travelled between Hyderabad and Bahrain five more times using the same passport. However, his luck ran out in April 2019, when he went to Indian embassy in Bahrain seeking renewal of passport. “To renew his passport, Balu furnished his Aadhaar and PAN card with original name. The embassy officials realised about the fraud and instead of renewing the passport, issued an Emergency Certificate to let him exit Bahrain,” RGI Airport inspector Vijay Kumar said. When Balu arrived at RGI Airport on September 26, immigration officials detained him, and after the interrogation, handed him over to RGI Airport police. Police registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 468, 471 of the IPC and the Indian Passport Act against Balu based on the complaint of Bureau of Immigration authorities. tNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/painter-travels-between-hyd-bahrain-6-times-on-fake-passport/articleshow/78393863.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Newlywed woman thrashed, threatened with live wire over dowry||Meerut: A newly married Meerut woman, in her mid-20s, was allegedly thrashed and threatened with a live electric wire by her husband for not bringing a car in dowry. Her screams attracted neighbours in the Kidwai Nagar locality who rescued her and admitted her to hospital. According to the woman’s brother, “My sister got married to Rameez Ahmad only three months ago. Initially all went well, but in the last couple of weeks, my brother-in-law began taunting her for not bringing enough dowry and started demanding a car which was not in our means to provide. On Monday evening, there was an argument and he started thrashing my sister and threatened to give her electric shock. Her screams alerted neighbours who rushed to the spot and rescued her.” The woman has been admitted to hospital and her condition is stated to be stable now. Prashant Kapil, station officer, Lisari Gate police station, told TOI, “The woman’s family lodged an FIR against Rameez Ahmad under IPC’s section 307 (attempt to murder). He has been arrested and sent to jail.” According to NCRB reports on an average, every hour a woman succumbs to dowry deaths in India with the annual figure rising upwards of 7,466. Either they were burnt alive or forced to commit suicide over dowry demand. With 2,524 dowry deaths, Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest number of dowry deaths, revealed NCRB data for 2017 released in Oct 2019. Bihar stood second while Madhya Pradesh recorded the third highest number of dowry deaths. Although taking or giving dowry was criminalized by law as early as 1961, dowry death cases have seen a shockingly low conviction rate. Despite amendments made to the Dowry Act in 1983, the existing law has loopholes, say experts. According to the 2015 data, police chargesheeted around 93.7% of the accused, of which only 34.7% were convicted. The remaining cases were pending in various courts. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/newlywed-woman-thrashed-threatened-with-live-wire-over-dowry/articleshow/78391130.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Harish leads TRS campaign in Dubbak byelection||Hyderabad: TRS leader Harish Rao is campaigning the Dubbak byelection, as the party is leaving nothing to chance. On a day when the Election Commission of India announced the schedule for the Dubbaka assembly bypoll on Tuesday, finance minister Harish Rao was engaged in what he had been doing for the last one month – appealing to the electorate not to fall prey to the promises of the opposition parties. The election will be held on November 3. Sitting legislator Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy of the ruling TRS passed away on August 6 as a result of which a bypoll is being held. Within a few days, Harish Rao started concentrating on the constituency participating in several functions to distribute cheques or benefits under various government schemes. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has not made his mind on who will be fielded as TRS candidate even as there are at least two more claimants for the ticket apart from the family of Ramalinga Reddy. Harish Rao had been telling the voters that they should be aware of what the government has done for them under KCR’s leadership. Another ‘weapon’ that Harish Rao has unleased is that the BJP-led government at Centre was trying to burden farmers by asking them to fix electricity meters for their borewells and pumpsets. “CM has refused to do this saying that no matter how much money Centre gives to state, farmers will not be burdened and the electricity meters will not be fixed,” he said at a gathering in Dubbaka. On September 28, even as an announcement was expected from the EC on bypoll schedule, he either laid foundation stones or inaugurated completed works in Chellapur, Manemmagadda and Lachchipeta. BJP’s M Raghunandan Rao, is sanguine about his chances. On Tuesday, several people joined BJP at a programme in Dubbaka. Raghunandan Rao said 300 TRS supporters had joined the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-leads-trs-campaign-in-dubbak-byelection/articleshow/78393857.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||HC junks plea on public toilets||Hyderabad: The high court on Tuesday dismissed a writ appeal filed challenging the renovation of public toilets in Begum Bazar. The appeal was filed by Mirza Sarfraj Baig and a few others who wanted the court to direct the civic authorities to shift this public facility to a far-off place on the ground that it has become a nuisance for them. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said that inconvenience for a few persons cannot be a reason for depriving larger populace a public toilet facility in a busy city area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-junks-plea-on-public-toilets/articleshow/78393866.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Future tense: ‘J2 challenge’ staring IGI in the face||NEW DELHI: The “J2 effect” could impact the rate of air traffic revival at the country’s busiest airport, IGIA. J2 is the collective moniker for the upcoming Jewar airport in Greater Noida and the Jaipur airport that will be run by Adani Group for the next 50 years and expanded significantly. “Air travel has taken a severe knock in the pandemic and IGIA is no exception. As air travel hopefully goes back to pre-pandemic times in the next four-five years, which means IGIA seeing about 7 crore passengers a year, Jewar should be ready and Jaipur expanded. This will impact the rate of revival,” said a source at Airports Authority of India, who also said it would be better to delay the demolition of the AAI building’s top three floors. “AAI revenues are under tremendous strain. At this point, this avoidable expense can be deferred. As many as 51 airports of north India — J&K, Leh, Himachal, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttaranchal, UP and MP — are run from here and 20 others that will get Udan flights will also be controlled from here,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/future-tense-j2-challenge-staring-igi-in-the-face/articleshow/78393923.cms||Saurabh Sinha
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Avinashi govt hospital closed after six medical staff members test positive||Coimbatore: The Avinashi government hospital (GH) has been closed by the medical services department after six medical staff including the chief medical officer tested positive for Covid-19. The medical officer’s positive result came on Monday, prompting officials to close the hospital from Monday evening itself. However, outpatient services are being offered by the hospital in a neighbouring building with a doctor and a couple of nurses.The six staff who tested positive include the 43-year-old chief medical officer, four nurses and a lab technician. All of them tested positive on the same day. The health department has now taken nasal swab samples of 34 other medical personnel working in the hospital, said a Tirupur health department official. The hospital was closed by the Avinashi town panchayat officials.At the time of closure, the hospital had no in-patients as doctors in the hospital were mostly dealing with outpatients. Of those who test positive in Avinashi block, the asymptomatic patients will be sent to the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) set up within the premises of a private college in Avinashi and symptomatic patients will be referred to the Tirupur Government Medical College Hospital.The four nurses and one lab technician were sent to the CCC, while the chief medical officer was admitted at Erode-based Government IRT Perundurai Medical College Hospital. The deputy director of health services, Tirupur, Jagadeesh, who confirmed the hospital was closed said disinfection works had already begun from Monday and will be carried out thrice a day. The hospital is likely to be reopened on October 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/avinashi-govt-hospital-closed-after-six-medical-staff-members-test-positive/articleshow/78393905.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cancel bail, NIA to HC||Hyderabad: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed an appeal in the high court, urging it to cancel the bail granted to Telangana Praja Front vice-president Nalamasa Krishna. The agency said that the trial court order needs to be set aside because Krishna was supporting banned naxalite outfits and may pose a threat to the witnesses if he is out on bail. The court issued notice to Krishna and posted the case to two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cancel-bail-nia-to-hc/articleshow/78393874.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Police inspector with farmhouse that has swimming pool, cottage shunted out, probe ordered||MEERUT: Dharmendra Singh, station house officer of Hastinapur police station in Meerut, was attached to Police Lines and a probe was ordered against him after a local newspaper carried a report alleging that the SHO had amassed assets disproportionate to his income in the past two years. The report had pictures of his farmhouse, showing plush amenities such as a swimming pool and a cottage. Interestingly, the SHO was on Tuesday booked for power theft after an electricity department team raided his premises in the city’s Jagriti Vihar and found the power connection “illegal”. Senior superintendent of police Ajay Sahni said, “In his initial statement, the SHO claimed that the land belonged to his father-in-law and cost him Rs 4 lakh as against the media report that pegged the cost at Rs 70-80 lakh. A probe by a circle officer is initiated to look into the merit of the allegations.” As soon as the media reported the matter, the SHO was shunted to Police Lines. The SSP, however, said the action against the SHO was taken based on an earlier probe report into the allegations of custodial torture of a minor boy in May last year. The delayed — over a year — action against the SHO in the alleged custodial torture case coincidentally taken on the same day the media report of disproportionate assets against the SHO surfaced. Meanwhile, according to allegations in the report, the farmhouse near Draupadi Ghat in Hastinapur area is on the forest land. Apart from manicured lawns, a swimming pool and a cottage, the sprawling campus was guarded by a constable and a homeguard from Hastinapur police station, the media report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-inspector-with-farmhouse-that-has-swimming-pool-cottage-shunted-out-probe-ordered/articleshow/78391138.cms||Piyush Rai
September 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Kodandaram may contest MLC seat||Hyderabad: Telangana Jana Samithi has decided to contest from both the Graduate MLC constituencies of Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar, and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam respectively. TJS president Kodandaram, who is likely to enter the fray from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam Graduates MLC constituency, said the opposition parties should reconsider their decision of contesting the MLC polls and instead support his candidature. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kodandaram-may-contest-mlc-seat/articleshow/78393871.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||It’s beginning of another phase of legal battle||LUCKNOW: As the nation curiously waits for the trial court judgment on the demolition of the Babri masjid, the verdict -- after 28 years -- on Wednesday is not the end, but the beginning of another phase of hearing in the higher court. It is true that even if the accused, including BJP patriarch Lal Krishna Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, will be held guilty and convicted, the trial court in all probability will allow them to appeal in higher court. This would also mean the beginning of yet another judicial journey as the trial court has already taken 28 years to reach this stage and that too after a strict direction from the SC. Judge will retire after the verdictIn 2017, the Supreme Court was so much determined for the ending the trial of the accused that it had directed the special judge Surendra Kumar Yadav hearing the case the court has to pronounce its judgment in two years and if the judge retires, he would not relinquish his office, but be given extension, so the judge , who is set to pronounce its judgment on Wednesday, will retire immediately after the verdict. For over a year, he has been on an extension on his position. Talking to TOI, high court lawyer Zafaryab Jilani, who has been relentlessly pursuing the trial case for over 28 years, said that even if the court holds them guilty, either they would be granted bail immediately or given time to file appeal in a higher court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/its-beginning-of-another-phase-of-legal-battle/articleshow/78395629.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Cloth trader found hanging from ceiling, family suspects murder, probe ordered||Bijnor: A 35-year-old cloth trader was found hanging from the outer ceiling of his shop in Bijnor’s kotwali dehat market area on Tuesday. As the victim’s family suspected that he was murdered, a probe was ordered. The body of Irfan Ahmed (32) was first spotted by a watchman, who alerted police. According to kotwali dehat station house officer Mohit Kumar, “Police are probing the matter thoroughly. The victim had been missing since last night. He had not left behind a suicide note. His family members searched for him, but they did not find him at his shop. Later, his body was found hanging outside his shop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cloth-trader-found-hanging-from-ceiling-family-suspects-murder-probe-ordered/articleshow/78391155.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Provide details of students eligible for financial aid’||Coimbatore: The school education department has asked all government and aided schools in the state to upload details of students, who have graduated from Class XII and are eligible for financial assistance, on the web portal of education management information system (EMIS).In a recent communication to the chief education officers, the department said there were discrepancies in the details that were uploaded earlier.It asked school headmasters/ headmistresses to furnish the students’ names and initials as entered in school documents, their saving bank account numbers, bank details, Class XII exam registration numbers and whether the class they were in were aided or self-financed.They have been asked to enter the details on the EMIS web portal. Chief education officers would them verify them and update them to the school education department within Wednesday.The financial assistance is provided to students who graduate from schools. Its objective is to stop dropouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/provide-details-of-students-eligible-for-financial-aid/articleshow/78393930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Cloth trader found hanging from ceiling, family suspects murder, probe ordered||Bijnor: A 35-year-old cloth trader was found hanging from the outer ceiling of his shop in Bijnor’s kotwali dehat market area on Tuesday. As the victim’s family suspected that he was murdered, a probe was ordered. The body of Irfan Ahmed (32) was first spotted by a watchman, who alerted police. According to kotwali dehat station house officer Mohit Kumar, “Police are probing the matter thoroughly. The victim had been missing since last night. He had not left behind a suicide note. His family members searched for him, but they did not find him at his shop. Later, his body was found hanging outside his shop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cloth-trader-found-hanging-from-ceiling-family-suspects-murder-probe-ordered/articleshow/78391208.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police nod to shut Sealdah flyover for East-West Metro, tunnelling||KOLKATA: City police on Tuesday issued a letter to the Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), implementing agency of the East-West Metro, giving its nod to keep the Sealdah flyover closed for 72 hours to facilitate construction of underground tunneling for the corridor. The flyover will remain closed from 6am on Friday till 6am on Monday Tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urvi, digging the east-bound tunnel, will reach the flyover sometime on Friday morning and cross the structure on Sunday night to reach its destination, Sealdah station. A detailed guideline will be issued on Wednesday for the traffic rejig that will come into effect for the flyover’s closure. This is the last-leg of 2.45km of the East-West Metro tunneling, between Esplanade and Sealdah station. Till the TBM covers the 25m distance below the flyover to reach Sealdah station, around 40 engineers and workers of construction agency ITD ITD-Cementation will be camping below and above the flyover round-the-clock. The TBM is currently 50m away from the 40-year-old Sealdah flyover, which is in a fairly good condition, engineers of KMDA, its keepers, told TOI on Tuesday. Armed with real-time data, based on various kinds of instrumentation, engineers from ITD will check for the slightest movement in the structure and the miniscule ground settlement. The elaborate exercise will be repeated three months later when the flyover is closed again as Urvi takes a U-turn to build the unfinished west-bound tunnel till Bowbazar’s Durga Pituri Lane. Kolkata Police is cordinating with various stakeholders, the traders below the flyover, the bus owners and workers. “We have met a few bus owners and another meeting is being planned in the next 48 hours. We also held a meeting with the concerned traffic guards. Three roads — MG Road, CR Avenue and SN Banerjee Road — will require augmented force besides the Moulali Crossing,” said an officer. “A configuration will be sent to KMRCL and Kolkata Police by Thursday as to the precautionary and safety measures to look after to see that no damage occurs on the base of the flyover structure while the tunnel is made,” said a KMDA official. Kolkata traffic police has decided to use CR Avenue, Surya Sen Street, SN Banerjee Road and the Canal Road East to try and keep central Kolkata moving. “No parking will be allowed on SN Banerjee Road and Vivekananda Road. We are also removing all encroachments along BB Ganguly Street that might impede free movement of vehicles,” said an officer. (With inputs from Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kp-nod-to-shut-sealdah-flyover-for-e-w-tunnelling/articleshow/78395058.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 30, 2020||Agra||Raped and tortured by 4 upper caste men, Dalit teen from Hathras dies after 15-day battle||Agra: At 6.55am on Tuesday, the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras who had been allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village died after a 15-day battle for life. She had been referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital from Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College a day before that. “At 7am, we got the call. We want justice. The accused should not be spared,” her brother told TOI on Tuesday morning. When she had been first hospitalised, her spinal cord had been severely injured. Doctors found she was paralysed, her arms partially unresponsive and her tongue badly cut. A week later, she told police she had been dragged by the dupatta round her neck into a field by four men in her village, gang-raped and left there with a warning against telling anyone, or her family would be “shot dead”. She had been on life support. Her doctors said that the surgery she urgently needed to fix her spine was not possible until her condition improved. It never did. “Severe injuries in the spinal cord due to strangulation resulted in cardiac and pulmonary failure,” the Safdarjung public relations officer said on Tuesday. The girl's sister-in-law said she could have survived had she been treated better. “She needed good treatment and on time. For almost a week since she was admitted (to the Aligarh hospital), she was not attended to properly.” Saying that politicians’ statements that they “understand the family's grief” mean nothing, she added, “We did not get support because of our identity. We want the four accused to be punished.” In response, Dr Fakhrul Hoda, head of neurosurgery at JN Medical College in Aligarh, told TOI, "She was moved to the neuro ICU on the third day after being admitted... The district administration and senior police officials had asked the family to move her to Delhi earlier as well. There were no lapses in her treatment here." The four men she had named — Ravi Singh (35), Ramu Singh (26), Sandeep (20) and Lavkush (19) — had been arrested earlier on charges of gang rape, attempt to murder and sections of the SC/ST Act. “With her death, Section 302 (murder) of the IPC will be added to the FIR,” Hathras additional SP Prakash Kumar said. The family runs a small dairy in the village. The girl, the youngest of five siblings, was helping her mother gather cattle fodder when she was attacked. Her mother, 46, knew she had been raped but dared not speak out for fear of reprisal, her brother had told TOI: “She was afraid of the stigma and because all of them were from the dominant caste.” This was not the first conflict they had been in the centre of. In 2001, ASP Kumar told TOI, the girl’s grandfather had filed a complaint against family members of two of the accused — Sandeep and Ravi — based on which an FIR had been lodged under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the SC/ST Act. The case had been settled in court 14 years later in 2015. The village where they live has 60 dominant caste families and only four Valmiki families. Soon after the rape charges came to light, two companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary forces was deployed at the village. By Tuesday, police forces from four districts — Agra, Aligarh, Kasganj and Etah — joined them. Her body was being released from Safdarjung at the time of filing this report. Police forces were also deployed at Gabhana toll plaza after reports that Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad would accompany the family from Delhi to Hathras. The state has given a Rs 4-lakh compensation to the family, promising another tranche after rape charges are established, while the district has given Rs 5.9 lakh to the family. The report of the medical examination, conducted a week after she had been admitted, did not find evidence of sexual assault given the duration that had passed. “We are not considering withdrawal of rape charges from the FIR until the forensic report comes in,” ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/raped-and-tortured-by-4-upper-caste-men-dalit-teen-from-hathras-dies-after-15-day-battle/articleshow/78391232.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Pregnant woman ‘kills self’, in-laws booked in Rajasthan's Barmer||JAISALMER: A pregnant woman allegedly committed suicide in Barmer city late on Monday night. The father of the deceased has lodged a case of murder for dowry against six persons, including the woman’s husband, mother-in-law and father-in-law, under IPC sections 498 and 304B. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem by the medical board on Tuesday. Barmer’s Kotwali police station officer Ram Pratap Singh said that Moti Singh, father of the deceased, in his report said that his daughter, Mamta Kanwar, wife of Robin Singh, got married a year ago. Her in-laws used to beat her for dowry and always tortured her, the father alleged. As per the complainant, the pregnant woman was murdered for dowry and was hanged. The case is being investigated by deputy SP Mahaveer Prasad. In a separate incident, three days ago, after a dispute with his wife, a man threw his six-year-old son into a water tank in Baytoo of Barmer district. Police have arrested accused Jeharam from Akdada village. Barmer SP confirmed the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pregnant-woman-kills-self-in-laws-booked/articleshow/78393946.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Rift widens in AIADMK as O Panneerselvam skips CM Edappadi K Palaniswami’s review meet||CHENNAI: Political jousting in the AIADMK gathered pace as O Panneerselvam skipped a video conference Edappadi K Palaniswami called with top officials on Covid management on Tuesday, a day after they sparred over announcing a CM candidate for the 2021 assembly election. As chief minister Palaniswami attended the conference at the secretariat, some of his supporters made another bid to force his deputy’s hand and persuade OPS to propose EPS’s name for CM. AIADMK deputy coordinator R Vaithilingam and deputy coordinator K P Munusamy called on OPS at his residence to persuade the deputy CM to “fall in line”. AIADMK organising secretary P H Manoj Pandian, among the few OPS supporters, was present too. Talks and mediation are likely to go on for the next few days, with OPS “upset” over the “persistent” demands by EPS loyalists at the executive committee meeting on Monday that the CM candidate be announced at once. The BJP is also stirring the pot with multiple sources confirming that ministers S P Velumani and P Thangamani, close aides of the CM, had visited New Delhi on Friday last to meet “BJP leaders”. A close associate of OPS said the deputy CM too had long sought a meeting with home minister Amit Shah and is yet to be granted an appointment. Vaithilingam told reporters his visit to OPS’s residence on Greenways Road here was “apolitical, personal. There is no confusion (over CM candidate).” OPS ‘upset’ over mins’ ‘conduct’In the evening, minister S P Velumani and senior leader Natham R Viswanathan met the CM and minister R B Udayakumar visited the deputy CM. Panneerselvam has, meanwhile, dropped his earlier plan to leave for Theni, his native town. A sticking point is OPS’s insistence that a 11-member steering committee be constituted for the party. OPS is also “upset” over the “conduct’ of a few ministers, including K A Sengottaiyan, Thangamani, Velumani, R Kamaraj, and some functionaries, who kept insisting that the CM candidate be announced at the Monday meeting. A minister had declared that he would not leave until the announcement was made. And some members had booed party veteran Panruti S Ramachandran when he pushed for “a collective decision taken in a democratic manner”. Ramachandran left the hall shortly thereafter. Palaniswami has opposed the constitution of a steering committee, saying he does not want to choose from a long list of aspirants. At the Monday meeting, minister Udumalai S Radhakrishnan had shouted at another OPS supporter, J C D Prabhakar, when he rose to object to the way the EPS camp was pushing for announcement of the CM candidate. Panneerselvam was taken aback by the strong reaction from Thangamani, who said that pre-merger of the factions, the EPS camp had agreed to make him deputy CM for this term alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rift-widens-in-aiadmk-as-ops-skips-cms-review-meet/articleshow/78393949.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Dissolve panel to study Indian culture, city forum tells Centre||Coimbatore: A federation of Dravidian forums in the city has condemned the 16-member committee that was set up by the Union government to study ancient Indian culture. Pointing out that the committee was too exclusive and did not reflect the diversity of the country, representatives of Dravidian Culture Federation demanded the Centre to dissolve the panel. The Dravidian Culture Federation was floated by 18 forums, including the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Dravidar Kazhagam, Social Democratic Party of India and CPI(ML). Addressing reporters here on Tuesday, C Venmani, coordinator of the federation, said the committee had no representation from Tamil Nadu. “This is when there are new discoveries at the Keezhadi excavation site every day. The Constitution says India is a ‘union of states’. There are multiple cultures and languages. But the committee that was formed to study Indian culture doesn’t reflect this diversity.” The federation said the committee had no representation of dalits, tribals and women. “We get the impression that the committee seeks to construct a history based on a religious identity.” “B R Mani, a former Archaeological Survey of India official who was involved in excavation at the Babri Masjid site at Ayodhya in 2003 and shunted out by the Allahabad High Court as his work was not proper, is included in the committee. This gives away the BJP government’s motive clearly,” the federation said in a statement. The federation said archaeological researches at Keezhadi and Adichanallur have shown that Tamil culture, which goes back to 600BC, was secular. “Now, the BJP is trying to paint it over with a Vedic and Sanskrit narrative.” The federation demanded the Centre to dissolve the committee. Pressing this demand, it would lay siege to the BSNL office near the district collectorate on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dissolve-panel-to-study-indian-culture-city-forum-tells-centre/articleshow/78393943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Pune||Pomegranates costlier than apples in Pune, poor supply after rain damages fruit||PUNE: Pomegranates in the retail market now cost between Rs 300 to Rs 400 per kg, depending on the size and quality of the fruit, in markets across the city. The demand-supply mismatch resulting from damage to the crops caused by the rains in August has pushed up the prices. Till very recently, they were about Rs80-100 per kg. “We used to get 12,000 crates, each containing 15kg of the fruit daily in the market. But now, we are getting around 6,000 crates as many plantations have been affected due to excess rain in August and September in Indapur, Daund, Baramati tehsils and areas in eight neighbouring districts known for cultivating pomegranates,” Balasaheb Bibwe, head of fruits section of the Gultekdi Market Yard, Pune. In the wholesale market, the fruit sold for Rs225-250 per kg and the price goes further up by the time it reaches the retail outlets where the buyers feel the pinch. “This is usual as retailers in local markets always charge Rs30-40 extra than the wholesale rates,” Bibwe added. In July, the price of pomegranate had fallen drastically as it was auctioned for Rs60-80 per kg in the wholesale market and the price in local retail markets was in the range of Rs100-160 per kg.  “The market was then receiving substandard quality fruit owing to adverse weather condition. Many fruits had black spots with relatively smaller size,” he said. Pomegranates are currently costlier than apples in the wholesale and retails markets. “A box containing 15kg of Jammu & Kashmir apples was being auctioned in the range of Rs1,000-Rs 1,400. Similarly, a box of apples, containing 25kg, from Shimla was sold between Rs700- Rs 2,000. Thus, you can get one kg apple in the local mandi in the range of Rs 100-Rs160,” Bibwe added. Sandesh Bangar, a fruit vendor in Vishrantwadi market, said, “I never sold pomegranates at a price higher than apples in the last 15 years of my business. Customers are staying away from buying it.” The APMC officials said all fruits have remained costlier than usual in the last few months. “Due to the pandemic, there is high demand for all fruits. People are still buying them for maintaining healthy diet. Once restaurants and hotels start from next month, the demand for all fruits will go up,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president of association of commission agents Market Yard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pomegranates-costlier-than-apples-poor-supply-after-rain-damages-fruit/articleshow/78395060.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Single-window Puja app updated with Covid norms||KOLKATA: The city police, in association with KMC and other agencies such as West Bengal Fire Services, KMDA, CESC and WBSEDCL, is ready to launch the digital one window system — Aasaan —for availing the Puja permissions in a hassle-free way within 48 to 72 hours. Though the app is four-year-old, what makes this year’s effort unique is the app will come inbuilt with Covid guidelines. A cell has been formed in every division, and an officer from each police station will coordinate with the puja organizers in this regard. “Time is short this year given Chaturti will be barely 20 days away by the time the app gets activated from October 2. Cops will ensure Covid guidelines are being followed,” explained a senior police officer. The Aasaan system said cops will enlist the do’s and don’ts of this year. The focus will naturally be on the pandals themselves since they have to meet the criteria of keeping all sides open. “The pandal specifications will be an important entry in the online forms this year,” reminded an officer at Lalbazar. The documentation, too, comes handy in case of violations. “If majority of organizers, out of the 2,509 official Pujas this year, use this system, we can save time and have proper documentation with us in case references are needed later. ” said a joint CP. The system had helped Netaji Nagar Khanpur Sarodutsav Samity to attain the final permission in five hours last year, unlike when they had to wait for three days to get clearance. “The budget of our puja is not huge. Nor do we have enough manpower, who can run around to make payments and get separate clearances from different departments. This is especially true during the Covid times. Usually, we had to approach Baghajatin office of CESC and Netaji Nagar police station twice to get the permissions,“ said an organizer. The cops are expecting all organizers to register through the online platform instead of the manual process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/single-window-puja-app-updated-with-covid-norms/articleshow/78395062.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sessions court rejects actor Vikram Gokhale’s plea to confirm interim bail||PUNE: Additional sessions judge Madhuri M Deshpande rejected noted actor Vikram Gokhale’s plea for confirmation of an interim bail the court had granted in March in response to his anticipatory bail application in an alleged Rs97 lakh cheating case relating to a plot scheme in Mulshi taluka near Pune. The court, however, granted a plea by his lawyers Upendra Khare and Rushikesh Ganu seeking a stay on the order till October 17 to enable the actor to move an appeal in Bombay High Court. “Apart from Gokhale, similar pleas of Jayant Mhalgi and his wife, Sujata, (both directors of Sujata Farms Private Limited which developed the plot scheme) are expected to be heard by the court later,” additional public prosecutor Pushkar Sapre told TOI. “This is not a fit case to enlarge the accused on bail,” judge Deshpande said in her order on September 25, referring to the contents of the FIR, the nature and gravity of the alleged offence and the ‘necessity of a detailed investigation’. “The complainant and other persons (investors) appear to have purchased the plot(s) out of the land shown by the accused persons,” the judge said and observed the ‘sale deeds appeared to have been executed for wrong survey numbers’. The court said, “There is huge appropriation of amount of Rs. 96.99 lakh. Offence is serious in nature... Investigation is in its preliminary stage. Prima facie involvement of the accused appears in offence in question.” The judge further observed that the prosecution’s apprehension that if released on bail, the accused will pressurise the complainant and other prosecution witnesses is “well-founded”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sessions-court-rejects-actors-plea-to-confirm-interim-bail/articleshow/78395064.cms||Vishwas Kothari
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP leader resigns from BU syndicate||Coimbatore: State BJP vice-president P Kanagasabapathi has resigned as the Bharathiar University syndicate member. His nomination to the post for the second consecutive term had earlier drawn flak from different quarters, with many people questioning governor Banwarilal Purohit’s move, citing Kanagasabapathi’s post in the BJP. Official sources said the BJP leader had submitted his resignation on Wednesday (September 23), and Purohit had accepted the same on Friday. P Kaliraj, vice-chancellor of the university and syndicate chairman, confirmed Kanagasabapathi has resigned from his post as the syndicate member. “We got information that he had put in his papers and the governor had accepted it.” Despite several attempts, professor Kanagasabapathi could not be reached for a comment. Kanagasabapathi’s nomination to the university’s syndicate on September 5 hadn’t gone down well in academic circles, mainly because of his party post. Academicians had said while the move was legally right, it was ethically wrong. Politicians too had raised concerns over the state BJP vice-president’s nomination to the university syndicate. Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan (CPM) and Singanallur MLA N Karthik (DMK) had condemned the move, saying the BJP was intervening in higher education and urged the governor to revoke the nomination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-leader-resigns-from-bu-syndicate/articleshow/78393952.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Lucknow||Harmony is catchword in Ayodhya, residents seek closure to decades-old dispute||AYODHYA: A day before the judgment in the 28-year-old Babri Masjid demolition case, Ayodhya remained stoic, sedate and silent as residents sauntered through their chores unhindered by barricades or thud of boots of marching securitymen unlike its date with Supreme Court’s verdict 11 months ago, when the town was garrisoned. In contrast, the focus shifted to the CBI court in Lucknow, 135km away, which has been fortified. Speaking to TOI, DIG, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar, said, “Ayodhya is a biggest example of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood in India and we don't need additional security arrangements for D-Day.” Residents, however, preferred to keep their fingers crossed and hoped the verdict would bring a closure to the decades-old dispute and hold aloft the spirit of brotherhood. Mahant Yugal Kishore Saran Shastri, priest of Saryu Kunj temple, who was 40 years old when the mosque was razed, said, “No doubt, it was a black day that triggered riots across the country, but our concern is that harmony must be maintained, whatever by the judgment.” The day passed without a flutter in Muslim pockets with residents restless, but reticent. Mohammad Umar, a key litigant in the title suit, sells puja items in his small shop near Hanumangarhi temple. “We are living in peace in and we don’t want the verdict to create ripples here. Many accused have died and others are in the twilight of their lives. We’ll take the judgment in our stride.” Another plaintiff, Iqbal Ansari, said, “There should be no dispute over places of worship anywhere in India and both communities should live in peace and join hands for welfare of society.” There was an eerie calm at Maniram Chawni temple, the high seat of Mahant Nitya Gopal Das, president of Ram Mandir Trust and an accused in the case. While he refused to talk to the media, temple sources told TOI that he would not be present at the CBI court on health grounds. Ram Narayan Das, an elderly sadhu at the mutt, preferred to repose faith in Lord Ram. “Ram ji sab theek karenge, sab ka bhala karenge, dhancha giraya gaya tha tab pura desh ashant ho gaya tha, magar ab shanti rahni chahiye. Sabhi dharm ke log jiye aur khayen (Lord Ram will make everything right and bless every one. When the structure was demolished, there was violence in the country. Now, peace must prevail. Let people of all religions live in amity).” Saurabh Vikram Singh, a GenNext youth, who was born after the Babri demolition, said, “Yes we are waiting eagerly for the judgment for 28 years, but it must not be construed as a victory or defeat of any community. Harmony should be the catchword."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/harmony-is-catchword-in-ayodhya-residents-seek-closure-to-decades-old-dispute/articleshow/78395680.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||BJP workers protest alleged kidnap of minor girl in Sambhal, demand swift action||BAREILLY: The minor daughter of a tehsil staff in Sambhal was allegedly kidnapped on Monday night by a local youth, identified as Faizy, after she had gone to purchase something from a shop in Kotwali police station area. Local BJP workers later encircled Kotwali police station, demanding quick action in the case and arrest of the accused, who is still absconding. Police said two teams have been formed to pursue the case and an FIR has been registered against the accused. According to Sambhal police, the incident happened late in the night on Monday when the 13-year old daughter of a staff deputed at Sambhal tehsil had gone to the market under Kotwali police jurisdiction. When she did not return home, her father Manoj complained to police, pointing his finger of suspicion at one Faizy, who lives in Panju Sarai locality. Sometime later, BJP members and locals assembled at the Kotwali police station to demand quick action in the case. Their protest went on till late night, following which, senior police officials reached the spot and promised swift action. Sambhal SP Yamuna Prasad said, “Based on the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the accused under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of IPC. Two teams are carrying out combing operation to trace both the accused and the girl.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-workers-protest-alleged-kidnap-of-minor-girl-in-sambhal-demand-swift-action/articleshow/78390095.cms||Maria Khan
September 30, 2020||Udaipur||Dungarpur violence: BJP blames Congress, BTP||UDAIPUR: BJP MLA and the party’s state general secretary Madan Dilawar on Tuesday launched a sharp attack on the Bhartiya Tribal Party and the Gehlot government, holding both responsible for the violence in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts. Speaking at a press conference here, Dilawar alleged that BTP state president Velaram Ghogra, BTP legislators Ram Prasad and Rajkumar Roat were behind the unrest. Dilawar further alleged that as per the public feedback, IPS officer Kaluram Rawat, RAS officer Mahaveer Kharadi and social activist DS Paliwal too had a role in inciting the tribal community. Dilawar is one in the BJP’s three-member committee assigned with the task of making a factual report on the tribal stir that led to a state of complete anarchy for four days in South Rajasthan. Chittorgarh MP CP Joshi and Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena are the other two members in the BJP committee which surveyed the violence-affected areas on Monday. The BJP leaders said that BTP was behind all the conspiracies but since their legislators supported the Ashok Gehlot government during the political crisis in July-August, the Congress had to side by them and silently supported the movement that caused loss of crores of rupees to people and public property. The members said they spoke to all sections of the society, including public representatives, social workers, government officials and labourers, and recorded their feedback on the tribal stir. People told them that while hundreds of uncontrollable men ransacked shops, pelted stones and torched vehicles, the large number of policemen watched them silently instead of taking action. “The government tied up their hands and made them into mute spectators,” said Dilawar. “When the mobs were torching vehicles, looting shops and taking away the commodities in trucks, pelting stones at innocent people, the police were watching silently because the state government had tied their hands,” Dilawar said. “The local tribal community is peace-loving and they are not responsible for the unrest but Christian missionaries, converted tribals and outsiders were the actual miscreants,” the MLA said. Dilawar said the administration could have prevented the illegal movement, had they stopped the ration and water supply to the protesters at the mahapadav site. They would have backtracked if they did not get food and water to survive, he said. The committee members said the state government should take up an inquiry against the accused legislators and government officials to find out their actual involvement in the unrest. Their phone call records should be scanned and it should be found out whom they have been meeting and their movement in the recent past. The BJP leaders also said that such people should not be given the rights of reservation in contesting elections or recruitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dungarpur-violence-bjp-blames-cong-btp/articleshow/78393948.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Western ring road project may start this year-end||Coimbatore: Various government departments are working together to commence the much-awaited western ring road project from Mayilkal to Narasimhanaickenpalayam in the district by this year-end. They have expedited preliminary works so that road laying work could be started at the earliest. Under the project, which was initially proposed by the state highways department in 2007 to reduce traffic congestion in the city, four-lane road would be laid for 32.4km through 15 revenue villages. The project cost is estimated at Rs 845 crore, of which Rs 320 crore would be used for land acquisition alone, said a source with the state highways department. A revenue department official said, “We have completed the survey work in the revenue villages and issued notifications to owners of private land, which would be acquired for the project, under Section 15 (2) of the Tamil Nadu Highways Act. More than a month ago, a report under Section 15 (1) of the highways act was sent to the state government to publish details of land to be acquired for the project in the gazette.” Pointing out that they had started the land evaluation process to fix the rates, the official said they would hold a meeting with landowners and start the acquisition process as soon as the land details were published in the gazette. “We are planning to complete the land acquisition process at the earliest,” the official said. The revenue department needs to acquire 144 hectares land, of which 116 hectares is private land. The source with the state highways department, meanwhile, unveiled the plans to implement the project in a phased manner. “So, we needn’t wait for the land acquisition to complete to start laying road. The decision was made to prevent further delay in implementing the project.” Once a certain percentage of land is acquired, he said they would send a proposal to the state, seeking fund. “When the fund is sanctioned, we would float a tender to finalize the contractor. The construction cost is estimated at Rs 525 crore.” According to officials, the four-lane road would help motorists from south-west parts of the district to reach northern parts without entering the city. “This, in turn, would reduce traffic congestion in the city by 40%, while bringing the travelling time between Mayilkal and Narasimhanaickenpalayam down by one-third.” The alignment of the project was changed at least four times till date. The project was announced in the state assembly in 2010 and the road was initially proposed to be laid from Palakkad Road at Madukkarai to Mettupalayam Road via Perur Road, Marudamalai Road and Thadagam Road. Later, it was proposed to start from Kuniyamuthur to Thudiyalur. However, in 2014, the state highways department said the road would end at Narasimanaickenpalayam. In 2019, they changed the alignment again and proposed to start the project from Mayilkal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/western-ring-road-project-may-start-this-year-end/articleshow/78394004.cms||Nivedha Selvam
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Former official of LVB moves HC, says Rs 20,000 cr is at risk||Chennai: A former senior manager of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) has moved the Madras high court alleging serious mismanagement of affairs of the bank by the present board putting over Rs 20,000 crore public deposits at risk. R Subramanian wanted the court to intervene and direct the Union finance ministry and the RBI to appoint an administrator after suspending the board. Admitting the PIL, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha called for records pertaining to the allegations within eight weeks. According to the petitioner, mismanagement by the board has resulted in gross non-performing assets (NPA) which leaped from 2.67% in 2017 to 15.30% in 2019. “It has stretched further to 25.39% in March 2020. Any such increase in gross NPA could not be justified as a common occurrence in the banking industry. This stands as evidence of quick mortality of advances and the options of the bank made against the guidelines of RBI and SEBI,” the petitioner said. As on March 31, the bank had total deposits of Rs 21,443 crores. But there is no safety for the deposits made by the public as per the information available in the public domain and qualified statements of the statutory auditors of the bank in the balance sheet, he added. “The bank has made investment of approximately Rs 180 crores in Talwalkar group despite adverse signals relating to the financial and management of the company. The managing director of LVB violated the bank’s investment policy. RBI nominees came (down) heavily on the bank about the corporate governance of the bank and has directed to conduct investigation besides forensic audit,” he said. He further alleged that the managing director published results of the quarter ended September 2017 on October 11, 2017, declaring profit of Rs 10.5 crores. In fact, the bank incurred approximately a loss of Rs 7 crore but he painted a rosy picture declaring profit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-official-of-lvb-moves-hc-says-rs-20000-cr-is-at-risk/articleshow/78392459.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Agra||42% less rainfall recorded in Agra district||Agra: The Taj city, this year, witnessed the weakest monsoon since past five years. According to the meteorological department, up to 42% less rainfall has been recorded as compared to the normal estimate. Besides Agra, low rainfall has been recorded in the entire western UP. According to the weather report, from June 1 to September 29, total 337.6mm rainfall has been recorded in Agra district which was 42% less as compared to normal rainfall of 586.9mm. In Mathura 66% less rainfall was recorded, Meerut 49%, Aligarh 43%, Mainpuri 39%, Firozabad 31% and Etah 28%. Agra district had recorded 785.8mm rainfall in 2016, 373.4mm in 2017, 1,100mm in 2018 and 695.8mm in 2019. Meanwhile, Agra remained the hottest city in UP on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded was 36.7 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature remained 23.7 degrees Celsius. Both maximum and minimum temperature remained above normal. The meteorological department has predicted a further increase in the mercury level, at least by 2 degrees Celsius, this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/42-less-rainfall-recorded-in-agra-district/articleshow/78391247.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||SwaraZankar rolls out third online music festival on October 1||Pune: Popular vocalist Kaushiki Chakraborty felt that the sunshine, music and a sweet breeze came back in her life when she stepped on to the stage to perform at a concert recently after a gap of five months. Tabla maestro Anindo Chatterjee echoed her feelings when both recorded their concerts in an auditorium in Kolkata for the second season of SwaraZankar online music festival organised by Pune based SwaraZankar, starting in October. The fact that the auditorium was empty except the technicians recording the concert and their accompanists, did not matter to both. “This is an important initiative to bridge the gap between the artists and the audience in these exceptional times. It gives an opportunity to us to perform and show the audience how much their blessings and encouragement matter to us,” Chakraborty said in her message to the audience. Chatterjee described it as an amazing and unique experience in these difficult times. “As we cannot go to an auditorium, this is a golden opportunity to listen to leading artists in the comfort of your homes,” he said. SwaraZankar Hub, a brainchild of violinist Rajas Upadhye, was launched when the Covid-19 pandemic put an end to concerts and music festivals in mid-March. Considering the uncertainty of internet connectivity, Upadhye decided to record the concerts in a sanitized auditorium so that the audience get the best audio-video experience at par with a concert in an auditorium. Subscribers are given almost a month to log in and enjoy the concert they have booked. “As many as 1,500 families from India and 300 from the US, the UK, Australia and Europe subscribed for our first two online festivals Bhaktirang and SwaraMalhar starting in July which featured vocalists Rahul Deshpande, Shaunak Abhisheki, Raghunandan Panshikar, Anand Bhate, Manjusha Patil, violinist Atulkumar Upadhye and others,” Upadhye told TOI. For the third festival titled ‘Mystical Mornings’ which focuses on morning ragas, concerts were recorded in Pune and Kolkata. “We have 25 concerts, talk shows and artist interactions planned from October to December. Prominent artists include Kaushiki Chakraborty, Anindo Chatterjee, Rahul Deshpande, Dilshad Khan, Ronu Majumdar, Samrat Prasad, Rakesh Chaurasia, Tejendra Majumdar, Indrani Mukherjee, Vijay Ghate, Shakir Khan, Bikcram Ghosh among others,” Upadhye said. The streaming will start from October 1. Music lovers have the option to register for the entire three-month programmes or monthly concerts or even individual concert of their favourite artist. “All the concerts will be available on SwaraZankar Hub till January 31, 2021 to enable music lovers to enjoy them at their convenience,” Upadhye said. This time, they have included solo performances of tabla, flute, sarangi, sarod, sitar and santoor besides vocal concerts. Concerts and related programmes slated for each month will be uploaded on the first day of the month. Music lovers said the concerts were a “complete auditorium experience”. A senior citizen said, “I could not attend a music concert for the last two years. So, this online music festival came as a boon. There was no time restriction and no worries about arranging transport to go to the venue.” Another music lover said the audio-video quality was uncompromised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swarazankar-rolls-out-third-online-music-festival-on-october-1/articleshow/78395070.cms||Manjiri Damle
September 30, 2020||Pune||Man wanted for 19 yrs in job fraud held from Mumbai||Pune: The crime branch of the Pune police on Monday arrested a 55-year-old man in a cheating and forgery case 19 years after he had duped six youths of Rs 1.53 lakh on the pretext of offering them jobs as security clerk at Sahara airport in 2001. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Shivaji Pawar in a statement issued on Tuesday said the crime branch has launched a drive to arrest wanted/absconding criminals. A police team took the wanted suspect, Satish Dashrath Haldankar, into custody after he arrived at his residence in Mahim for meeting his ailing mother following a tip-off received by policeman Mahesh Nimbalkar.” Pawar said, “An FIR was registered against Haldankar with the Deccan Gymkhana police for cheating six youths on April 25, 2001, but his whereabouts were not known. We visited his old residence in Wanowrie but he was not found. We then worked on certain clues and took him into custody from Mahim and brought him to Pune.” “During questioning, Haldankar, a science graduate, told police that he had allegedly duped youths in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Hyderabad, Goa, Sindhudurg, Aurangabad, Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Nashik and Nagpur on the pretext of offering jobs,” Pawar said. “The suspect’s modus operandi is that he stays in different cities in different states on rental basis and publish advertisements offering government jobs. The information supplied by Haldankar will be verified during investigations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-wanted-for-19-yrs-in-job-fraud-held-from-mumbai/articleshow/78395085.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Agra||Councillors stand in drain to protest against delay in repair work||Agra: In a bid to protest against the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) administration, six municipal councillors of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) went inside a drain alleging delay in repair work. They protested against the delay in repair work of the Rajnagar nullah which passes through the center of the city in the Dalit-dominated area. Councillors alleged that the boundary wall of the nullah was supposed to be constructed by August 31. Around Rs 45 lakh fund was approved in March following the proposal of a local councillor but the repair work has not been initiated so far.Leader of BSP group of AMC councillors Manoj Soni said, “The civic body administration is not allowing development works to take place in the wards represented by the BSP councillors. The construction work of the boundary wall in Rajnagar is being delayed without any valid reason. Roads have also not been repaired. Residents have been suffering since past several months.”Ward 18 (Rajnagar) councillor Bunty Mahor said, “We have informed the civic body officials that in case the proposed work in ward 18 is not started within a week, we will be begging for funds on every major crossing of the city and at the AMC head office. Following protest, the AMC officials have assured of suitable action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/councillors-stand-in-drain-to-protest-against-delay-in-repair-work/articleshow/78391260.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Era of mugging books to score in exams is over: BJP chief JP Nadda||JAIPUR: Education will be relevant for society if students focus on concepts and their application, BJP national president J P Nadda said on Tuesday, asserting that the era of mugging up books to just pass exams has gone. Nadda was addressing the convocation ceremony of a private university here through video-conferencing. "The era of mugging it up has gone. Now it is the time of concept and application. Education will be relevant for the society if you focus on concept and application. You should think what you can do for the society from the education you have received," he said. "Today, students are entering a new life after understanding the theory of education. They will now be implementing it in practical life. I believe that you will dedicate yourself to the service of the country," Nadda said. The BJP chief asked students to express gratitude towards their parents, teachers and all those who contributed in their journey. India has always been the "Vishwa Guru", he said, adding that India has always taught the world, and Nalanda and Taxila are examples of this. Students from many countries have been coming here and getting education, Nadda said. The BJP chief said the new education policy is related to the origin of India. It was prepared after incorporating everyone's ideas, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/era-of-mugging-books-to-score-in-exams-is-over-bjp-chief-nadda/articleshow/78393957.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Goa||Plan to save INS Viraat: CM Pramod Sawant gives nod to moor it in Goa||PANAJI: A last ditch attempt is under way to save INS Viraat, with a private company showing interest in converting the oldest aircraft carrier in the world into a floating museum in Goa. If successful, the effort will save INS Viraat from being broken down for its metal and may also make Goa the first in Asia to have an aircraft carrier museum. A state government official said the private company, Envi Tech, had approached minister of state for defence Shripad Naik and offered to purchase the ship and bring it to Goa. “We have given our approval subject to the company getting other requisite permissions. The approval was given after Naik approached us,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told TOI. Senior officials said though Sawant has cleared the file to moor the decommissioned aircraft carrier in the state’s waters, it remains stuck with the ministry of defence (MoD). ‘Without def min’s nod, chances of converting carrier to museum slim’It was former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s dream to have the INS Viraat here in Goa as a floating museum. Let’s hope it comes true,” said an official in the CM’s office. Sources in the Indian Navy said that unless the defence ministry agrees to revise the contract and permit the INS Viraat to be converted into a floating museum, chances appear slim as time is running out. INS Vikrant was the country’s first aircraft carrier acquired from the UK in 1961, decommissioned in 1997 and finally junked as scrap in 2014 after a similar fruitless wait for 17 long years. “The contract, when the INS Viraat was sold to Shree RamGroup, is for the vessel to be scrapped. The successful bidder cannot just sell it to someone else without the defence ministry’s signoff,” said a senior naval official. Retired and serving naval personnel are keeping their fingers crossed. “India Inc to the rescue?” tweeted former chief of naval staff Arun Prakash. “Understand private party has undertaken to convert INS Viraat into a maritime memorial or museum at own expense and obtained approval of Goa government to park her in Zuari river. Race against time for MoD approval before ship is permanently beached on September 30.” INS Viraat was towed to Asia’s largest ship scrapyard in Alang with the beaching process set to commence on Wednesday. Though the defence minister initially put a price tag of Rs 200 crore on INS Viraat, the vessel, which began life in 1959 as HMS Hermes was finally sold for Rs 38.5 crore. As HMS Hermes, it had participated in the Falkland war. Sources in the chief minister’s office said the defence ministry was very particular about how the ship should be used and they didn’t want it to be converted into offshore casino or floating hull. The ship was in service for almost 29 years. After decommissioning, the defence ministry offered the vessel to various states, but nothing fructified of the several proposals. When the defence ministry first put up the vessel for sale, nobody came forward to purchase the ship. So, the Centre offered it in an open auction. At the open auction, the highest bidder was Gujarat-based Shree Ram Shipping. The beaching of the vessel, which is the start of the dismantling process, is expected to take 7-10 days due to the size of the aircraft carrier. Any hopes to save the vessel from being broken down into metal for recycling, hinges on quick decision making, said sources. The defence ministry had asked Envi Tech to get it in writing either from Goa, Maharashtra or Andhra Pradesh governments that they want to have museum in their state. “As the interest was shown by Naik, Sawant thought that by getting the ship to Goa it will be honouring Parrikar, as he wanted the ship to be in the state and that is the reason the chief minister gave permission to get the ship to Goa,” state government officials said. The state will not spend anything to get the ship to Goa, but the move is expected to boost Goa’s tourism potential. Goa has six national water ways. Sources said the ship would be mooring in one of these. “It has to be ecological acceptable in the river,” sources said. They said the company will conduct a bathymetric study to decide which river is suitable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plan-to-save-ins-viraat-cm-gives-nod-to-moor-it-in-goa/articleshow/78395067.cms||Murari Shetye
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||New impetus to make cities green with rooftop solar panels||Jaipur: Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has issued guidelines to create green energy cities in all the district headquarters providing subsidy up to 40% of the cost of equipment.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had announced a “Green Energy City” initiative in the Budget 2020-21 to develop 300 MW rooftop solar power to promote green energy and discourage polluting thermal power. As per the RRECL policy, a budget provision of Rs 20 crore for the subsidy would be created every year for 60 MW for reaching the 300 MW target in the next five years.RRECL has set capacity targets for each districts with Jaipur getting the highest allocation of 67 MW. The projects would come up in private residential, public buildings, tourist landmarks, parks, and community facilities. RRECL chairman Ajitabh Sharma said, “The residential buildings use about 75% of the total electricity consumption of building sector which has increased four times in the past 20 years and is expected to increase 3.5 times by 2032. Benefits of energy savings in buildings sector could go up to 30-40% with lifelong gains. It will also result in reduction of carbon emission, having positive impact on environment.” To roll out the scheme, RRECL will empanel agencies for supply, installation, testing and commissioning of solar systems and providing operation and management services for at least five years. The roof top owner will have the option of installing the system through these vendors or by himself. The subsidy will be available in either case. RRECL has made scope for different business models to promote roof top solar. Under the capex mode, the consumer purchases the solar system from an EPC contractor by paying upfront. Under the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) option a developer installs the rooftop plant with its own capital and enters into an agreement with the rooftop owner to sell electricity on a pre-decided tariff. The rooftop owner may consume the electricity and inject the excess power into the discom grid, the benefit of which (excess power injection) can be availed under net metering mechanism. Alternatively, the RESCO developer can install the rooftop solar plants with its own investments with a tri-partite power purchase agreement (PPA) among developer, consumer and discom. The eligible consumer will pay to the discom for the grid power and solar power consumed by it and in turn the discom will pay to RESCO. Other models include renting or leasing the roof to third-party solar rooftop developers and a community-based group of roof top plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-impetus-to-make-cities-green-with-rooftop-solar-panels/articleshow/78393960.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Amazon expands in Tamil Nadu with new fulfilment centre||CHENNAI: Amazon India has expanded its presence in Tamil Nadu by ramping up its fulfilment centres (FC). FCs are warehouses where Amazon undertakes the end-to-end delivery process besides serving as storage spaces. The e-commerce giant said it has added almost one million cubic feet of storage space on the outskirts of Chennai ahead of the festive season, which includes a new specialized FC at Ponneri Taluk and expansion of its existing retail FC in Tiruvallur district. The new specialized FC will house products in the large appliance and furniture category, and Amazon said it now holds a total storage capacity of close to three million cubic feet across five fulfilment centres with this expansion. Amazon did not specify the amount of investment that has gone into the new space. The company also did not specify the exact number of jobs that will be created. Abhinav Singh, director, Amazon Transportation Services, Amazon India, told TOI that on an average around 1,000 to 1,300 employees work in retail FCs on a shift basis and specialized FCs are staffed with around 600–700 employees. “Tamil Nadu is an important market for us, and we are delighted to further invest and expand our infrastructure in the state. This expansion will work as an enabler for SMBs in Tamil Nadu helping them with faster delivery of their products to a wider customer base”, he added, stressing that e-commerce is turning into an essential service due to the pandemic. With this, Amazon India’s network in TN includes five FCs with close to three million cubic feet of storage space, two sort centres with close to 75,000 square feet of processing space, delivery network with more than 120 Amazon-owned and delivery partner stations, and over 43,000 sellers. The expansion will contribute to the economic growth in the state while creating “thousands of work opportunities” for locals, Singh added. “We are happy to note that Amazon’s investment in Tamil Nadu will generate significant employment opportunities. I am certain these fulfilment centres will push the agenda of Tamil Nadu’s economic growth forward. We are pleased to see Amazon enabling MSMEs of Tamil Nadu and fostering scalable growth opportunities for sellers,” N Muruganandam, the industries secretary of the TN govt, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amazon-expands-in-tn-with-new-fulfilment-centre/articleshow/78392477.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu rules out partial reopening of schools||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has gone back on its decision to allow students of Classes X, XI and XII to go to school voluntarily from October 1 and extended the Covid-19 lockdown to October 31while relaxing several curbs. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government had put on hold its decision to partially open schools considering the views of district collectors and health experts with whom he had a meeting earlier in the day. “A decision will be taken to grant permission at an appropriate time after a review again,” the CM said. Schools, colleges, other educational and research institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment/amusement parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoos, museums, museums and tourist spots will continue to remain shut. International air travel, except for purposes permitted by the Union home ministry, is prohibited and suburban trains will not run. Religious congregations remain prohibitedReligious congregations, social, political, entertainment, academic and other gatherings and processions are prohibited. However, tea shops and restaurants will now be allowed to stay open from 6am to 9pm. Takeaway service will be permitted till 10pm. Film shoots with a crew of up to 100 adhering to standard operating procedures will be allowed. But the public are barred from sets. Chennai airport is permitted to handle 100 flight landings a day from the existing 50. Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Tuticorin and Salem airports will maintain status quo. Government and government-affiliated training institutes can function following standard operating procedures. Weekly markets in rural and urban areas allowed. “Even as the state government had extended a lot of relaxations in September, the speediness of virus spread has fallen at a state level. Aggressive efforts are on to reduce further the fatality rate,” Palaniswami said. He also advocated the use of masks and frequent washing of hands with soap at home and workplaces. The virus spread could be contained if people wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary travel and support the government’s efforts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-rules-out-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78396901.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu rules out partial reopening of schools||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has gone back on its decision to allow students of Classes X, XI and XII to go to school voluntarily from October 1 and extended the Covid-19 lockdown to October 31while relaxing several curbs. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government had put on hold its decision to partially open schools considering the views of district collectors and health experts with whom he had a meeting earlier in the day. “A decision will be taken to grant permission at an appropriate time after a review again,” the CM said. Schools, colleges, other educational and research institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment/amusement parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoos, museums, museums and tourist spots will continue to remain shut. International air travel, except for purposes permitted by the Union home ministry, is prohibited and suburban trains will not run. Religious congregations remain prohibitedReligious congregations, social, political, entertainment, academic and other gatherings and processions are prohibited. However, tea shops and restaurants will now be allowed to stay open from 6am to 9pm. Takeaway service will be permitted till 10pm. Film shoots with a crew of up to 100 adhering to standard operating procedures will be allowed. But the public are barred from sets. Chennai airport is permitted to handle 100 flight landings a day from the existing 50. Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Tuticorin and Salem airports will maintain status quo. Government and government-affiliated training institutes can function following standard operating procedures. Weekly markets in rural and urban areas allowed. “Even as the state government had extended a lot of relaxations in September, the speediness of virus spread has fallen at a state level. Aggressive efforts are on to reduce further the fatality rate,” Palaniswami said. He also advocated the use of masks and frequent washing of hands with soap at home and workplaces. The virus spread could be contained if people wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary travel and support the government’s efforts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-rules-out-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78396905.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu rules out partial reopening of schools||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has gone back on its decision to allow students of Classes X, XI and XII to go to school voluntarily from October 1 and extended the Covid-19 lockdown to October 31while relaxing several curbs. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government had put on hold its decision to partially open schools considering the views of district collectors and health experts with whom he had a meeting earlier in the day. “A decision will be taken to grant permission at an appropriate time after a review again,” the CM said. Schools, colleges, other educational and research institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment/amusement parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoos, museums, museums and tourist spots will continue to remain shut. International air travel, except for purposes permitted by the Union home ministry, is prohibited and suburban trains will not run. Religious congregations remain prohibitedReligious congregations, social, political, entertainment, academic and other gatherings and processions are prohibited. However, tea shops and restaurants will now be allowed to stay open from 6am to 9pm. Takeaway service will be permitted till 10pm. Film shoots with a crew of up to 100 adhering to standard operating procedures will be allowed. But the public are barred from sets. Chennai airport is permitted to handle 100 flight landings a day from the existing 50. Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Tuticorin and Salem airports will maintain status quo. Government and government-affiliated training institutes can function following standard operating procedures. Weekly markets in rural and urban areas allowed. “Even as the state government had extended a lot of relaxations in September, the speediness of virus spread has fallen at a state level. Aggressive efforts are on to reduce further the fatality rate,” Palaniswami said. He also advocated the use of masks and frequent washing of hands with soap at home and workplaces. The virus spread could be contained if people wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary travel and support the government’s efforts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-rules-out-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78396902.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: MLC Anil Bhosale's SUV, sedan seized in bank fraud case||PUNE: The economic offences wing of the Pune police seized NCP sitting MLC Anil Bhosale’s Land Cruiser sports utility vehicle and a Toyota Camry sedan, collectively worth Rs1.30 crore, in connection with the alleged Rs71.78 crore fraud at the Shivajirao Bhosale cooperative bank. Bhosale, who is in jail, headed the bank as its chairman. Deputy commissioner of police (economic offences) Sambhaji Kadam told TOI on Tuesday, “We seized the vehicles on September 22 and 23 from the residence of the accused at Bhosalenagar as per provisions under section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure after our investigation revealed that the cars were purchased by misusing the bank’s funds.” Kadam said, “We are conducting searches for identifying movable and immovable properties owned by Bhosale and three others arrested so far in the bank fraud case. We have seized the SUV and sedan car on the basis of information provided by Bhosale’s driver during questioning and have kept the seized vehicles at the Shivajinagar police station premises.” “A legal procedure will be initiated for the auction of these vehicles as per the provisions of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositers (In Financial Establishments) Act for repaying investors’ money. We had earlier seized a Maruti Baleno, valued at Rs3 lakh, belonging to the bank’s chief executive officer, Tanaji Padwal, a month ago,” he added. Senior inspector Murlidhar Karpe said, “We have so far freezed 170 bank accounts of Bhosale and others associated with him. Together, these accounts have Rs1.90 crore. We had earlier sent a proposal to the district collector for auction of four properties of the arrested suspects. We have identified and collected documents of 14 immovable properties, collectively valued at Rs31 crore, and mostly owned by Bhosale. We will soon initiate a second proposal for the auctioning of these 14 properties.” Karpe referred to the FIR and said, “Bhosale, Tanaji Padwal, bank director Suryaji Jadhav and officer Shailesh Bhosale committed a fraud of Rs71.78 crore in 2018-19 by fudging entries in the bank’s cash balance and siphoning off the amount to other accounts for their personal benefit. We have arrested and filed a chargesheet against the four who are lodged in the Yerawada central jail under judicial custody. A forensic audit report from experts is awaited for establishing the money trail. We are also conducting an audit of the bank’s non-performing assets worth Rs3.92 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mlc-bhosales-suv-sedan-seized-in-bank-fraud-case/articleshow/78395092.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 30, 2020||Pune||Gym owners, trainers in Pune to stage protest for reopening||PUNE: Thousands of gym owners and trainers from across the city will wear the same t-shirt when they step out for a morning walk in their localities to individually protest against the state government, which is yet to permit reopening of fitness centres. Nilesh Kale, president of the Pune Fitness Club Association, said, they had to devise such a measure since gathering to protest is a punishable offence. “We have also brought on-board a doctor and a lawyer to certify gyms as Covid-free once we are permitted to open. Despite multiple letters to various authorities, we are yet to receive permission to begin operations. We are planning to write to the commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) once again in the coming days to highlight our plight and seek the opening of gyms,” Kale said. Gym owner Rupesh Chavan said, “Six months into the lockdown, over 200 gyms in the city have shut down, while hundreds of others are looking for investment through partnership to ensure survival. We are expecting more to shut down after re-opening permission is granted as the liabilities are only mounting. We get at least one call every day about someone willing to give up their gym set-up or sell their equipment.” Kale said they were struggling to make ends meet. “With most of the businesses now open, banks are chasing us for EMI and other payments. I have some dues left at my daughter’s school. There is an assortment of other liabilities which we cannot pay since the business has been closed for so long. Neither is the government helping us by giving an extension for payment of the liabilities nor is it permitting us to commence operations,” he said. Another gym owner from the city, Sangram Chougule, is hopeful that gyms will be permitted to function from October. “Now that the restaurants and bars have received permission to function, I hope that gyms, too, can open. Apart from the mounting dues and bills, we are also witnessing damage to the gyms and equipment due to heavy rains. Close to 20% gyms in the state have already shut down. If more shut down, it will have a lasting negative impact on the fitness industry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gym-owners-trainers-to-stage-protest/articleshow/78395089.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Man who made hoax calls detained in Kota||KOTA: A 36-year-old man, who allegedly made hoax calls to Mumbai and Bengaluru police threatening to blow up MLA Colony in Mumbai and TCS in Bengaluru was detained from a hotel room near Kota railway station on Tuesday morning. The Kota police have informed the Mumbai and Bengaluru police about the detention. The teams are on their way to Kota. The accused during initial interrogation admitted to having made hoax calls in an inebriated state. Also, he wanted to earn sympathy from his family members by being in police custody. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday afternoon, Kota city SP Gourav Yadav said that the accused has been identified as Piyush Purohit and is a native of Juliasar area under Nechwa police station, Sikar. He is currently living with his parents in Dhule in Maharashtra. The Mumbai and Bengaluru police based on location of the number of hoax caller informed Kota police on Monday late night. Kota police swung into action immediately under supervision of ASP Praveen Kumar Jain and DSP Bhagwat Singh Hingad. They detained Piyush Purohit from a hotel room in railway station area on Tuesday morning. The police added that so far, the accused does not seem to have any criminal background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-who-made-hoax-calls-detained-in-kota/articleshow/78393998.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu rules out partial reopening of schools||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has gone back on its decision to allow students of Classes X, XI and XII to go to school voluntarily from October 1 and extended the Covid-19 lockdown to October 31while relaxing several curbs. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government had put on hold its decision to partially open schools considering the views of district collectors and health experts with whom he had a meeting earlier in the day. “A decision will be taken to grant permission at an appropriate time after a review again,” the CM said. Schools, colleges, other educational and research institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment/amusement parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoos, museums, museums and tourist spots will continue to remain shut. International air travel, except for purposes permitted by the Union home ministry, is prohibited and suburban trains will not run. Religious congregations remain prohibitedReligious congregations, social, political, entertainment, academic and other gatherings and processions are prohibited. However, tea shops and restaurants will now be allowed to stay open from 6am to 9pm. Takeaway service will be permitted till 10pm. Film shoots with a crew of up to 100 adhering to standard operating procedures will be allowed. But the public are barred from sets. Chennai airport is permitted to handle 100 flight landings a day from the existing 50. Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Tuticorin and Salem airports will maintain status quo. Government and government-affiliated training institutes can function following standard operating procedures. Weekly markets in rural and urban areas allowed. “Even as the state government had extended a lot of relaxations in September, the speediness of virus spread has fallen at a state level. Aggressive efforts are on to reduce further the fatality rate,” Palaniswami said. He also advocated the use of masks and frequent washing of hands with soap at home and workplaces. The virus spread could be contained if people wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary travel and support the government’s efforts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-rules-out-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78396906.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu rules out partial reopening of schools||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has gone back on its decision to allow students of Classes X, XI and XII to go to school voluntarily from October 1 and extended the Covid-19 lockdown to October 31while relaxing several curbs. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government had put on hold its decision to partially open schools considering the views of district collectors and health experts with whom he had a meeting earlier in the day. “A decision will be taken to grant permission at an appropriate time after a review again,” the CM said. Schools, colleges, other educational and research institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment/amusement parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoos, museums, museums and tourist spots will continue to remain shut. International air travel, except for purposes permitted by the Union home ministry, is prohibited and suburban trains will not run. Religious congregations remain prohibitedReligious congregations, social, political, entertainment, academic and other gatherings and processions are prohibited. However, tea shops and restaurants will now be allowed to stay open from 6am to 9pm. Takeaway service will be permitted till 10pm. Film shoots with a crew of up to 100 adhering to standard operating procedures will be allowed. But the public are barred from sets. Chennai airport is permitted to handle 100 flight landings a day from the existing 50. Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Tuticorin and Salem airports will maintain status quo. Government and government-affiliated training institutes can function following standard operating procedures. Weekly markets in rural and urban areas allowed. “Even as the state government had extended a lot of relaxations in September, the speediness of virus spread has fallen at a state level. Aggressive efforts are on to reduce further the fatality rate,” Palaniswami said. He also advocated the use of masks and frequent washing of hands with soap at home and workplaces. The virus spread could be contained if people wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary travel and support the government’s efforts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-rules-out-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78394021.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu rules out partial reopening of schools||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has gone back on its decision to allow students of Classes X, XI and XII to go to school voluntarily from October 1 and extended the Covid-19 lockdown to October 31while relaxing several curbs. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the government had put on hold its decision to partially open schools considering the views of district collectors and health experts with whom he had a meeting earlier in the day. “A decision will be taken to grant permission at an appropriate time after a review again,” the CM said. Schools, colleges, other educational and research institutions, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment/amusement parks, auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoos, museums, museums and tourist spots will continue to remain shut. International air travel, except for purposes permitted by the Union home ministry, is prohibited and suburban trains will not run. Religious congregations remain prohibitedReligious congregations, social, political, entertainment, academic and other gatherings and processions are prohibited. However, tea shops and restaurants will now be allowed to stay open from 6am to 9pm. Takeaway service will be permitted till 10pm. Film shoots with a crew of up to 100 adhering to standard operating procedures will be allowed. But the public are barred from sets. Chennai airport is permitted to handle 100 flight landings a day from the existing 50. Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Tuticorin and Salem airports will maintain status quo. Government and government-affiliated training institutes can function following standard operating procedures. Weekly markets in rural and urban areas allowed. “Even as the state government had extended a lot of relaxations in September, the speediness of virus spread has fallen at a state level. Aggressive efforts are on to reduce further the fatality rate,” Palaniswami said. He also advocated the use of masks and frequent washing of hands with soap at home and workplaces. The virus spread could be contained if people wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary travel and support the government’s efforts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-rules-out-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78396903.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fire at showroom, 32 vehicles charred||JODHPUR: Around 32 electric vehicles were completely charred when a showroom caught fire here in Magra Punjla area early on Tuesday morning. Cause of fire could not be ascertained but short-circuit could have been the reason. The fire was so intense that it took about half a dozen fire tenders to control the fire in about three hours. The vehicles, as well as all the fixtures of the showroom, were reduced to ashes. SHO (Mandore) Suresh Soni said, “According to the owner they had left the shop the previous night and got information at about 4am about the incident.” The neighbours informed the fire station as well as the showroom owner. Estimated price of the all the vehicles is said to be Rs 60 lakh. According to the police, the fire spread quickly because of the combustible nature of the material, but fortunately, none of the neighbouring buildings were affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fire-at-showroom-32-vehicles-charred/articleshow/78394007.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||‘Govt has enough warehouses, ready to procure Kharif crops’||Jaipur: State warehousing corporation chairman PK Goyal on Tuesday said the state had sufficient warehousing capacity for procurement of kharif crops. He said the state warehousing corporation had a capacity of 1.5 lakh metric ton while the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) had a capacity of nearly 1 lakh metric ton. Goyal said another 12-lakh metric ton capacity could be added if NAFED godowns were utilised. Goyal was speaking at the state-level steering committee meeting on arrangements for procurement of pulses and oilseeds in Kharif 2020. Principal secretary (cooperatives and agriculture) Kunjilal Meena said proposals for procurement were being sent to the Centre for the purchase of moong, urad soybean and groundnut for November. Meena said as per PSS (price support scheme) guidelines, maximum 25 per cent of total prodctuion of moong, urad, soybean and groundnut could be procured. Accordingly, a proposal will be sent to the Centre for purchasing 12.22 lakh metric tons of produce. He said Rs 1,935 crore working capital and revolving fund will be required for the purchase. Sudhir Sharma (secretary, finance department) assured that the department will provide the support. Meena said special instructions have been given to the centres for procurement that commodities should be procured according to the Fair Average Quality (FAQ) standard. He directed that strict action will be taken against the relevant committees for not purchasing according to the FAQ standard and will also be excluded from the purchase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-has-enough-warehouses-ready-to-procure-kharif-crops/articleshow/78394024.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Doctors now tackling cases of post-Covid complications in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The city has reported several cases of post-Covid-19 complications among those who had fully recovered from the virus. Some patients have complained of complications even after three months since their discharge from hospital. Among the most common post-Covid-19 complications were lung fibrosis, secondary infections and rashes. Some continue to complain of shortness in breath necessitating oxygen therapy post recovery. According to doctors, around 20% of high risk cases have complained of post-recovery complications and needed medical attention after discharge. Meanwhile, recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state rose to 90% with most recovered patients having resumed their normal routine. “Patients, who require 15 to 20 days of ventilator care or high-flow oxygen and non-invasive ventilators may have sequelae, including restrictive lung disease with lung fibrosis and decrease in diffusion capacity of lungs that may limit exercise capacity of lungs. It leaves the lungs scarred affecting their function. In such cases, patients might need oxygen support for close to 3 to 6 months post recovery,” said Dr Lokesh Gutta, consultant interventional pulmonologist, Manipal hospitals. The best intervention to prevent lung fibrosis is early diagnosis of Covid-19 and timely treatment with antiviral drugs and to some extent with anti-inflammatory medication, Dr Lokesh said. Doctors said that thrombotic phenomenon in Covid-19 is leading to large vessel stroke which can cause permanent disability like paralysis, and myocardial infarction leading to sudden death. “Clot formations in pulmonary vessels lead to pulmonary thromboembolism and the patient can die because of hypoxia and right heart failure. Many patients in post Covid-19 phase are witnessing these health issues,” Dr Lokesh said. Doctors also said that some patients with severe Covid-19, have complications like limb ischemia and loss of vision post recovery. Taking proper rest and checking oxygen saturation levels for up to six months is important in post Covid-19 care, they suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/docs-now-tackling-cases-of-post-covid-complications/articleshow/78391938.cms||Venu Lanka
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation to relay 2,600 interior roads in added areas||CHENNAI: After three years, interior roads in Ambattur, Shollinganallur, Perungudi, Tiruvottiyur, Valasaravakkam, Manali and Madhavaram will be freshly laid by Greater Chennai Corporation. The civic body has floated tenders to relay 2,601 roads in these areas at a cost of Rs 191 crore, senior officials. A majority of the roads, totaling a length of 350km, will be topped with bitumen while the remaining will be concrete roads. A senior official said roads are subject to wear and tear and need to be relaid every three years. “We plan to start work by January 2021,” the official said. Funds for these roads have been obtained from the Chennai Mega City Development Fund and Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure. The senior official said detailed consultations were held with zonal officers to prepare a list of roads that needed overhaul. “There were damaged due to the pipeline-laying work by Metrowater and laying of optical fibre cables,” he said. The list was studied by a road design consultant who prepared a detailed project report. Apart from these roads, the corporation has also finalised relaying interior roads in core city areas. Around 1,100 roads covering 183km will be freshly laid at a cost of Rs 100 crore. R Ramalingam, a resident of Ambattur, said the development has come as “a welcome surprise” as a majority of the interior roads required urgent attention. “However, the corporation should ensure that the contractors maintain complete transparency about the project by putting up notice boards. These should have details about how much milling is being done on the roads,” he said. Also, Ambattur has a number of open drains along the roads that shrink the carriageway. “The corporation should ensure that this is taken into consideration,” Ramalingam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-to-relay-2600-interior-roads-in-added-areas/articleshow/78392495.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Declining trend in Covid-19 cases may be temporary, warn doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as the cumulative Covid-19 tally in the district crossed the 50,000 case-mark, it has been observed over the last two weeks that daily cases have shown a stabilizing trend. The number of daily cases is currently around the 400 to 500 mark, a drop from the 700 to 1,000 daily cases being recorded earlier this month and throughout last month. On certain days, daily cases have also been in the 150 to 200 range. However, doctors caution that the declining trend is not conclusive and that cases may peak again after the festive season if people don’t adhere to Covid-19 safety norms. The first day of September saw 1,025 new Covid-19 cases with following days seeing numbers between 600 to 800. However on September 12, the number of daily cases did not touch the 500-mark with numbers hovering in the 300 to 400 range in the following days. On September 21, only 150 cases were reported, the lowest in 65 days since July 18 when the district recorded 179 cases. On September 28, this number came down to 145. With total of 13,199 cases so far, September has seen 455 new cases per day on an average. In comparison, August saw an average of around 840 cases per day with a monthly total of 24,429 Covid-19 cases. The district administration has been carrying out 5,000 to 6,000 cases daily with a focus on tracing in high-risk areas, testing and treatment. Speaking to TOI, Covid special officer for north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Dr PV Sudhakar said,“Even though there is a stabilizing trend, we cannot conclude with certainty that cases have declined. Given the experience in Delhi and even in some European countries where a second wave took off after an initial decline in cases, (we can assume) the same can repeat (here) at an alarming rate since October to November is the festive season and a lot of inter-district and state movement takes place while people tend to be careless. Even now, many are not wearing masks and have shown laxity in following safety norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/declining-trend-in-covid-19-cases-may-be-temporary-warn-doctors/articleshow/78391886.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reported less than 8,000 cases for 10th day in a row||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,190 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 6,87,351. This is the 10th day in a row that the state reported less than 8,000 cases.  The daily casualty numbers have also come down in the state. On Tuesday 35 deaths were registered taking the overall Covid-19 casualties to 5,780. For the first time in months, all districts reported cases in only three digits, including the present Covid-19 epicentre, East Godavari. East Godavari reported 991 fresh cases, followed by West Godavari 907 and Chittoor 784. Kurnool reported only 144 fresh cases. The recovery rate crossed 90 percent with the discharge of 9,836 patients on Tuesday. There are currently 59,435 active cases with 6,22,136 cumulative recoveries. The state conducted 68,429 tests and detected 6,190 cases on Tuesday with a case positivity rate of 9%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 12%, while the mortality rate came down to 0.84%. Chief minister Y Jaganmohan Reddy, during a review meeting with district collectors and police officials on Tuesday, said that the case positivity rate has come down to 8.3 percent from 12.3% in the last couple of weeks. Jagan also asked the officials to provide people with information related to the availability of beds, test results, and hospitals. “Officials have to ensure the 104 helpline number is working without any interruption. District collectors may monitor the calls handled by the helpline by making mock calls,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/less-than-8k-cases-for-10th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/78391918.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Trio rob cabbie of his car at gunpoint in Maharashtra||PUNE: In the third case of citizens being robbed at gunpoint since September 16, three men robbed a cab driver of his four-wheeler on Monday night while he was waiting outside a firm at the Hinjewadi IT Park to pick up his wife who works there. The driver was sitting in his car when the trio approached him around 8.50pm and got in by force. One of them was armed with a pistol and they threatened the driver to step out of the car. The trio then drove away. The police found the car abandoned about a km away from the robbery spot after it met with an accident early on Tuesday. “We suspect the one who drove the car after robbing it, lost control over the wheel and the vehicle collided against the road divider at high speed. They abandoned the car and ran away,” assistant inspector Sagar Kate of the Hinjewadi police told TOI. The 34-year-old cab driver, Yogesh Ganesh Shinde of Gokulnagar in Kondhwa, lodged a complaint with the Hinjewadi police station. “Shinde’s wife works as a security guard in one of the prominent companies in the IT Park. Shinde operates his cab in the day and while returning home, picks up his wife from the company after her job hours,” Kate said. Kate said the cab driver came to the spot at around 8.40pm. “The three suspects appeared to be in the age group of 22-25 years. After moving in, one of them told Shinde to hand over the keys of the car. They were speaking in Marathi. Before Shinde could react, another suspect came close to him and put a pistol to his head. The trio then abused him and pulled Shinde out of the car. Later, they drove away.” Kate said it is not known how the suspects came to the spot and how they fled after the accident. “We have obtained some inputs in the case and the suspects will be rounded up soon,” Kate said. Three men had hijacked a sedan after beating up the driver Kapil Sharma and robbed him of Rs5,000 and his cellphone on Wagholi-Lohegaon Road around 2.30am on September 16. Some men pointed a gun at the wife of a doctor near Khed Shivapur on Saturday night when they were returning home after dinner, and stole their gold rings and a wrist watch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-rob-cabbie-of-car-at-gunpoint-in-hinjewadi-it-park/articleshow/78395096.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Grocery bills spike as demand grows for nutritious food||VISAKHAPATNAM: Grocery bills have shot up due to a sharp rise in the demand and consumption of nutritious food among the citizens of the port city. In a bid to boost immunity, consumers are buying larger packs of nutritious foods like cashew, ghee, red gram, green gram, butter, wheat, raisins, almonds etc. “This may remain high for some time as there has been a massive awareness among the people on the concept of hygiene and importance of home food. The herd-immunity level has also increased among the public now,” said Dr CL Venkata Rao, former executive vice chairman of Swach Andhra Mission and a gastro-enterologist. Kottakota Lokesh, proprietor of Sriramulu Departmental Stores at Sivjaipalem, said “I kept my kirana shops open even during the lockdown except for a few days in May when positive cases were reported in my area. People preferred bigger packs of certain food items like biscuits, nuts, daal etc during the lockdown period. An average bill for my regular customer has now doubled.” P Suresh, a kirana shop proprietor at MVP Rythu Bazar, said that they had a few problems in procuring food items during the lockdown period as there was no transportation facility. Large bottles of cold beverages and bigger tins of oil and ghee were preferred. “People have now been more aware of a certain food which has high nutritious value. We also tried to procure those food items than other junk food materials, which had lost demand during the lockdown period,” Suresh said. K Sasirekha, a teacher, said that they preferred the large size packs and huge quantity of food grains to restrict themselves from frequent visits of the shops due to the fear of community spread of the Covid-19. “We also stopped sending kids to the shops for purchases. Instead, we either book through online or send older persons from our family,” Sasirekha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/grocery-bills-spike-as-demand-grows-for-nutritious-food/articleshow/78392027.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 30, 2020||Goa||There’s no political will to promote Konkani: Konkani Bhasha Mandal||MARGAO: The newly elected president of Konkani Bhasha Mandal (KBM) Anwesha Singbal on Tuesday pointed to the lack of political will as the major stumbling block towards Konkani’s development, even as she stressed that the watchdog role the organisation played since its inception to protect the interests of the language wouldn’t be compromised under her leadership. “There’s absolutely no political willingness, either with regard to the Konkani language or education,” Singbal told TOI. “And I am talking not just about Konkani education. Even with regards to overall education, the focus, priority and determination is sadly lacking. For this government, the priority lies in roads, buildings and bridges, not in language and human resource.” Singbal, 34, became the first woman and the second-youngest person to head the KBM since its establishment in September 1962, after she was elected unopposed as its president on July 26. The KBM is celebrating its 58th foundation day on Wednesday. Singbal, who has been an active member of the KBM executive committee for the last 18 years, dismissed suggestions that her being a woman will have any bearing on the plans and policies for the organisation. “We have been working as a team all these years. I was also elected the first woman general secretary in 2012. So this has given me the confidence to shoulder the high expectations Konkani lovers have from me as a woman at the helm of the KBM. And this confidence mainly stems from the fact that the entire team is with me. So more than my being a woman, it will be the collective contribution of the young team that I lead that I am sure will make a difference,” she said. Plans are afoot to revive Chitrangi, a women’s-only annual festival that the KBM had started a few years ago, but later discontinued. “Chitrangi was devised to be a two-day festival that would serve as a culmination of events we organised throughout the year aimed at addressing women’s issues, like for example, the events we held on menstrual exclusion at 20 colleges through the year that culminated with Chitrangi. We couldn’t organise the festival for the last two years owing to administrative reasons. But its revival is on the cards. The Chitrangi team is working on it,” Singbal said. Significantly, the KBM president sought to set the record straight over allegations about the organisation’s failure in leading the MoI agitation that saw Konkani veterans aligning with Marathi protagonists to fight for the cause of primary education in mother tongue. “It was a conscious decision we took to withdraw ourselves from the agitation,” Singbal said. “At one point, we thought the entire agitation was becoming political and when BJP came to power, it followed the same earlier policy of MoI in primary education without any change. At that time, because of politicisation, we withdrew from the agitation. Secondly, as a lot of people were arguing with us over the lack of learning resources available for students in Konkani medium — with questions being raised over there being no books, no children’s literature, no proper curriculum in Konkani — we thought let us focus on creating these resources first and then go to the people and tell them — Look, this is what all we have in Konkani, and this is the reason you should send your children to Konkani medium schools, as Konkani schools are nowhere inferior to English medium ones.” By associating with several national-level educational organisatons, including the NCERT, Singbal said the KBM could produce a lot of educational books in Konkani, apart from children’s literature. Countering accusations of KBM having relinquished its confrontational approach to protect Konkani’s interests, Singbal said the allegations have been driven more out of ignorance about KBM’s activities. “We did confront the government whenever we thought Konkani was given a raw deal. Maybe we didn’t come out on the streets, but I don’t believe in being combative every time in our fight for justice. The important thing is to achieve our objectives, whatever be the means and the mode,” she said. The watchdog role of the KBM, she stressed, will not be compromised. “The government knows that the KBM is a formidable force and thus cannot do things that will be perceived as harmful to Konkani’s interests,” she added. Among KBM’s immediate priorities, Singbal said, is facilitating young scholars to produce research-oriented works on Konkani literature and language dynamics. “The exercise to shortlist and identify potential researchers is under way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/theres-no-political-will-to-promote-konkani-new-kbm-prez/articleshow/78395095.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam cops intensify drive to install CCTV cameras at places of worship||VISAKHAPATNAM: City police have intensified their drive to convince managements of all places of worship to speed up security measures such as installation of CCTV cameras, ensuring proper lighting and arranging fire fighting equipment. In wake of the fire mishap at Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Antarvedi of East Godavari district where an ancient chariot was gutted, Andhra Pradesh DGP D Gautam Sawang instructed managements of shrines to boost their safety measures. According to a senior police official, there are around 50 to 70 places of worship under each police station limits in Vizag city of which only 50% are equipped with CCTV cameras and other safety equipment.  However, authorities of smaller worship places have been struggling to install safety equipment as they do not have the requisite funds. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-cops-intensify-drive-to-install-cctv-cameras-at-places-of-worship/articleshow/78392038.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Revenue dept stalls land deals on project route||Coimbatore: The revenue department had shot off a letter to the registration department, asking them to stall new registration of land in the area that is notified for the western ring road project. “Land acquisition would be carried out in 15 revenue villages in Coimbatore North, Perur and Madukkarai blocks for the project. So, do not carry out any registration work, nor provide any no objection certificate/building licence for the land that is earmarked for the project,” district revenue officer D Ramaduraimurugan had said in the letter to the registration department in August. While revenue department officials said they had in the past informed the registration department about the changes in alignment and the letter was sent as a reminder, their counterparts in the registration department said they had not received any such letter earlier. The state highways department had changed the alignment of the road project to 32.4km from Mayilkal to Narasimhanaickenpalayam, from 26km from Kuniyamuthur to Thudiyalur in 2014 and obtained administrative sanction from the state government in 2016. K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said, “While the alignment was changed years ago, it was only a month ago that the revenue department notified the same to the registration department. During the period, several land transactions and building construction had taken place on the project route.” Explaining that four villages in the first draft were not included in the second draft, in which eight other villages were added, he said the revenue department was yet to communicate about the villages that were removed, stalling land registration there. “The registration department is unlikely to start registration process there without a letter from the revenue department, mentioning that land in those villages won’t be required for the project.” When contacted, a revenue official said, “We have mentioned the survey numbers of land where the project is going to come in the letter and asked the registration department to stop registration process only in those survey numbers. So, it is not necessary to send a separate letter, mentioning the land that is removed from the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revenue-dept-stalls-land-deals-on-project-route/articleshow/78394027.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four-year-old girl burnt alive in Bikaner district||Bikaner: A four-year-old girl was burnt alive when her thatched-roof house in a village in Bikaner district of Rajasthan caught fire on Tuesday. The incident occurred in Sova village under Nokha police station area where the girl was sleeping in her house in an agriculture farm. Her parents and other family members were working in the field when the fire broke out, police said. “The girl could not come out and was charred to death. Her postmortem was conducted on the spot and the body was handed over to family members,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-year-old-girl-burnt-alive/articleshow/78394029.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Srikakulam district sees drop in positive cases, deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: The number of Covid-19 cases in Srikakulam district is on the decline. The district currently has 3,923 active Covid-19 cases, of which 2,432 cases are under home isolation, 905 patients are at Covid Care Centres and only 586 are admitted to Covid-19 hospitals. Covid-19 control authorities in the district said Srikakulam registered close to 15,000 cases in September as against 17,353 cases in August. The number of deaths this month has also been lower with 75 this month compared to 158 in August. “We were more successful in controlling the death rate compared to positive cases. It is a big relief to all of us. We will continue to maintain the same tempo and ensure we completely eradicate this disease very soon from the district,” Srikakulam collector J Nivas told TOI. The collector added that even with the increase in number of tests in September, the positivity and mortality rates drastically fell. On Tuesday, the collector said, 6,050 tests were conducted, of which 377 returned positive. A month ago on August 29, 5,215 tests were conducted, of which 1,119 were positive. “We are now counting the number of recoveries rather than the number of new positive cases. The hospitalisation of patients has also come down to below 600 against above 2,000 in July and August,” said another Covid-19 control officer. AP state Covid-19 control special officer and cardiologist Dr C Prabhakar Reddy told TOI that they expect to bring the outbreak under control by the end of the year. Senior citizens, he added, must exercise care by avoiding public gatherings. “People with mild symptoms need not worry about the disease. They can get relief with the Rs 300 treatment that includes steroids which has been widely promoted,” Prabhakar Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/srikakulam-dist-sees-drop-in-ve-cases-deaths/articleshow/78391905.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 30, 2020||Chennai||This campaign reminds why HIV patients need ART||CHENNAI: Adhering to antiretroviral therapy (ART) can reduce the viral load among people living with HIV/AIDS, thus reducing the risk of transmission to others. However, due to various reasons, many people fail to stick to the course. To raise awareness among community members, Voluntary Health Services (VHS) has partnered with Sahodaran, a male sexual health project, to launch the U=U (undetectable equals untransmittable) campaign on social media. “In the last few months, the entire focus has been on containing the spread of Covid-19. But we also need to focus on diseases such as HIV/AIDS. Many people do not realise the treatment options available now or the fact that strict adherence to ART can cut down the risk of transmitting it to other people significantly,” says Suresh Seshadri, honorary secretary, VHS, adding that the initiative is part of an international campaign. According to 2018 UNAIDS report, there are 2.1 million people living with HIV (PLH) in India. “Normally, HIV transmission depends on the viral load. When you put a patient on ART, the viral load comes down, and after taking it regularly for six months, the virus becomes undetectable in your blood,” says Dr S Chandrasekaran, an HIV specialist. The U=U campaign was launched on September 26 by actor Aarthi Ganeshkar. “We received a grant from Gilead Rainbow Grants and have tied up with Sahodaran to carry it out as we want to have active participation and engagement with community members,” says A Vijayaraman, director – programmes, VHS. As part of the campaign, posters and videos aimed at creating awareness will be shared on social media – Facebook, Twitter, YouTube – and posted in WhatsApp groups. “Health, happiness, energy and rest are essential to improve the quality of life of HIV positive people. But, for that, they have to suppress the virus so that it cannot be detected and spread to other people,” says project manager Sharan Karthik Raj, adding that activists as well as celebrities will help promote the campaign on social media. U=U stresses on taking ART medications regularly, having nutritious food, taking care of one’s mental health, creating a good friendship circle, practising yoga and living life independently and with self-confidence. “If you don’t adhere to ART for six months without a break, not only does viral load increase but people also become vulnerable to other opportunistic infections such as TB, so we need to insist that people take medication regularly,” says Jaya, general manager, Sahodaran. But community members, who face social discrimination, lack of family support and financial problems, find it difficult to stick to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-campaign-reminds-why-hiv-patients-need-art/articleshow/78392487.cms||Priya Menon
September 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh promotes new spice crops to enhance income||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a first of its kind in the state, the horticulture department is promoting cultivation of high-value spices such as nutmeg, cinnamon, black pepper, turmeric, ginger, and a few others as inter crops with coconut in the state. Covid-19 pandemic has fuelled the demand for spices as more people are taking to higher consumption of spices as immunity boosters. The horticulture department has observed that there is a need to promote high-value spice crops in the state as there is a big opportunity for spice promotion. India will need to double production of spices in order to meet the growing demand for domestic as well as international markets. There is an ample opportunity to grow high value spices as the state is blessed with different climatic conditions suitable for a wide range of horticulture crops. Chiranjiv Choudhary, commissioner of horticulture, said that realizing the demand for spices, they decided to promote high value spices as inter crops in coconut gardens. Among new crops, nutmeg, pepper and cinnamon have been successfully introduced for commercial cultivation. The department established Master Pepper Nursery in Chintapalli for large-scale multiplication of new ICAR-IISR pepper varieties.  Nutmeg is known as a twin spice as it is valued for its flavouring and medicinal properties. Nutmeg is a beneficiary inter crop in coconut gardens as it best utilizes the space between coconut palms and also provides a sustainable source of income to the farmers. A profit of Rs 80,000 to Rs 1,00,000 per acre per annum can be expected from nutmeg. “We have identified potential areas in West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts for spice promotion and new varieties in other districts also. In total, spices will be cultivated as inter crops in over 400 hectares in the state during the year 2020-21,” Choudhary said. The government will spend around Rs 44 lakh under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH). The horticulture department is procuring quality pepper and nutmeg from Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR) at Kozhikode in Kerala for development of mother blocks at the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) at Venkataramannagudem and Vijayarai. These KVKs will supply planting material to farmers. The department in partnership with Rainforest Alliance working for development of spices in Eastern Ghats to uplift the income levels of tribal farmers. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), around 70 to 80% of the world’s population uses herbal medicines for primary health care. The demand for spices such as pepper, cardamom, ginger, turmeric, coriander, cumin, celery, fennel, fenugreek, nutmeg and others has been increasing as more and more people rush to strengthen immunity during the Covid-19 pandemic, the medical fraternity observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-promotes-new-spice-crops-to-enhance-income/articleshow/78391983.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 30, 2020||Surat||Cops probe into land fraud case ‘link’ to Patel family||Surat: While the investigation by the special investigation team into the abatement of suicide case of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel is at its peak with arrest of seven accused including four policemen, the Surat rural police has begun probe into a land fraud case registered in Kim which allegedly has links to the family of the deceased.A team of Surat rural police conducted searches at Patel’s residence in Rander and farm house in Jahangirpura on Monday in connection with the land fraud case. Patel’s family had objected to the search, said police. Police said that Patel’s sons Dharmesh and Jayant have been missing since couple of days and were not responding to calls.According to Surat rural police, the land case pertains to an alleged fraud of converting a government reserved land in Mulad village of Surat district into private ownership. The case was registered with Kim police station on September 11. The offence was registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 465 (forgery), 466 (forgery of record of public register), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged documents as genuine) and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy). The complaint was lodged by Olpad mamlatdar Nagar Madhu Chauhan, who had named Abdul Latif Nabi Shaikh and Harish Chandrakant Patel as accused. During investigation police arrested Latif (47). Further probe revealed that driver of Olpad mamlatdar office Mohommadali Gulamali Malek (51) and a land broker Ismail Ahmad Shaikh (41) too were involved and they too were arrested. Police said that Latif allegedly forged papers related to 45 acre of reserved government land worth Rs 100 crore in Mulad with help of Malek and Ismail.Through the forged papers the accused attempted to transfer the ownership of land to another accused Harish Patel.“We have found sale agreement related to the Mulad land in question. The parties in the agreement include Patel’s son Dharmesh, his wife Vaishali, Patel’s second son Jayant and his wife Rupal, and Hemant Natwar Patel, a relative of Patel,” said B K Khachar, police inspector, LCB, Surat, who is probing the case. While the FIR in the case was submitted in Kim police station on September 3, police registered the offence on September 11. Meanwhile, Patel committed suicide on September 7.Surat IGP Rajkumar Pandian said, “Both cases are separate and we will not let any of the investigation be affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-probe-into-land-fraud-case-link-to-patel-family/articleshow/78392275.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 30, 2020||Pune||PMC forms special recovery team for property tax amnesty scheme||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed a special recovery team to implement the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters. As many as 61 people have been roped in to recover the tax from around 3.5 lakh properties. According to the scheme, the property tax defaulters have been given waiver of around 80% of the penalty. They will have to pay the tax and 20% penalty. The PMC has to recover property tax dues of around Rs4,500 crore, out of which around Rs2,500 crore was penalty, while around Rs2,100 crore were actual tax dues. “The team will follow up on the pending tax. They will carry out visits to the defaulters’ homes. The notices have been issued to them,” a senior PMC official said. He said at present, some of these civic officials were working on Covid-19 duties. They would now be reassigned the task of tax collection. “The civic body has decided to keep a cap on the recovery amount for the property tax. The waiver will be given to all the properties below Rs50 lakh to make sure those property owners in need were given benefit of this scheme. Mostly residential property would be benefited,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, said. As per the civic data, around 10.5 lakh properties were liable for tax in PMC’s jurisdiction. They include residential as well as commercial properties. Even open plots and government properties were liable for the tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-forms-special-recovery-team-for-property-tax-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/78395094.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Pune engineering colleges enhance curriculum to make students job-ready||PUNE: Engineering colleges in the city are revamping their curriculum with the help of Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) and also industry partners in order to make students employable at the end of the four-year degree course. The Rajarshi Shahu College of Engineering, Tathawade (RSCOE), has tied up with IIT Ropar for developmentof of its curriculum for mechanical branch while the Vishwakarma Institute of Technology has over 50 industry partners for each engineering branch that participate in enhancing the curriculum based on industry needs. With the job scenario on a downward side for engineering graduates and institutes shutting down, the management is doing everything to make the courses in such a way that students are job-ready on completion. Rakesh Jain, director of RSCOE, said that mechanical industries are undergoing Industry 4.0 transformation with advanced technologies and thus it demands graduates with knowledge of advanced technologies. Therefore, to improve chances of employment of graduating students, make them industry ready, RSCOE decided to modernise its curriculum with the help of IIT Ropar which is known for quality of technical education in the country for modernising curriculum. “The curriculum also facilitates special courses in the form of career track as per the demand of industry which will essentially ensure their employability in the relevant industry. The new curriculum will also intensify focus on interdisciplinary skills along with relevant internship exposure,” he added. At the Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, every engineering branch has industry experts on board that continuously participate in the curriculum of the institute. Experts from companies such as John Deer, Emerson, TCS, Cognizant give their inputs in order to make the curriculum industry-friendly. Director of VIT, Rajesh Jalnekar, said, “We have an industry advisory board for every branch and they deliberate on current trends in the industry and how the courses should be moulded with respect to pedagogy and advancement of technology. With the current Covid-19 situation where face-to-face classes are not taking place we have also shifted to simulation-based projects and teachers are encouraged to use the open source softwares to give projects to students.” B B Ahuja, director of College of Engineering Pune, said, "The students of today need to be ready for 4.0 and we thought it is not going to help if they do not have knowledge about other branches of engineering. So we started this course from last year where for instance a civil engineering students learn about renewable energy or a mechanical student learns about machine learning or artificial intelligence."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineering-colleges-enhance-curriculum-to-make-students-job-ready/articleshow/78395102.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Screen infants for hearing issues, say ENT experts||Jaipur: City’s ENT specialists have demanded from the Centre to initiate Universal New-born Hearing Screening (UNHS) and to incorporate that with the National Immunization Program so that all infants should be screened within 1 month of age preferably at the time of Immunization for hearing impairment.“Hearing is the key to learning spoken language, performing academically and engaging socially for children. Hearing loss poses an obstacle to education and social integration. It can have profound effects not only on interpersonal communication but also on health, independence, well-being, quality of life and daily function. Persons with hearing impairment (HI) are likely to have lower family incomes, less educated, and unemployed,” said Dr Pawan Singhal, professor (ENT), SMS medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/screen-infants-for-hearing-issues-say-ent-experts/articleshow/78394039.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Rights of workers get an impetus with labour codes||S Ravindran Industrial laws available in this country have become archaic and unfortunately have not changed with the fast changing environment in the industry, Justice N Anand Venkatesh had observed in 2019 while hearing a case at the Madras high court. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-new-labour-laws-can-help-workers/articleshow/78402735.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rights-of-workers-get-an-impetus-with-labour-codes/articleshow/78395754.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||New junior college for science and commerce||Pune: The Finolex Industries and its corporate social responsibility partner, Mukul Madhav Foundation, inaugurated a junior college for science and commerce in Ratnagiri. The 2020-21 academic year will be the inaugural batch for this junior college. The college was inaugurated by Shilpa Patwardhan, educationist and executive president of the Ratnagiri Education Society, Sanjay Math, managing director of Finolex Industries Limited and others. Mukul Madhav Vidyalaya will strive for excellence in school education, said a statement released by the foundation. During the inauguration Patwardhan said, “Each one has the ability to fulfil her/his dream. How we face a situation and go about solving problems, depends on it. An ‘I can do this’ mentality is crucial. Self-confidence and hard work gives us success.” Administrative trustee Ritu Prakash Chabbariya of the Mukul Madhav Foundation said, “We are trying to provide quality education like in Pune-Mumbai in rural parts such as Ratnagiri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-junior-college-for-science-and-commerce/articleshow/78395106.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Only two rooftop restaurants in city applied for fire NOC||Jaipur: Rooftop restaurant bylaws were implemented almost nine months ago but so far only two restaurants have applied to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) for fire NOC. Urban Housing and Development (UDH) department had implemented these bylaws to regularise more than 500 rooftop restaurants in the city all of which had been running without fire NOC and safety norms. Constructing another floor on a rooftop was illegal according to the building bylaws, but with the rooftop restaurant bylaws, the government made rules and regulations which allowed rooftop restaurants to function but only after getting NOC from relevant authorities. According to officials, only two rooftop restaurants had applied for NOC and others are functioning without it.Fire deputy commissioner Jagdish Phulwari said the restaurants which applied for fire NOC in February are yet to be given permission because they haven’t fulfilled the norms. “None of the restaurants has fulfilled any fire NOC norms or bylaws. Many restaurants have not resumed operations. We will take action against those whivh are operating without following norms,” said Phulwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-two-rooftop-restaurants-in-city-applied-for-fire-noc/articleshow/78394051.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Crematoriums get ready to host Covid victim kin||KOLKATA: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Tuesday started taking measures to allow families of corona victims to enter city’s Covid-designate crematoriums and burial grounds and bid a final farewell to the deceased. Following a high court directive, the state health department had on Monday issued a guideline to allow six family members to perform last rites of Covid victims. On Tuesday, the department asked the local administration across Bengal to hand over bodies to the immediate kin and allow six members perform last rites. The government order specified that these six people will include parents, spouse and children. A KMC health department source on Tuesday said instructions were given to civic officials in charge of three Covid-designate crematoriums — Dhapa, Nimtolla and Birjunala — to allow not more than six members of a Covid victim’s family during the cremation. However, considering space constraint, the civic body won’t allow all six at a time. “We have little space for family members at the crematoriums. Compelled by space constraint, we have decided to allow them one at a time. This will take time for cremation but we can’t help as we need to ensure that no one gets infected,” said Atin Ghosh, a senior member in the board of administrators (BOA) governing the KMC. A section of the KMC health department officials on Tuesday made it clear that there was little scope for them to allow the family members to perform rituals before cremation or burial of Covid bodies. “We can’t take chances. Allowing all the family members to take part in rituals will enhance the chance of a family member getting infected. This apart, such rituals will take time that may create a backlog,” said a KMC official. Keeping in mind the chances of infection, the civic brass has ordered elaborate sanitization of the Covid-designate crematoriums and burial grounds. “We have been asked to conduct an extensive sanitization drive at all Covid crematoriums and burial grounds. This is not all. We will also arrange for sanitization of the family members who may come to crematoriums or burial grounds to have a last look at their near and dear ones,” said a KMC health department senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crematoriums-get-ready-to-host-covid-victim-kin/articleshow/78392521.cms||Saikat Ray
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt beats private sector in launching housing schemes||JAIPUR: During pandemic, more housing colonies were launched by the government as compared to those in the private sector in the state. The trend could be seen in the Real Estate Regulation Authority (RERA), Rajasthan, registrations in August. While 18 colonies were registered by government agencies, private players listed 14. The total registrations in August and September are 40, out of which private players registered 21 colonies while civic bodies applied to launch 19 colonies. An official at Urban Development Housing (UDH) said, “Many housing colonies, which were relaunched by government agencies, are not registered at RERA. If one includes these colonies, the government has outrun private firms in the last two months.” Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) is among the leading civic body, which has registered 14 housing colonies at RERA. The other agencies are Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), urban improvement trust (UIT), Kota, UIT (Udaipur), Jodhpur Development Authority (JDA), Nigam Jhalwar and others. Official said while many private developers are waiting for the market condition to revive, government agencies are launching schemes to benefit the masses as well as to earn profits. RHB commissioner Pawan Arora said, “In times of pandemic, our aim is to provide houses and commercial establishments to consumers at affordable prices. We are developing cost effective schemes on 20 years instalments.” Few claimed the government agencies can never compete with private sector in launching schemes and developers will launch the schemes once the system to receive approvals would revive once Covid goes away. Ankur Tiwari, a middle range developer said, “Developers will start construction once labourers and other supply is resumed properly. Also, many are not approaching the civic agencies at the time of pandemic to get projects approved. However, the market would roll again as demand will surge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-beats-private-sector-in-launching-housing-schemes/articleshow/78394045.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant to meet PM Modi today, will press for mining restart||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday to seek his intervention in resolving the state’s burning issues, including the halt in mining and the Mhadei water diversion dispute. Sawant, who had last met Modi in March, left for New Delhi on Tuesday. “We will request the PM to restart mining activity as soon as possible,” he told TOI. The state had earlier urged the central government to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. There has been no mining in Goa since March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government had filed a review petition on February 7, 2018, in the apex court against the same order. When Sawant met Modi in March, he had urged the PM to file an affidavit before the Supreme Court in support of resumption of mining activities in the state. Two mining companies had approached the apex court for extension of mining leases till 2037. The state government had subsequently maintained that the mining leases could be extended up to 2037, as per the contention of the companies, but that it would abide by the decision of the Supreme Court. It had also said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8(A) of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they were entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037. During Wednesday’s meeting with Modi, the chief minister will also raise the issue of the diversion of the Mhadei’s water by Karnataka. The state government has decided to file a contempt petition against Karnataka in the Supreme Court for diverting water from the Kalasa nullah into the Malaprabha basin at Kankumbi. TOI was the first to report the development. During the lockdown, Karnataka also reportedly tampered with the Kalasa nullah’s gradient to reverse the flow of water in the direction of interconnecting canals that join the Malaprabha basin. The diversion came to light when a team from Goa visited Kankumbi on September 1, after border restrictions were removed. Two years ago, Karnataka had diverted the natural flow of the Kalasa towards the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary. In 2015, after Goa brought to the notice of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal that Karnataka was diverting the water of the Kalasa nullah into the Malaprabha basin, the tribunal had directed Karnataka to construct an embankment to stop the flow of Kalasa waters into the Malaprabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-to-meet-pm-modi-today-will-press-for-mining-restart/articleshow/78395114.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra CM’s vital meet on Purandar airport project tomorrow||PUNE: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to chair a meeting on the future of the Purandar airport project on Thursday, which will also have deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in attendance. The meeting comes a month after deputy CM directed Pune district officials to check the feasibility of developing the airport at an alternative site proposed by Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap. Though officials remained tight-lipped about the meeting, a source told TOI, “All aspects of the project, including the pros and cons of site change, will be looked into at the meeting. The opposition by villagers to the original site will also be discussed.” On August 29, Purandar MLA Jagtap had proposed land acquisition for the airport from three villages, including Pandeshwar, Rise and Pise. These villages are located around 20km away from the original site. “The site change makes some sense as the newly proposed plots are not developed and irrigated unlike those marked earlier. This will make the district administration’s work of land acquisition simpler,” the source said. Officials in the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) as well as the land acquisition department have, however, maintained that the site change will mean more delays for the project as all the approvals and surveys will have to be done all over again, besides preparing the detailed project report (DPR). Experts, on the other hand, said the meeting showed that the government was still interested in taking the project forward. “The representation for site change is understood to have come from the local elected representative and it is in the propriety of things that government should consider it on its merits. In case if it falls short on the scale of feasibility and viability, those concerned will be informed so that there is no hindrance for the project later,” aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cm-to-chair-crucial-meet-on-purandar-airport-project-tomorrow/articleshow/78395108.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Beniapukur OC defeats Covid after 35-day battle||KOLKATA: Beniapukur OC Aloke Kumar Sarker returned home on Tuesday after defeating Covid-19 in a battle that lasted 35 days — 27 of them in ventilation — across two hospitals. More than 40 senior officers from Kolkata Police — including ACPs and OCs from across divisions, traffic and detective departments — were present during his discharge from the hospital on Tuesday. The police brass organized a separate felicitation for the doctors who treated Sarker. Sarker, one of the most popular officers in the force, was diagnosed with Covid-19 and got admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass on August 25. When his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to Medica hospital on the evening of August 29. He was put on ECMO ventilation a few hours later, where he kept fighting for his life for 16 days. He was kept in normal ventilation for another 11 days before being finally shifted to the Covid ward three days back. Doctors have asked Sarker to remain on physiotherapy and take rest. “He will be in home isolation for at least another fortnight. If the doctors feel confident, he can join work a few more weeks later,” said an OC who was part of a WhatsApp group of cops who were monitoring Sarker’s health on a daily basis. “We are thankful to the doctors, under the leadership of Arpan Chakraborty, who never gave up. This is perhaps one of the longest periods when a cop fought against Covid and emerged victorious,” said a joint commissioner. “Sarker was in a ventilated state when he was shifted to Medica. We had to put him in ECMO support immediately. He has fought bravely to defeat Covid-19,” said Chakraborty, Sarker’s doctor. So far, the worst-hit police station has been Shyampukur with 33 cases. Several police stations — notably Kasba, Garfa and Haridevpur — had to augment their personnel by deputing men from elsewhere. “We have lost some of our men but Sarker’s recovery gives us hope for the future,” said an OC from the Eastern suburban division. More than 6,000 police personnel have been infected across the state. In Kolkata Police force, the infection count is 2,350 so far. Of them, 2,230 have recovered. Kolkata Police has witnessed 11 Covid-related deaths so far, including an ACP and an inspector, none of them had any major co-morbidity issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/beniapukur-oc-defeats-cov-after-35-day-battle/articleshow/78392531.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Jagraon bridge: Congress leaders rush in to take credit||LUDHIANA: While it may take another day before the Jagraon bridge gets formally opened to commuters, Congress leaders, it seems, could not wait to take credit for the completion of the much delayed project, that would finally be completed almost after four years. Mayor Balkar Sandhu visited the Jagraon bridge twice on Tuesday and he asked railway officials to complete the work while claiming that the MC had already completed its part. In the evening on Tuesday the flyover was partially opened for light vehicles. The approach roads built by the MC are completely open but in the middle of the flyover, where the railways men are working, half portion is open while the other half is closed, which will be thrown open on Wednesday morning . The railway officials are laying mastic asphalt on the flyover so that vehicles could not slip on the road. The work takes place at night time and it takes at least eight hours for the material to dry and only after that vehicles will can be allowed to run on it. The mayor visited the flyover twice, one in the morning and then in the afternoon. He claimed that MC had completed its work on Sunday, but the opening was getting delayed due to the railways. He said he was in constant touch with railway officials, who have assured that by Wednesday vehicles will be able to pass on the flyover without any problem. He said they took one more trial on Tuesday evening for light vehicles. Jagraon bridge flyover has become a major concern for the Congress leaders. On Sunday too, high drama was witnessed at the flyover, where the mayor announced the bridge open to public with Congress councillors formally opening it for the movement of vehicles, but by the evening it was again closed. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had also put a message on his FB page that flyover had been opened to the public. box- Hoardings congratulating Ludhianvis dot city On Tuesday, where one more trial run was done in evening at Jagraon bridge, hoardings congratulating Ludhianvis about the completion of the flyover could be seen everywhere in the city. On these hoardings pictures of Amarinder Singh, Congress MP Ravneet Bittu, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and other leaders could be seen. However, Congress leaders had to face criticism for these as well. BJP district vice-president and former deputy mayor RD Sharma said, “Instead of feeling sorry to public for delaying the completion of the flyover the Congress leaders are thanking people for keeping patience with regard to the completion of the flyover. They are sprinkling salt on wounds of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-bridge-cong-leaders-rush-in-to-take-credit/articleshow/78392572.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fresh building bylaws likely to be notified later this week||JAIPUR: Having received the legal department’s nod, the Urban Development and Housing (UDH) is set to notify new building bylaws in the state. The suggestions and objections received against the bylaws draft have been clarified by the department. The notification will be issued once it receives approval from the UDH minister. A senior official at UDH town planning wing said, “The implementation of new bylaws is in the final stage. Minister’s nod is awaited and it would be enforced likely in this week.” Sources said the proposal to construct just seven apartments on a plot measuring up to 750-sq metres has been rolled back. However, after facing protests from the small developer’s association, the decision was reversed after several deliberations within the department. Once the notification is released, a promoter can construct a building up to a height of 18 metres (5 storeys) on a 500 square-metre plot and above. The department has now amended the minimum height for a building under the highrise category to 18 metres from 15 metres earlier. The department has also allowed small plot owners having plot size 90 square-meter to construct an additional floor. Town planners claimed during the pandemic it was learnt that in smaller plots, basic per capita built-up area is less than the minimum average in terms of general health. As per the calculation, minimum per capita built-up area should be of 9.5 square metres, but it ranges from 2 sqm to 8 sqm per built area. Permission to construct extra floor would pave the way for more space in the same plot. “As in urban areas, more than 60% of the plots are up to 90 square-metres of area. On this size, one can currently construct ground floor + 1 storey, while the requirement of the built-up area is almost the same for all area plots. Therefore, it is necessary to have additional built-up area available for these small plot holders as well. “Permission will be granted to construct and additional floor,” said a town planner. The department has also simplified the process of map approval for construction on plots of area up to 500 square-metre. One can start construction immediately after submitting site plan and charges at local bodies. Earlier, this provision was only for owners who had a plot measuring 250 square-metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-building-bylaws-likely-to-be-notified-later-this-week/articleshow/78394057.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Covid stalls RWA polls in 200 Ghaziabad societies||GHAZIABAD: With the district administration imposing prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC in view of the Covid pandemic, residents’ welfare associations in Ghaziabad have been caught in a Catch-22 situation — unable to decide whether to hold housing society elections. On the one hand, Section 144 prohibits the assembly of more than four persons in an area, while on the other hand, the UP Apartment Act 2010 makes annual RWA elections mandatory. There are over 200 housing societies in Ghaziabad where RWA polls are due, and some 40 societies while developers have not yet handed over maintenance to the residents’ bodies. The issue was recently discussed in a meeting called by district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, which was attended by representatives of RWA and builders’ body Credai. Senior Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) officials were also present in the meeting. Alok Kumar of Federation of Apartment Owners Association, an umbrella RWA body, said, “Of the 250 housing societies in Ghaziabad, AOA elections have been stalled in some 200 societies due to Section 144. Also there are 40 societies where the developers have still not handed over the maintenance to RWAs as it’s a source of income for them. These issues have been discussed in a recent meeting called by the DM.” Residents say it’s not only the private developers, even the Ghaziabad Development Authority has been delaying the handover of upkeep services to RWAs. Raj Pandey, a resident of Koyal Enclave, said, “The due date for handover of the society’s maintenance has long lapsed, but GDA on one pretext or the other has been delaying the handover process. The district administration should not make any distinction if it decides penalising developers for the delayed handover.” Developers, however, refuted the allegations. “It is a wrong perception that developers do not want to hand over maintenance of the society, on the contrary we are more than willing to do so. But in many cases, it’s the residents who have been stalling the process. Anyway, we have set the record straight in the meeting,” said Gaurav Gupta, president of CREDAI’s Ghaziabad chapter. When contacted, district magistrate Pandey said that he will shortly initiate the process of holding RWA elections in societies. “The process had to be stalled due to the pandemic but we plan to draw a roadmap for the same and very soon, we will issue orders for holding elections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/covid-stalls-rwa-polls-in-200-gzb-societies/articleshow/78395773.cms||Abhijay Jha
September 30, 2020||Pune||Collaboration, training of pupils & faculty key to adapt to online learning||By: Hrridaysh Deshpande With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic everything was thrown into disarray. All established systems were challenged and everyone needed to reinvent what they were doing without having much time to prepare for it. At Ajeenkya DY Patil University we dealt with the challenge effectively and in a very short time shifted base to the online medium for effective learning. We realized that the move from a face-to-face interaction to online collaboration presented significant differences in the base assumptions about how we teach and how students learn. This realization led us to diligently ponder how we could encourage our faculty to make learning more student-centred; how we could transform our students from being passive listeners to active learners.  We decided that rather than emphasizing on the technology, we must focus on innovation so that our faculty may try new methods and share their insights with peers for holistic evolution in this new role. We devised a faculty development programme and support group to help the faculty transition. The programme covered topics like ‘digital transformation in the classroom’, ‘pivoting to online teaching’ and learning to teach online’ to develop and foster critical thinking and creative habits through remote learning to enhance the academic learning ecosystem. We led a massive intervention with students and faculty to familiarize them with the technology deployed by us. We organized a series of online learning activities for collaborative and productive engagement of students during these uncertain times. (The writer is the direcotor of Ajeenkya DY Patil University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collaboration-training-of-pupils-faculty-key-to-adapt-to-online-learning/articleshow/78395115.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Chennai||Silver ornament makers in Salem struggle to get biz||The shine of Salem’s silver ornament-making industry seems to have worn off during the pandemic-induced lockdown with orders dwindling, the economy taking a nosedive and less dispensable money in the hands of buyers.The units in Salem employing nearly 80,000 people directly and indirectly have been facing financial issues for the past six months. "We usually get orders from New Delhi, Kolkata, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala, but since the lockdown we have hardly been getting any orders," said M Govindan, one of the ornament manufacturers in Shevapet. The kuthuvilakku (lamps), kumkuma chimil (kumkum holder), silver pot, ankle chains, hip chains, metti (toe rings) are their usual bestsellers.More than 1,500 silver ornaments manufacturing units have been functioning in Tirumalaigiri, Sivadapuram, Vedukathampatty, Panangkadu and its surrounding villages while more than 800 units are functioning at Shevapet, Annadhanapatty and Maniyanur areas in Salem. All these units have not got any orders since March 25. "Every day, each unit faces losses of up to `10,000," said T Manikandan, another manufacturing unit owner from Sivadhapuram.One of the workers, A Venkatesh, 38, said he used to earn nearly Rs10,000 a month, but has been without work for the better part of the year. "My income was zero during the lockdown period," he said. With no other skills, Venkatesh had to take up a job as a construction worker to make ends meet when construction work was allowed in June. Though Venkatesh wishes to return to his silver ornament-making work once again, his employers have asked him to wait for another month. "I don’t have any other choice until normal work resumes at my unit," he said. According to Salem district silver ankle chains manufacturers, nearly five tonnes of silver trade was affected because of this lockdown and pandemic. "There’s no transport facilities to travel to other states and they also don’t have any option to reach Salem," said M Parandhaman, a manufacturer, who said the present option of hiring a vehicle or taking flights will hike their production costs. The manufacturers have appealed to the state and Union governments to take steps to operate inter-state buses and trains so that trade can resume again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/silver-ornament-makers-in-salem-struggle-to-get-biz/articleshow/78395761.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kolkata||Power snag halts Metro services for four hours||KOLKATA: A technical snag on the north-south Metro put brakes on the carrier’s 13-day seamless run since resumption of operations post lockdown, inconveniencing several passengers who could not travel end-to-end as trains were available only between Mahanayak Uttam Kumar and Noapara stations from 3.40pm till the last service of the day at 7.30pm. At 2.10pm, when an Up train from Kavi Subhas entered Netaji station, a cable hanging out of the AC rake hit the third line, causing an electrical snag. “When the cable touched the third rail current collector (TRCC), there was a flash and the train came to a halt,” a traffic inspector said. The TRCC is an equipment attached to the train to draw power from the third rail. The entire line was affected and power to the third rail was switched off. Trains could only ply between Noapara and Maidan as work for restoring power to the third rail started. Since it was lean hour, trains ran at 15-minute intervals. At 3.40pm, the line till Mahanayak Uttam Kumar (Tollygunge) was restored. But the rest of the line – from Tollygunge till Kavi Subhas — couldn’t be fixed. As a result, many commuters were stranded, especially during peak hours — from 5pm till 7.30pm. The electrical fiasco had its effect on the e-pass downloading system as bookings of slots, where services were suspended were cancelled, initially from Maidan till Kavi Subhas and later from Tollugunge till Kavi Subhas, were cancelled. The URL — https://pathadisha.com/metro — carried the message “Due to unavoidable reason Metro service is now available between Noapara and Mahanayak Uttam Kumar.” Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state had assigned to develop the technology for booking e-passes, said: “Fortunately, the enormity of the snag was less than anticipated. Bookings of only 702 people were cancelled.” On Tuesday, 51,430 passengers availed of north-south Metro while East-West Metro ferried 129 commuters. Those who booked for the Up journeys from Kavi Subhas were hassled because they couldn’t make use of their e-passes. Those like Madhumita Roy took an auto from New Garia to Tollygunge to take a train to Dum Dum. “The colour code of my e-pass was the same so I could make use of my booking,” the 28-year-old said. The cancelled slots were freed up so fresh bookings for the truncated stretch could be made, said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-snag-halts-metro-services-for-four-hours/articleshow/78392540.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Buddha Nulah gets 11 micro-forests||LUDHIANA: The joint campaign of the Ludhiana MC and IRS officer Rohit Mehra to beautify the banks of polluted Buddha Nullah got a big push on Tuesday as work on 11 micro-jungles was completed on Tuesday. Namdhari sect chief Satguru Uday Singh was also present during a plantation drive which was conducted on the occasion. MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, along with Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey and others, were also present on the occasion. Under this unique campaign of micro forest, the MC is going to create 300 micro-forests on the banks of Buddha Nullah with each jungle spanning on an area of about 2,000 sq yd having different varieties of plants. Along with this, the drive will only use cow dung from local dairies and the waste leaves collected by the MC as manure for growing micro-jungles. Speaking on the occasion , Rohit Mehra, who is spearheading the campaign along with Sabharwal, said, “We have completed the task of making 11 micro-forests on the banks of Buddha Nullah in record time of less than 30 days. So far, 11,000 saplings of various varieties, including air and water purifying plants like panchvati and moringa, have already been planted here. On September 4, the first micro-forest under this campaign was created on the banks of Buddha Nullah near the slaughter house, where 450 saplings were planted.” He asid, “The MC and its officials are playing a very proactive role in the entire campaign and soon we are going to rope in NGOs, corporate houses and other stakeholders to adopt these micro-forests and ensure their proper upkeep and growth. Once we are over with the micro-forest campaign, we will also try and address the problem of water pollution in the Buddha Nullah.” Mehra added that, “Another beautiful aspect of this campaign is that cow dung, which was otherwise thrown into the Buddha Nullah, is being used by us as manure, along with waste leaves, collected by the MC to grow these plants. So far, more than 32 truck loads of the cow dung and waste leaves have been used in this compaign, which aims at making the banks of this nullah into lush green forest, which has become an eyesore for Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/buddha-nulah-gets-11-micro-forests/articleshow/78392583.cms||Mohit Behl
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Police bust betting racket; three held, Rs 8.20 lakh recovered||JAIPUR: The crime suppression team (CST) team of Jaipur police commmissionerate have arrested three persons involved in IPL betting and recovered Rs 8.20 lakh from their possession in addition to detecting transactions worth crores of rupees from a house in Shyam Nagar. ACP (crime) Ajay Pal Lamba on Tuesday said various police stations and special teams are ready to crack down on betting. “We got specific inputs that some persons were placing bets on Monday during the IPL match between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challenger Bangalore. We sent a CST team to the house at Shyam Nagar and arrested three people,” said Lamba. Sulesh Chaudhary, additional deputy commissioner of police, said the arrested were identified as Mahendra Kumar, Sidharath Agarwal and Ashish Agarwal and are jewellers by profession. “We have recovered 14 mobiles, 2 LED TVs, 2 laptops, Wi-Fi router and have registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 120-B(criminal conspiracy) of IPC and under Rajasthan Gambling ordinance,” Chaudhary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-bust-betting-racket-3-held-rs-8-20-lakh-recovered/articleshow/78394071.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Goa||Central team found salinity 22km from Mhadei’s mouth: WRD||PANAJI: Scientists from the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee, who visited the contentious Kalasa-Bhandura project site in Kankumbi, Karnataka, on September 17, have found salinity upto 22km from the mouth of the Mhadei. Chief engineer of Goa’s water resources department Shrikant Patil told TOI that the two scientists ended up with these findings even though the test was done when the monsoon was in full swing. “The NIH team found salinity upto Amona, which is 22km from the mouth of the river, even in the monsoon,” said Patil. “We have told them that they will find salinity up to Ganjem when the test is carried out during the lean season of April-May.” Patil said that to get the correct picture on salinity of the Mhadei, testing has to be done covering an entire cycle, which includes the monsoon and the non-monsoon months. “The NIH team has communicated their findings to the Union ministry,” Patil said. “In-principle, it has been agreed that a salinity test will also be done during the lean period. During their interaction with the National Institute of Oceanography too, it was stressed that testing for salinity only during the monsoon months will not give the correct picture.” On March 6, in view of the ongoing dispute between Goa and Karnataka over the waters of the Mhadei, chief minister Pramod Sawant had written to the Union ministry of Jal Shakti. Sawant told the ministry that diversion of the Kalasa waters would lead to increased salinity in the Mhadei, and this would prove disastrous for Goa’s ecology. Acting on this, the ministry sent NIH scientists Gopalkrishna and Nitesh Patidar to carry out the salinity test. The team visited the Kalasa project site and examined the confluence of the Simechi nhay with the Kalasa nallah. They also visited different locations where the tributaries of the Mhadei enter the Mhadei basin. The NIH scientists had a virtual interaction with NIO director Sunil Kumar too, and discussed various aspects related to the salinity of the Mhadei with local experts. The Union ministry of Jal Shakti had given the team two months to submit their report. But Goa had brought it to the ministry’s notice that salinity needs to be tested even during the non-monsoon months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-team-found-salinity-22km-from-mhadeis-mouth-wrd/articleshow/78395127.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court dismisses govt plea to postpone municipal polls||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday dismissed the application filed by the state government for extending the poll dates from October 31, 2020 to March 20, 2021 for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporations. The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mohanty and Justice Prakash Gupta while rejecting the application moved by the government directed that the elections should be completed by October 31. Municipal corporation elections in the three corporations were due in November 2019 but were first postponed for delimitation of wards, following the government decision to bifurcate the corporations in the three cities and then again due to corona pandemic. The government had then assured the court that elections would be held within six months. The court said in Rajasthan, panchayat polls are being held amidst the pandemic and in Bihar assembly elections were announced on schedule. Bypolls in other states are also being held and there was no point in asking for repeated extension of elections to the municipal corporations. R B Mathur, senior counsel, appearing for the state election commission informed the court that the election commission is ready to hold elections on October 31. However, he suggested that the election could be extended by a month till November 15, if the court permits, but the court turned down the suggestion. The state government had recently filed an application in the high court to postpone the elections to the six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota from October to March next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-dismisses-govt-plea-to-postpone-municipal-polls/articleshow/78394075.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||Ayodhya hopes for closure to decades-old dispute||AYODHYA: A day before the judgment in the 28-year-old Babri Masjid demolition case, Ayodhya remained stoic, sedate and silent as residents sauntered through their cho-res unhindered by barricades or thud of boots of marching securitymen unlike its date with Supreme Court’s verdict 11 months ago, when the town was garrisoned. In contrast, the focus shifted to the CBI court in Lucknow, 135km away, which has been fortified. Speaking to TOI, DIG, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar, said, “Ayodhya is a biggest example of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood in India and we don't need additional security arrangements for D-Day.” Local residents, however, preferred to keep their fingers crossed and hoped the verdict would bring a closure to the decades-old dispute and hold aloft the spirit of brotherhood. Mahant Yugal Kishore Saran Shastri, priest of Saryu Kunj temple, who was 40 years old when the mosque was razed, said, “No doubt, it was a black day that triggered riots across the country, but our concern is that harmony must be maintained, whatever by the judgment.” Read AlsoHigh alert in UP as court to rule on Babri demolition case todayAlmost 28 years after the Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, a special court here will, on Wednesday, decide the fate of some of the big names of the Sangh Parivar accused of criminal conspiracy and “incitement,” which led to the razing of the structure. Besides, unknown karThe day passed without a flutter in Muslim pockets with residents restless, but reticent. Mohammad Umar, a key litigant in the title suit, sells puja ite-ms in his small shop near Hanumangarhi temple. “We are living in peace in and we don’t want the verdict to create ripples here. Many accused have died and others are in the twilight of their lives. We’ll take the judgment in our stride.” Another plaintiff, Iqbal Ansari, said, “There should be no dispute over places of worship anywhere in India and both communities sho-uld live in peace and join hands for welfare of society.” There was an eerie calm at Maniram Chawni temple, the high seat of Mahant Nitya Gopal Das, president of Ram Mandir Trust and an accused in the case. While he refused to talk to the media, temple sources said that he would not be present at the CBI court on health grounds. Ram Narayan Das, an elderly sadhu, preferred to repose faith in Lord Ram. “Ram ji sab theek karenge, sab ka bhala karenge, dhancha giraya gaya tha tab pura desh ashant ho gaya tha, magar ab shanti rahni chahiye. Sabhi dharm ke log jiye aur khayen (Lord Ram will make everything right and bless every one. When the structure was demolished, there was violence. Now, peace must prevail. Let people of all religions live in amity).” Saurabh Vikram Singh, a GenNext youth, who was born after the Babri demolition, said, “Yes we are waiting eagerly for the judgment for 28 years, but it must not be construed as a victory or defeat of any community. Harmony should be the catchword.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayodhya-hopes-for-closure-to-decades-old-dispute/articleshow/78396308.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Why allow seized vehicles to perish in police stns: HC||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court has sought information from the state government in two weeks as to why the police department did not issue any circular or order in compliance with the directions given by the Supreme Court on disposal or release of seized vehicles.The high court on Tuesday sought replies from chief secretary, principal secretary of forest department, commissioner of transport department and principal secretary of home department as well as director general of police, SP of Sawai Madhopur, Tonk and Karauli districts. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Chandra Gupta issued notice on a PIL of Mahesh Jhalani. Petitioner’s counsel Satish Khandelwal pleaded that vehicles worth thousands of crores including trucks, tractors, trolleys, motorcycles, buses, jugaad, cars have been seized for various violations and are lying in the police stations of the state.Khandelwal said that these vehicles were confiscated and have been in police stations from six months to several years, due to which damage is caused to the vehicles. The Supreme Court has a clear directive that any seized vehicle or article in the police station causes heavy loss to its owner. According to the apex court order the vehicle must be released on filing an application by the insurer seeking release of vehicle within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/why-allow-seized-vehicles-to-perish-in-police-stns-hc/articleshow/78394077.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No lockdown but more curbs: CM||Thiruvananthapuram: In an all-party meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday in the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, it was decided that a total shutdown was not needed but more restrictions should be brought in to avoid overcrowding in public places. After the meeting, the chief minister said all political parties have agreed to follow the Covid protocol strictly in all the programmes convened by them, including the protests. The participants of the meet have unanimously acknowledged the fact that the situation is becoming worse in the state and hence restrictions have to be tightened. “The government has decided to increase the curbs and has sought the support of all political parties. They have pledged their support for the purpose. The government has made it clear that the situation cannot be continued like this. There will have to be restrictions in all the functions, including agitations. Preventing the spread should be the focus,” said the chief minister. He said that all political parties were with the government view that total lockdown was no more a solution to check the virus spread. “Life has to move on and hence we will have to allow the functioning in all sectors. However, what has to be taken care of is the fact that life has to move on ensuring strict Covid protocol,” the CM added. IMA for strict measures The state unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged the government to declare a health emergency in the state as the situation is getting worse. In a letter to the chief minister, the IMA office-bearers have demanded stricter restrictions to prevent further spreading of the disease. IMA state president Dr Abraham Varghese said the people should be allowed to come out of their homes only for work and to buy essential commodities. All other social gatherings should be banned. There is also a need to bring in restrictions in the number of employees who attend duties in offices. “Public transport should be allowed only by following strict Covid protocol and 100% attendance in offices should not be made compulsory,” he said. The IMA also has urged the government to increase the number of tests to one lakh per day. Even with lesser number of tests now, the state is having higher caseload in the country. Hence, to detect more cases, we need more testing, said the IMA. However, the chief minister made it clear that the situation in the state does not demand a health emergency and the government is not considering it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-lockdown-but-more-curbs-cm/articleshow/78392605.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||People resist getting tested in some areas||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has reportedly seen resistance from people in getting tested for Covid-19 in a couple of areas on Monday and Tuesday. With all potential patients not coming to NMC’s testing centres, the civic body has started to reach out to people. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said some persons tested positive from Gondpura in Lakadganj zone. High-risk contacts and comorbid from the area did not come for testing despite NMC’s rapid response team (RRT) requesting them. It is a slum and dominated by daily wage labourers. Therefore, we sent a mobile swab collection van to Gondpura on Monday. People gathered in large numbers and forced the NMC’s team to return. “Our team tried to convince the people for sometime but had no option but to return when people became aggressive,” Joshi said. NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone held a special camp for swab collection at Khamla. NMC team went to the homes of three positive patients to bring their high-risk contacts for testing. But none of them were ready. NMC team came back empty handed. President of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat Khamla Narayan Ahuja said he would talk to the contacts and convince them for testing. Over 30 people from Khamla gave samples at the camp of whom a few were symptomatic. “It is a nice move by NMC to resume camps for testing that were stopped in June. Police should accompany NMC team as was done in initial stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/people-resist-getting-tested-in-some-areas/articleshow/78394091.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||AAP launches campaign for villages in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday launched ‘Gram sabha bulao, pind te Punjab bacho’ campaign here in the presence of party’s state president Bhagwant Mann. A press conference in this regard was organised later in which Mann, along with in-charge of Punjab affairs Jarnail Singh and Bibi Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, deputy leader of opposition spoke to mediapersons about the campaign. Mann said, “gram sabha existed in every village with panchayat and every citizen of 18 years or above is a gram sabha voter. A sarpanch/panchayat of the village can convene a gram sabha session as a special case on a minimum seven days’ notice, so the sarpanch needed to be informed.” Lashing out against his rival parties, Mann said “Badals have stabbed the farmers of the state in the back by advocating in favour of the anti-agriculture black laws and now were hell bent on playing political cards to disturb the farmers’ struggle by engaging themselves in nefarious designs to break the mobilisation of the farmers and common man of Punjab. On one hand, SAD president Sukhbir Badal is holding rallies to express solidarity with the farmers, while on the other chief minister Amarinder Singh is making a commitment to fight a legal battle against the anti-agricultural black laws, saying that he would go to any extent to get them tweaked at all costs. But the ground reality is just the opposite and both Amarinder Singh and Sukhbir are trying to hoodwink the farmers as both had played a pivotal role in the passage of the anti-agriculture black laws.” On the occasion, Jarnail accused Sukhbir of maintaining double standards on the issue. He said that he was now speaking against the anti-agriculture bills but had supported these in Punjab by holding press conferences. All AAP leaders also said that their party had always raised its pitch against the agriculture bills and had always stood shoulder to shoulder with the farmers and that it would continue to do so in the future as well. For this it was launching the campaign, ‘Gram sabha bulao, pind te Punjab Bachao’ all across Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-launches-campaign-for-villages/articleshow/78392589.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||BJP campaign to create awareness on farm laws||Jaipur: The Rajasthan BJP has decided to launch a state-wide campaign ‘Kisan Kalyan Gram Chaupal’ from September 30 till October 10 to create mass awareness on the farm laws. Party spokesperson Ramlal Sharma while addressing the press at BJP headquarters said that the campaign will focus on reaching out to farmers across the state.“The campaign will bust the lies being spread by Congress and its allies on the path-breaking farm bill. This bill will transform the lives of farmers forever. The campaign will see participation of all senior party leaders till the grassroot workers. “On October 2, all MPs, former MPs, presidents of all party wings, MLAs, former MLAs and other leaders will address the farmers via Facebook. Also, all three central ministers — Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Kailash Choudhary will address the party workers,” said Sharma.In these chaupals (assemblies), a commonplace in villages, the party workers will address limited number of farmers and inform them about the farm bill. “The biggest highlight of the campaign is the distribution of 30 lakh pamphlets explaining the farm bill via booth-level party workers. In every booth, 50 to 100 such pamphlets will be distributed by the party workers making it the biggest campaign in the recent times,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-campaign-to-create-awareness-on-farm-laws/articleshow/78394080.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Lungs to MIS: How Covid is affecting health of kids||GURUGRAM: Doctors at several hospitals have reported cases where Covid has triggered health complications in children. Two of the common conditions are lung fibrosis and multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS) both of which begin to show signs two to six weeks since the infection. A seven-year-old boy in Sector 50 of Gurugram, who was admitted with Covid in June, developed fibrosis in lungs 13 days after he was discharged in July, doctors said. He is at home and has to go through a series of treatments. He had no signs of complications when he was discharged from hospital. Another boy who is 12 years of age, was discharged after Covid treatment in August and developed MIS four days later, and it has affected his heart. Doctors have said he may not fully recover from it. He is at home and is being monitored. He also did not have any heart or other complications earlier. In Haryana, 7,285 children till the age of 14 have been diagnosed with Covid so far. “In multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), different body parts get inflamed and infected. Also, lung fibrosis which is usually seen in adults, is being reported in children after Covid, and is a major concern. Apart from heart and lung conditions, some children are also suffering from psychological issues after the infection, such as behavioural changes and depression,” said Dr Krishan Chugh, director and HOD, paediatrics, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram. Symptoms of MIS-C range from fever to abdominal pain, diarrhoea, vomiting, neck pain, rashes, redness, swelling and pain in the eyes. “Though it’s a rare condition but the need of the hour is to know the warning signs related to MIS-C which are inability to wake up, bluish lips or face, confusion, breathing difficulty. In such cases, children should be immediately rushed to the emergency. Its treatment involves modalities to build up the immune system and reduce the inflammatory response to prevent further damage to the various organs,” said Dr Vineet Kwatra, head and senior consultant, department of paediatrics and neonatology, Medeor Hospital. Dr Sudip Chowdhury, consultant paediatrician, Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurugram said, “We do not yet know what causes MIS-C which can be serious, even deadly at times. Researchers have found that MIS-C has overlapping features with Kawasaki diseases and toxic shock syndrome (TSS). But the inflammatory storm observed in MIS-C is much more intense.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lungs-to-mis-how-covid-is-affecting-health-of-kids/articleshow/78395137.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Civic body steps in to stop fleecing at crematorium||JAIPUR: A signboard has been installed at Adarsh Nagar crematorium after complaints of overcharging were received by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). There have been complaints that JMC had been charging exuberant rates from family members of deceased Covid victims. Now, JMC has clarified that they are cremating bodies without any charge from people. Additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We are not charging a single penny from people for cremating bodies. A board has been installed at Adarsh Nagar crematorium and phone numbers are mentioned on the board. People can file a complaint if any JMC worker charges money.” Another issue that has recently come up is businessmen selling firewood, ritual materials and priests having increased their rate of services during pandemic. A source at Adarsh Nagar crematorium said people are being overcharged every time they bring a body of a Covid patient. “Now, JMC has allowed people to cremate the bodies themselves. People who are in need to cremate the body in a hurry now are forced are being charged. Earlier, a cremation took around Rs 5,000 which has gone up to Rs 11,000. All businessmen are working in connivance. Even the ambulance driver that transports the body is part of the plan,” said a source. Garg said, “We haven’t received any complaints of private party being charged. However, if this is happening, a helpline number is on the board where people can file a complaint. We will surely investigate the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-body-steps-in-to-stop-fleecing-at-crematorium/articleshow/78394092.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||Leopard attack claims 11-year-old girl's life in Bareilly, 4th such victim in region this month||Bareilly: An 11-year-old girl who had gone to buy groceries from a nearby shop was mauled to death by a leopard in Bujhia village of Bareilly’s Sheeshgarh on Monday night, taking the number of children killed in leopard attacks to four in Uttar Pradesh in September. The partially-eaten body of the girl was found in a social forestry region on Tuesday morning. Forest officials said it was the first human killing by a leopard in Bareilly district. Accusing the forest department of laxity, locals said the leopard was on the prowl in the area for nearly a fortnight, but forest officials “made no effort” to trap it. The forest department, however, swung into action after the killing and installed camera traps in the area and placed a cage as well to trap the big cat. Bablu Rajput, who lives on the outskirts of Bujhia village, said his wife Anita Devi had sent their daughter Upasna to buy groceries from a nearby shop when the leopard emerged from a cane field and dragged her inside. Bablu and other villagers tried hard searching for Upasna, but found just a few dried droplets of blood at a few places. The rescue operation was halted late in the night and Bablu and his family spent a sleepless night only to find the partially eaten body of their daughter the next morning. “The forest department was alerted about the prowling leopard after it had killed three pigs in Sukatiya village, but the repeated alerts fell on deaf ears of the officials. They didn’t take us seriously. Forest department is solely responsible for this incident,” said Nirmal Singh, a local. Divisional forest officer Bharat Lal said, “The leopard has been changing its location, making it difficult for forest officials to trace it. We will place a cage at the spot in an attempt to trap it. A rescue team will stay in the village to ensure such incidents do not repeat. The family will be given compensation as per the norm.” September saw a sudden rise in the number of leopard attacks on children in villages outside the forest region. Two children were killed in leopard attacks in Kheri district, while one child was killed near Katarniyaghat forest area in Bahraich district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-attack-claims-11-year-old-girls-life-in-bareilly-4th-such-victim-in-region-this-month/articleshow/78390269.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala records 7,354 new Covid-positive cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 7,354 new Covid positive cases on Tuesday, of which 7,166 are cases affected through local infection. The number of active cases has gone up in the state with 61,791 positive people admitted to various hospitals, first line treatment centres and at home care. Among the new cases the source of 672 cases are yet to be traced, 130 are healthcare workers, 58 people had come from abroad and 130 from other states. In the last 24 hours, 52,755 samples were tested. As many as 3,420 recoveries were also reported in the state. The number of patients in ICUs are 389 and 94 people are on ventilator support in the state. The state recorded 22 more deaths, taking the total deaths to 720. The deceased are Raveendran (61) and Vikraman (70) from Thiruvananthapuram; Kunjumon Daniel (55), Muraleedharan Pillai (62) and Aisha Beevi (80) from Kollam; Saramma (75) and K K Raja (53) from Kottayam; Kunjumon (72), Kumaran (78) and Jaya (57) from Thrissur; Joy (64), Fathima (63), Aboobacker (67) and Muhammad (77) from Malappuram; Shekharan (79) and Dasan (62) from Palakkad; A K Kunjali (73), Kunjalima (60), Kunjikannan (65), R V Narayanan (70) and Jameela (66) from Kannur, and Majeed (51), a BSF personnel from Kodagu, Karnataka, posted in Kerala. The highest number of new cases were reported from Malappuram, where 1,040 positive cases were detected. A total of 1,24,688 people have so far recovered from Covid. There are 2,36,960 persons under observation across the state, 2,08,258 under home or institutional quarantine and 28,702 in hospitals. 2,906 people were admitted to the hospitals on Tuesday. As many as 52,755 samples were tested in 24 hours. A total of 28,62,094 samples have so far been sent for testing. 11 new places were demarcated as hotspots on Tuesday while 10 were excluded from the list. Currently, there are 661 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-records-7354-new-covid-positive-cases/articleshow/78392621.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 testing up slightly as NMC starts special camps||Nagpur: After fewer tests on six of last seven days, the number of Covid-19 tests increased on Tuesday, and so did positive cases. However, daily average of tests and positives cases remains lower than the first three weeks of September. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased testing centres to 53, roped in 10 Mobile Swab Collection Centres, and also started special testing camps in residential areas and markets. The district civil surgeon said 7,117 tests were done on Tuesday and there were 1,215 positive cases. On September 27, there were 4,355 tests and 590 positives, while on September 28 there were 2,701 tests and 994 positive cases. In the first week (1-7) of September, daily average of tests and positive cases in the district was 7,025 and 1,640, respectively, and increased to 7,741 and 1,777, respectively, in second week (8-14). The decline started from third week (15-21) which registered 6,212 per day tests and 1,662 per day cases. The daily average tests and cases of five days between September 22-26 was 5,886 and 1,404, respectively. The CS has reconciled 2,102 old cases on September 24 to match NMC’s figure. This number was not considered by TOI in calculating the average daily cases of September 22-26. Then, average daily tests came down to 3,528 on two days- September 27 and 28- so as positive cases to 792. With increase in tests and positive cases on Tuesday, daily average of tests and positive cases of last eight days slightly increased to 5,450 and 1,228 respectively, but remains less than the first three weeks of September. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “NMC was running testing centres at 52 places, urban primary health centres (UPHCs). One more was opened on Tuesday at a community hall of Railways at Ajni railway station.” Joshi added, “Number of Mobile Swab Collection Centres has been increased to 10, and one each will be given to 10 zones on Wednesday.” Three ambulances and seven mini city buses have been converted into Mini Swab Collection Centres. These will help reach residential areas, flat schemes or market places, to take swab samples of high-risk contacts of positive patients and those with comorbidities not coming to testing centres. Joshi also said, “All 10 zone offices have prepared one team for swab collection. On Tuesday, all zones started holding special camps for swab collection in areas with more cases and high-risk contacts, persons with comorbidities or senior citizens who did not come for testing at NMC centres. These camps have been conducted with help of corporators, community leaders, NGOs etc.” Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said in a press release, “NMC has started to trace at least 10 high-risk contacts for every positive patient. Target is to increase tracing to 20 per positive patient. People should come forward and get tests done free of cost at NMC’s centres or camps.” Experts and civic body have time and again said early detection of cases and treatment will prevent deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-testing-up-slightly-as-nmc-starts-special-camps/articleshow/78394110.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Zonal DCs told to send list of people penalised||Jaipur: To keep track of people who are being penalised for not wearing masks and violating lockdown norms, all zonal deputy commissioners have been asked to send daily report by 3 pm to the headquarters. Additional commissioner of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Arun Garg has asked all the zone deputy commissioners to impose fine on people who don’t wear masks or violating social distancing norms. “Directorate of Local Bodies (DLB) has started a website for coronavrius awareness. We have to send the details every day to the DLB office. This information will deter people not to violate laws during the pandemic and also will keep us in the loop of whether officials are imposing fines,” said Garg. Many drives have been organised by JMC in which officials have randomly imposed fines on people in market places, malls and public parks. According to guidelines of the state government, Rs 200 will be charged from persons for not wearing masks. Any shopkeeper allowing people without masks in his shop will be fined Rs 500 and people not following social distancing norms will be fined Rs 1,000. Those found violating 14-day quarantine rule will be fined Rs 1,000. Any person refusing to pay the fine will be dealt with as pe municipality rules under which property or items can be impounded. Zonal deputy commissioners, revenue officers, revenue commissioners have been entrusted with the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/zonal-dcs-told-to-send-list-of-people-penalised/articleshow/78394103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Fix time to prosecute corrupt govt employees: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said prosecution sanction of corrupt government employees be time-bound as delay adversely affects the morale of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and encourages corruption. Gehlot was reviewing the functioning of the ACB through a video conference at his residence on Tuesday. He directed the officers that the system of sending cases to the Chief Vigilance Commissioner should also be implemented for the personnel of local bodies in case of delay in sanction of prosecution at the departmental level. Instructing the bureau to take strict action in corruption cases, Gehlot said that ACB has a big role in the government’s resolve to provide sensitive, transparent and accountable good governance. The bureau should work more vigorously by making its intelligence wing more circumspect. Chief minister said that the system of appointing the Chief Vigilance Officer to curb corruption in government departments should be strengthened. He said that the declaration of online property to be made annually by the gazetted officers including All India Services, state services should also be made compulsory for all government personnel. This will bring transparency in government work and will also help ACB in highlighting cases of disproportionate assets. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot emphasized the maximum publicity of ACB’s helpline 1064 for complaints against corruption. He said that posters giving information about this helpline should be pasted in all government offices. Chief secretary Rajiv Swaroop said that the state government has provided all necessary resources to ACB for better functioning. There is a panel of chartered accountants for cooperation in the investigation of disproportionate assets cases and extra for legal cooperation. The appointment of a state advocate has also been approved. ACB director general Alok Tripathi said that the average punishment in cases of traps was 54 per cent. Principal secretary of home affairs Abhay Kumar and ADG ACB MN Dinesh also expressed their views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fix-time-to-prosecute-corrupt-govt-employees/articleshow/78394112.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Start 1k-bed Covid hosp at GMCH within a mth: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the state government and civic authorities to start a well-equipped Covid-19 hospital of 1,000 beds at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) within a month. “We direct the divisional and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioners and GMCH dean to ensure that the facility of 1,000 beds for Covid-19 patients is well-equipped. Hygiene should be maintained by posting adequate number of staff, including doctors and paramedical. All this should be done in a month and a report should be submitted,” said a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala. After being informed by authorities that a decision was also made to augment AIIMS beds to 500 for Covid-19 patients, the bench directed its administration to submit the plan in a week. While hearing a suo motu PIL based on a TOI where Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed amicus curiae, assisted by Nidhi Dayani, AIIMS was joined as respondent and notice was issued to its director Dr Vibha Dutta. Earlier, in response to court’s query on augmenting facilities at GMCH and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), the authorities informed that a meeting was convened under health minister Rajesh Tope on September 25 wherein he directed to increase GMCH beds to 1,000 from existing 600 for Covid-19 patients, which would include ICU and HDU. However, there wasn’t any proposal for IGGMCH in this regard. “We wanted a 1,000-bed facility to be created, accommodated or updated in a building wherein ICU and HDU beds for patients are made available. Out of the 600 existing beds, 90 are in the basement area (which became dysfunctional due to waterlogging). Those should be relocated. The basement area being totally unhygienic shall not be used for patients,” said the judges. On the issue of GMCH’s non-Covid patients, who’re currently being treated, the judges directed that they should be shifted to another building within 15 days. “Complete hygiene shall be maintained in the building while management and administration of Covid-19 patients shall be done by an IAS officer posted there. S/he will coordinate with other officers and doctors looking after GMCH administration and management,” they said, while asking respondents to submit compliance reports in an affidavit with names of officers. File plaint if pvt labs charging excess amount for antigen tests The HC urged patients to lodge a complaint with NMC or collector if private laboratories are charging excessively for rapid antigen or RT-PCR tests, beyond rates prescribed by the government. The oral orders came after amicus curiae pointed out that laboratories were exploiting patients by charging excessively. He submitted a bill where a patient was charged Rs1,750 for an antigen test. NMC commissioner Radhakrishnan B informed that laboratories could charge Rs600 for these tests as fixed by the government. HC asks IMA to submit proposal for NNSR revival to NMC The HC directed Indian Medical Association (IMA) counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni to submit its proposal of restarting Nagpur Nagrik Sahakari Rugnalaya (NNSR) in association with Rotary International to NMC in two days. The club had agreed to donate Rs1.5 crore for designated Covid-19 hospital at NNSR having 150 beds, including 70 ICU. “If such a proposal is received, NMC can take a decision. We wanted independently a report from NMC about its stand about NNSR building’s structural stability,” said the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/start-1k-bed-covid-hosp-at-gmch-within-a-mth-hc/articleshow/78394140.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat floats new tender for 500MW of solar power||Ahmedabad: To create more capacity for solar power generation in the state, Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) has floated a tender for the purchase of 500MW of solar power through competitive bidding. The solar power will be procured from grid-connected solar photovoltaic power projects to be set up in the state. The last date for submission of bids is October 28. Financial bids will be opened on November 10, which will be followed by the reverse e-auction. “To fulfil the renewable power purchase obligations (RPPO) and meet future requirements of discoms, GUVNL intends to procure solar power up to 500MW under Phase XI,” the state-run power utility stated in its request for selection (RfS) document for the auction. GUVNL shall enter power purchase agreements (PPAs) with the successful bidders for a period of 25 years from the scheduled commercial operation date of the project. Projects under construction, those that are not yet commissioned, or projects already commissioned but without any long-term PPA with any agency will also be considered for this tender. “Solar projects will also be allowed to be set up at existing wind farms that are already connected to the grid subject to availability of spare capacity for RE integration at the corresponding GETCO Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Limited/ CTU (Central transmission utility) substation,” GUVNL added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-floats-new-tender-for-500mw-of-solar-power/articleshow/78394137.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held from Jamtara for cyber cheating||Ahmedabad: Personnel of the cybercrime cell of city crime branch on Tuesday said they had nabbed two men from the Jamtara district of Jharkhand, who had allegedly cheated a Gujarat high court advocate worth Rs 11 lakh. After technical analysis of the mobile phone used in the offence, cyber investigators found that the accused were operating from Jamtara and Girdih districts of Jharkhand. Sources in the police said they nabbed two men, identified as Ajay Mandal and Kundan Mandal from Jamtara, who were working for the kingpin, Govind Mandal, a resident of Gosko village in Girdih district of Jharkhand. Police officers said the accused would cheat people by telling them that they needed to update their KYC details and would convert the proceeds into gift vouchers. Their aides Ajay Mandal and Kundan Mandal would encash the vouchers on a cyber transaction platform and the money would then be distributed to the others involved. They had a long and complicated procedure so that no cops could reach to them. A team of 10 persons including a police inspector, a sub-inspector and eight constables went to Jamtara 20 days ago where they stayed and busted the network of con call operators. Cyber police acted on a complaint by advocate Dhaval Nanavati filed on May 22, alleging that cyber cheats had siphoned off a total of Rs 10,95,261 from his PayTM and bank accounts. The complainant got a message from an unknown number, telling him to update his KYC details. When he called the number, his money was withdrawn as the caller pretended to carry out an ‘online verification’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-from-jamtara-for-cyber-cheating/articleshow/78394141.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC orders fresh hearing over online class duration||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Tuesday ordered child rights commission to conduct a fresh hearing on the issue of duration of online classes for school students as CBSE was not heard by it earlier. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order after considering a petition (WP-C No. 19628/2020) filed by St Marys Residential Public School at Thiruvalla through advocate Arun Krishna Dhan. During Tuesday’s hearing, Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights’ counsel Thoufeeq Ahamed submitted that the commission’s order, limiting duration of online classes and banning online exams, was issued taking note of the guidelines issued by CBSE. But the counsel conceded that CBSE had not been consulted before the order was issued. In the interim order, the court said, “I am, therefore, of the view that since the education of the children are regulated specifically by the syllabus and the schedule as stipulated by CBSE from time to time, they also ought to have been consulted before Ext P3 (commission’s order) could have been issued. I am, consequently, of the opinion that the commission should now conduct a fresh hearing of all the stakeholders, including the petitioner herein as also CBSE and then inform this court whether any modification to Ext.P3 would be necessary.” The court also extended the stay issued on the commission’s order until October 14, when the court would hear the matter again. On September 23, the court issued a stay on the commission’s order to limit duration of online classes for school students to two hours and not to conduct online exams similar to term exams. Such an order was issued by the commission on a complaint filed by parents stating that online classes extend from 9am to 5:30pm. This puts the children under intense mental pressure and is also affecting their eyesight, the parents had contended.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-orders-fresh-hearing-over-online-class-duration/articleshow/78392707.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Expedite digitisation of revenue record: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the process of revenue records going online will be completed soon so that the public can get information related to boundary, nomination and other documents related to revenue online. CM Gehlot was addressing the review meeting of revenue department held through video conferencing from his residence on Tuesday. He also asked officers to amend the rules for paperless nominations and speed up simplification of revenue related laws. He also said that system of disposal of revenue disputes should be strengthened. Gehlot also directed officers to create a land bank of allotable government land under the revenue department in the state so that land could be available for allocation at the state level. He said that farmers do not need to convert their agricultural land to set up agro food processing units. Farmers should be made aware of this policy and they should be encouraged to set up food processing units on their land. He directed to complete the process of Patwari recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/expedite-digitisation-of-revenue-record-cm/articleshow/78394211.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CBI invokes rarely used Section 91 to demand Periya case diary||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an unprecedented move that pits the CBI in a head-on confrontation with the state police, the central agency has ordered the crime branch under Section 91 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC) to produce the case diary and related documents of the Periya twin murder case after it failed to secure them despite several requests. The Kerala high court had directed transfer of all files in the case to CBI. The CBI order for summoning the files is seen as a prelude to invoking Section 93 of the CrPC that empowers the agency to undertake a search and seize the documents after obtaining a warrant from the court. This move comes even as Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala told the media on Tuesday that the LDF government was on the cusp of bringing in an ordinance –similar to the one by the Rajasthan government -- to hamstring the CBI, a charge that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan denied later in the day. A single bench of the high court had ordered the transfer of investigation of the murder of Youth Congress activists Kripesh and Sarath Lal in Periya, Kasaragod, on February 17, 2019 — allegedly by CPM cadres — to the CBI on September 30, 2019. A division bench and the Supreme Court had subsequently upheld the order. The CBI had, on the basis of the single bench order, transferred the case from the principal sessions court, Kasaragod, to the chief judicial magistrate court in Ernakulam, where it filed the FIR in the case. However, it needs the original case diary and other documents to take the probe forward. It is reliably learnt that the latest CBI move was triggered by a communique from state police chief Loknath Behera last week, saying police have doubts about the “mode of transfer” of the case diary to the agency and the matter has been referred to the director general of prosecution for legal opinion. “It could only be seen as a time-buying or delaying tactic from the part of police,” a CBI officer, who requested anonymity, said. The state police had been under severe criticism from the opposition and the victims' families for not conducting a fair probe as the accused are allegedly associated with the ruling CPM. Top CBI sources said the latest move of the state police, of refusing to hand over records for the CBI investigation despite orders from the high court and the Supreme Court, is unheard-of. They said police had given full cooperation to the agency in numerous cases handed over to it by the state government as well as courts earlier. “It is for the first time that the agency has been forced to resort to legal recourse, as the state has refused to cooperate even after the agency requested to transfer the case diary several times, both formally and informally. It has seriously hampered the investigation, the progress of which is also being monitored by the Supreme Court,” a top officer said. Section 91 of CrPC empowers a court or any officer in charge of a police station to issue summons to a person in whose possession or power any document or other thing necessary or desirable for any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceeding to produce them. The state police, on its part, maintained that it has been advised to wait till the Supreme Court disposes of the matter. “The government has moved the Supreme Court and we have received a legal opinion in this regard. On the basis of the legal opinion, we are waiting for the Supreme Court to dispose of the matter,” Behera said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cbi-invokes-rarely-used-sec-91-to-demand-periya-case-diary/articleshow/78394204.cms||KP Saikiran
September 30, 2020||Goa||Withdraw ordinance, tweak HBA scheme: Congress||Panaji: Instead of terminating the House Building Advance (HBA) scheme, the government should tweak the scheme to reduce the subsidy and allow employees to repay the EMIs from their retirement benefits, said former chief minister and leader of opposition Digambar Kamat. The Congress MLA said that the ordinance which ends the HBA scheme has come as a rude shock to state government employees. Kamat urged Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to revoke the ordinance as closure of the HBA scheme would adversely affect employees who availed of home loans. Kamat said that with the state’s finances stretched, it is understandable that the government wants to reduce its liabilities. As per the scheme, the employee had to pay 2% interest while the remaining interest component was borne by the government. “The subsidy must be around Rs 12 to 14 crore a month,” said Kamat. “A pragmatic and practical approach or resolution would have been to enhance the rate of interest suitably, and adjust the higher amount payable against the retirement or terminal gratuity of the employees.” The former chief minister said that by suddenly stopping the HBA scheme, the monthly instalment has doubled for some government employees. “Many of these employees have approached me and I find that the decision of the state government to be highly unreasonable, based on incorrect assumptions, without any thought of welfare for its employees and most regressive,” Kamat said. The leader of opposition submitted a memorandum to the governor asking him to urge the state government to reconsider the decision. He also said that that the notion that the state would receive Rs 300 crore as liquidation of the state guarantee is a misnomer. The Congress MLA also said that the state government was deliberately putting employees at risk, destroying aspirations and creating financial difficulties for government staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-ordinance-tweak-hba-scheme-congress/articleshow/78394288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||DM forms committee to monitor crop residue burning in the district||Bareilly: District magistrate Pulkit Khare on Tuesday constituted an eight-member monitoring committee under the chairmanship of additional DM (finance and revenue) Atul Singh, to keep a close eye on the enforcement of the ban on burning of crop residue.In compliance with orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT), the administration has imposed a complete ban on burning of crop residue in the district. It has also released an appeal to farmers, pointing out detrimental effects of the practice.The DM said he has given deputy director of agriculture, Yashraj Singh the responsibility of enforcing action against defaulters and sending daily reports to the state administration. He added directions have been issued to create Whatsapp groups of village pradhans and lekhpals in every tehsil and block, for prompt and flawless reporting and communication. In addition, sub-divisional magistrates have been asked to form flying squads to extensively monitor the ground situation in all agricultural areas.He said, “Defaulters will be slapped with Rs 2,500 fine in case their land holding is less than two acres, Rs 5,000 if their land measures over two acres but less than five acres, and Rs 15,000 if the land area is over five acres.”Referring to scientific studies, the DM in his appeal to farmers pointed out that burning 1 tonne of crop residue led to emission of 3 kg carbon footprint, 60 kg carbon monoxide, 1,460 kg carbon dioxide, 2 kg sulphur dioxide and 199 kg suspended ash particles.Besides these gases raising air pollution, crop burning causes drastic deterioration in soil fertility and kills soil-friendly insects, stated the DM in his appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-forms-committee-to-monitor-crop-residue-burning-in-the-district/articleshow/78390349.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Tourists cry foul over fine by cops||Idukki: Even as tourism department is gearing to reinvigorate the tourism sector after Covid-19 pandemic, SHO of Vagamon flags down visitors to the area and fines them for Covid-19 violations even though there are no such violations. Tourists alleged that the police collected fines from visitors saying that they entered Vagamon, an area banned for tourists. But district administration and tourism department officials denied any ban in tourism destinations in the district. “The SHO, including the police team, blocked our vehicle and said that tourism was banned in Vagamon and issued us a fine. The fine was issued under Epidemic Act,” said Sam Jose, a tourist from Kochi. However, Idukki district collector H Dinesan told TOI that there is no tourism ban in any destination in the district. “The police officials illegally collected fines from the visitors. The tourism centre in Vagamon has not yet officially opened for tourists. But there is no ban in Vagamon or any other tourism destination in the district. There is no need to collect fines from visitors in Vagamon,” said Dinesan. Idukki tourism deputy director Thomas Antony said that the tourism department is trying to attract tourists to destinations in Idukki. “In the present situation we expect local tourist inflow to our destinations. We are afraid that such police actions will affect the tourist inflow,” said Antony. However, Vagamon SHO R Jayasanil said that they collected fines from only from violators of Covid-19 guidelines. “The fines were collected under 3(A) not wearing masks and 3(D) not following social distance,” said Jayasanil. Many of the tourists that TOI spoke to, however, denied the SHO’s version. “We understand that only the police version is considered official. But there was no such violation because we were wearing masks and adhered to social distancing protocol,” said Jose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tourists-cry-foul-over-fine-by-cops/articleshow/78392778.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||New Karnataka govt policy proposes mine and maritime tourism||BENGALURU: To provide a boost to the tourism sector, which is among the worst hit due to Covid-19, the state government unveiled a new policy for 2020-25. As part of this effort, it has started exploring options in 20 sectors. From the much-publicised agri-tourism to cultural and heritage tourism, the government has conceptualised a few potential areas, including one in the mining sector. It intends to open up two goldmines, KGF and Hutti, for those interested to know more about how the yellow metal is extracted. While mines in KGF have been long shut, with the Union government considering a proposal to explore them for precious metals, Hatti gold mines is one of the only two active gold mines in the country. The state is also looking at vacant quarry mines in and around Bengaluru to promote tourism. “While KGF and Hatti are two options, along with several more in Ballari and other parts of the state, we are also looking at quarries in and around Bengaluru. We can develop them into rappelling and rock-climbing tourism centres,” said Anil Kumar, tourism principal secretary. On the other end, the government is also exploring inland water tourism, providing houseboats and joyride options in KRS, Almatti and Bhadra dams. For the open waters, Karnataka is looking at maritime tourism, with packages customised for the state. With as many as 40 international cruise ships touching Mangaluru port, the government is trying to customise a package around them. “With an estimated 800 to 1,400 people on every cruise ship, this could be a huge potential area, if we have a customised tour plan for them. Be it the Western Ghats or the state’s coastline, there is an opportunity for the entire region to prosper,” said an official. The bigger question is whether the government will consider casinos on cruise ships.“That is a government policy. The government has to consider if it’s a viable option to encourage gambling on cruises,” said the official. According to Kumar, as of now, there are no talks of allowing casinos on cruise ships. 80 locations in focusIn a departure from previous policies, the government has designed a focused approach towards developing 80 locations in Karnataka, which have tourism potential, but lack infrastructure. These spots are spread across the entire state — from Bidar to Mysuru and from Dakshina Kannada to Chikkaballapura. The government has also identified eight districts — Kodagu, Chamrajnagar, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Shivamogga — as zones with potential for tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-ktaka-policy-proposes-mine-maritime-tourism/articleshow/78396307.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Trains to roar in lion territory on another broad gauge line||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s State Board for Wildlife has extended its term till September 2021. The term was to end this month. The board has decided to divert 150 hectares of land from the Gir sanctuary for broad gauge and track electrification projects. During the board’s meeting on Tuesday, the government also approved the diversion of the sanctuary land for other projects such as laying lines for gas, oil, and optical fibres. The Kodinar-Veraval track will now be made broad gauge. The original 45km metre-gauge line passed from the sanctuary through a 2km stretch near Talala. The area has a high density of lions. An SBWL member said that the metre gauge track had been closed for three years. Officials said that there is stiff opposition from farmers against a second line from Sutrapada to Kodinar. There have been calls to scrap the Veraval-Sutrapada-Kodinar line and for the traffic to be diverted from Talala. The member said that the broad gauge line will allow trains to run at minimum speed of 50kmph, which can result in lions being run over as was observed on the goods train track near Pipavav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trains-to-roar-in-lion-territory-on-another-broad-gauge-line/articleshow/78394201.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Amateur chefs log in as Covid fuels appetite for home food||Nagpur: HR professional Ketan Raut returned to Nagpur from his hometown as his company resumed office work from September. Ketan, who stays alone here, earlier used to have his lunch and dinner at a famous thali restaurant in city. But since he resumed office, he neither wants to take tiffin from restaurants nor wants to eat out in company canteen. “I am not sure how much hygiene is followed in restaurants, where food for hundreds of people is cooked daily. Instead, I have located a home-made food option near my residence. A housemaker runs it. It’s like having lunch with their family members daily. I am assured of quality and hygiene here,” said Ketan. With Covid-19 unlock process in its final phase; people have started adapting to life with Covid now. In this new phase, they are becoming more conscious. Instead of having food parcels from restaurants where food is prepared in bulk daily in community kitchen, people prefer to have simple home-made food from on-demand housewives and chefs. City-based food start-up ‘Nativ Chefs’, which used to have a team of 50 home chefs making traditional meals and offering home delivery to people, now has more than 140 chefs attached. The sales of Nativ Chef have increased by 36% in last two months and they are almost back to pre-Covid scenario, informed Leena Dixit, who heads this start-up. “The chef inquiries are almost 48% more than regular but currently due to Covid scenario, we are not conducting tasting events. We will consider enrolling these chefs once situation is normalized,” she said. “People are trying and appreciating different home cooked cuisines and preference is given to more protein rich dishes, healthy dishes than earlier,” she said adding that healthy options like gud thekua, dalma and lot of immunity boosting laddus like dink, methi dry fruits, sattu, aliv etc are being ordered by many. Many housewives used the lockdown period to explore the chef within. They have taken to social media platforms to announce their own small start-ups and are getting good response. “I was good in preparing some traditional Maharashtrian dishes like thalipeeth, dheerde and anarase. Just a post in WhatsApp groups has got me many orders,” said Anita Deshpande from Govind Nagar. While the state government is all set to re-start restaurants this week, owners are not expecting very good response from people. “We have lost more than 80% of our business and even after re-opening, we are not expecting much improvement in this. This is because, people are still afraid of Covid-19. It will be difficult to make them believe that restaurants are also following all guidelines properly,” said Bhavanishankar Dave, member of hotel owners association. Even according to dietitians, people are opting for home made food as it’s a healthier option. “Home made food items don’t have preservatives added, and are cooked in a hygienic way. Also, since its home cooked, people are using less oil and spices which is healthy for consumers,” said clinical dietitian Malvika Fulwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amateur-chefs-log-in-as-covid-fuels-appetite-for-home-food/articleshow/78394195.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt operators’ ultimatum to run buses with full capacity||Nagpur: Private bus operators want state government to allow them to run long distance buses with 100% capacity. Presently, only Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses have been allowed to operate with full capacity. Private buses are off the road since March 19. With no option left, passengers keen on travelling to Pune after the lockdown relaxations are now completely dependent on MSRTC buses as there are no trains and luxury buses. The ST buses are witnessing surge in passengers travelling to Pune. “Our load factor in buses to Pune is around 25-30, though we have been allowed full capacity from September 19. From Wednesday, we will operate air-conditioned Shivshahi buses for Pune with a fare of Rs1,385,” said MSRTC Ganeshpeth depot manager Anil Amnerkar. On the other hand, private bus operators, who have not been granted similar relaxation, have warned the government that they would forcefully run buses with 100% capacity from October 1, if not allowed. Due to Covid curbs, only 15% buses are on road. “Though we have been told to operate with 50% capacity, annual tax @Rs7,700 per seat is charged for full capacity. Secondly, even if we operate with 22 passengers, diesel cost will remain the same. If MSRTC is public transport service, we too fall in the same category and should be allowed to run with 100% capacity,” demanded Mahendra Luley, vice-president, Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tankers Bus Vahatuk Mahasangh. “Due to this stringent condition, only 15% of the 150 private buses are on road. Other states like Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat have already relaxed conditions for interstate buses. These governments have also granted tax exemptions,” said Luley. A meeting of the Mahasangh is slated for Wednesday with state transport commissioner on tax and carrying capacity related issues. When MSRTC was allowed to operate with full capacity on September 19, decision about private buses was left to the transport commissioner. Transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne told TOI, “The decision to increase capacity of private buses though can be considered, it cannot be taken at my level. Under the Disaster Management Act, order for such decisions are issued by chief secretary after government takes a call.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-operators-ultimatum-to-run-buses-with-full-capacity/articleshow/78394219.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||India-Nepal border opens for 20 minutes for ailing baby||PITHORAGARH: The suspension bridge at Dharchula in Pithoragrah district near the India-Nepal border — which has remained closed since coronavirus-induced lockdown in March — was opened briefly on Monday to allow a Nepalese family to bring their one-month-old infant to India for urgent medical treatment. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande confirmed to TOI that the decision to quickly open the bridge was taken after a Nepalese family sought permission to bring their girl to India for treatment. “The child had been referred to a higher centre in Pithoragarh and needed timely treatment so we decided to open the bridge. Other people who had sought permission were also allowed to cross over in that window,” he said. Jagdish Ram, a resident of Darchula (Nepal), had approached the district administration with a request to allow the family to travel to Pithoragarh to get their baby treated for abdominal lumps. The Darchula administration then approached their counterparts in India and both sides decided to open the bridge for a short duration. A total of 138 Nepalese and Indians crossed over when the bridge was opened to movement for 20 minutes on Monday afternoon, according to sub-divisional magistrate (Dharchula) A K Shukla. The infant was admitted to Balaukote community health center (CHC) after Ram and his wife Rewati Devi crossed over to India. “The baby is under care at the CHC and we will go to Pithoragarh after this,” said the father. Since March, the bridge has been opened only a few times to allow stranded people from both countries to cross over or students to take exams. Watch Suspension bridge at India-Nepal border opened for sick Nepalese baby||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/suspension-bridge-at-india-nepal-border-opened-for-20-mins-for-ailing-nepalese-infant/articleshow/78391429.cms||Prem Punetha
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Elections for four vacant council seats on October 28||BENGALURU: Polls to the four vacant seats in the legislative council will be held on October 28, the Election Commission (EC) announced on Tuesday. The seats, which have been open since June 30, are: South-East Graduates, West Graduates, North-East Teachers and Bengaluru Teachers. R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli, SV Sankanur, Sharanappa Mattur and Puttanna represented these constituencies in the Upper House. The EC had put the elections on hold earlier because of the coronavirus pandemic. The notification for the elections will be issued on October 1. The last dates for filing nominations and withdrawal of candidature are October 8 and October 12, respectively. The papers will be scrutinised on October 9. Polling will be held from 8am to 5pm on October 28, and the votes will be counted on November 2. The results could help the ruling BJP improve its strength in the council, but it will still fall short of the Congress-JD(S) combine. Currently, BJP has 27 members in the 75-member council, Congress 28, excluding the chairman, and JD(S) 14. The shortfall hurt BJP during the recent monsoon session of the legislature as Congress and JD(S) defeated the bill for labour reforms. The government now plans to reissue an ordinance for the same. Though there’s time to pick candidates, the three parties have already shortlisted names. BJP, according to some functionaries, is likely to give another chance to SV Sankanur on the West Graduates seat. Former MLC Mohan Limbikai is also in contention. Former MLCs Shashil G Namoshi and Amarnath Patil of BJP are contenders for the North-East Teachers constituency. Congress is likely to field Sharanappa Mattur again. BJP’s AH Anand and KP Chidananda are reportedly eyeing the South-East Graduates seat. JD(S) may go with R Chowdareddy Thoopalli, while Congress is likely to field Ramesh Babu, who switched from JD(S) recently, or Prabhakar Reddy. For the Bengaluru Teachers seat, Congress has finalised the candidature of Praveen Peter and JD(S) has chosen advocate AP Ranganath. BJP will field Puttanna, a three-time MLC who joined the party recently after leaving JD(S).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-elections-for-4-vacant-council-seats-on-oct-28/articleshow/78396332.cms||Anil Gejji
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Bains protests outside SSP office, seek action against cops||LUDHIANA: Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, along with his supporters, staged a protest for four hours outside the office of Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh on Tuesday, seeking action against police personnel for cane-charging his party workers at Payal police station and tossing the turban of a worker, Manvinder Singh Giaspura, on September 20. Bains also threatened to intensify the protest if the SSP does not ensure action againt the cops. Bains alleged that on September 20 the party workers were protesting peacefully outside police station, Payal. During the protest certain cops had tried to strangulate Giaspura and other party workers with a rope, passed caste-based derogatory remarks and tossed their turbans before cane-changing them. The LIP workers were protesting as a resident of Maksudra village was allegedly picked up by police after he had lodged a complaint against a sarpanch and a panch for allegedly taking Rs 10,000 bribe to get his case cleared under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). It was being alleged that during the protest LIP workers pelted the police station with stones and also manhandled a cop inside the police station and even pulled of his turban. On asking about it, Bains said that the stones were thrown at them by the cops in civvies and not by LIP workers. Bains said he would seek apology if the turban of any cop was dislodged. The MLA while protesting outside the SSP office demanded an FIR against police personnel for thrashing LIP worker and tossing turban of another. Bains said that if the police would not take action, then they would block the national highway and even file a writ petition in the court. Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh said that two police personnel had been shifted to Police Lines and an inquiry had been marked to the SP (investigation) in this matter. Besides, the police are also probing whether the cops deliberately tossed a protester's turban or it came off accidentally. He added that he had also written to the deputy commissioner for a magisterial probe of the entire incident, including manhandling by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bains-protests-outside-ssp-office-seek-action-against-cops/articleshow/78392760.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Captain inciting farmers to save his face for not fulfilling promises’||LUDHIANA: BJP state president Ashwani Sharma while taking a dig at chief minister Amarinder Singh and Congress government claimed that just to save his face among voters for not fulfilling the poll promises, Capt and Congress leaders are inciting the farmers against farm bills and BJP government. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday , he said instead of maintaining peace in the state, the CM is trying to spoil the environment in the state. The BJP state president was in the city to attend a meeting with the newly appointed party team of the district. He said in the past three and a half years of the Congress rule people were asking for jobs, unemployment allowance, pension and above all a drug-free state, but Capt government had failed to give all these things to people. He said now to divert the attention of voters from all these things Amarinder was trying to fuel the farmers against the bills, which were in favour of farmers. He said they had meetings with farmers’ organisations in advance and they had shown concern about MSP and grain markets and PM Narendra Modi had cleared the air that both things would remain intact. He said these ordinances were giving power to farmers to sell their crop openly anywhere in the country if they feel they were not getting better MSP in the grain market. He also claimed that the BJP had formed a eight-member committee to talk to these farmer organisations, which were protesting against these bills. Regarding contesting elections in 2022, the BJP state president said, “It is difficult to predict the situation of 2022 at this moment but since our allies have selected their path we would contest on all 117 seats in Punjab.” Regarding Sukhbir Badal’s statement about dictatorship of the BJP in the NDA, he said they always gave respect to SAD and three months ago everybody must have listened to Sukhbir during his address on these ordinances, where he had explained the provisions to farmers. He said he was given in writing that the MSP and grain markets would still be there even after these bills. If even then if he is thinking it is dictatorship, then they cannot say anything about it. Meanwhile, state president welcomed Akali leader Davinder Verma, along with his supporters, into the BJP. He used to be associated with senior Akali Dal leader Hira Singh Gabria for a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/capt-inciting-farmers-to-save-his-face-for-not-fulfilling-promises/articleshow/78392782.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli MP tests nCov positive||Rajkot: Amreli MP Naran Kachhadiya tested positive of Covid-19 on Tuesday and is under home quarantine. Earlier, Kacchhadiya attended a function in Ambardi Safari park on Tuesday along with minister Jawahar Chavda, Amreli district collector Ayush Oak and deputy conservator of forest, Anshuman Sharma. He also attended another event at Alang on Monday organized to welcome INS Viraat, sharing dias with Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya and others. He also had lunch with many VIP guests at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-mp-tests-ncov-positive/articleshow/78391432.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||NMC starts free counselling for Covid +ve, frontline staff||Nagpur: Realizing Covid-19 also causes psychological trauma, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in association with Gurgaon-based startup ePsyclinic and city-based NGO Together We Can has facilitated 24x7 counselling of Covid-19 patients and frontline workers through a team of psychologists. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Monday executed a memorandum of understanding with ePsyclinic which has already started the service in 17 cities. NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma told TOI, “It has come to fore that many positive patients, their relatives and also frontline workers are facing psychological trauma. A healthy mind can keep body healthy. Therefore, NMC will be starting this 24x7 counselling from experienced psychologists from Wednesday.” It is outcome of efforts taken by Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani and Nikunj Dayma of NGO Together We Can along with Kartik Saboo from Maharashtra State Innovation Society. Chhabrani and Dayma said, “We along with Saboo submitted a proposalwith the NMC. Radhakrishnan gave a positive response and executed MoU. It is going to benefit not only positive patients, their relatives but also frontline workers of NMC like doctors, staff at testing centres, holding swab collection camps, sanitary workers working in the field daily.” Sharma added, “NMC will shortlist some positive patients and frontline workers and send their contact numbers to ePsyclinic. Qualified psychologists will call them and counsel.” Chhabrani and Dayma said, “Anyone can call on 7303250515 or visit on nagpur.epsyclinic.com and avail the service round the clock. Apart from tele-call, facility of chatting is also available. Three languages—English, Hindi and Marathi—have been facilitated.” NMC and Together We Can are also planning to tie-up with another startup StepOne to keep track of positive patients, guide those in home isolation, help in admission of symptomatic patients etc. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, NMC, and police department have appointed Together We Can for keeping track of positive patients in home isolation and also coordinate between relatives of patients and administration at GMCH, IGGMCH and Lata Mangeshkar Covid Hospitals. NGO headed by Joseph George is also providing ration kit to needy positive patients in home isolation, coordinating between donors and patients for plasma, taking up issues of excess medical bills with the civic body etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-starts-free-counselling-for-covid-ve-frontline-staff/articleshow/78394268.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||No laxity permissible in custodial death probe: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has told the investigator in the Vadodara custodial death case that there is no scope for laxity or soft pedalling in the probe else it would be deleterious for the system. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria told IPS officer Girish Pandya to leave no stone unturned in the investigation of the mysterious disappearance of Shaikh Babu Nisar in December 2019 after he was summoned to Fatehgunj police station. Upon his son’s habeas corpus petition, an FIR was registered against six policemen for murder. The HC transferred the probe to CID (crime). As the HC is monitoring the probe, the investigator on Monday placed the case diary in court and informed the judges that lie detection test of all accused cops has been sought. To this, the judges said, “It is emphatically made clear to the investigating officer that truth is the motto and object of every investigation and in the instant case, all the accused are police personnel who are supposed to be well versed with all possible tactics to overreach the process of law, extraordinary care would be expected on his part.” The court further said, “IO (Investigating Officer) is to constantly remind himself that this crime is allegedly committed while on duty where the corpus is said to have been tortured in custody and alleged to have been done away with mercilessly and the incident was glossed over till revealed in this petition. Let no stone be left unturned and every possible attempt be made to go to the root of the matter. There must not be any scope of either laxity or soft pedalling at any stage of investigation which is not only impermissible, but would also prove to be deleterious for the system.” The HC also directed the officer to report regularly “till the whereabouts of corpus is found with substantive and scientific proof”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-laxity-permissible-in-custodial-death-probe-hc/articleshow/78394230.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Valanchery pvt lab issues fake Covid -ve certificates||Kozhikode: A private laboratory based in Valanchery, Malappuram, has allegedly conducted large-scale fraud by issuing fake Covid-19 negative test certificates and has fraudulently amassed around Rs 45 lakh through the scam. According to Valanchery police, investigations have revealed that Arma Laboratory, a franchise of Kozhikode-based ICMR-approved laboratory for Covid-19 testing, had collected swab samples from around 2,500 people for Covid-19 testing from August 16. But only 496 samples were sent to the parent lab in Kozhikode for testing. Police said that Arma Laboratory, however, issued fake Covid-19 negative certificates to the people whose samples were not sent for testing by creating fake certificates in the name of the Kozhikode-based lab. Police said that the fake Covid-19 negative certificates were issued mostly to expatriates. The scam had larger implications with Dubai regulatory authorities recently informing airlines about rejecting the RT-PCR certificates issued by the Kozhikode-based lab which had led to around 200 passengers unable to fly to Dubai from Calicut International Airport and Kannur Airport on Monday. Valanchery police inspector M K Shaji said that Arma laboratory was not entitled to collect samples and send it to the ICMR-approved parent lab in Kozhikode for testing. Police said that the lab destroyed the untested samples for which they issued fake certificates. “On receiving a complaint regarding issuing false Covid-19 test certificate, we seized the computers from Arma Lab, but found that the data in them were deleted. After retrieving the data with the help of the cyber cell, we found that they had collected around 2,500 samples. But when we cross-checked with the Kozhikode-based parent lab, only 496 samples were received for testing. It was found that the accused made fake Covid-19 negative certificates in the name of Kozhikode-based lab for the untested swab samples,” Shaji added. He said that Arma Laboratory charged Rs 2,750 per test and by issuing fake certificates for untested samples, the accused are believed to have fraudulently amassed around Rs 45 lakh. As per the agreement, Arma Lab was to get Rs 500 for every sample they sent for testing to the parent lab. While police arrested Abdul Nazar, the second accused in the case, on September 19, the owner of the lab Sunil Sadath approached the court seeking anticipatory bail. Police said that the incident came to light when a person who was granted Covid-19 negative certificate by Arma Lab got a message from the Kozhikode-based lab about his sample testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/valanchery-pvt-lab-issues-fake-covid-ve-certificates/articleshow/78392836.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal sets up 3rd border post along India in 3 days, 15th so far||Pithoragarh: Nepal set up its 15th border observation post (BOP) at Tatopani along the India-Nepal border on Tuesday, a day after it erected a BOP at Rupaligad in its Dadeldhura district. Opposite Purnagiri in Champawat district of Uttarakhand, this is the third BOP that has come up in three days. India and Nepal share a 275-km-long border, which covers four districts of Nepal – Darchula, Baitadi, Dadeldhura and Kanchanpur -- and three of Uttarakhand, at Pithoragarh, Champawat and Udham Singh Nagar. Nepalese Armed Police Force (APF) DIG Harishankar Budhathoki inaugurated the latest BOP at Tatopani. “India and Nepal have an open border. This (the BOPs) will stop criminal activities like smuggling and illegal movement across the border,” he said. On Sunday, Nepal had inaugurated a BOP in Datu in its Darchula district. The next day, another popped up in Rupaligad. A few days ago, as reported by TOI, Nepal’s minister for home affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa had laid the foundation stone of the battalion headquarters for Nepalese APF in Chhangru village, which borders Kalapani. Thapa is believed to have saidthat a multi-utility building will be constructed in the area for the APF at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore within one year. Tensions arose between the two countries after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 80-km-long Ghatiabagarh-Lipulekh road in May. In the last four months, Nepal strengthened its military presence in Darchula district and set up BOPs at Dumling, Jauljibi, Lali, Jhulaghat and Pancheshwar areas along the border with Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-sets-up-3rd-border-post-along-india-in-3-days-15th-so-far/articleshow/78391435.cms||Prem Punetha
September 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Sidhwan water front: With first phase nearing completion, second to start in a month||LUDHIANA: As the first stage of Sidhwan water front project , being constructed as part of TOI’s ‘Let’s Save Sidhwan’ campaign, is nearing completion, the work on the second stage of the project is expected to start in about a month. On September 8 in 2019, the work on the project was inaugurated by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in the presence of councillor Mamta Ashu and other prominent persons at the back side of zone D office of the municipal corporation on the side of Sidhwan canal. The project involved development of the stretch along the Sidhwan canal, starting from Pakhowal road till Ludhiana MC zone D office near Ferozepur road, and includes development of a green belt, dedicated cycling track, playing zone, dedicated footpath along the canal, sitting areas, wall climbing activities, etc. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that the first phase of the Sidhwan water front project was almost complete. He added that work on the second phase of the project might start in 15 days and the tenders for the project had already been floated and the file of the same was with the state government. The minister said that the second phase of the project would be from Pakhowal road to Dugri road and besides play stations for children, it will have booths and lower part of the stretch would also be developed. Ashu even uploaded the pictures of the phase one of the water front during evening on his Facebook page. Meanwhile, an officer involved in the project said that only around 10-15% of the work of the second stage of first phase of the project was pending. “The work on the second stretch of phase one from zone D to Pakhowal road is going on and we have completed around 85-90% of the work, including the construction of a cycle track, footpaths, etc. and only have to install benches for visitors and plant saplings after which lights will be installed. We expect to complete the first phase of the project within a month,” said the officer. He added that they expect to start work on the project soon as the cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was pursuing the case himself. Meanwhile residents are happy to see the completion of first stage of phase one of the project. “The water front looks amazing during the day and in the evening and night hours it looks even better with lights on. Already many residents are going to the area for cycling and walking, especially during the morning and evening hours. This is a good gift that the for the city and was first of its kind place on the sides of a water body in Ludhiana for amusement and enjoyment,” said Mandeep Singh, a Pakhowal road area resident. The cost of first phase of this project is Rs 4.75 crore. The total length of this stretch is approximately 1,100m and the width varies from 20–22m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sidhwan-water-front-with-1st-phase-nearing-completion-2nd-to-start-in-a-month/articleshow/78392789.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fishing boat owners seek aid for life-saving tech||Ahmedabad: The Veraval’s Boat Owners’ Association has asked that the government aids faster technology adoption among fishermen so their lives can be saved. During a press conference in Ahmedabad on Tuesday, representatives of the association said that fishermen are often lost at sea and lose their lives due to the lack of timely information and SOS data. Tulsi Gohel, president of the Veraval’s Boat Owners’ Association, the Kharva Sanyukta Machhimar Boat Association, said, “Fishermen are often trapped mid-sea and lose their lives due to a lack of timely information and SOS data. Our vessels and fishermen are routinely apprehended by neighbouring countries, with the most recent incident being the detaining of 49 fishermen on September 15 by Pakistan. However, we are in need of urgent intervention by the government to keep us secure.” The association has sought direct intervention to address the need to adopt next-generation digital and satellite communications technologies to ensure the safety of fishermen on the high seas. Veraval is the hub of fisheries in Gujarat with an annual turnover of Rs 5,000 crore. At least 100 of the 130-odd companies involved in fishing are based in Veraval. “Advanced and affordable technology that can benefit us is available, but there is no scheme by the Centre or state government to make it affordable and accessible to fishermen, For instance, we have tested a transponder, which has two-way data communication directly over satellite and works at sea. We request the government to deploy the latest technology immediately, as any delay will lead to further loss of lives,” he added. According to association members, technology adoption will not only save the lives of fishermen but also help increase productivity. “Through two-way data systems, it is now becoming easier to send fish location data to fishermen at sea to ensure better supply and demand matching, while allowing fishermen to access markets and transact at sea to maximize the value of their catch,” said a senior member of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fishing-boat-owners-seek-aid-for-life-saving-tech/articleshow/78394215.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Record coronavirus spike for 12th day, active cases over 20,000||JAIPUR: For 12 days in a row, the state reported record Covid-19 infections with 2,148 new infections being reported on Tuesday taking the overall count to 1,33,119. The state’s caseload is constantly increasing as active cases touched a new high of 20,376 with maximum contribution from Jaipur where the active cases stand at 7,627. The capital city reported 422 cases on Tuesday, second day in a row in which it breached the 400 mark. With each day setting new records of new infections, the state is showing no signs of letting up in corona cases. In Jaipur, daily new patients are adding up to existing numbers putting pressure on the health authorities to expand healthcare facilities further. The health department claimed that at the ESI Hospital, a 25-bed ICU is coming up, while the existing strength of 10 ICU beds at Jaipuria Hospital will be upgraded to a 25-bed facility. “Though cases are increasing in Jaipur, we have sufficient facilities for treatment of patients. More ICUs are coming up at ESI and Jaipuria hospitals for Covid treatment,” said a senior health department official. Apart from new record infections, the state witnessed deaths of 15 persons due to the virus taking the state’s toll to 1,471. Kota became the fifth district reporting 100 Covid deaths till date, the first four being Jaipur (320), Jodhpur (143), Bikaner (111) and Ajmer (104). Sriganganagar reported two deaths taking its toll to 14, while Jaipur 320th, Jodhpur 143rd, Bikaner 111th, Ajmer 104th, Kota 100th, Pali 61st, Udaipur 49th, Alwar 41st, Rajsamand 24th, Baran 22nd, Banswara 19th, Bhilwara 18th, and Jalore reported its 19th Covid-19 fatality. As many as 13 districts in the state reported more than 50 new Covid-19 infections. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (422), Jodhpur (331), Ajmer (124), Bhilwara (106), Bikaner (103), Udaipur (101), Kota (86), Alwar (83), Nagaur (76), Pali (69), Churu (68), Sikar (61), Sriganganagar (51), Jhunjhunu (49), Sirohi (48), Barmer (45), Dholpur (35), Rajsamand (33), Hanumangarh (28), Chittorgarh (26), Sawai Madhopur (26), Tonk (24), Bharatpur (22), Jaisalmer (21), Karauli (20), Jalore (20), Dungarpur (16), Dausa (15), Baran (11), Banswara (10), Jhalawar (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/record-corona-spike-for-12th-day-active-cases-over-20k/articleshow/78403216.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||ICU bed availability improves across Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits||PUNE: The availability of beds in the intensive care units (ICU) in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas improved to more than 350 on Tuesday, as against less than 100 earlier this month, on account of decline in active Covid-19 cases. The Pune divisional commissioner office’s dashboard on Tuesday evening stated that 70 ICU beds were available in the Pune municipal limits and 284 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas. The availability of ICU beds with ventilator support, however, remains a major concern as only 37 such beds were available across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad on Tuesday. When it comes to active cases, as many as 6,170 patients were in hospital isolation in PMC limits on Tuesday. As for PCMC limits, as many as 4,683 Covid-19 patients were in hospital on Tuesday evening. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the administration had increased 900 beds in the past 10 days, of which 90 beds were ICU beds. During the same duration, the administration also increased 800 beds in Solapur, 450 in Sangli, 440 in Satara, and 225 in Kolhapur, which ultimately reduced the patient load on Pune district, the divisional commissioner said. He said the number of positive cases seemed to be dropping in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits post-Ganeshotsav, especially after September 17. The positivity rate in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas ranges between 15-20%. Rao said the beds in the Sassoon General Hospital would be increased to over 800 in the coming days. He also urged people not to lower their guards during the upcoming festival season. “The upcoming festival season will pose a challenge to restrict the virus spread. Responsible behaviour by citizens will play an important role in the days ahead,”the divisional commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icu-bed-availability-improves-across-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-civic-limits/articleshow/78394241.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||Centre to provide funds for nine railway bridge projects in U’khand||Dehradun: In a major relief to Uttarakhand, Nitin Gadkari, Union minister of road transport and highways, approved 50% payment for nine railway over bridge and railway under bridge projects in the state through Central Road and Infrastructure Fund. While Indian Railways provides 50% of the total project cost, the state had to contribute the remaining amount. Earlier, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had made a request with Gadkari in this regard. The Union minister has given nod for the payment of state’s share of 50% through Central Road and Infrastructure Fund. Appreciating the decision, CM Rawat said that the amount can be used for other developmental activities in the Himalayan state. CM Rawat said that long jams and a high number of road mishaps were reported near the level railway crossing and rail over bridge and rail under bridges were a solution to this project. The state has identified nine level crossings, where a bridge or underpass can be made. However, due to the high cost associated with these projects, a request was made to Gadkari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-to-provide-funds-for-nine-railway-bridge-projects-in-ukhand/articleshow/78391444.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||Woman raped in UP; police try to ‘hush up’ case, book minor son||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old woman from a village in Shahjahanpur district was gang-raped and even assaulted allegedly by the accused from the same village on September 24 over a previous enmity. Even though she lodged a gang rape complaint the next day, police registered an FIR only under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354b (assault to any woman compelling her to be naked) of the Indian Penal Code. Not just that, two days later, the local police also booked her 13-year-old son in a sexual assault case, allegedly to pressure the family for a compromise. However, the matter came to the fore on Tuesday after Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi tweeted about the woman’s plight right after the death of the Hathras gangrape victim. Senior officers soon swung into action and her statement was recorded before a magistrate. The medical examination of the woman, too, confirmed sexual assault as there were injuries to her private parts. Gangrape charges will be added to the FIR soon, said police. Deputy inspector general (Bareilly range) Rajesh Pandey said, “I have asked Shahjahanpur SSP to look into the matter and take corrective action. He will soon provide a report on the incident.” The crime was reported from a village in Kalaan tehsil, 60 km from the district headquarters. Despite her repeated requests, local police didn’t take any action and the accused continued to threaten her, the family claimed. The statement of the woman was recorded in a Shahjahanpur court under section 164 of CrPC on Tuesday. The woman’s husband told TOI, “I was working in the field when the accused -- Tejram, Mohar Singh, Girish and Ompal -- barged into my house. They thrashed my wife mercilessly and tore her clothes. Thereafter they gang-raped her and later one of the accused, Tejram, brutalised her. Police supported the accused all through this and didn’t register our complaint under relevant sections. Instead of killing ourselves in desperation, we decided to fight for justice because of our children. I have mortgaged my wife’s jewellery for her treatment and for the fees of the advocate.” Kalaan SHO Dileep Singh Bhadauria, however, denied allegations of wrongdoing by the local police. “We had not changed the complaint but a different complaint was given by the woman's nephew and the FIR was registered on that complaint. We are investigating the FIR registered against the woman's minor son under section 354 (attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman). We are not threatening the family for a compromise.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-gangraped-in-shahjahanpur-police-try-to-hush-up-case-book-her-minor-son/articleshow/78390406.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Lack of immunity helping elders recover from Covid?||BENGALURU: Contrary to common wisdom that the infection could prove fatal in the elderly, there have been many cases of Covid-19 patients aged above 70 years recovering from the disease. Geriatricians say their recovery may be aided by ‘immunosenescence’ — the gradual deterioration of the immune system brought on by age. With immunosenescence, elderly patients have fewer cytokine storm markers, Geriatricians say. A cytokine storm is the immune response going haywire, leading to sepsis and aggravating patients’ condition. Dr Anoop Amarnath, a city-based geriatrician and member of the state’s critical care support group for Covid-19 treatment, said immunosenescence may offer some benefits to the elderly who come down with the infection. He says that in elderly patients they have treated, the rise of inflammatory markers — like IL6 (protein coding gene that acts as pro-inflammatory cytokine), ferritin (protein storing iron), D Dimer (protein fragment releases when a blood clot breaks down) and LDH, an enzyme that plays a role in energy production — have been minimal. “The elderly usually have slightly elevated levels of inflammatory markers, giving rise to the hypothesis that ageing itself may be related to an inflammatory process. It is in this context that immunosenescence may be beneficial. More detailed and specific studies are required to ascertain this,” said Dr Anoop, who is also the chairman, geriatric medicine, Manipal hospitals. As per Karnataka’s Covid-19 data, as on September 28, the state has seen 71,494 people above the age of 60 years testing positive for Covid-19. Of them, 4,470 patients have died. The rest of the infected elderly — more than 93 % — have successfully overcome the infection. Early identification of Covid-19 and early introduction of appropriate therapy are mainstays in ensuring successful outcomes, Dr Anoop said. He recalled the case of a 110-year-old woman from Chitradurga whose health he used to monitor through e-rounds and an 85-year-old woman treated successfully in Bengaluru, both of whom recovered. However, a section of doctors do not agree with the theory, stating that comorbidities and health parameters play a huge role in Covid-19 outcomes in the elderly. “immunosenescence indicates deterioration and remodelling of the immune system, rendering it dysfunctional,” said Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology at Apollo hospitals and member of the state government’s Covid-19 expert team. “The innate immune system is the body’s first response to any infection. But when this is low, the inflammatory stage sets in. This leads to cytokine storms. The most unpredictable part is the immune response.” Dr Mehta added that the immunosenescence-benefit theory does not have an explanation for the comorbidity part of it. “Age and comorbidity go together which leads to mortality among senior citizens,” said Dr Mehta. Dr Pradeep Rangappa, consultant intensive care physician, Columbia Asia hospitals and head of the state government Covid critical care of experts in the tele-ICU team, said that there are more cases of cytokine storm in the elderly. “Clinical deterioration has almost always corroborated raising inflammatory markers. It’s globally recognised that mortality is increasing with every passing decade and mortality is correlative to immune dissonance,” said Dr Rangappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lack-of-immunity-helping-elders-recover-from-covid-docs-divided/articleshow/78392404.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Surendranagar Covid hospital fire creates panic||Rajkot: Panic gripped Gandhi Hospital in Surendranagar on Tuesday morning as a minor fire broke out in the Covid-19 building due to a short-circuit.Officials said that wires and cables in the electric room on the ground floor started to burn from a shortcircuit at around 11 am. Chaos ensued as the hospital had 58 inmates of Surendranagar sub-jail who were being treated for Covid-19 on the first floor of the building. Besides the jail inmates, over a dozen police staff too were deployed at the hospital for security purposes.Fire officials of Surendranagar municipality said that fire was quickly doused as it had not spread much. Security personnel of the hospital switched off the main power lines of the building which ensured that the fire did not spread beyond the electric room. “Prima facie it looks like short-circuit but help from forensic experts will be taken to ascertain the exact cause,” said a police official.It is from the same hospital that two prisoners who were being treated for coronavirus had escaped on Monday. The prisoners had broken the window’s iron grill and had used a bed sheet as a rope to climb down in the early hours of Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/surendranagar-covid-hospital-fire-creates-panic/articleshow/78391453.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Record coronavirus spike for 12th day, active cases over 20,000||JAIPUR: For 12 days in a row, the state reported record Covid-19 infections with 2,148 new infections being reported on Tuesday taking the overall count to 1,33,119. The state’s caseload is constantly increasing as active cases touched a new high of 20,376 with maximum contribution from Jaipur where the active cases stand at 7,627. The capital city reported 422 cases on Tuesday, second day in a row in which it breached the 400 mark. With each day setting new records of new infections, the state is showing no signs of letting up in corona cases. In Jaipur, daily new patients are adding up to existing numbers putting pressure on the health authorities to expand healthcare facilities further. The health department claimed that at the ESI Hospital, a 25-bed ICU is coming up, while the existing strength of 10 ICU beds at Jaipuria Hospital will be upgraded to a 25-bed facility. “Though cases are increasing in Jaipur, we have sufficient facilities for treatment of patients. More ICUs are coming up at ESI and Jaipuria hospitals for Covid treatment,” said a senior health department official. Apart from new record infections, the state witnessed deaths of 15 persons due to the virus taking the state’s toll to 1,471. Kota became the fifth district reporting 100 Covid deaths till date, the first four being Jaipur (320), Jodhpur (143), Bikaner (111) and Ajmer (104). Sriganganagar reported two deaths taking its toll to 14, while Jaipur 320th, Jodhpur 143rd, Bikaner 111th, Ajmer 104th, Kota 100th, Pali 61st, Udaipur 49th, Alwar 41st, Rajsamand 24th, Baran 22nd, Banswara 19th, Bhilwara 18th, and Jalore reported its 19th Covid-19 fatality. As many as 13 districts in the state reported more than 50 new Covid-19 infections. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (422), Jodhpur (331), Ajmer (124), Bhilwara (106), Bikaner (103), Udaipur (101), Kota (86), Alwar (83), Nagaur (76), Pali (69), Churu (68), Sikar (61), Sriganganagar (51), Jhunjhunu (49), Sirohi (48), Barmer (45), Dholpur (35), Rajsamand (33), Hanumangarh (28), Chittorgarh (26), Sawai Madhopur (26), Tonk (24), Bharatpur (22), Jaisalmer (21), Karauli (20), Jalore (20), Dungarpur (16), Dausa (15), Baran (11), Banswara (10), Jhalawar (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-corona-spike-for-12th-day-active-cases-over-20k/articleshow/78394237.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Record coronavirus spike for 12th day, active cases over 20,000||JAIPUR: For 12 days in a row, the state reported record Covid-19 infections with 2,148 new infections being reported on Tuesday taking the overall count to 1,33,119. The state’s caseload is constantly increasing as active cases touched a new high of 20,376 with maximum contribution from Jaipur where the active cases stand at 7,627. The capital city reported 422 cases on Tuesday, second day in a row in which it breached the 400 mark. With each day setting new records of new infections, the state is showing no signs of letting up in corona cases. In Jaipur, daily new patients are adding up to existing numbers putting pressure on the health authorities to expand healthcare facilities further. The health department claimed that at the ESI Hospital, a 25-bed ICU is coming up, while the existing strength of 10 ICU beds at Jaipuria Hospital will be upgraded to a 25-bed facility. “Though cases are increasing in Jaipur, we have sufficient facilities for treatment of patients. More ICUs are coming up at ESI and Jaipuria hospitals for Covid treatment,” said a senior health department official. Apart from new record infections, the state witnessed deaths of 15 persons due to the virus taking the state’s toll to 1,471. Kota became the fifth district reporting 100 Covid deaths till date, the first four being Jaipur (320), Jodhpur (143), Bikaner (111) and Ajmer (104). Sriganganagar reported two deaths taking its toll to 14, while Jaipur 320th, Jodhpur 143rd, Bikaner 111th, Ajmer 104th, Kota 100th, Pali 61st, Udaipur 49th, Alwar 41st, Rajsamand 24th, Baran 22nd, Banswara 19th, Bhilwara 18th, and Jalore reported its 19th Covid-19 fatality. As many as 13 districts in the state reported more than 50 new Covid-19 infections. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (422), Jodhpur (331), Ajmer (124), Bhilwara (106), Bikaner (103), Udaipur (101), Kota (86), Alwar (83), Nagaur (76), Pali (69), Churu (68), Sikar (61), Sriganganagar (51), Jhunjhunu (49), Sirohi (48), Barmer (45), Dholpur (35), Rajsamand (33), Hanumangarh (28), Chittorgarh (26), Sawai Madhopur (26), Tonk (24), Bharatpur (22), Jaisalmer (21), Karauli (20), Jalore (20), Dungarpur (16), Dausa (15), Baran (11), Banswara (10), Jhalawar (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-corona-spike-for-12th-day-active-cases-over-20k/articleshow/78403214.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Record coronavirus spike for 12th day, active cases over 20,000||JAIPUR: For 12 days in a row, the state reported record Covid-19 infections with 2,148 new infections being reported on Tuesday taking the overall count to 1,33,119. The state’s caseload is constantly increasing as active cases touched a new high of 20,376 with maximum contribution from Jaipur where the active cases stand at 7,627. The capital city reported 422 cases on Tuesday, second day in a row in which it breached the 400 mark. With each day setting new records of new infections, the state is showing no signs of letting up in corona cases. In Jaipur, daily new patients are adding up to existing numbers putting pressure on the health authorities to expand healthcare facilities further. The health department claimed that at the ESI Hospital, a 25-bed ICU is coming up, while the existing strength of 10 ICU beds at Jaipuria Hospital will be upgraded to a 25-bed facility. “Though cases are increasing in Jaipur, we have sufficient facilities for treatment of patients. More ICUs are coming up at ESI and Jaipuria hospitals for Covid treatment,” said a senior health department official. Apart from new record infections, the state witnessed deaths of 15 persons due to the virus taking the state’s toll to 1,471. Kota became the fifth district reporting 100 Covid deaths till date, the first four being Jaipur (320), Jodhpur (143), Bikaner (111) and Ajmer (104). Sriganganagar reported two deaths taking its toll to 14, while Jaipur 320th, Jodhpur 143rd, Bikaner 111th, Ajmer 104th, Kota 100th, Pali 61st, Udaipur 49th, Alwar 41st, Rajsamand 24th, Baran 22nd, Banswara 19th, Bhilwara 18th, and Jalore reported its 19th Covid-19 fatality. As many as 13 districts in the state reported more than 50 new Covid-19 infections. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (422), Jodhpur (331), Ajmer (124), Bhilwara (106), Bikaner (103), Udaipur (101), Kota (86), Alwar (83), Nagaur (76), Pali (69), Churu (68), Sikar (61), Sriganganagar (51), Jhunjhunu (49), Sirohi (48), Barmer (45), Dholpur (35), Rajsamand (33), Hanumangarh (28), Chittorgarh (26), Sawai Madhopur (26), Tonk (24), Bharatpur (22), Jaisalmer (21), Karauli (20), Jalore (20), Dungarpur (16), Dausa (15), Baran (11), Banswara (10), Jhalawar (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-corona-spike-for-12th-day-active-cases-over-20k/articleshow/78403215.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pass holders file PIL for restart of regularrailway service||Ahmedabad: Daily commuters on trains from south Gujarat have moved the Gujarat high court and demanded that the Railways and state authorities be told to begin regular operations after the lockdown so that their present woes are put to an end. The South Gujarat Pass Holders Group, consisting monthly season ticket holders, has filed a PIL and urged the HC to direct the authorities to start operations and ply trains in adequate numbers. It also urged that the railways be directed to permit pass holders to use their season passes to commute. The PIL, filed through advocate Anand Yagnik, contends that HC’s intervention is sought on this grave issue of not providing lakhs of pass holders in Gujarat access to rail services which causes severe inconvenience to the public at large for no good reason. It has been contended that such pass holders spend almost 1/3 of their lives on trains. Most of them belong to the middle class and the monthly pass is a boon for them because it saves them time and money. The PIL further contends that as all commercial activities have resumed after the lockdown, daily commuters are forced to avail of private transport such as cars, two wheelers, cabs etc. which are more expensive and have a degrading effect on the environment. The state of Maharashtra, though it has more Covid cases, plies trains and there is nothing that should prevent train operations in Gujarat. This PIL may be heard in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pass-holders-file-pil-for-restart-of-regularrailway-service/articleshow/78394248.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: ‘Have no faith in inquiry panel, will move legally’||KOZHIKODE: N C Shareef, the father of the unborn twins, who died following alleged denial of treatment to his pregnant wife at the Manjeri government medical college and other hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts, has said that he has no faith in the department-level inquiry announced by the health minister. Shareef also came out against the remarks made by health minister K K Shailaja who had said in a Facebook live that as per the preliminary information received by her, the pregnant woman was referred by the Manjeri medical college authorities to Kottaparamba Women and Children’s hospital in Kozhikode following request from the couple. The minister had also said that she spoke to the head of the gynaecology department at Manjeri medical college who said that he had directed admission of the woman at the medical college and she was admitted there. The minister also added that medical college authorities have also informed that later a doctor working at the hospital, who was an acquaintance of the woman, telephoned the duty doctor and said that the couple would like to get referred to the Kottaparamba hospital as the medical college was a designated Covid-19 treatment centre. Shareef however refuted it and said he had not requested discharge from the medical college. Stating that there was an attempt to cover up the lapses on the part of Manjeri medical college authorities, he said that that he would soon approach the court on the issue. He also alleged that the health minister was trying to save those guilty of denying treatment to his wife. “They have asked those who are guilty in the incident to inquire about it. I don’t have any faith in the department-level inquiry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/have-no-faith-in-inquiry-panel-will-move-legally/articleshow/78392890.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vedanta to invest Rs 4,700 crore in smelter at Gujarat's Songadh||GANDHINAGAR: Vedanta Limited, a subsidiary of Vedanta Resources Ltd, has finalized a 415-acre plot of land at Songadh in Tapi district for its proposed zinc-lead-silver smelter complex project. Company founder and chairman Anil Agarwal is likely to visit the state capital Gandhinagar shortly to sign a formal MOU (memorandum of understanding) with the state government. Vedanta does not have any investments in Gujarat so far. The Songadh project will be the company’s first investment in Gujarat as a part of their expansion plans in India. State government officials claimed the company is expected to start operations in 24 months. Sources privy to the development said the 415-acre plot is at Doswada in Songadh taluka. “The company proposes to make an investment of Rs 4,700 crore for its zinc-lead-silver smelter complex project. This will be one of the few projects that the state has attracted under the new industrial policy. The company claims the project will create 5,000 direct and indirect jobs in the state,” a source said. The company has chosen the tribal area of Songadh for the project because of its proximity to Surat and the national highway grid connecting Surat to Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Vedanta is a leading producer of oil and gas, zinc, lead, silver, copper, iron ore, steel, aluminium and power. The company is among top private sector contributors to the exchequer with the highest contribution of Rs 42,460 crore in the financial year 2019-20. The investment by Vedanta will be the first major investment in Gujarat after the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vedanta-to-invest-rs-4700cr-in-smelter-at-songadh/articleshow/78394276.cms||Kapil Dave
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 negative report no longer required for Char Dham Yatra||Dehradun: In a bid to boost tourism in the state, the Char Dham Devasthanam Board in Uttarakhand has removed the mandatory clause of Covid-19 negative report for devotees to visit the Char Dham temples. Additionally, the officials of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA) have announced to start chopper service to Kedarnath after the first week of October. Talking to TOI, Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Board, said that the daily limit of visitors in the temples will remain in place but now the pilgrims only have to register themselves on the Devasthanam Board website and don't need a Covid-19 negative report. “The registration on Char Dham Devasthanam Board portal and an e-pass to visit the Badri-Kedar-Gangotri-Yamunotri shrines are a must. The per day limit of devotees allowed to visit the shrines will remain the same — 1,200 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri, and 450 for Yamunotri. Since commencement of the yatra on July 1, around 63,000 people have registered for the pilgrimage,” added Raman. According to the official, symptomatic people will not be allowed to enter the shrine and protocols like social distancing, sanitisation, and thermal screening will also stay put. Also, no prasad or any other religious offerings will be allowed in the temples. Meanwhile, the officials of UCADA confirmed that helicopter services to Kedarnath will start any time after the first week of October. “The charges for helicopter service to Kedarnath temple will be Rs 3,875 from Gupatkashi, Rs 2,360 from Phata, Rs 2,340 from Sirsi, and Rs 2,975 from Govindghat,” said the official from the civil aviation department. The Devasthanam Board official maintained that people taking helicopters to travel to Kedarnath will not be counted in daily limit passengers. “Those who come from helicopters do not stay in the temple area hence, they can be exempted from the daily limit. We expect a maximum of 400 people to come via helicopter to Char Dham shrines,” added Raman. Last year, a record 38 lakh pilgrims had travelled to the four shrines. This year, around 64,000 people have registered themselves to visit the Char Dham temples since the commencement of the yatra, that is from July 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-negative-report-no-longer-required-for-char-dham-yatra/articleshow/78391482.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 30, 2020||Trichy||1 lakh acres targeted in Thanjavur distfor ‘thaladi’ season||Thanjavur: As the harvest of kuruvai paddy crop has been completed on 1.10 lakh acres in Thanjavur, the focus has turned to the thaladi season, the short-term cultivation, which is also expected on 1 lakh acres in the district. Out of 1.47 lakh acres on which kuruvai was cultivated, harvest has been completed so far on 1 lakh acres. Simultaneously, farmers have begun samba paddy cultivation on 75,300 acres with the target for the season set at 1.30 lakh acres. Agriculture officials have asked farmers to cultivate short term paddy varieties such as CO 51, Aduthurai 36 and 43. “The new variety of CO 51 is a 110-day crop which yields 10% more grain. The average yield potential of the variety is 2,650 kg for an acre. The duration of Aduthurai 36 and 43 range from 145 to 150 days. Apart from good yield, they are resistant to stem borer, brown spot and leaf folder pests,” an official said. Meanwhile, black gram has been raised on 12,827 acres and oilseeds on 7,840 acres. Cotton has been cultivated on 535 acres in the district. The department has so far distributed 1,406 tonnes of paddy seeds for kuruvai, thalady, and samba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-lakh-acres-targeted-in-thanjavur-distfor-thaladi-season/articleshow/78394274.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Surgeries at SMS hospital hit as anaesthetists on Covid duty||JAIPUR: With focus on Covid-19 treatment, surgeons in state government hospitals are not as busy as they were earlier before the pandemic. Most of their colleagues, anaesthesia specialists, without whom they cannot even start surgery, have to perform duties for Covid treatment on rotation basis. With more ICUs being allocated for Covid treatment, anasthesia specialists have more work on their hands. Left with no other option, surgeons are postponing elective surgeries and performing emergency ones. With the state government giving responsibility of treatment of Covid patients in RUHS Hospital, Jaipuria Hospital and ESI Hospital, the requirement of anasthesia specialists has increased. At Sawai Man Singh Hospital, surgeries have been affected as anesthesia specialists have been deployed at the ICUs in RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital. With ESI Hospital’s ICUs getting ready, some of them will be deployed there. A senior SMS Hospital official said, “During the pandemic, we are not able to do the same number of surgeries, which we used to do before. Surgeries have not only been affected in SMS Hospital, but it is a worldwide phenomenon. At SMS Hospital, we are able to do less than 50% of surgeries.” However, SMS Hospital’s senior surgeon said surgeries are negligible at the facility. “Without anesthesia specialist, we cannot do surgeries. The anesthesia specialists have been deployed for Covid treatment. We are doing only those surgeries which are emergency cases. The elective surgeries have been postponed. It is not like that surgeries are not happening, it is happening but it is badly affected,” said the surgeon. The surgeries are not only affected due to less availability of anesthesia specialists but also due to precautions taken while doing the procedures as there are high chances of surgeons and doctors getting infected with the virus. Even in private hospitals, elective surgeries are affected as performing surgeries in Covid pandemic times requires more precautions and takes more time. “It is very difficult to do surgery in corona times because there are lot many chances of doctors and staff being getting infected during surgery and suppose if doctor or staff gets exposed then he/she will have to be send on home quarantine and if everybody goes on home quarantine, no body will remain there for doing surgery. Even the risk is to the extent that some of the surgeons have expired because of corona after getting infected while doing surgery,” said Dr D S Malik, director, general and laparoscopic surgeries at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surgeries-at-sms-hosp-hit-as-anaesthetists-on-covid-duty/articleshow/78394335.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||NGO slams govt for ‘incessant witch hunt’||BENGALURU: Amnesty International India on Tuesday said it was halting its activities in the country due to freezing of its accounts by the government in what the NGO described as the latest in an "incessant witch hunt" of human rights organisations over unfounded and motivated allegations. Amnesty said it learned about the Enforcement Directorate (ED) freezing its bank accounts on September 10 and the move compelled it to let go of its staff in India and pause all ongoing campaign and research work. The crackdown over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts, it said in a statement, "was not accidental". "The constant harassment by government agencies, including the ED, is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of Delhi Police and the government of India regarding the grave human rights violations during the Delhi riots and in Jammu & Kashmir," Avinash Kumar, executive director of Amnesty International India, said. The latest attack, he added, was akin to "freezing dissent". The ED first raided Amnesty on October 25, 2018. Following that, the agency has been probing the NGO’s sources of funding and violations of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). In 2019, Amnesty was served a show-cause notice and in 2020 the ED began its probe into money laundering. In all matters, investigation is still on and hasn’t reached the stage of filing charges. No arrests have been made. "Amnesty endured a 10-hour-long raid by the ED in 2018, but most of the information and documents that were demanded during the search were already available in the public domain or filed with the relevant government authorities," it said. Then, in early 2019, Amnesty alleged that the I-T department started sending investigative letters to more than 30 small regular donors even though it did not find any irregularities. "But the process adversely affected our fundraising campaigns," it added. Amnesty further claimed that it stood in full compliance with all applicable Indian and international laws. "More than four million Indians have supported our work in the last eight years and around one lakh Indians have made financial contributions. These contributions evidently cannot have any relation with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010," the statement added. The NGO said the ED’s freezing of its accounts in September was a likely reaction to the two reports its released — one in August on the situation of human rights in J&K and the second on Delhi riots — that were not favourable to the government. In June 2019, it said, the government denied permission to hold a press conference in Srinagar for release of its third "Lawless Law" report on the "misuse and abuse" of the Public Safety Act in J&K. It also referred to its October 2019 testimony at the US congressional hearing on the situation of human rights in South Asia with specific focus on J&K. "Two weeks after Amnesty testified, amid rumours of impending arrests of the organisation’s top officials, the offices of Amnesty and the residence of one of its directors were raided again by the CBI," the statement added. The fact that the government is now portraying this lawful fundraising model as money laundering, the NGO said, was evidence that the legal framework was maliciously activated when human rights activists and groups challenged the government’s grave inactions and excesses. "Treating human rights organisations like criminal enterprises and dissenting individuals as criminals without any credible evidence is a deliberate attempt by the ED and the government to stoke a climate of fear and dismantle critical voices in India," Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ngo-slams-govt-for-incessant-witch-hunt/articleshow/78396358.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi civic body plans one more levy||NEW DELHI: After introducing garbage user charges, approving professional tax, hiking licensing fee and increasing commercial property tax rates, the cash-strapped South Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to introduce ‘compensatory regulatory charges’. The civic body proposes to levy this new charge when building plans are sanctioned and it is likely to vary on the basis of area categorisation and prevailing circle rates. The proposal of SDMC’s executive wing states that the new charge will be calculated at the rate of 0.2% of circle rates for houses of more than 50 square metre area and 0.1% of circle rates for plots smaller than that. The circle rates in Delhi vary according to the category of the location and range from Rs 7.7 lakh for A category colonies to Rs 23,000 for H category. According to the proposal that has to be approved by SDMC’s standing committee, while the new compensation/regulatory charge is expected to be Rs1,548 for A category colonies, Rs 491 for B category and Rs319 for C category colonies, the impact will be double for industrial units and three times for consumers who apply for sanction of building plans for commercial units. The maximum impact will relate to agricultural land and low-density residential areas, for which 2% of the circle rate will be charged, The municipal commissioner argues that such a development charge is already being levied in cities like Mumbai, Kolkata, Nagpur and Pune, where it is called development cess, FSI charges, even drainage development charges. Explaining the rationale behind the proposal, a corporation official said that SDMC is financially in dire straits allegedly because Delhi government hasn’t releasing grants due to it and new sources of revenues have to be identified to undertake the development works needed in many areas to bring them at par with grade A cities. The official said, “At the time of sanctioning the building plan, various charges, such as additional FAR charges and betterment levy, are received, but the civic body has to also take care of unauthorised colonies, special areas, villages, etc, where services are being provided by the corporation without much revenues coming from there.” The proposal submits that after the introduction of Master Plan Delhi 2021, the densification of areas increased and the notifiying of 2,500 streets as commercial- and mixed-land-use areas plus the multi-fold increase in dwelling units across the city led to increase in the demand for services from these areas. “Where there used to be one dwelling unit, 4-5 or more have come up,” the official said. “Redevelopment of old buildings was also carried out, necessitating more services from the municipal corporations. So, funds for maintenance and upkeep are required.” An SDMC official said that the additional fee will have to be paid when applying for a new building plan or when approval is needed for plans to carry out modifications in the existing structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-proposes-yet-another-levy/articleshow/78395872.cms||Paras Singh
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||Seven arrested for gambling on IPL matches in Sambhal in two days||Bareilly: As many as seven people were arrested and booked by Sambhal police for allegedly betting on IPL (Indian Premier League) matches and seized around Rs 13,000 and equipment such as mobile phones, television, calculators, etc, from the possession of accused in the last two days. Acting on a tip-off, police conducted raids in Nakhasa and Chandausi police station areas and found people betting in deserted plots. Police identified the accused as Rohit, Zeeshan, Laakhan, Naseem, Nazim, Aqib and Shaqib — all residents of Sambhal.Superintendent of police (city) Yamuna Prasad said, “After receiving information that a group of men were betting on IPL matches in Chandausi and Nakhasa police station limits, a crackdown was launched. During the raids, four men were arrested from a plot located in Hauj Bhade Sarai area, while three others were nabbed from Kaysthan in Chandausi. The accused were booked under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act and sent to jail.” “The crackdown will continue in the city and adjacent areas. More details are being gathered from the accused about other gang members,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-arrested-for-gambling-on-ipl-matches-in-sambhal-in-two-days/articleshow/78389403.cms||Maria Khan
September 30, 2020||Trichy||Customers soar for FPOs at Kallikudi market, but wholesale traders unmoved||Trichy: Almost a month after the integrated vegetable market complex at Kallikudi launched its business, patronage for the facility has witnessed a surge even as wholesale traders refrain from occupying the complex. Farmer producers organization (FPO) in the market is the most to reap benefits as they sell their vegetable produce directly to hotels and grocery shops through door delivery for a lucrative price bypassing the middlemen. Out of the 830 shops available in the Kallikudi market situated on Trichy-Madurai NH in the outskirts of Trichy city, agriculture business and agriculture marketing department has opened 351 shops since September. FPOs operate around 126 of the 351 shops opened in the market and do business between 6 am and 6 pm. A few of them even stay in the market round the clock to create a customer base. On average, the market sees around 50-80 shops operating every day. More than the city folks, the suburban population including people from Panjappur, Manikandam and Karunya Nagar have become routine customers, Kallikudi traders said. Worried over the crowd in G Corner wholesale market, hotels, grocery shops and street vendors had started visiting the Kallikudi market. “We had managed to find 80+ regular customers in a month. Country vegetables such as high-quality ladies finger are available with us at a price below the wholesale price,” S Venkateswaran, secretary of Anthanallur FPO (A) said. Old age homes and charity homes were among those buying vegetables in bulk at the market. The FPOs are also conducting a survey to identify potential customers in 30 km radius of the integrated market. From doing business for 10-20 kg in the initial days, FPOs are selling close to 150 kg per day. “I’m buying vegetables routinely from the farmers so that they feel motivated. Quality and low-price of vegetables are other reasons,” S Prem, a resident of Manikandam said. Door delivery of vegetables is also picking up well. One S Prasad, a coconut trader in the integrated market is delivering 50-60 coconuts per day to bakeries in the outskirts. Hotels also avail door delivery option from the FPOs here. “The patronage is improving gradually. We are making efforts to make wholesale traders launch their sales in the integrated market,” a senior official with the agriculture business department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/customers-soar-for-fpos-at-kallikudi-market-but-wholesale-traders-unmoved/articleshow/78394320.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal babus revolt, want ‘arrogant’ collector transferred||Yavatmal: All class I, class II and gazetted officers of various departments in Yavatmal district have together demanded the transfer of district collector M Devendar Singh, alleging he is egotistical and insults his subordinate officers. All the unions have supported the 90 striking doctors, staffers and paramedical employees at various hospitals under the district health officer (DHO) of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad.Surprisingly, DHO Dr Balasaheb Chavan too has joined the agitators and submitted his resignation to express anguish and protest. The doctors had resigned en bloc before zilla parishad chief executive officer Dr Shreekrishna Panchal on Monday. They were also protesting the arrogant behaviour of the collector, use of unparliamentary words, and insulting behaviour without considering situation.“We have support of all officers, including BDOs of panchayat samitis, chief officers of municipal councils, SDOs, tehsildars and naib tehsildars in the district,” said Dr Dharmesh Chavan, ex-president of the doctor’s union.Dr Vijay Akolkar, president of the union, said they have received support letters from other districts too.“Deputy director Dr Farooqui has come to Yavatmal from Akola, and requested us to join a meet with the collector today. But we refused, as the collector refused to talk to us on Monday,” Dr Vijay said, adding divisional commissioner Piyush Singh has invited them for discussion at his Amravati office. A delegation has already left for Amravati.The doctors are on indefinite strike from Tuesday, with 30 doctors and other staffers sitting in the pandal erected at Azad Maidan. They said Covid-19 works would affected adversely because of the arrogance of the collector.Even the collector’s revenue department officers have submitted a joint representation to divisional commissioner for mass transfer to any other district to protest the insulting attitude of the collector. TOI has a copy of the joint representation signed by 16 tehsildars and a few subdivisional magistrates working in 16 tehsils of Yavatmal. The representation was written on August 20. The 16 tehsildars had earlier too submitted a representation to the divisional commissioner expressing unwillingness to work under the present collector.The tehsildars have listed four reasons for their resignation; insulting words used by the collector in meetings, holding tehsildars responsible for every minor lapse, threats of suspension and adverse CR, holding tehsildars responsible for lapses in PM Kisan Yojana run by agriculture department, and show cause notices to tehsildars on baseless reports in local dailies.Talathis too have boycotted sand anti-smuggling operations because of inadequate security arrangements. They were also summoned to the collector’s office, and kept waiting till 5pm.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) too has supported the agitation. “Government of Maharashtra and its officers have been treating doctors badly. Ninety gazetted medical officers in Yavatmal have resigned because of the irresponsible behaviour by the collector. Administrative officers are behaving badly with private doctors as well,” said Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra state president of IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-babus-revolt-want-arrogant-collector-transferred/articleshow/78394327.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||BF, his friends gang rape 15-yr-old girl||Nagpur: Four friends have been arrested by Jaripatka police station for allegedly gang raping a minor, aged 15 years, near Nara Road last week. The matter came to fore when the minor told the matter to her mother who approached the Jaripatka police station.It is learnt minor’s mother knew one of the four accused and used to go to catering work with him in his autorickshaw. The autorickshaw driver and his friends used to frequent the neighbourhood of the minor. She was befriended by one of the youths who came to her neighbourhood along with the autorickshaw driver.Police said the minor was lured to a desolate place by her male friend earlier this week along with two others and also the autorickshaw driver. It is learnt after the male friend forced himself upon her, the other three also took their turn. She was also threatened with dire consequences if she revealed the episode to anyone.Police said the minor narrated the incident to mother after breaking down before her. Following the woman’s complaint, Jaripatka police immediately rounded up the four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bf-his-friends-gang-rape-15-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78394337.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Trichy||Narrow escape for traders as temporary shelters collapse||Trichy: The vegetable vendors had a narrow escape on Tuesday after temporary shelters established outside the Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai to facilitate vegetable sales collapsed. Although vendors and public were present during the incident, the shelters fell backwards in the vacant land where there was no public movement.Post Covid-19 outbreak, the district administration and the Trichy Corporation decentralized the vegetable markets to prevent overcrowding and had been operating temporary market on Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai ground. While more than 100 traders operate within the complex, around 50 traders were operating vegetable stalls on the ground where temporary shelters were established by the corporation. After the recent rainfall, the temporary shelters were said to have weakened. On Tuesday morning, around 11 am, the temporary shelters, due to heavy winds, collapsed but not on the side where vendors and public were standing.“There were around 50 customers present at the spot when the shelters collapsed. The shelters luckily fell in the back portion of the temporary market,” K Mohideen, a vendor said. The public had criticized the civic body for not ensuring the safety of the structure where hundreds of residents including women and senior citizens visit each day. “Repair work is underway. Shelters will be erected back by Tuesday night,” an official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/narrow-escape-for-traders-as-temporary-shelters-collapse/articleshow/78394330.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Daily sanitization to cost Rs4,000, need funds: Schools||Nagpur: Aided school principals say it won’t be possible for them to follow sanitization guidelines unless state government provides special funds for it. Two of the biggest associations representing principals from aided schools claim the minimum cost for sanitizing a school is coming to around Rs4,000 per day, and can be five times that for bigger schools. Schools have reopened in a few states though Maharashtra has not yet announced a date for the same. School Headmasters Charitable Association (SCHA) founder-president Zafar Khan said aided schools are already under a lot of financial stress. “In fact, our schools are always under financial stress. We are not allowed to charge fee, but expected to meet the same standards of a private school. The commercial rate for sanitization is around Rs1 per square feet and the minimum size is 10,000 square feet for schools. Even if we do it ourselves, the cost will still be around 40 paise per square feet, which is Rs4,000 a day. In this situation, government must first provide us with the funds and then take a call on reopening schools,” said Khan. Aided schools are run by private management with the help of grant provided by government. All approved teaching and non-teaching staff gets paid as per the applicable pay scale from government coffers. To meet other expenses, government provides schools with non-salary grants (NSG), which in the education sector is commonly referred to as ‘grants’. This particular amount is usually around 4-5% of the school’s salary grant. However, NSG is currently not being calculated as per the latest pay scales due to which insufficient amount is received. Khan said, “The NSG is not sufficient to meet even electricity bills of a school, leave alone any other expense.” Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district) said the government must understand the situation. “Children who come to our schools are from economically weaker background. So we can’t even explore the option of seeking contribution from their parents to tide over this financial crisis. Though we want the government to pay up for all these expenses, everyone knows that the government itself is short of funds. There is no easy answer to the issue, but the fact remains that sanitization of school cannot happen unless special funding is given to us,” said Mude. Sundeep Gaikwad, principal of Mecosabagh Methodist High School and office-bearer of SHCA, said he has already started to worry about the impending issue. “At school, we were discussing the same issue and trying to figure out how we will be able to fund it. Being a Marathi medium school, students here are not in a position to contribute either. Regardless, the cost of sanitization is extremely high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/daily-sanitization-to-cost-rs4000-need-funds-schools/articleshow/78394340.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 30, 2020||Goa||Students to study rabies in Class VI||Panaji: Children studying in Goa will now learn about rabies and Mission Rabies initiative as a chapter on rabies have been included in the science syllabus of Class six. The chapter will have details of the viral disease, how to prevent it, how to manage if someone is bitten by a dog, how to get along with a dog and the ways to manage dog population. Director for education at Mission Rabies in Goa, Dr Murugan Appupillai, said since Goa is moving towards rabies free status, the lesson will help increase awareness about the disease. “Even though we have the rabies vaccine for over 100 years now, still many people in India die of rabies each year. So this awareness is required,” he added. World Rabies Day is celebrated on September 28, the death anniversary of French scientist Louis Pasteur, who invented the rabies vaccine. Due to the pandemic, no rallies or big events were held this year to observe World Rabies Day. However a series of events were held for school teachers, government officials and the public to make them aware about rabies. One of the awareness programmes was held at the Kadamba bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-to-study-rabies-in-class-vi/articleshow/78394352.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||PMR recoveries top tally for third consecutive day||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded more Covid-19 recoveries than new cases for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, with its 24-hour cured count staying at 3,748 as against 2,453 new patients. With this, the total discharges in PMR reached above 2.35 lakh, while total caseload increased above 2.80 lakh by Tuesday night. As many as 10,772 patients have been discharged in the region in the last three days as compared to addition of 7,711 new cases. More recoveries have led to decline in active cases in the region. On Tuesday evening, the active caseload of Covid-19 patients dropped below 40,000-mark to 38,795. Of these, as many as 22,264 patients admitted to the various hospitals for the treatment, while 16,531 were in home isolation. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that as many as 87 patients succumbed to Covid-related complication in PMR on Tuesday as against the Monday’s fatality count of 59. With the fresh fatalities, the region’s toll has risen to 6,446, with the PMC limits recording the highest 3,595 deaths so far. The sample testing in the region shot past 11.50 lakh-mark on Tuesday. Of these, as many as 6.21 lakh samples have been tested in the PMC limits so far, followed by the PCMC limits (3.21 lakh) and rural areas (2.12 lakh). A PMC report stated that as many as 5,678 samples were tested on Tuesday in the PMC limits. According to the health department of PMC, a total of 938 patients were at critical stage, including 519 patients on ventilator support. As many as 3,290 patients were the oxygen support, while 419 patients were in the intensive care units in PMC limits on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-top-tally-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/78394333.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 30, 2020||Pune||Detox drive pushes health tourism in Pune during pandemic||PUNE: Wellness tourism is witnessing a major uptick since the travel restrictions were lifted beginning September with citizens’ renewed focus on immunity and detoxing in the time of Covid-19. Wellness and health resorts around Pune, some of which have been certified by the AYUSH ministry, are now reporting 70%-100% bookings till as far as the second week of October. Resort managers said the first question during guest enquiries has been about packages on boosting immunity, stress management and detox. Srikant Peri, general manager at Hilton Shillim Estate Retreat & Spa, told TOI, “The resort is booked to capacity for September, while bookings for October have already crossed 90%. Everybody wants to build their body and immunity against this unknown danger. Also, being under lockdown has made people feel the need to not only go out, but go out with a purpose i.e. getting a balance between the mind, body and soul.” Peri said bookings at the resort this September “look even better than the same period last year”, when the pandemic had not struck the country. Orthopedic surgeon Sujay Lodha, who is also the director at Deham Naturecure, a wellness and health resort in Kondawale, said, “We are 100% booked for the current period and the first fortnight of October. People are opting for two-night to 21-night stay packages, which include yoga and pranayama sessions aimed at increasing lung capacity, stress management, organic meals, naturopathy, hydrotherapy and other holistic therapies to boost immunity and wellness.” He said, “People have been opting for prophylactic measures to safeguard themselves from Covid-19. In addition, months of sitting at home have made them emotionally disturbed as well as stressed. They want to now get out of their homes, but do not want to risk getting infected. They are thus choosing such retreats to achieve the twin goals: wellbeing and vacation.” Lodha said he has had almost 500 guests (from various places in the state, including Mumbai and Pune) staying at the resort in September, with 10-15 enquiries each day. “An average of 9-10 enquiries are getting converted into actual bookings.” Amanda Joshi, associate director, marketing and public relations, at Atmantan, a luxury health and wellness resort in Mulshi, said the clients have been contacting the facility for stay packages focussed on improving immunity, treating existing co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, autoimmune conditions, detox, weight loss and emotional healing. “We have made RT-PCR tests mandatory for the guests arriving, and even cover the costs of these tests for the guests. After months of stay at home, the guests calling us are also looking for a retreat where they could simultaneously lose weight and tackle co-morbid conditions via the therapies provided here.” She said, “We have had an unexpected uptick in the number of clients coming in to stay in August and September — unexpected because people are still wary of travelling during the pandemic. There has been 70-80 % occupancy in August and September, while bookings in October also look promising.” Nilesh Bhansali, director at city-based travel firm Devam Tours And Travels Private Limited, said, “Before Covid-19, we had to convince clients to opt for such wellness tourism packages. During the pandemic, people are opting for these packages on their own. I have recently sent two groups — one having five couples and another of 11 people — to health resorts in Velhe and Mulshi.” Roli Rangappa, chief medical officer, KARE Ayurveda and Yoga Retreat in Mulshi, said, “We are currently running at 50% occupancy to ensure social distancing, and are booked to capacity as of now. Clients are booking for an average of seven to 12 nights, while some are booking for two nights or more. Many are coming here to detox, which is a process that takes a minimum of 12 days. Most guests are enquiring for detox and immunity boosting packages.” Caution also a watchword while welcoming guestsWellness and health resorts are adopting a cautious approach while accepting guests following the relaxations in the travel norms. Amanda Joshi, associate director, marketing and public relations, at Atmantan, a luxury health and wellness resort in Mulshi, said, “We have made RT-PCR tests mandatory for the guests arriving, and even cover the costs of these tests for the guests. We have had an unexpected uptick in the number of clients coming in to stay in August and September — unexpected because people are still wary of travelling during the pandemic.” Pune-based critical care expert Subhal Dixit said though wellness tourism was a subjective topic, retreats were good once in a while to chill out. “I have heard of yoga being beneficial, but how it may help to fight the infection is something I cannot comment on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/detox-drive-pushes-health-tourism-during-pandemic/articleshow/78394314.cms||Neha Madaan
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Panel ayes city bus service resumption, decision now with civic chief||Nagpur: NMC’s transport committee on Tuesday decided in favour of resuming city bus service which is suspended for last six month. Transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar met municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B after the meeting and urged him to resume the services to industrial areas like MIDC Butibori, Hingna, Kalmeshwar etc in a phased manner.“Many cities like Aurangabad, Nashik, Pune and Mumbai have already started city bus operations,” Borkar told TOI. Radhakrishnan said, “We will take appropriate decision in the light of Covid situation and fresh unlock guidelines to be issued within a day or two.”Borkar said the Aapli Bus service was stopped on March 22 following outbreak of coronavirus. Under state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’, even the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation has resumed long distance bus services with 100% occupancy.The committee members discussed the need to start city bus service in Nagpur city. “Almost all businesses, industries and factories have started. Those who used to commute using city buses are facing inconvenience and are being forced to pay more for travel by other modes. The city bus service should be started like the long distance buses,” corporators and panel members said.Of the over 360 standard, midi, mini and electric buses, NMC is at present utilizing 60 in Covid-90 related operations like ambulance, hearse van etc.Borkar also asked all three red bus operators to keep their fleet ready as the NMC would resume service shortly. Borkar said, “care must be taken to avoid the spread of Covid. The committee is approving the proposal to start buses with 50% passenger capacity and strict adherence to safety measures.”Borkar said of the 2,000 city bus service workforce, almost 1,900 Aapli Bus staffers, mostly conductors, are without pay since the last five months.TOI found that many buses at the bus depots are not road worthy. Initially technical teams of all three operators were periodically checking and kept the buses in running condition. “We then realized we are wasting fuel in keeping the buses running,” said one of the operators. With almost six months of non-operation, batteries of many buses have dried up.BOX10 proposals get nodMeanwhile, the transport committee on Tuesday okayed all 10 proposals before it including paying Rs 42.30 per km to the bus operators. The panel also cleared the four months accounts of the department. The department justified the expenditure of Rs 19 crore against income of Rs 1.14 crore and clarified the expenditure includes payment of outstanding dues of Aapli Bus operators and payment of Rs 84 lakh as operational cost to five electric bus operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-ayes-city-bus-service-resumption-decision-now-with-civic-chief/articleshow/78394344.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Cases down and dists sharing load, Covid-19 beds situation eases||Nagpur: Bed situation for Covid-19 patients which was disastrous during first two weeks of September is changing for better. With many private hospitals chipping in, beds are now easier to find with several hospitals reporting having beds vacant.However, proper centralized allocation is yet to be achieved. Many patients too prefer particular private hospitals which results in inconvenience to them.There are several reasons for this change. Nagpur Municipal Corporation has roped in private hospitals with proper planning. NMC claimed that within a day on September 29, it added 580 beds in private set-up and 240 beds in government and trust-run hospitals. A committee formed after High Court directives having mayor Sandeep Joshi, IMA president Dr Archana Kothari, Dr Anil Laddhad and Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) convener Dr Anup Marar coordinated with the private hospitals and more than 2,000 beds are now available in private set-up. “Even with repeatedly changing guidelines and humiliating unconstitutional rules, private health care sector has made a distinct contribution towards Covid care though no appreciation has been shown by any government authority till date,” said Dr Marar. “However, faith of public is very much visible when all of them desire to get admitted in private hospitals. The timely intervention of Nagpur High Court has made history and positive changes are being distinctly noticed since last two weeks when one notices vacant beds in private Covid hospitals. Situation is improving under direct supervision of hon’ble court,” he added. Distribution of Covid-19 case load of all 11 districts in Vidarbha is another reason for beds becoming available in Nagpur. Now, all 11 districts in Vidarbha have designated private hospitals as Covid-19 hospitals. Many patients, who otherwise would have travelled to Nagpur, are now getting treated in respective districts. Nagpur is receiving fewer serious/critical patients and number of deaths has also gone down. For example, Washim district has started a Covid-19 bed dashboard online. It showed 1,181 beds were vacant in Washim, including 155 oxygen beds. Washim has 721 patients under treatment but only 284 of them are in hospitals. Others are in home isolation. In Yavatmal, over 1,200 patients are under treatment, but more than 700 of them are in home isolation. Bed crisis resolving? - About 2,500 Covid beds are available in private hospitals - 1,400 Covid beds are in government hospitalswith 400 more to come - Number of tests, new cases are down in last seven days in Nagpur - More patients are asymptomatic or having mild symptoms so getting treated at home- All 11 districts in Vidarbha have roped in private hospitals for Covid-19 service - Number of patients coming to Nagpur has reduced - Bed management at district level has reduced deaths in Nagpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-down-and-dists-sharing-load-covid-19-beds-situation-eases/articleshow/78394353.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 threat makes schools seek indemnity||Nagpur: Schools and junior colleges say before physical reopening happens, the state government must issue SOPs (standard operating procedures) which go beyond the regular guidelines. Schools associations have demanded complete immunity from any liability arising from a student testing Covid positive once the session starts. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools Association (IESA) said parents will naturally blame schools if unfortunately their child tests Covid positive. “Parents will say that the only public place my child goes to is the school, so infection must have come from there. There are legal risks involved for our members and no one wants to take on any liabilities,” said Dayma. IESA has resolved not to reopen schools unless there is clarity on these contentious issues. “Just issuing the stereotypical guidelines about Covid distancing, sanitizing etc won’t work. Everybody in the world is aware of these guidelines now. The real issues must be tackled in the SOPs so that we do not face problems later,” said Dayma. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said the government seems to be simply shirking responsibility. “In the earlier guidelines, it had talked about taking a written undertaking from parents before their wards join school or college. But everybody knows such an undertaking, written on plain paper, has no legal value. God forbid if something happens to any child, the blame will come directly on the principal. This lack of clarity just shows that the government does not want to take up responsibility,” said Gavhankar. Another private school’s owner said government must make it clear as to what happens after a student tests Covid positive. “Will the entire school be closed for 14 days, or will it be only the floor on which his/her classroom was located or will it just be that particular classroom,” the owner asked. “Also, everyone who came in contact with that child will have to undergo testing. What if parents demand that schools foot the bill for that? All these minor things must be clarified to us before we open the gates,” said the school owner, who did not wish to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-threat-makes-schools-seek-indemnity/articleshow/78394381.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Assailant forgot his mobile phone at paan shop near Rapar advocate’s office||Rajkot: Forgetting his mobile phone near the crime spot due to anxiety led Kutch police to 22-year-old Bharat Rawal, who had allegedly stabbed to death lawyer Devji Maheshwari in Rapar town of Kutch on September 25.Phone call details also confirmed the seething anger that Rawal harboured against the 50-year-old for the latter’s anti-Brahmin social media posts, said top sources close to the investigation. “Rawal kept waiting outside Maheshwari’s office with an intention to stab him whenever the latter comes. In the meantime, he kept his phone for charging in a nearby paan kiosk. When he saw Maheshwari approaching the office, Rawal forgot about his phone and went behind him. After the murder, Rawal ran away from the scene leaving his phone at the shop,” a source told TOI.Details extracted from the mobile phone revealed several acrimonious communications that had happened between Rawal and Maheshwari over their ideological clashes. This also led to the special investigating team (SIT) to recover the murder weapon, a knife, which he had thrown in the near-by bushes while fleeing. It was sent for forensic examination.According to sources, Rawal’s anger is directed at the ‘anti Brahmin’ write-up that the victim had posted on his Facebook account. The phone details include chat messages and talks that were recorded in the mobile.From the crime spot, Rawal went to the farm of his employer Mahesh Patel, who has a shop in Mumbai, and called him up saying that he had a fight with someone in Rapar and wanted to return. Patel in turn told Viral Patel, who works in his farm, to facilitate Rawal’s transport up to Samakhiyali, around 45 km away.Mahesh, who has brought to Rapar for questioning, was not aware that Rawal had committed a murder, so he may become a police witness. From Samakhiyali, Rawal reached Ahmedabad in a truck and other vehicles. Police have also found CCTV footage of Rawal’s entire route to Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/assailant-forgot-his-mobile-phone-at-paan-shop-near-rapar-advocates-office/articleshow/78391523.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Vitamin D part of treating Covid infection||Jaipur: Many doctors treating Covid-19 patients are prescribing vitamin D. They claim that it strengthens the respiratory epithelium, thereby helping in preventing severity of infection by the virus and it helps in reducing inflammation caused by the virus in many patients. People stayed indoors during lockdown, thereby getting less sunlight that caused vitamin D deficiency. Normally, doctors claim that more than 50% population have vitamin deficiency, which they now associate with slight hinderance in recovery of Covid-19 patients. Experts claimed that vitamin D supplements reduce the chances of severity of Covid-19 infection. While a lot of patients in advanced stage of Covid-19 infection complain of breathing problems, doctors are advising vitamin D when the patients are asymptomatic or have mild to moderate symptoms. Generally, the deficiency of vitamin D is associated with muscle weakness, pain, fatigue and depression. Now, according to the doctors, the deficiency of vitamin D with levels <20ng/ml is associated with 1.77 times higher risk of getting infected by Covid-19 infection. “Inflammation is one of the key features leading to increased mortality due to Covid-19. There are retrospective studies published in JAMA network and PLOS, leading international medical journals, stating that people with vitamin D deficiency with levels <20ng/ml have 1.77 times higher risk of getting infected by Covid-19. Elderly patients with vitamin D deficiency have worse prognosis,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, associate professor (respiratory diseases), SMS medical college. Currently, vitamin D supplements are being prescribed to Covid-19 patients. However, doctors claimed that there are certain patients who cannot be prescribed vitamin D such as those with raised calcium or phosphate levels in the blood or those with kidney stones. “Vitamin D should be taken under medical supervision and not be self-administered,” said Dr Singh. Deficiency of this vitamin is quite common and majority of the people are unaware about it as they do not get their test done for vitamin D levels. “Benefits of vitamin D supplement is evident in bone and muscle health. There is a chance that its supplementation might also reduce the impact of Covid-19 in populations where vitamin D deficiency is prevalent; there is nothing to lose from their implementation and potentially much to gain,” said Dr KK Sharma, senior consultant (pulmonology), at a private hospital. Majority of doctors treating Covid-19 patients are prescribing Vitamin D in combination with vitamin C and zinc. “The combination of vitamins and minerals helps in fighting against the virus by boosting the immunity of the body. It helps in recovery of the patients. The combination is given to the patients along with anti-viral drugs depending on their symptoms,” said Dr Adil Aziz, senior consultant, at a private hospital, who is treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vitamin-d-part-of-treating-covid-infection/articleshow/78394349.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: 10 dialysis machines set up at CoEP jumbo hospital||PUNE: Covid-19 positive patients with renal problems will now be able to get dialysis at the jumbo facility set up at College of Engineering Pune (CoEP). Ten dialysis machines have been installed at the medical facility. “The patients in need of dialysis will not have to go to other hospitals now onward,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of land and estate department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), that is coordinating the jumbo facility. According to PMC officials, Covid-19 positive patients had sought dialysis machines as they were finding it difficult to get treatment. A number of hospitals had denied positive patients dialysis treatment and so they had to run from pillar to post in search of a private facility. “Currently, only Covid-19 positive patients admitted to the jumbo hospital will be able to get dialysis. However, other patients too can come for dialysis and go back to the hospital where they are admitted,” said Muthe. He added that for the time being 10 dialysis units have been installed at the facility. The number of units will eventually be increased based on the demand. A decision about whether people not infected with Covid-19 are to be allowed to use the facility will be taken in due course. Many private centres operating across PMC areas had closed their doors to patients for fear of coronavirus. The civic body had given a green signal to start dialysis centres in May provided they take precautionary measures. The municipal corporation has also started dialysis facilities offering treatment at discounted rates in different areas under its jurisdiction. The cost of the dialysis procedure is Rs400. There is also a dialysis centre that operates 24X7. According to doctors, patients with renal problems have to spend Rs1,200 to Rs1,800 to undergo follow-up dialysis at private hospitals. The problem is compounded by the fact that kidney failure is incurable. This puts a perennial financial load on the patient and his family. As per data provided by the national health department, only 2-3% of patients suffering kidney failure in the country get treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-dialysis-machines-set-up-at-coep-jumbo-hosp/articleshow/78394347.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four new trains to other states from October||JAIPUR: Here is good news for those travelling by train. From October 1 the North Western Railway (NWR) is all set to operate four sets of new trains including Udaipur-Haridwar via Ajmer and Jaipur, Ajmer-Bandra Terminal, Jaipur-Udaipur and Bandra Udaipur. Prior to this NWR is starting Jaipur-Mysore-Jaipur from Wednesday. NWR is already running 19 sets of trains to various destinations. “Firstly, we would have Jaipur-Udaipur-Jaipur superfast which would run on daily basis. It will also pass through Ajmer and Bhilwara and will connect passengers from these stations to Udaipur,” Sunil Beniwal, chief public relations officer, NWR told TOI on Tuesday. He said this train will start from October 1. Likewise, the most awaited train is Udaipur-Haridwar-Udaipur. “This train will also accommodate people from Chittorgarh, Bhilwara, Ajmer and Jaipur to Haridwar and would be a tri-weekly train. It will run from Thursday. This will run on every Monday, Thursday and Saturday,” he added. Other two trains include Ajmer-Bandra Terminal-Ajmer and Udaipur-Bandra Terminal-Udaipur. “These two trains will help passengers from Rajasthan to connect with Bandra terminal,” said a senior officer. From Wednesday NWR will also run Jaipur to Mysore train which would be bi-weekly. Gradually, the trains are getting more passengers. With the festive season just round the corner, there is a possibility of more trains being added in the NWR schedule. “There is a need for trains to Lucknow, Chennai and other parts of India from Jaipur and other parts of the state,” said a travel agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-new-trains-to-other-states-from-oct/articleshow/78394360.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 493 Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 493 fresh infections of novel coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the coronavirus tally to 47,995. Among the new cases reported on the day, the maximum of 174 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 65 from Tehri, 60 from Udham Singh Nagar, 53 from Haridwar, 47 from Nainital, 40 from Uttarkashi, 15 cases each from Pithoragarh and Champawat, 13 from Chamoli, six from Bageshwar, four from Rudraprayag, and one from Almora. Also, 11 more coronavirus-related fatalities were reported in the state. “Among the 11 deaths reported on Tuesday, five were from Dehradun, four from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, and two from Base Hospital in Almora,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, health watchers have noted that with maximum number of reported cases, active cases, highest number of deaths and infection rate, state capital Dehradun has been reeling under the grip of the pandemic in Uttarakhand. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the state) maintained that with 12,867 cases, Dehardun has the highest 27% of the total 47,502 cases in the state. “Dehradun is the only district to have reported more than 10,000 cases in the state and currently, it has the maximum active Covid-19 cases with 2,971 people under treatment. However, as 9,558 patients have recovered in the city, the capital city also has the highest numbers of recoveries in the state,” added Nautiyal. He added that at 12.68%, the infection rate in Dehradun is also the highest in Uttarakhand. This is 78% higher than the overall infection rate of 7.12% for the state (till Sept 28). “It means that when compared to other districts in the state, the spread of pandemic is deeper in Dehradun. Not just cases, but even the fatalities are the highest in Dehradun. There have been 289 fatalities in the district out of the total 591 in the state. Its fatality rate of 2.25% is the highest across the 13 districts of Uttarakhand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-493-covid-19-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/78391529.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 30, 2020||Delhi||Pay 1-3% extra for choice of flat in Delhi Development Authority localities||NEW DELHI: Landing a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) flat is nothing less than winning a lottery, more so if you get a flat in an area of your choice. While applicants can mark three preferred locations, they cannot pick a particular one. DDA’s Housing Scheme 2020, however, could be a first in this regard. Sources said DDA plans to launch its latest housing scheme in December. On offer would be nearly 1,000 flats for high and middle-income groups. For the first time, applicants would be able to opt for a flat on a floor of their choice, corner location or facing green areas or the main road. If the applicants manage to get such a flat in the housing scheme’s draw of lots, they would have to pay extra for the location. In a meeting held through videoconferencing and chaired by LG Anil Baijal on Tuesday, it was decided to allow applicants to opt for flats of their choice. “DDA has taken the decision to give applicants this option on modest preferential location charges. This will be based on the unit’s floor, corner, facing green area or the main road. No such charges will be levied for allotment of ground or preferred floor to persons with disabilities,” a DDA spokesperson said. According to sources, those opting for a ground floor flat would have to pay an extra 3% of the total cost, flats on the first floor or facing green areas would cost 2.5% more, while 1.5% extra would be levied for a second floor flat. DDA also took a decision for making Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana financially viable and feasible, ensuring that in situ slum redevelopment projects were developed in a shorter period. “Master Plan of Delhi 2021 provides for a minimum 60% residential component of the land area for rehabilitation of squatters and maximum area for remunerative use to be 40%,” said the spokesperson, adding that the remunerative component could only be developed as per the land use and Floor Area Ratio (FAR) permissible under that category. The official said, “The approved proposal shall allow a maximum FAR of 300 on the remunerative component with a flexible mix of uses irrespective of the land use of the said pocket. This will pave the way for development of slum clusters and help in achieving the goal of Housing for All in Delhi.” The approved proposal will now be sent to Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for final notification. The authority also approved the change of land use of an area measuring 8,094 square metres at Integrated Freight Complex, Ghazipur from commercial to utility to facilitate setting up of a waste processing plant to be built by South Delhi Municipal Corporation. DDA also gave its nod to auction of group housing plots to ensure more transparency in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pay-1-3-extra-for-choice-of-flat-in-dda-localities/articleshow/78395888.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Assailant forgot his phone at shop after killing lawyer||RAJKOT: Forgetting his mobile phone near the crime spot due to anxiety led Kutch police to 22-year-old Bharat Rawal, who had allegedly stabbed to death lawyer Devji Maheshwari in Rapar town of Kutch on September 25. Phone call details also confirmed the seething anger that Rawal harboured against the 50-year-old for the latter’s anti-Brahmin social media posts, said top sources close to the investigation. “Rawal kept waiting outside Maheshwari’s office with an intention to stab him whenever the latter comes. In the meantime, he kept his phone for charging in a nearby paan kiosk. When he saw Maheshwari approaching the office, Rawal forgot about his phone and went behind him. After the murder, Rawal ran away from the scene leaving his phone at the shop,” a source told TOI. Details extracted from the mobile phone revealed several acrimonious communications that had happened between Rawal and Maheshwari over their ideological clashes. This also led to the special investigating team (SIT) to recover the murder weapon, a knife, which he had thrown in the near-by bushes while fleeing. It was sent for forensic examination. According to sources, Rawal’s anger is directed at the ‘anti Brahmin’ write-up that the victim had posted on his Facebook account. The phone details include chat messages and talks that were recorded in the mobile. From the crime spot, Rawal went to the farm of his employer Mahesh Patel, who has a shop in Mumbai, and called him up saying that he had a fight with someone in Rapar and wanted to return. Patel in turn told Viral Patel, who works in his farm, to facilitate Rawal’s transport up to Samakhiyali, around 45 km away. Mahesh, who has brought to Rapar for questioning, was not aware that Rawal had committed a murder, so he may become a police witness. From Samakhiyali, Rawal reached Ahmedabad in a truck and other vehicles. Police have also found CCTV footage of Rawal’s entire route to Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/assailant-forgot-his-mobile-phone-at-paan-shop-near-advocates-office/articleshow/78391548.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases reducing in Vid, but deaths nearing 4,000-mark||Nagpur: For the 8th time in last 10 days, Vidarbha region reported less than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. But death toll continued to be a matter of serious concern.Vidarbha region reported 68 deaths in day, which took the total Covid-19 death toll of region to 3,923. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate (CFR) is still around 2.7%, which is more than the national average of 1.57%. Even Maharashtra’s CFR, which used to be more than that of Vidarbha, was lower by a few points (2.66%) on Tuesday. Nagpur reported 34 deaths — equalling the lowest in a day in the month of September (September 8), but deaths are now coming from other parts of the region. On Tuesday, Bhandara (9), Yavatmal (8), Wardha (4), Akola (3), Amravati (3), Gondia (2), Buldhana (2), Washim (2), and Chandrapur (1) reported deaths, taking the day’s total to 68 and overall death toll to 3,923. With Nagpur’s 1,215 cases, total 2,866 new cases were reported. These include Bhandara (191), Wardha (133), Gondia (251), Chandrapur (197), Gadchiroli (148), Akola (83), Amravati (190), Yavatmal (194), Buldhana (143) and Washim (121).Against this, 2,681 patients recovered, including Nagpur (1,418), Amravati (259), Gondia (210), Akola (192), Chandrapur (186), Buldhana (153), Wardha (79), Washim (72), Bhandara (68) and Gadchiroli (44). Vidarbha’s recovery rate improved a bit to 76.33%, but it’s still less than the state’s 78% and national average of more than 82%. YAVATMAL: The district witnessed 8 deaths on Tuesday. 194 new positive patients were reported, of whom 127 are men and 67 women. Yavatmal city alone has recorded 70 positive patients. 275 patients are currently present in the isolation wards. There are now 8,470 total cases, of whom 6,966 have been discharged. The death toll is 265 so far in the district.The deceased on Tuesday include a 70-year-old man and 58-year-old woman from the city, a 70-year-old woman from Wani, a 64-year-old man from Pusad, a 30-year-old man from Mahagaon, a 65-year-old man from Babhulgaon, a 63-year-old man from Ralegaon and a 70-year-old man from Arni. CHANDRAPUR: The district went past 10,000 total Covid-19 cases with the detection of 197 new patients taking the total to 10,009 on Tuesday. The day also saw the discharge of 186 patients and total recoveries have now climbed to 5,876, leaving 3,984 active cases. With the death of 45-year-old from Tukum in Chandrapur city, the toll has now risen to 149.While it has taken 151 days for Chandrapur to reach the mark of 10,000 cases, the last 1,000 patients have come in just three days. Statistics suggest that after the 2000-mark was achieved on August 29, the district is adding 1,000 positive cases in just five or less days. The gravity of surge in infection could be understood from the fact that district has witnessed a rise of 8,000 patients in just one month. While there is outcry over the lack of beds in government and private hospitals, the administration’s efforts to curb the surge through initiatives like public curfew and ‘My Family-My Responsibility’ have failed to curb the spread. The municipal corporation has shared a weblink to show the real-time availability of beds for Covid patients, but it only shows the paid beds available in private hospitals. There is no information about the government beds, where treatment is free of cost. WARDHA: The district crossed the 2,000-mark for active cases after 133 fresh coronavirus cases and four deaths were reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 79 patients were discharged and the active patient count stands at 2,015.133 patients (90 men and 43 women) tested positive out of 652 test reports and the caseload of the district reached to 4,454. Cases were reported from Wardha (63), Hinganghat (31), Arvi (11), Selu (10), Ashti (8), Deoli (6), Karanja (3) and Samudrapur (1).A 77-year-old and a 58-year-old from Wardha, an 85-year-old from Deoli and a 75-year-old from Arvi died due to coronavirus. A total of 2,317 patients have been discharged after getting cured of the virus.AMRAVATI: The Covid-19 scenario seems to be improving in the district with every passing day. The district continued to post more recoveries than new patients for the fifth day at a stretch.While 259 patients won their battle against the virus, 190 contracted it on Tuesday to record a fall in active cases for the fifth consecutive day.While the 190 new patients took the caseload to 13,077, the 259 recoveries took the total number to 10,567 for a recovery percentage of 80.81. The district also reported three deaths, all males from the city, today to take the toll to 282.This has left 2,228 active cases that include 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 998 placed in home isolation.WASHIM: The district reported deaths of 2 patients and 121 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. This took Washim’s total caseload to 4,295 and death toll to 88. 72 more patients recovered and were discharged. Now, Washim has 721 patients under treatment.BHANDARA: The district reported a record 9 deaths on Tuesday. This is the highest deaths in a day due to Covid-19 in Bhandara so far. This took the total Covid-19 death toll of Bhandara to 114. With 191 new cases and 68 recoveries in a day, total cases in Bhandara are now 5,298, including 3,480 recoveries. Bhandara’s recovery rate is more than 65% and fatality rate is 2.15%. Total 1,704 patients are still under treatment in the district. AKOLA: The district reported 3 deaths of Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, taking total death toll to 229. The deceased include three men aged 50, 75 and 85. 83 new cases were reported, 192 patients recovered on Tuesday. Akola now has 7,380 total cases, including 5,689 recoveries. Recovery rate here is still above 77%. Total 1462 patients are under treatment.BULDHANA: 10 more patients recovered than the new cases reported in Buldhana. Total 143 new cases were reported, taking the total Covid-19 caseload to 6,997, while 153 recovered, taking the count of recovered and discharged patients to 5,820. This means, Buldhana’s recovery rate is more than 83%. Two deaths were reported, both being more than 75 years of age. Buldhana now has 1,089 patients under treatment. GONDIA: The district saw a rise of 251 positive cases, while 210 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Two patients aged 39 and 57, hailing from Deori tehsil and Mama Chowk in Gondia respectively succumbed to Covid-19. This took the total death toll of Gondia to 95. Case count reached 6,910, including 4,689 recoveries and 2,126 patients still under treatment. Gondia’s recovery rate on Tuesday was around 68%. GADCHIROLI: With no Covid-19 death reported for the second consecutive day, Gadchiroli saw 44 patients recovering on Tuesday. With 149 new patients detected in a day, Gadchiroli’s total cases of Covid-19 reached 2,711. Out of these, 1,933 have recovered, which means Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is more than 71%. Total 758 patients are still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-reducing-in-vid-but-deaths-nearing-4000-mark/articleshow/78394372.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 30, 2020||Pune||5 post-Covid care centres set to start||Pune: The district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation will set up five post-Covid care centres in the city from the first week of October. Patients, who have recovered from the infection, but require medical or psychological support can consult experts at the centres. “Citizens will get treatment on out patient department basis. The work of setting up the facilities is almost complete and they will start services in the next couple of days,” said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, while addressing an online news conference on Tuesday. Rao said that some people have complained about the reaction of medicines or social issues post recovery and they need medical advice. A helpline will also be started to offer advice to recovered patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-post-covid-care-centres-set-to-start/articleshow/78394367.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur unfazed as TPR zooms||THRISSUR: A 12-year-old boy from Aluva, born with congenital heart problem, cerebral palsy and genetic syndrome, has recovered after an open-heart surgery at a private hospital. However, the health officials said there are enough facilities for providing treatment and care for the patients, even if the test positivity rate (TPR) maintains the current level for the next four weeks. The TPR in the district had been hovering between 8% and 13% for the last couple of weeks, even though it was as high as 22% in the initial days. Altogether 12,349 cases are reported from the district so far, and out of them 7,834 have been discharged. District medical officer (DMO) Dr K J Reena said only 55% of the beds at various Covid first line treatment centres (CFLTCs) are occupied now. A total of 3,120 beds are available in the district at different CFLTCs, and only 1,712 are occupied now. Even at Nattika, where the state’s largest CFLTC with 1,400 beds has been set up, only around 800 beds have been occupied, said deputy DMO Dr K N Satish. The DMO said there are only nine Covid-19 patients who belong to the ‘C’ category requiring aggressive care, in the district. There are enough beds available in the hospitals. There is also no shortage of ventilators in the district. Only 11 Covid-19 patients require ventilator support now in the district, while over 40 ventilators are available in the government hospitals alone, the health authorities said. District collector S Shanawas had asked private hospitals in the district to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients, to meet any eventualities. However, the administration had to order temporary closure of some of the hospitals as they failed to adhere to the Covid-19 protocol. The tendency of shunting Covid-19 positive patients to government hospitals is prevalent among some of the private health care institutions, sources said. The reports on the rise in the Covid-19 cases had also led to a spread of fake stories about the ‘panicking situation prevailing in the district’. A voice message circulated through WhatsApp said most of the hospitals in the district are packed with patients. The police have registered a case following the complaint of a private hospital mentioned in the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-unfazed-as-tpr-zooms/articleshow/78392921.cms||T Ramavarman
September 30, 2020||Pune||Use HCQ-azithromycin combo with caution in Covid patients with heart ailments: Experts||Pune: Medical experts have said that antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) — given as itself or in combination with antibiotic azithromycin — may cause irregular heartbeats (arrhythmia) in Covid-19 patients with pre-existing cardiac ailments. The alert matches findings in a recent study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, which confirmed the ‘pro-arrhythmic effects’ of the drugs in patients with heart diseases. Cardiologist Suhas Hardas said, “In some individuals, they can be cardiotoxic and this cardiac toxicity can be enhanced when both drugs are used simultaneously.” Hydroxychloroquine has an immunomodulatory effect (modifies the immune response) and can be beneficial in preventing entry of Sars-CoV-2 into human cells. It works well with azithromycin, which is another potent immunomodulatory agent as well as an antibacterial. “But the drugs are best used prophylactically and are not for treatment of Covid patients with cardiac ailments,” Hardas said. Critical care expert Subhal Dixit said, “That’s why all Covid-19 patients with heart ailments are evaluated with 2D Echo test and an electrocardiogram (ECG) at the time of admission.” Instead of HCQ and azithromycin, experts said antivirals such as remdesivir or favipiravir, with vitamin D3, are recommended for cardiac patients who are in the initial stages of Covid-19. “For patients in the later stages, anti-inflammatory drugs such as dexamethasone with anticoagulation and/or with oxygen support have been recommended in guidelines, including in one issued by the Maharashtra government,” said infectious diseases expert Mahesh Lakhe. Cardiologist Nitin Patki called for more studies to be carried out. “We need more evidence. Many governments across the world have continued using HCQ as a prophylaxis in healthcare workers and people exposed to infected patients,” Patki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/use-hcq-azithromycin-combo-with-caution-in-covid-patients-with-heart-ailments-experts/articleshow/78394357.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Binekar murder: Assailants bought weapons online||Nagpur: The weapons used to murder gambling kingpin Balya Binekar was probably procured online. While seeking the remand of the accused, police said in court that they wanted custody to seek invoice of the purchases. The assailants had used an axe and knives to stab Binekar at Bole petrol pump on September 26.On Monday, Sitabuldi police arrested Adarsh Khare and Ravi Nagachari for their role in the murder. Over Saturday and Sunday, the crime branch had nabbed the mastermind Chetan Hazare along with Bharat Pandit, Rajat Tambe and Aseem Luderkar. Aniket Manthapurwar is still at large. A CCTV footage of the incident had gone viral across social media platforms.It’s learnt that Khare purchased the weapons on two popular shopping portals. Hazare, an accused in a jail break case, wanted to avenge his father’s death in 2001 by Binekar and his family members. Nagachari had been nabbed for helping Manthapurwar and also conducting a recce of Binekar’s residence at Dharampeth. In custody, police plan to question Nagachari on who were with him during the recce. Zonal DCP Vinita S said police are seeking Binekar’s cell phone and gold chain which were missing from the car. They do not have any complaints of more valuables or cash missing from the vehicle. Police sources said that a close relative had gone to Binekar’s gambling den at Lalgunj Khairipura and said that the ownership of the place would soon change hands. Sitabuldi cops is yet to question a suspect who was rounded up by the crime branch after the murder. Binekar had filed a complaint against his two cousins at the Pachpaoli police station but the cops are yet to look into this angle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/binekar-murder-assailants-bought-weapons-online/articleshow/78394362.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 30, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai records 100 cases, 2 deaths on average daily||Trichy: While 100-odd Covid-19 positive cases being reported daily in Pudukottai district, there seems to be no decline even in the number of deaths. An average of 2 deaths is being reported per day in Pudukottai government medical college hospital. There have been 14 deaths over the past seven days and the highest of 4 deaths were recorded on September 26. Only four of the deceased were above the age of 70 and the remaining were all below the age of 60. While most of the patients who died had multiple comorbidities, some of them died due to respiratory and chronic kidney failure. Delay in getting treatment has been one of the main reason for fatalities among the aged and comorbid, say health staffs when they analyzed 7 out of 14 deaths in the last few days. Some of them died soon after admitted to severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward in Pudukottai government medical college hospital. Since Covid status of such patients could not be ascertained upon arrival, we wait for the test report to come. But many die even before the test report comes. Such patients come late to the hospital and before they could be tested, they succumb to the illness especially old patients, said health staffs. Pudukottai Government Medical college hospital dean M Poovathi said that stigma associated with the disease has been preventing many, especially in the rural areas to come for the test. They fear isolation if tested Covid-19 positive. Many come to the hospital when the health condition worsens, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-records-100-cases-2-deaths-on-average-daily/articleshow/78394369.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Trio rob bakery staffer of phone worth Rs 12,000 in Yerawada||PUNE: Three men on a motorcycle snatched the cellphone a German Bakery employee while he was talking on it and riding his bicycle near Hazrat Shadal Baba Dargah in Yerawada around 10.45pm on Monday. “Manager Tukaram Bhelke had left the German Bakery at Koregaon Park around 10pm and was on his way home when three men on a motorcycle approached him from the rear and one of the pillion riders snatched his phone worth Rs12,000 and sped away,” said senior inspector Yunus Shaikh of the Yerawada police on Tuesday. “There was no CCTV cameras at the spot but investigations have revealed that the suspects fled in the direction of Alandi Road. We are working on certain clues and we hope to solve case at the earliest,” Shaikh said.  “Bhelke has shared part of the vehicle registration number with the police and has lodged an FIR,” Bhelke’s brother in-law, Laxman Gilbile, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-rob-bakery-staffer-of-phone-worth-rs-12000/articleshow/78394393.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||HC lists hearing of contempt case against Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank for next week||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday separated the contempt proceedings against former chief minister of the state and serving union human resource development (HRD) minister, Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, from the ones going on against Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri, Vijay Bahuguna, and chief secretary Om Prakash. The bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma has listed the contempt proceedings against Nishank for further hearing after a week. The development came after the court was informed by Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel appearing for the Doon-based NGO “Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra” (RLEK) that the Supreme Court had granted the stay on contempt proceedings only against the chief secretary, Khanduri, and Bahuguna. “We informed the court that the stay order from the apex court was only on the Special Leave Petitions (SLPs) filed by the chief secretary and two other CMs. Minister Nishank, however, had not even filed the SLP. The court, therefore, separated the contempt petition dealing with him from the rest and listed it for hearing next week,” Gupta said. He also informed that the court has deferred the hearing of the contempt proceedings against Bahuguna, Khanduri, and Om Prakash for two months. “The apex court had stayed the contempt proceeding against the three respondents and therefore, the court has deferred these hearings for a period of two months,” Gupta said. As reported by TOI last week, the SC had granted a major relief to the CMs and chief secretary by staying the contempt proceedings against them for not complying with the orders of the HC even after a year. Later, the SC dismissed the SLP that challenged the HC’s judgement declaring the parts of the Act brought by the state government ‘unconstitutional’. Even though it was reported at the time that the contempt proceedings against Nishank have been stopped, the HC on Tuesday informed that they were not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-lists-hearing-of-contempt-case-against-ramesh-pokhariyal-nishank-for-next-week/articleshow/78391534.cms||Prashant Jha
September 30, 2020||Pune||Student’s gold chain worth Rs 22k snatched||Pune: A 24-year-old woman law student from Kharadi registered a complaint with the Chandannagar police on Monday stating that a motorcycle-borne man snatched her gold chain worth over Rs22,000 at Ashtavinayaknagar on Sunday night. The woman in her complaint stated the incident occurred around 9pm when she was walking outside her housing society. She said the motorcycle-borne man came from the opposite side, snatched her chain and sped away. Sub-inspector Pravin Kulkarni from the Chandannagar police on Tuesday said, “The woman told us that she was wearing a t-shirt and her chain was not visible. The gold chain started shinning under the glare of motorcycle’s headlight, following which the suspect snatched it and sped away.” “She told us that the suspect was wearing helmet, but she could not give recall his appearance or the vehicle’s registration number,” he said. The officer said there were no CCTV cameras on the spot. “We are checking working on certain clues for detecting the case at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-gold-chain-worth-rs-22k-snatched/articleshow/78394385.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Madurai||Plea in HC to stop NHAI from disturbing water channels||Madurai: Madras high court on Tuesday granted interim injunction in a plea seeking to forbear NHAI authorities from disturbing water channels while laying road at Melur in Madurai district. Justice D Krishnakumar gave the order while hearing the petitions filed by V Mathavanan and V Marimuthu, residents of Thaniyamangalam village in Melur taluk.The petitioners said NHAI issued a notification in 2018 for land acquisition for laying four-lane highways for NH 336 from Melur to Karaikudi in Sivaganga district. Their land parcels situated at Keelaiyur village were acquired by NHAI. They stated that they had submitted an objection to the demolition of sluices of the distributary channels of Periyar Main Canal at Keelaiyur and Saruguvalayapatti villages as several acres of agricultural land in the area was dependent on these channels.Though the authorities promised to lay the road by constructing small bridges over the water channels, they were proceeding by causing damage to the sluices of the channels. Consequently, water supply to the agricultural land in the villages would be affected, the petitioners said. Hence they moved the HC Madurai bench seeking a direction to forbear the authorities from disturbing the distributary channels of Periyar Main Canal at Keelaiyur and Saruguvalayapatti villages. The case was adjourned to October 16 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-stop-nhai-from-disturbing-water-channels/articleshow/78395233.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||In a first in Uttarakhand, leopard on prowl radio-collared||DEHRADUN: In a first such move in Uttarakhand, a five-year-old female leopard frequenting human landscape was radio collared and released into the wild in the wee hours of Tuesday. The leopard on prowl was trapped in the Geed Saidpur area of Haridwar, where it had reportedly chased a few villagers in search of easy prey, after intensive patrolling for almost a month. The chief wildlife warden, using powers granted to him under section 11 of Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, gave special permission to radiocollar the big cat as it was not taken out from the wild but it intruded in human landscape. After an hour-long process on Monday evening, a radio-collar was fitted to the big cat at Chidiyapur rescue centre under the supervision of veterinarians, scientists and senior forest officials. The move comes a fortnight after TOI reported that Uttarakhand got the nod to radio collar leopards. While this radiocollaring was done as a ‘special case’, officials have maintained that additional collars would be fitted, if required, to check human-leopard conflict. The feline was kept under observation for about four hours before its release at around 3 am on Tuesday. “It had to be radio-collared as it frequented the area where already a person was mauled to death by a leopard some time ago. The villagers too reported that the big cat was on prowl in the area for quite some time and to avert any mishap, we had to fit a collar. GIZ (Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit) had provided us with radio collars. We have used one of them to reduce conflict,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department. According to a TOI source in the state forest department, five leopards — on prowl around Rajaji Tiger Reserve, Haridwar Forest Division, and Dehradun Forest Division — would be radio collared. Meanwhile, the cages are still installed in Bhagwanpur area to nab other leopards on prowl. The senior veterinarian who tranquilised the big cat and fitted the radio collar, Dr Amit Dhyani, said, “It is first such initiative in the state to control the conflict cases and so far the monitoring of this leopard reflects that it is in a good state,” Uttarakhand has been battling against rising human-leopard conflict and this year, one dozen humans and over 50 leopards have already died so far. Moreover, Haridwar forest division is among the top five divisions where the human-wildlife conflict was highest the previous year. A monitoring station has been installed in the office of Neeraj Verma, DFO of Haridwar. “We are observing the movement of the big cat after every hour and if we find that it is in stress, we can even drop down its collar as it has sophisticated technology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-in-state-leopard-on-prowl-radio-collared/articleshow/78391541.cms||Shivani Azad
September 30, 2020||Bareilly||DM forms committee to monitor crop residue burning in the district||Pilibhit: District magistrate Pulkit Khare on Tuesday constituted an eight-member monitoring committee under the chairmanship of additional DM (finance and revenue) Atul Singh, to keep a close eye on the enforcement of the ban on burning of crop residue.In compliance with orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT), the administration has imposed a complete ban on burning of crop residue in the district. It has also released an appeal to farmers, pointing out detrimental effects of the practice.The DM said he has given deputy director of agriculture, Yashraj Singh the responsibility of enforcing action against defaulters and sending daily reports to the state administration. He added directions have been issued to create Whatsapp groups of village pradhans and lekhpals in every tehsil and block, for prompt and flawless reporting and communication. In addition, sub-divisional magistrates have been asked to form flying squads to extensively monitor the ground situation in all agricultural areas.He said, “Defaulters will be slapped with Rs 2,500 fine in case their land holding is less than two acres, Rs 5,000 if their land measures over two acres but less than five acres, and Rs 15,000 if the land area is over five acres.”Referring to scientific studies, the DM in his appeal to farmers pointed out that burning 1 tonne of crop residue led to emission of 3 kg carbon footprint, 60 kg carbon monoxide, 1,460 kg carbon dioxide, 2 kg sulphur dioxide and 199 kg suspended ash particles.Besides these gases raising air pollution, crop burning causes drastic deterioration in soil fertility and kills soil-friendly insects, stated the DM in his appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-forms-committee-to-monitor-crop-residue-burning-in-the-district/articleshow/78391540.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Goa||‘People’s protest needed to stop water diversion’||Panaji: With MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco on board, the Progressive Front of Goa on Tuesday called upon other like-minded MLAs to come together to form a front beyond party lines to voice concerns over Mhadei water diversion issue. PFG and Lourenco appealed to Goans to come out in large numbers to push for Goa’s case in the Mhadei issue. “Whether is it coal transportation planned through Goa, the three central government projects to come up through the Mollem wildlife sanctuary and national park or the Mhadei water diversion by Karnataka, those in the ruling are not focused on issues concerning Goa. They are only interested in retaining power at any cost,” said Lourenco. “During lockdown, when people could not come out, the government allowed the three projects through Mollem wildlife sanctuary and national park. These very projects were rejected by former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh,” said Hrudaynath Shirodkar. Historian Prajal Sakhardande said Karnataka is brazenly carrying out work while Goa is not treating the matter with the seriousness it commands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/peoples-protest-needed-to-stop-water-diversion/articleshow/78394482.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Trichy||2 MGNREGA staff suspended for lax enforcement of Covid norms||Trichy: The district collector has suspended two staff members in charge of MGNREGA scheme in Sethubavachathiram block in Thanjavur for not enforcing lockdown norms among workers. TOI had carried a report on Monday highlighting how around 100 workers were infected by Covid-19 in the district as they were not adhering to the rules to prevent the dreaded viral infection from spreading. Thanjavur district has the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the central region and a considerable number of them in recent days were from among MGNREGA workers in the district. During the door-to-door medical camps conducted in Sethubavachathiram, Peravurani and Thiruvidaimaruthur blocks, around 100 cases were identified from the 100-day workers including 30 in Kazhanivasal, 11 in Sornakkadu and 22 cases in Krishnapuram villages. Around 70,000 workers are registered under the scheme in Thanjavur district out of which around 50,000 turn up for work every day. It came to light that non-adherence of rules was the primary reason for contracting the viral infection. On realizing this, district collector M Govinda Rao has ordered suspension of the two staff members who were supervising the workers in Sethubavachathiram block. In a statement, the district collector said that a total of Rs 19.32 lakh had been collected as penalty in the district from 8,945 people who violated the lockdown norms by not wearing face masks. He has appealed to the general public to extend their cooperation by adhering to the norms strictly and help combat the spread of the virus in an effective manner. In this regard, he insisted on the need to maintain social distancing at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-mgnrega-staff-suspended-for-lax-enforcement-of-covid-norms/articleshow/78394383.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Trichy||Ganja worth Rs 27 lakh seized||Trichy: Pudukottai district police seized ganja weighing around 176 kg from a car during a vehicle inspection near Vellanur on Tuesday. The contraband worth Rs 27 lakh was being smuggled in the car in 2 kg packs. The police arrested Arockiadas, 49, a history-sheeter while two of his accomplices in the car managed to escape. The car was stopped by police for routine checking. While the three accused gave contradicting statements, the police decided to carry out a search in the car. While two persons managed to flee the spot, police caught hold of Arockiadas and seized the 88 packets of Ganja. A case has been filed in the Vellanur police station in this regard and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ganja-worth-rs-27-lakh-seized/articleshow/78394402.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||MHA: Rights body violated foreign contribution law||NEW DELHI: Refuting the allegation of "witch hunt" levelled against the government by Amnesty International India, the home ministry on Tuesday said the human rights NGO was facing a probe for circumventing the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 by receiving foreign funds remitted through the FDI route. The ministry also claimed that India's approach to Amnesty was "bipartisan" as the previous government had also rejected its applications to receive funds from abroad. The ministry said, "All the glossy statements about humanitarian work and speaking truth to power are nothing but a ploy to divert attention from their activities which were in clear contravention of laid-down Indian laws. Such statements are also an attempt to extraneously influence the course of investigations by multiple agencies into the irregularities and illegalities carried out over the last few years." Emphasising that the law applied to all and Amnesty could not claim exemption, it further said, "Human rights cannot be an excuse for defying the law of the land." Terming the stand taken and statements issued by Amnesty International as "unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth", the ministry said a significant amount of foreign money was remitted by Amnesty International UK to Amnesty India via four trusts without the MHA’s approval required under the FCRA. Sources in the Enforcement Directorate also contested the NGO's claim that it had shut down its India operations as agencies had frozen its bank accounts. A senior official in the agency confirmed that two of Amnesty’s bank accounts in Bengaluru were operational. No Amnesty account has been frozen, except for Rs 52 crore attached in 2018 which belonged to a private limited company, Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL), sources said. "Amnesty International India Foundation, an NGO, is not under investigation," an official clarified, adding that the agency was, however, investigating AIIPL, which received the large amount as "export remittances" from Amnesty International UK in 2014 and 2019. Then India head of Amnesty International, Aakar Patel, was questioned by the ED regarding "services" exported for which it claimed to have received the money. When there was no satisfactory response from the NGO, the ED froze the amount equivalent to the "exports proceed". "This mala fide re-routing of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions. Owing to these illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas. This had led Amnesty to suspend its India operations once during that period as well. This bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty under different governments makes it clear that the entire fault lies in the dubious processes adopted by Amnesty to secure funds for its operations," the ministry said. Amnesty International India is not registered under the FCRA. It has in the past approached the home ministry for prior permission to receive foreign contributions but such requests were consistently turned down over the past two decades. "The last time Amnesty India was granted prior permission to receive foreign funding was on December 19, 2000. Since then, Amnesty International India, despite repeated applications, has been denied FCRA approval by successive governments since as per law it is not eligible," a home ministry official said. Sources said Amnesty International UK had remitted Rs 10 crore to Amnesty India by classifying it as FDI to evade FCRA norms. In 2016, the home ministry denied Amnesty India prior permission under FCRA to receive £300,000 from Amnesty International UK. Of this, £100,000 pounds allegedly originated from a suspicious trust registered in the tax haven of Gibraltar. Gibraltar-based Kusuma Trust’s founder Anurag Dikshit had pleaded guilty in a US court in 2008 of a gambling fraud. Incidentally, Kusuma Trust was working in the field of education, which the home ministry said was "vastly different" from the "human rights" objective of Amnesty India. This had led the ministry to start a probe into Amnesty India’s funding to check for a possible foreign source. Stating that Amnesty was free to continue humanitarian work in India, the ministry on Tuesday underlined that the law did not allow interference in domestic political debates by entities funded by foreign donations. "This law applies equally to all and it shall apply to Amnesty International as well," it said. Stressing that India had a rich and pluralistic democratic culture with a free press, independent judiciary and tradition of vibrant domestic debate, the ministry said "the people of India have placed unprecedented trust in the current government". AIIPL also approached the Karnataka high court which rejected its appeal against the freezing of Rs 52 crore. The private limited company in question and "Indians for Amnesty International Trust" are under investigation both under FEMA and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, sources said and clarified that the agency will further question Patel under the PMLA for issues related to the "export proceeds". Patel quit Amnesty late last year. "Investigation has proved that no services were exported and the amounts so received were in contravention of provisions of FEMA and PMLA," a source in the ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-rights-body-violated-foreign-contribution-law/articleshow/78396360.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Idle youths explore new avenues for survival||ALAPPUZHA: Sanjay T S and Ajay V who worked with private companies lost their jobs when the lockdown set in. Though they tried knocking at doors of other employers, they were not hired. Rather than wait for business to pick up, they started moving in an entirely different direction. They started to sell backwater fishes online. “Our village, Muhamma, is located on the banks of Vembanad Lake and we shared our idea with inland fishermen around Muhamma. They promised all help and we started taking orders on WhatsApp and began to deliver fish at homes,” says Sanjay, one of the founders of WhatsApp group Janakeeya Market. Covid-19 lockdown has created unemployment for many but several enterprising youngsters have been selling backwater fish and duck curry, bringing the market and restaurants to doorsteps. These youths who held private jobs have become role models for society by peddling snakehead murrel and cooked dishes door to door, using social media platforms, their transformation filling in the needs of the residents as well as their pockets. “We are selling all available backwater fishes and are getting a good response. We sell at least 30kg fishes daily. We charge Rs 460 for 1kg snakehead murrel (varal) and Rs 10 more for cleaning the fish,” said Sanjay. Sujith S, another youth from Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, has been selling homemade duck, chicken and fish curries besides live fishes on WhatsApp. “I started a WhatsApp group named ‘Curry Chatti’. I deliver the curries in traditional clay pots. A duck curry is sold for Rs 600. My family helps me prepare the dishes in traditional style. During Onam days, we saw good sales. We were able to sell at least 100 duck curries in a day. I have been earning a profit of at least Rs 20,000 per month from the initiative,” said Sujith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/idle-youths-explore-new-avenues-for-survival/articleshow/78393006.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli man missing in Libya for two weeks||Rajkot: It’s been almost two weeks now that Umed Multani, a resident of Amreli district, has had any communication with his family in the taluka’s Kanchardi village. Multani’s whereabouts are not known ever since the youth en route to Tripoli international airport on September 14 to return to India went missing in Libya along with seven other persons from Hyderabad. Family members, who approached Amreli police on Tuesday to help them find their kin, said that Multani had been travelling to foreign countries for last 10 years in search of work and would return to India whenever his visa expired. According to police officials, he had travelled to Qatar around two years ago and from there he travelled to Libya where he found work as a construction labourer in Brega. As his visa was to expire, Multani planned to fly home from Tripoli international airport along with seven other persons, but thereafter Multani went incommunicado. Initially, they thought that he must have been quarantined in wake of Covid-19 pandemic, but later read in news about the seven other persons missing. They then started believing that Multani could have gone missing too. “The family members have submitted an application about their kin missing in Libya. I will forward this application to the home department and the ministry of external affairs for further persuasion,” said Nirlipt Rai, superintendent of police, Amreli. Multani’s relatives, in the meantime, have made several videos asking people to share if they get any information about him and have also circulated these on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-man-missing-in-libya-for-two-weeks/articleshow/78391566.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||Scholarship scam: Petitioners demand SITs to inform about progress of probe in other states||Nainital: The petitioners in the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam asked the Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday to direct the two SITs probing the scam to inform the HC about the progress made in the ongoing investigation outside the state of Uttarakhand. The counsel appearing for the petitioner, MC Pant, asked the court to direct the SITs to inform the court about the investigation as the colleges accused of siphoning off crores of rupees from the scholarship meant for underprivileged students of the SC/ST community are based in seven more states besides Uttarakhand. This comes after the two SITs had informed the HC that they completed 77% of the investigation and it will take them just six more months to complete the rest of it. The state had also argued against the demand for CBI inquiry into the scam saying that the SITs have done a good job and that it was because of the Covid-19 induced lockdown that the investigation got slowed. “The SITs had informed the HC that they have completed 77% of the investigation in the scam. The counsel appearing for the petitioner, however, asked the court to direct the respondents to inform as to what they have done to probe the links of the scam into states other than Uttarakhand,” said an advocate present in the hearing. The court has listed the case for further hearing next week before the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Alok Kumar Verma. As reported by TOI, the scholarship scam involved serving government officials as well as numerous colleges and common people both in Uttarakhand and outside the state. The college officials and others have been accused of siphoning off money meant for the underprivileged children of the SC/ST community. A high court-monitored investigation has revealed how hundreds of private and government-aided colleges went to great lengths — forging Aadhaar cards and passing off minors, labourers and rickshaw pullers as students — and siphoned off scholarship funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scholarship-scam-petitioners-demand-sits-to-inform-about-progress-of-probe-in-other-states/articleshow/78391574.cms||Prashant Jha
September 30, 2020||Trichy||More parties likely to ally with DMK, says Baalu||Tiruvarur: DMK treasurer T R Baalu has said there are chances that a few more parties may join with the DMK as allies. After being elevated as the party treasurer, T R Baalu visited his home in Tiruvarur district on Tuesday and paid homage to late DMK leader M Karunanidhi’s mother Anjugam Ammals’ memorial in Kattur village here. Addressing reporters during his visit, he said, “There is a chance that few more parties may join the DMK alliance. However, it is up to the party leader to decide who should be included in the alliance. There are no differences with our allies,” he added. When asked whether the party’s youth wing secretary would contest from Chepauk assembly constituency, Baalu said that Udhyanidhi Stalin is in a very important position in the party, but need not contest from Chepauk constituency in the forthcoming assembly elections. “DMK’s youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin is capable of winning the upcoming election from any assembly segment in the state,” he added. He said that Tamil Nadu chief minister did not know anything about the farm bill. “I wonder whether he has gone through the bill. However, our party has clearly explained the bill to the public during the protest staged across the state on Monday. The people are now clearly aware,” he said. While replying to a query on 2G cases appeals, he said that all those involved in 2G case including A Raja and K Kanimozhi have already been released. “However, appeals are filed only for political reasons,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-parties-likely-to-ally-with-dmk-says-baalu/articleshow/78394424.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Drunk SI threatens to frame dhaba owner in fake case, suspended||Meerut: A UP Police sub-inspector was on Tuesday suspended for threatening to frame a dhaba owner in a fake case. The incident occurred on the night of September 27 when sub-inspector Sanjeev Baliyan arrived in an inebriated state at the dhaba in Ramghat area in Bulandshahar district. In a video that surfaced on social media, SI Baliyan, in uniform, was heard abusing the dhaba owner following a verbal spat. He also threatened the owner to frame him in a fake case. The dhaba owner immediately contacted senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar and sent a video recording where SI Baliyan was not only heard abusing the owner but also daring him to complain to the senior officials including SSP, IG, ADG and DGP of the state. “I was intimated about the incident on September 27. The complainant told me that SI was drunk and also recorded the entire conversation. The SI was heard abusing in the video. Soon after, SI Sanjeev Baliyan was suspended and a probe has been initiated,” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/drunk-si-threatens-to-frame-dhaba-owner-in-fake-case-suspended/articleshow/78391559.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Surat||Portal helps 200 retrenched diamond workers get jobs||Surat: Pravin Prajapati, a diamond polisher lost his job when the unit where he was employed did not reopen post-lockdown. He visited at least a dozen diamond units is search of work but failed. One of his acquaintances told him to register on the job portal started by a few Surat diamantaires. Within a day of registering on the portal, Prajapati got a call from a reputed diamond company in Varachha where he was offered a job.Nearly 200 such jobless diamond workers have got employment over the past six months after registering with the exclusive job portal for diamond workers.A group of diamantaires from Surat and US, had launched the exclusive portal for the jobless diamond workers in Surat in February this year. The portal was launched under the aegis of Diamond Industry Career Foundation (DCIF), a voluntary organisation, formed for the upliftment of diamond workers and their families.DICF’s main aim behind launching the job portal was to bridge the gap between the diamond polishers and the unit owners. For those not comfortable with internet, the DICF has launched a separate helpline number using which one can register with the job portal.Nilesh Bodki, a diamond exporter and core member of DICF told TOI, “Though the portal was launched in February, but we reaped its real benefit post-lockdown. There are hundreds of jobless diamond workers seeking decent jobs and employers looking for skilled artisans, but there is a wide gap. The portal is bridging the gap between the job seekers and employers in the diamond industry.”According to Bodki, about 400 diamond workers have registered on the job portal in the last one month and that about 36 diamond companies have posted their requirements.Nitin Jobanputra, founder of DICF and a leading diamond exporter from US told TOI, “DICF is not only helping diamond workers find jobs, but we are also lending financial support to them and their family members. We have set up a corpus fund to help the workers fraternity. We are contacting all the diamond companies in Surat for their requirement of skilled workers.”Babu Narola, owner of Narola Gems told TOI, “Post lockdown we had the requirement of 100 diamond workers in the factory. Through DICF, we were able to get 30 workers for various jobs related to diamond processing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/portal-helps-200-retrenched-diamond-workers-get-jobs/articleshow/78391628.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||MCI gives recognition of 150 MBBS seats to Doon-based medical college||Dehradun: The Medical Council of India (MCI) has given the recognition of 150 MBBS seats to Dehradun-based Shri Guru Ram Rai Institute of Medical and Health Sciences on Tuesday. According to the authorities, the MCI’s team had recently done inspection of SGRRIM&HS and Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital and after comprehensive examination of the various parameters like infrastructure, faculty and facilities of the Medical College, MCI gave the recognition of 150 seats to the institution. Dr Anil Kumar Mehta, principal of SGRRIM&HS, said that this recognition will directly benefit the state and people of Uttarakhand. The state will be able to get 150 news doctors every year improving the doctor-population ratio and thus, better health facilities for the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mci-gives-recognition-of-150-mbbs-seats-to-doon-based-medical-college/articleshow/78391557.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||South-west monsoon likely to begin retreat from U’khand in next 48-hrs: Met||Dehradun: The south-west monsoon is likely to start retreating from parts of Uttarakhand in the next 48-hours, officials at the regional meteorological centre said on Tuesday. It is to be noted that Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has already announced the withdrawal of monsoon from parts of west Rajasthan and Punjab on Monday. Speaking to TOI, Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre, said, “Monsoon has started withdrawing from parts of North India and conditions are favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from most of Northern India and western Himalayan region.” Significantly, Uttarakhand, till last week, has recorded a 19% rain deficit in the monsoon season this year, which is likely to go up by a couple of notches more by the end of this month. Meanwhile, Met officials have said that temperatures, especially the minimum levels, are likely to start dropping in both hills and plain regions of Uttarakhand from October 1 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/south-west-monsoon-likely-to-begin-retreat-from-ukhand-in-next-48-hrs-met/articleshow/78391581.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Consider Covid-19 treatment period as duty-hours: ST union||Aurangabad: Claiming that around 1,600 staffers of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) have contracted Covid-19 so far, the association of staff of the state transport utility has demanded that the recovery period of the workforce be counted as duty-hours. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, Maharashtra State Transportation Employees Congress has also said that nearly 52 employees of MSRTC have died due to Covid-19 and their kin must receive ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh each. “The MSRTC bus service was operating partially during the lockdown and later in a full-fledged manner, when the restrictions on inter-state travel were lifted. The state government must consider our demands positively as ST staffers are also corona warriors considering their nature of job,” association general secretary Shrirang Barge said. He said the state government must ask the MSRTC top-brass to relax existing rules and regulations to facilitate Covid treatment period as duty-hours. As per official record, the MSRTC has fleet of around 18,500-odd buses and render services to whopping nearly 70 lakh citizens on a daily basis during normal course of time. MSRTC public relations officer Abhjit Bhosale could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/consider-covid-19-treatment-period-as-duty-hours-st-union/articleshow/78393001.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Jamjodhpur farmer plots firing on himself to frame old foe||Rajkot: The firing upon two persons in Gadhakda villag of Jamjodhpur taluka in Jamnagar district on Saturday night has turned out to be a conspiracy hatched by the complainant himself with an intention to frame a man in the murder of his brother. On Saturday night, two persons, now identified as Ayub Yusuf Safiya and Haji alias Shahrukh Vali Mohammed Safiya, had opened two rounds on the gram panchayat office. While the complainant Feroz Safiya had escaped unhurt, his friend Ismail Safiya had suffered pellet injuries in the leg.Feroze had told police in his complaint that a man named Ashraf had opened fire and the latter was also booked for attempt to murder and sections of Arms Act.However, detailed investigation revealed that Feroze had hired Ayub and Haji by paying them Rs 40,000 and Rs 20,000 respectively to fire upon them. Feroze, who is from a well-to-do family of rich farmers in the village, was aware "Feroze's younger brother Mushtaq Safiya was murdered in April this year over some political rivalry ahead of gram panchayat elections. Of the 10 persons named in the FIR then, police had arrested nine but Ashraf, who was also named, was not apprehended as police did not find any evidence against him. His presence was also not found at the spot then," said JS Chavda, deputy superintendent of police, Jamnagar (rural).However, Feroze was furious over Ashraf going scot-free and therefore hatched a plot to frame him in a firing case. "He hired Ayub and Haji and asked the former to fire at him in such a way that the bullets don't hit him. As per the plot, the duo came to the gram panchayat office at around 1am on Saturday and took a shot at the window where Feroz was standing," said Chavda.Police were always suspicious about Feroze's allegations and got his detailed call detail records which showed that he was in constant touch with the duo.On being grilled, he confessed to the conspiracy and all three were arrested. Police also recovered the double-barrel gun, bullets and gunpowder from Ayub.Feroze is the eldest among his five brothers while slain Mushtaq was the youngest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamjodhpur-farmer-plots-firing-on-himself-to-frame-old-foe/articleshow/78391598.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 181 new cases||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district registered 181 fresh Covid-19 cases by late Monday, taking the total number of patients to 33,174. Of these, 5,890 are currently active. So far, 26,359 patients have recovered from the contagion and discharged from various Covid care facilities in the district. In addition, the district also recorded 925 deaths so far, including nine reported by Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-181-new-cases/articleshow/78393009.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra greens oppose online public hearings on CRZ issues||NAVI MUMBAI: Environmentalists in the state said online public hearings on CRZ issues in coastal areas were a sham as locals are unable to lodge objections against projects for many reasons. “On Monday, a hearing was held in Sindhudurg district, and many more will be held in other places. When people are unable to communicate with government officials through Internet, how can you call it a public hearing? Many controversial projects in CRZ areas can then be approved by government, as technically objections were not recorded. This is unfair,” said environmentalist of NGO Vanashakti, and member of Bombay high court-appointed wetlands grievance redressal panel. “Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has launched online sessions and released advertisements, and accordingly held an online public hearing for Sindhudurg, while one is planned for Palghar on Wednesday. But many locals did not get any communication. This is meaningless due to Covid,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. The authorities may claim they informed people through advertisements but many newspapers are still not circulated door-to-door. Many do not have access to e-papers too, added Kumar. Activist Omkar Keni from Sindhudurg said, “People were told to go to taluka centres to file objections and suggestions. But many were unable to properly register; so we have demanded another physical hearing.” Sindhudurg resident deputy collector Shubhangi Sathe said some were unable to connect via WhatsApp but the problem was resolved. “Statistics and surveys may show high penetration of Internet and mobile telephony, but most people use Internet for entertainment and now for online classes. Most are not Internet-friendly,” Kumar said. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said, “Normally many attend hearings and speak out. Government officials come and go, but people living in coastal villages and towns have to bear the brunt of relaxing coastal zone development restrictions.” “Now, there are restrictions on people’s movements and meetings. Not everything should be allowed the digital way,” Pawar said. The activists requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray to wait for the situation to normalize. “This does not mean the authorities must not keep watch on violations and destruction of mangroves and wetlands,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maha-greens-oppose-online-public-hearings-on-crz-issues/articleshow/78394541.cms||Vijay Singh
September 30, 2020||Madurai||HC grants bail to man in illegal sand mining case||Madurai: Madras high court on Tuesday granted bail to a person, who was arrested in connection with illegal sand mining in Thanjavur district and directed him to pay a total of Rs 15,000 to a children’s home. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Selvaraj, who was arrested by the Orathanadu police in Thanjavur district on September 13. He was booked under Section 379 of IPC and 21(1) of mines and minerals (development and regulation) Act, 1957. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner was involved in illegal mining of river sand. The counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner was innocent and he was falsely implicated in the case. However, the government advocate submitted that the total quantity of sand mined was recovered by the police personnel from the petitioner. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case, Justice V Bharathidasan granted bail to the petitioner and directed him to pay Rs 15,000 to the credit of MDM Children’s Home in Vellore district within a week. The petitioner was also directed to appear before the police as and when required for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-bail-to-man-in-illegal-sand-mining-case/articleshow/78395243.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||India||Farm organisations plan stir across country from Oct 2||NEW DELHI: The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a conglomerate of 250 farm organisations from across the country, has chalked out a nationwide protest plan against the new laws, beginning with a “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Diwas” on October 2 and culminating in a national protest on November 26 and 27 in Delhi. Angry over presidential assent to the agri-marketing acts, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a conglomerate of 250 farm organisations from across the country, has chalked out a nationwide protest plan against the new laws, reports Neel Kamal. AIKSCC has called for the observance of a “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Diwas” on October 2, Gandhi Jayanti, when a call will go out to pledge to socially boycott those politicians and their representatives whose parties did not oppose these “anti-farmer” legislation. The conglomerate will also call for meetings to adopt resolutions against the Centre’s anti-farmer laws. AIKSCC has decided that farmers will observe an “MSP Adhikar Diwas” on October 14 wherein farmers shall “expose the lies” of the government that the farmers are receiving MSP as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-organisations-plan-stir-across-country-from-oct-2/articleshow/78396364.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two ayurveda doctors get 10 years’ jail for death of pregnant woman||PUNE: Additional sessions judge Vikram Rajaram Jagdale here on Tuesday convicted and sentenced two ayurveda practitioners to 10 years’ simple imprisonment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder following the death of a pregnant woman in the hospital owned by one of them at Kiwale in May 2012. The duo, Jitendra Suresh Shimpi and Sachin Hari Deshpande, having BAMS and MS in shalyatantra (general surgery), performed a caesarean and tubectomy operations on pregnant Rajashri Anil Jagtap (22) on May 1, 2012. This despite the two not having an MS qualification in gynaecology and obstetrics. Post-operation, the woman suffered from excessive bleeding and had to be shifted to another hospital where she passed away on May 2, 2012. The woman underwent the operation at the hospital owned by Shimpi, while Deshpande was hired for performing the operation. Rajashri’s husband, Anil Jagannath Jagtap, an ambulance driver lodged an FIR. The two doctors, along with an anaesthetist, were charged with culpable homicide and other offences. The court acquitted the anaesthetist, but held Shimpi and Deshpande guilty of performing the operation without having requisite training in gynaecology surgery. Additional public prosecutor Rajesh Kavediya, who examined nine witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case, told TOI, “The court also imposed a fine of Rs2.50 lakh each on the two doctors which they have to pay to the husband of the deceased woman as compensation.” During the trial, the court dealt with the issue of whether BAMS and MS in shalyatantra can perform surgeries of the kind that resulted in the death of the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-ayurveda-doctors-get-10-yrs-jail-for-death-of-pregnant-woman/articleshow/78394485.cms||Vishwas Kothari
September 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Free telemedicine for cancer patients||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With Covid-19 pandemic affecting the lives of persons with other serious ailments, voluntary organizations have come up with telemedicine helplines to ensure that such patients receive the required care. Pallium India has started a helpline and telemedicine facility for patients who need palliative care. It has arranged a team of doctors, nurses and social workers to provide necessary care to patients free of cost. The service can be availed by those currently receiving palliative care and other patients in need. Patients or their relatives may contact Pallium India 8606884889 for the service. Health workers and volunteers engaged in Covid-19-related activities can also inform about any person who needs service of Pallium India. In the first phase, the service will be available to patients in Thiruvananthapuram district. Caritas India, an NGO, launched a telemedicine helpline service for cancer patients under its project Ashakiranam as part of foundation day celebration of Caritas India. Telemedicine helpline facility will be implemented in association with various hospitals where cancer care is available. PWD minister G Sudhakaran inaugurated the foundation day celebration on Tuesday. Kanjirapally archbishop Mar Jose Pulickal inaugurated the telemedicine campaign. “Covid-19 crisis and the resultant lockdown with restrictions on travel has resulted in an increased demand for telemedicine services. Telemedicine is a great help for the cancer patients, because the possibility of such patients contracting coronavirus is very high due to their low immunity. So, Caritas India and partners in Kerala took a decision of consulting doctors on a virtual platform to avoid the risk factors,” said a statement from Caritas India. The social service societies working under 32 dioceses in the state will tie up with local hospitals in the district to provide telemedicine facility. Hibi Eden MP, member secretary of KSDMA Sekhar Lukose Kuriakose and executive director Caritas India Fr Paul Moonjely also spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/free-telemedicine-for-cancer-patients/articleshow/78393023.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Dehradun||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates six mega projects in Uttarakhand under Namami Gange||HARIDWAR/DEHRADUN: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated six sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Uttarakhand worth Rs 521 crore under the Namami Gange Mission. PM Modi said the projects will prevent discharge of 15.2 crore litres of polluted water into the Ganga in Uttarakhand per day. The STPs, located at Haridwar, Rishikesh and Badrinath were inaugurated via a video conference, which was also attended by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, governor Baby Rani Maurya, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhariyal as well as several state ministers. “The present National Mission for Clean Ganga is not confined to simply cleaning the river but is a comprehensive plan of river conservation, focusing on cleaning the river’s tributaries as well. It also seeks to develop organic farming corridors along the river banks, boosting the economic condition of villagers. Besides, the government is committed to providing adequate drinking water through pipelines to all households in the country by 2024,” the PM said in his address. On Tuesday, a 68 MLD STP, a project worth Rs 230 crore, was inaugurated at Jagjeetpur, Haridwar. Two STPs – a 27 MLD one in Jagjeetpur and another of 18 MLD capacity in Sarai area in the city – were upgraded at a cost of Rs 20 crore and Rs 13 crore respectively. The PM also inaugurated 'Ganga Avalokan', a Ganga museum aimed to showcase the river’s legacy to be set up at Haridwar’s Chandi Ghat. In Rishikesh, a 26 MLD STP worth Rs 158 crore was inaugurated at Lakkad Ghat and another with a capacity of 7.5 MLD worth Rs 41 crore, supposed to be the country’s first four-storeyed STP, was inaugurated at Chandeshwar Nagar, Muni-ki-Reti. At Chorpani, Muni-ki- Reti, a 5 MLD STP worth Rs 39 crore was set up and another of 1.01 MLD was set up at Badrinath at a cost of Rs 19 crore. The Prime Minister said that over 300 projects worth Rs 30,000 crore are either complete or underway under the Namami Gange programme. Modi said that since 2014, sewage treatment across the country had increased four times. “A total of 130 drains have been tapped. A large number of ghats have been constructed or beautified. In Prayagraj Kumbh, pilgrims from across the world had the experience of a clean Ganga. They will experience the same at the Haridwar Kumbh early next year too,” he said. The PM added that earlier, an important issue like water was divided in several ministries but the BJP government had brought it under one umbrella. “The Jal Shakti ministry deals with all the challenges related to water. It has led to remarkable results in providing drinking water to villages in a short span,” the PM said. He also came down on the opposition for opposing the Centre’s initiatives just for the sake of it. The PM added that apart from providing clean water, the programmes under Jal Jeevan Mission also empowered villages economically. “Projects implemented under the mission at the panchayat level ensure 50% participation of women,” he said. Meanwhile, the PM lauded efforts of CM Rawat for “going a step further” and “providing water connection for Re 1 to villagers in remote areas of the hill state. “Uttarakhand has set a target of providing access to piped water to all households by 2022, which is well ahead of the Centre’s target. Despite the pandemic, the state government has successfully provided water connections to 50,000 families in the last four to five months. It reflects the commitment of CM Trivendra Singh Rawat,” Modi said. Thanking the PM for the Centre’s support, the CM said that the state plans to promote organic farming and cultivation of medicinal plants along the banks of Ganga. “The treated water coming out of the STPs is being made available to farmers for irrigation,” he said. Rawat added, “A total of 19 projects in this regard were started, 16 of them in urban areas. Work on 15 has been completed and the rest will be done before Kumbh 2021. A total of 135 drains have been identified in these cities for tapping and work on 128 drains has been completed. In 21 ghats along the Ganga in Uttarakhand, including Chandi ghat, 23 crematoria have been made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-modi-inaugurates-six-mega-projects-in-uttarakhand-under-namami-gange/articleshow/78391616.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Relief for mother & son in murder case||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court acquitted a woman in the case of her husband’s killing in 2010. The court also absolved her son of the murdering his father, concluding that he didn’t inflict the blow with intention to murder. However, the bench convicted the son to 10-year rigorous imprisonment for attempting to murder his father. The court also ordered his release as he had already completed the sentence. Deepak Pundalik (then 25) and his mother Chhayabai (then 45) of Kelgaon Murdeshwar in Sillod taluka were convicted by the trial court in January, 2016. They were accused numbers 1 and 2 for the offence punishable under section 302 read with section 34 of the IPC. Ingale (the deceased man) had two wives, Kantabai (first wife) and Chhayabai (second wife). Chhayabai and her sons, including Deepak, wanted division of Ingale’s farmland between his two wives. On March 28, 2010, Ingale had gone to the farm. There, Harshal found Deepak quarrelling with Ingale. When Harshal tried to reason with Deepak, the latter attacked him with a spear. Ingale tried to intervene but instead received a blow to his chest and collapsed. He was taken to the hospital where he died the following day. The police had arrested Deepak and Chhayabai, who were subsequently charge-sheeted and sentenced. Both approached the HC through lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar challenging their conviction. While referring to Supreme Court verdict, the bench comprising Justices T V Nalawade and Mangesh S Patil observed: “This court has come to the conclusion that there is clear probability that the incident took place in sudden quarrel and without premeditation and the accused did not take undue advantage of the circumstances. Only due to the motive, this Court has come to a conclusion that there was intention to cause the injury that resulted in the death. On the whole, the decision of acquittal needs to be given in favour of accused No. 2 as she had not played any part in the incident and there is nothing to infer that she had shared common intention with accused No.1. The deceased was her husband and the evidence given that instigation was given by her to accused No.1 is not that convincing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/relief-for-mother-son-in-murder-case/articleshow/78393014.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed cop booked for ‘bid on wife’s life’||Aurangabad: Beed police have booked a constable along with nine of his family members after his wife, who is also a constable, lodged a complaint that she was forced to consume poisonous substance by them. Beed superintendent of police R Raja said, “Attempt to murder and domestic violence case has been registered and a departmental inquiry initiated as the complainant as well as the key suspect are serving policemen.” The couple are attached to the Beed police. The officer said that medical experts have been roped in to see if the woman constable was actually force-fed poison. “We will initiate the procedure to arrest the suspects only after getting medical reports supporting her claim,” he said An officer privy to the probe said the couple got married about two years ago while they were posted with one of the police stations under Ambajogai sub-division of the district. Within a year of marriage, the constable allegedly started suspecting his wife of having an extra-marital affair, resulting into serious differences between the duo. According to the officer, the woman constable got herself transferred to another police station and lodged a complaint with the redressal cell for women of Beed police. She even moved to a rented accommodation. As per the woman constable’s complaint with Ambajagoi police station late on Sunday evening, she was force-fed poisonous substance by the suspects at her rented accommodation. Police said the woman’s condition is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-cop-booked-for-bid-on-wifes-life/articleshow/78393020.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 30, 2020||Mumbai||Home isolation: Patient has to stay put in one room||MUMBAI: The state taskforce on Covid-19 is working out guidelines to be observed when a positive patient opts for home isolation. “When one decides to stay home after testing positive one has to stay put in a room,’’ said a taskforce member. Patients end up infecting other family members, increasing the disease burden in the city. The guidebook should be ready for submission to the authorities in two to three days. Patients opting for home isolation have been increasing, especially after BMC issued a directive 10 days back that asymptomatic patients should only opt for home isolation. This was done to reduce the crunch for hospital beds in cities like Mumbai. “Mumbai has roughly 26,000 active cases, and almost half are at home,’’ said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Dr Shashank Joshi of the taskforce said home isolation could work if patients monitor their health well. They should conduct the six-minute walk test twice a day to check oxygen levels and ensure they have a tele-consult with their doctor at regular intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/home-isolation-patient-has-to-stay-put-in-one-room/articleshow/78394550.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Nashik||35-year-old beaten to death in Nashik||Nashik: A 35-year-old native of Nepal was beaten to death in the old city area of Nashik on Monday night. A case in this regard has been registered with the Bhadrakali police who said that the motive is yet to be ascertained. At around 10.45 pm, a patrolling team of the police was informed by locals about a person being attacked with wooden sticks by unidentified people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/35-year-old-beaten-to-death-in-nashik/articleshow/78393025.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 30, 2020||Pune||Man ‘brought dead’, kin vandalise hosp||Pune: Four men allegedly damaged an ECG machine and other equipment at a private hospital in Kalewadi Phata on Monday after the doctors examined and pronounced an “unconscious” relative of theirs as brought dead. The four suspects were part of a group of 10-15 relatives and friends of the man, who had fainted at his house owing to some previous illness. They rushed him to the hospital around 10pm. The Wakad police have filed a case against the suspects on the basis of a complaint lodged by the hospital owner, Dr Narayan Survase (46), who accused the four men of vandalizing the hospital property. Assistant inspector Sapna Devtale referred to the FIR and said, “The group arrived at the hospital with the unconscious man around 10pm. The doctors checked him and found him dead and informed the informed the family members that he had died while being brought to the hospital. Hearing this, the four men flew in rage and started abusing the hospital staffers and then damaged the ECG machine and other equipment. They created a ruckus for almost five minutes. We have identified the four men and will arrest them soon.” Police have invoked charges under sections 427 (mischief by causing damage), 452 (trespass) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC and the relevant sections of the Prevention of Violence against Doctors, Medical Professional, Medical Professional and the Medical Institution Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-brought-dead-kin-vandalise-hosp/articleshow/78394491.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||Body found in gunny sack near Navale bridge||Pune: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Tuesday morning recovered the body of a man, aged around 30 years, stuffed in a gunny sack that was disposed of at an open plot near Navale bridge off the Katraj–Dehu Road bypass. The hands and legs of the deceased were found tied with a rope. Police inspector Vishnu Tamhane told TOI, “Around 6.30am, some passers-by informed the police control room about a suspicious sack on an open plot close to the service lane that goes toward Jambhulwadi.” Tamhane said, “We suspect the victim may have been strangled to death and then his body was packed in the gunny sack. Nothing was found on the person of the deceased to establish his identity. We are checking missing persons’ complaints and other details to establish his identity.” Man murdered, wife held Police have arrested Ritu Gaikwad (24) on the charge of murdering her husband, Mayur Govind Gaikwad (28), a casual worker. He was hacked to death with a spade while he was sleeping in the front room of his small dwelling at Mamurdi village in the Dehu Road police area early on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/body-found-in-gunny-sack-near-navale-bridge/articleshow/78394489.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Goa||Air quality ‘satisfactory’, better than last year: Report||PANAJI: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has categorised air quality in the state in 2019-20 as “satisfactory”. The board monitored ambient air quality at 17 locations from March 2019 to this March, and submitted its report to the environment department. “Comparison of PM10 data of 2019-2020 with 2018-209 indicates considerable reduction,” said the GSPCB in its air quality report. “While 15 out of 17 stations exceeded the annual standard in 2018-19, only five did so in 2019-2020.” The directorate of transport (DoT) has also submitted an action plan to reduce air pollution from vehicles. It recommended an extensive drive against polluting vehicles and strict compliance. It also suggested the launch of an awareness campaign for air pollution control, vehicle maintenance, minimum use of personal vehicles, etc. Other suggestions it submitted were the preparation of an action plan to check fuel adulteration and random monitoring of fuel quality data, and plans to widen roads and improve infrastructure. The directorate of agriculture has recommended an extensive drive against open burning of leaves, and regular checks and control of burning of municipal solid waste. It also batted for the proper collection of horticultural waste, and its disposal following the composting-cum-gardening approach. The report said that as per the central pollution control board (CPCB), the transport department and police should monitor and take necessary action against uncovered loaded vehicles as a precaution to reduce dust pollution. Other steps that found place in the report include the regular dissemination of air quality data through websites and other media. It was also suggested that an air quality management division should be set up at the board to oversee related activities, and to interact with the CPCB. It has also been suggested that each town and city have a helpline and board to tackle complaints against non-compliance. The report also suggested the maximising of LPG coverage for domestic and commercial cooking, with a target of 100% coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/air-quality-satisfactory-better-than-last-year-report/articleshow/78394526.cms||Murari Shetye
September 30, 2020||Mysuru||Infection among staffers mounting at Mysuru's Jayadeva hospital||MYSURU: Although infections have been rising among staff, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Science and Research Centre, Mysuru, continues to provide care and treatment to hundreds of heart patients. The 350-bed facility employs about 550 staffers including housekeeping, Group D, catering, and security workers. Dr KS Sadananda, senior consultant interventional cardiologist and medical superintendent, Jaydeva, said someone or the other of their healthcare workers tests positive almost every day. “We are going through hard times,” said Dr Sadananda. He said of late, the biggest challenge for him as head of the institute is to encourage staff — right from doctors to nurses, paramedical staff, housekeeping and security guards. Given the number of patients visiting the facility every day, staffers are at a high risk of infection. “We work close to each other in a closed environment and the chances of being infected are high,” said Dr Sadananda. “But this hasn’t deterred our employees. Wearing personal protective equipment for six-eight hours is exhausting. It’s been happening for months now, but we have to bear it.” Dr Sadananda says a big challenge is to identify whether patients are suffering from Covid infection or a heart-related issue. “People with breathlessness arrive at our facility every day. About 25% such patients are diagnosed with Covid,” he said. “Ours is a government facility and we can’t turn a patient away. On average, 500 patients turn up at our outpatient department daily and about 7% of them will require admission.” He said, “It’s really terrifying. We’re managing by encouraging our staff. Every time a staff tests positive, fellow workers have to undergo tests. I had to undergo tests thrice because I was a primary contact.” Sadananda said patients with cardiovascular diseases are a vulnerable population and they require immediate attention. “What is worrying is that patients are seeking medical help late fearing Covid. There is a further delay as some hospitals are seeking Covid reports before admitting patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/infection-among-staffers-mounting-at-mysuru-jayadeva-hospital/articleshow/78392525.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||New breeding sites for flamingos in Kutch||Rajkot: Flamingos arriving in Kutch for breeding would soon get new islands to nest on. The forest department is planning to develop two new islands (bets) to give a safe breeding and nesting spot for these birds. The move came after the scientists of the National Wetland Committee found that a sizeable nesting area for flamingos in Anda Bet, one of the largest nesting site, has reduced this year due to continuous monsoon flooding. “The two islands for flamingo nesting will be developed near the Anda Bet. The plan is in the initial stage and we are identifying ideal spots,” said H J Thakkar, assistant conservator of forest. Anda Bet is also famed as ‘Flamingo City.’During the joint survey of the forest department and National Wetland Committee that concluded on September 12, the scientists found that the nesting area of flamingos has reduced due to continuous water logging for five to six months. It was also observed that 40,000 nests have been made on the Anda Bet and about one lakh birds would lay the eggs as soon as the water recedes. The survey of Anda Bet and Khadir area also found that nearly two lakh birds have nested in these areas.These birds arrive in Kutch during between June and July every year and stay till March in the area that is the only breeding spot for flamingos in Asia. Since 2016, the forest department has been observing a sizable breeding of flamingos at Kuda near Khadir island in Great Rann of Kutch. During the survey this year, they observed that around one lakh lesser flamingos have been breeding in this area.A note by the forest department says, “About 10,000 greater flamingos were seen exhibiting courtship behaviour. The breeding site near Khadir island also indicates selection of ideal elevation for nesting. The primary breeding site is a road constructed by the Border Security Force (BSF) that was abandoned due to technical reasons. The dry and about two-feet elevated 20-kilometre stretch that is five-metre wide provided an ideal site for nesting and around 100,000 lesser flamingos have made their nests on this patch.” While the scientists observed nearly 10,000 chicks in this area, forest officials claimed that this site now has the highest number of nesting of lesser flamingos in the country so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/new-breeding-sites-for-flamingos-in-kutch/articleshow/78391647.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 30, 2020||Mumbai||Besides Covid, govt to focus on mental health: Rajesh Tope||MUMBAI: Public health minister Rajesh Tope said along with Covid-19 the state government will also focus on mental health. He said the Covid-19-induced lockdowns and increased unemployment had led to a lot of mental stress. “The increase is a point of concern, we want to address it,” Tope told the valedictory session of HospitalTech 2020 National Healthcare Summit organised by CII. “The government is looking forward to adopting effective technological interventions to improve healthcare. We are expanding our tele-ICU network and looking for more cost-effective models,” said Tope. In July-end, the state task force recommended psychiatric pills be prescribed to Covid patients if their psychosis and fear over the condition was high. “All hospitals realized early on that counselling had to be part of treatment. Even patients needing post-Covid treatment need counselling,’’ said a senior doctor. Many private hospitals have counsellors on call for patients. WHO has warned about a mental health pandemic that is likely to follow Covid-19. Studies done to understand the impact of SARS 18 years back showed that 100% of patients had sleep disorders, 30% traumatic memories and 10% depressive thoughts. A survey by Suicide Prevention India Forum showed 54.7% mental health professionals reported an increase in people seeking therapy for the first time. SPIF estimates that even before Covid-19, 150 million Indians were in need of mental health services but only 30 million received care. “With the lengthy lockdown, forced isolation, fear of virus, financial insecurity, domestic violence and rising anxiety, the crisis has deepened,’’ SPIF founder Nelson Moses said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/besides-covid-govt-to-focus-on-mental-health-tope/articleshow/78394557.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Hubballi||Retd army man, family appeal to Prez for euthanasia||Hubballi: A retired army man and his family members have appealed to the President of India to grant them permission for euthanasia. They made the appeal through the Gadag DC on Tuesday. Iranna Annigeri, a native of Balehousur village in Gadag district, has served in the army for 17 years. Annigeri said that he has been facing problem to build an academy-type structure at Ishwar Nagar in Laxmeshwar town. He has accused some people of maliciously interfering with the construction works. His elder brother Shivalingappa Annigeri told TOI that they are being harassed by some miscreants. “They are not allowing us to go ahead with our project, and we don’t know their intentions. The project is to help youths, who aspire to join the army, get the related training. More youth should join the services to protect the country. Still, some locals are not leaving us to work in peace for the last one year — they are also threatening us,” he said, adding: “We have brought this issue to the notice of local police. With no help coming from them, we are left with no option but to have appealed to the President seeking mercy killing.” “The government should consider our plea within 10 days. If not, all of us will sit on a dharna in front of the DC’s office until euthanasia is granted,” the family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/retd-army-man-family-appeal-to-prez-for-euthanasia/articleshow/78391656.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Man finds Rs 9 lakh diamond packet on road, returns it to owner||SURAT: On finding a packet full of diamonds worth Rs 9 lakh lying on the roadside, artisan Rajesh Rathod’s thought his financial woes caused by the prolonged recession and lockdown were over. Rathod’s wages were slashed by nearly Rs 6,000 and presently he earns around Rs 8,000-Rs 10,000 a month in a Katargam diamond unit. But conscience got better of his momentary temptation and Rathod ultimately returned the packet to the rightful owner within four days, proving that ‘mutual trust’ has always been the cornerstone of Surat’s globally acclaimed cutting and polishing industry. On September 25, Rathod spotted the packet near Sumul Dairy bridge while walking down to Mini Bazaar diamond market in Varachha from his house. Rathod was initially thought of making a killing by selling the 30 carats of sparkling gems as slashed wages were making it difficult for him to run the family of four including two children. “I could only see the weight and number of diamond pieces written on the packet. I immediately contacted my colleague who told me to keep it safely. On the first day, I decided to keep it. But I spent a sleepless night out of guilt and the next day I decided to return it to the rightful owner,” Rathod told TOI. On September 28, Rathod got a call from a person who introduced himself as the owner of the packet. After thorough scrutiny, he met the owner Haresh Viradiya, a broker and handed over the parcel to him. Viradiya, who had lost the parcel while taking out his handkerchief, had circulated about the packet on social media and pasted notices at the complexes housing diamond offices in Mini Bazaar. “I am extremely humbled by Rathod’s honesty. The diamonds were owned by someone else. and I would have earned 1.5 % commission after selling the packet. Had Rathod not returned the packet, I would have had to shell out Rs nine lakh to the owner,” Viradiya said. He said Rathod even refused to accept felicitation and cash as gift from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pockets-burnt-but-moral-fires-up-artisans-honesty/articleshow/78391711.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Varanasi||Gang of ganja smugglers busted, 3 arrested in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Kushinagar SWAT team busted an interstate gang of ganja smugglers by arresting three of its members on Tuesday. Police recovered 13.20 kg ganja, 3 mobile phone sets and two motorcycles from their possession. The gang used to smuggle ganja from Orissa and sell it in East UP and at Bihar border, informed Kushinagar SP Vinod Kumar Singh. “Acting on a tip-off, the SWAT team and Kubersthan police on Tuesday reached near Panchrukhia Bridge began a checking drive. During the drive, police noticed three men on two motorcycles. As soon as the trio saw the police, they tried to escape but the police surrounded them and made the arrest,” said the SP. The arrested were identified as Vimlesh Singh of Hata in Kushinagar, Harendra Sharma and Jaikishun Sharma of West Champaran, Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gang-of-ganja-smugglers-busted-3-held/articleshow/78395276.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Medical students assail offline exam in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The medical education department has decided to go ahead with offline exams for medical and dental courses despite stiff opposition from students of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). Officials of the department met with the vice-chancellor and other authorities at RGUHS on Monday and decided to press ahead with the examinations. The students have launched a campaign, shooting off emails to the university that demand the exam either be postponed or hosted online. Exams for first, second third and final year students are scheduled to begin from October 13. A representative of the campaign said some students have already tested positive and authorities have asked already ordered students from outside the state to come and stay in college hostels. There are no quarantine or isolation rules and this has put many lives at risk, the representative said. But medical education minister K Sudhakar, citing the success of SSLC examination, wondered why medical and dental students, who have more knowledge of the virus, cannot write the exam. “We will go ahead with examinations,” Sudhakar said. “When Class 10 students can attend exams, why can’t medical and dental students? We will conduct exams for those who are infected at a different time. We will take all precautions. We cannot afford to postpone exams again as students may lose a year.” However, students say they are ready to take exams if it is staggered to ensure social distancing or if it is held online. The students accused the university of being “unresponsive”. A third-year medical student in Hassan said: “I tested positive on Monday. My oxygen saturation level is low and I am on oxygen support. If the university can conduct classes online, why can’t they conduct examinations online? Many in my hostel have tested positive,” he said from his hospital bed in Hassan Medical College. Speaking to TOI, a final year dental student from Mangaluru said he has symptoms of Covid-19 and had given his samples for RT-PCR tests. “I have been coughing blood but my rapid antigen test was negative,” he said. “Doctors here suggested I take a RT PCR test. The results take an average 10-15 days. It is hard for me to attend examination with this mindset. I am ready to take the exams if they make alternative arrangements. If not, I will end up passing the infection on to others in the exam hall.” A second-year MBBS student from Mysuru said, “Rather than being the guardian of students, the university has isolated itself from pupils. There is no clarity of what a Covid-19 positive patient has to do and the exams are just a few days away.” Dr S Sacchidanand, vice chancellor of RGUHS was not available to comment. Flooded with email requests, Karnataka State Dental Council said on its website, “It is hereby made clear and to be kindly noted that Karnataka State Dental Council – KSDC is not the competent authority for Conduct of examinations or dealing with such related matters. You are hereby requested to write to the respective college authorities or RGUHS respectively as the case may be to receive prompt responses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-restive-as-rguhs-asserts-offline-examinations-will-go-on/articleshow/78392421.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 30, 2020||Mysuru||Medical students assail offline exam in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The medical education department has decided to go ahead with offline exams for medical and dental courses despite stiff opposition from students of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). Officials of the department met with the vice-chancellor and other authorities at RGUHS on Monday and decided to press ahead with the examinations. The students have launched a campaign, shooting off emails to the university that demand the exam either be postponed or hosted online. Exams for first, second third and final year students are scheduled to begin from October 13. A representative of the campaign said some students have already tested positive and authorities have asked already ordered students from outside the state to come and stay in college hostels. There are no quarantine or isolation rules and this has put many lives at risk, the representative said. But medical education minister K Sudhakar, citing the success of SSLC examination, wondered why medical and dental students, who have more knowledge of the virus, cannot write the exam. “We will go ahead with examinations,” Sudhakar said. “When Class 10 students can attend exams, why can’t medical and dental students? We will conduct exams for those who are infected at a different time. We will take all precautions. We cannot afford to postpone exams again as students may lose a year.” However, students say they are ready to take exams if it is staggered to ensure social distancing or if it is held online. The students accused the university of being “unresponsive”. A third-year medical student in Hassan said: “I tested positive on Monday. My oxygen saturation level is low and I am on oxygen support. If the university can conduct classes online, why can’t they conduct examinations online? Many in my hostel have tested positive,” he said from his hospital bed in Hassan Medical College. Speaking to TOI, a final year dental student from Mangaluru said he has symptoms of Covid-19 and had given his samples for RT-PCR tests. “I have been coughing blood but my rapid antigen test was negative,” he said. “Doctors here suggested I take a RT PCR test. The results take an average 10-15 days. It is hard for me to attend examination with this mindset. I am ready to take the exams if they make alternative arrangements. If not, I will end up passing the infection on to others in the exam hall.” A second-year MBBS student from Mysuru said, “Rather than being the guardian of students, the university has isolated itself from pupils. There is no clarity of what a Covid-19 positive patient has to do and the exams are just a few days away.” Dr S Sacchidanand, vice chancellor of RGUHS was not available to comment. Flooded with email requests, Karnataka State Dental Council said on its website, “It is hereby made clear and to be kindly noted that Karnataka State Dental Council – KSDC is not the competent authority for Conduct of examinations or dealing with such related matters. You are hereby requested to write to the respective college authorities or RGUHS respectively as the case may be to receive prompt responses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/students-restive-as-rguhs-asserts-offline-examinations-will-go-on/articleshow/78397821.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 30, 2020||Madurai||7 Covid-19 deaths in south TN, 4 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: Seven deaths and 626 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in the 10 southern districts while four deaths and 543 fresh cases were recorded in the central districts on Tuesday. Southern region is recording more than 600 cases in a single day for the first time after a gap of seven days. The deaths in the region include two in Madurai and one each in Kanyakumari, Sivagangai, Tenkasi, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli.  All the deaths recorded on Tuesday are patients aged above 60 years with comorbidities. Among them, a 77-year-old man from Madurai and a 66-year-old man from Tirunelveli died on Monday, while the rest died on Sunday or Saturday. Tirunelveli is the fourth district in the region to touch 200 deaths with a death rate of 1.58%. The three other districts are Madurai (389), Kanyakumari (221) and Virudhunagar (210). Tirunelveli (127) is the only district in this region to record more than 100 cases. It was followed by Kanyakumari (97) and Madurai (96). Ramanathapuram(20), Dindigul(34), Virudhunagar(36), Sivagangai(41) and Tuticorin(43) recorded less than 50 fresh cases. The cases in Madurai, with 96 new cases, has been steadily increased in the last five days. Madurai had 61 fresh cases on September 24, which increased to 71, 81, 82, 86 and 96 on consecutive days. The death toll in the central districts is now 709 with 5,053 active cases. Thanjavur district reported 186 fresh cases on Tuesday with three deaths. The total count of positive cases in the district is now 10,922. Pudukottai reported 99 new cases while Trichy 83 cases on Tuesday. The total count in the districts were 8,992 and 10,429 respectively. Tiruvarur district recorded 64 positive cases with 7,136 cases till now. Karur reported 42 fresh cases, Nagapattinam 38, Ariyalur 16 and Perambalur 15 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-covid-19-deaths-in-south-tn-4-in-central-dists/articleshow/78395275.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Thane||3 young trekkers rescued from Yeoor jungle after 21 hours||Thane: Three boys from Vasant Vihar, who lost their way in the snake and leopard-infested Yeour jungle for nearly 21 hours, were rescued early on Tuesday following multiple late-night combing operations. Officials said they tracked their location after they sent an SOS to their parents. They were famished and huddled on a rock with mobile batteries drained. “They rode to Patonapada on Monday morning and carried refreshments and lunch for the trek. But they probably unknowingly entered the core area,” said senior inspector Jitendra Rathod of Chitalsar Manpada police station, which assisted forest officials in the rescue. Vikas Kadam, round officer in-charge of the zone, said when the parents alerted them, they and police formed three teams with tribals, who are well-versed with jungle paths. The first operation started at 9pm. Kadam said usually they don’t enter the jungle at night but went ahead following pleas by the parents. “Our teams searched almost all popular spots and returned after four hours. Thane police tracked the mobile location and a fresh operation was conducted,” said Kadam. Officials said the boys had lost hope of being rescued. “They admitted their mistake and promised to not take such risks again,” said a rescue official. The forest department said they were registering a case for illegal entry against them as a deterrent for others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3-young-trekkers-rescued-from-yeoor-jungle-after-21-hours/articleshow/78394558.cms||Manoj Badgeri
September 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Medical students assail offline exam in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The medical education department has decided to go ahead with offline exams for medical and dental courses despite stiff opposition from students of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). Officials of the department met with the vice-chancellor and other authorities at RGUHS on Monday and decided to press ahead with the examinations. The students have launched a campaign, shooting off emails to the university that demand the exam either be postponed or hosted online. Exams for first, second third and final year students are scheduled to begin from October 13. A representative of the campaign said some students have already tested positive and authorities have asked already ordered students from outside the state to come and stay in college hostels. There are no quarantine or isolation rules and this has put many lives at risk, the representative said. But medical education minister K Sudhakar, citing the success of SSLC examination, wondered why medical and dental students, who have more knowledge of the virus, cannot write the exam. “We will go ahead with examinations,” Sudhakar said. “When Class 10 students can attend exams, why can’t medical and dental students? We will conduct exams for those who are infected at a different time. We will take all precautions. We cannot afford to postpone exams again as students may lose a year.” However, students say they are ready to take exams if it is staggered to ensure social distancing or if it is held online. The students accused the university of being “unresponsive”. A third-year medical student in Hassan said: “I tested positive on Monday. My oxygen saturation level is low and I am on oxygen support. If the university can conduct classes online, why can’t they conduct examinations online? Many in my hostel have tested positive,” he said from his hospital bed in Hassan Medical College. Speaking to TOI, a final year dental student from Mangaluru said he has symptoms of Covid-19 and had given his samples for RT-PCR tests. “I have been coughing blood but my rapid antigen test was negative,” he said. “Doctors here suggested I take a RT PCR test. The results take an average 10-15 days. It is hard for me to attend examination with this mindset. I am ready to take the exams if they make alternative arrangements. If not, I will end up passing the infection on to others in the exam hall.” A second-year MBBS student from Mysuru said, “Rather than being the guardian of students, the university has isolated itself from pupils. There is no clarity of what a Covid-19 positive patient has to do and the exams are just a few days away.” Dr S Sacchidanand, vice chancellor of RGUHS was not available to comment. Flooded with email requests, Karnataka State Dental Council said on its website, “It is hereby made clear and to be kindly noted that Karnataka State Dental Council – KSDC is not the competent authority for Conduct of examinations or dealing with such related matters. You are hereby requested to write to the respective college authorities or RGUHS respectively as the case may be to receive prompt responses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-restive-as-rguhs-asserts-offline-examinations-will-go-on/articleshow/78397824.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Woman who tested Covid +ve delivers triplets||Thrissur: As a controversy is raging over the death of the twins delivered by a young woman in Malappuram after she was denied treatment by hospitals, a woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 has delivered triplets at the Thrissur medical college hospital. The mother, hailing from Kuttichira in the district, was tested positive for Covid-19, after she was admitted to the hospital after being referred from a private hospital, on September 16. The hospital sources said the caesarean was conducted in the early hours of Monday, as the mother developed pain. The hospital sources said the mother delivered two baby boys and a baby girl. The babies have been admitted to a special ICU at the hospital. Two of the babies were weighing 1.3kg each while the third baby was weighing 1.6kg.  The mother had some problems of excessive blood loss and the babies will have to be given additional care as they have low birth weight. However, all of them are stable, though not out of danger, the sources said. The babies would be tested for Covid-19 later. The mother will also be tested later, even though she had tested negative in between, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-who-tested-covid-ve-delivers-triplets/articleshow/78393121.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Breather for BS Yediyurappa as bypolls may delay cabinet expansion||BENGALURU: The announcement of elections for two assembly segments and four legislative council spots has bought chief minister BS Yediyurappa crucial time as he had been under pressure to reshuffle the cabinet and accommodate more MLAs. With the elections lined up, Yediyurappa can defer the cabinet exercise to the second week of November. The Sira and RR Nagar bypolls, scheduled for November 3, are particularly important for him as victories here will help him demonstrate in front of the central BJP leadership that he still commands wide support in the state. Yediyurappa had said on Monday he would try to meet Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss cabinet expansion. But he may now visit Delhi only after the bypolls. Some in the state BJP believe the talk of cabinet expansion is aimed at pacifying legislators who are unhappy about being left out of the government. Since BJP formed the government in July last year, there has been constant speculation about cabinet expansion. “There were expectations that the exercise would happen in August this year and then in September before the monsoon session of the legislature. Now, the date has been moved to November. There is a question mark over whether the expansion will take place this year,” said a minister. Yediyurappa wants to end the discontent among BJP loyalists and former Congress-JD(S) legislators who left the coalition and helped him become the chief minister for the fourth time. The latter group eventually joined BJP, and Yediyurappa wants to reward them with cabinet berths. But he is not getting permission from PM Narendra Modi and Shah. “What is the use of our loyalty to BJP and hard work if these new entrants land cabinet roles? What should we tell our communities and supporters?” a BJP MLA asked. Political observers are baffled as to why the party high command is dragging the issue. A new BJP national team under party chief JP Nadda was supposed to be unveiled in March, but it was postponed, reportedly because of the pandemic. Team members are now being announced in phases. The first list was declared last week and the second one is expected in October. The final list, featuring new faces from Karnataka, will arrive in November. BJP insiders said some of these potential members are not keen on taking up national-level roles as they want to be state ministers or remain involved in local politics. Their reluctance has resulted in indecision. Some functionaries say the party doesn’t want to take any controversial step ahead of the Bihar assembly elections. Cabinet hopefuls, however, have continued to lobby for ministerial berths. They believe Yediyurappa will go for a mini-expansion and fill two vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/breather-for-bsy-as-bypolls-may-delay-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/78396321.cms||Manu Aiyappa
September 30, 2020||Varanasi||STF arrests looter in Jaunpur dist||Varanasi: The Special Task Force of state police on Tuesday arrested a looter, Vipin Singh, who was also on the radar of Palghar (Maharashtra) police, in Jaunpur district. According to STF, its field unit arrested Niraj Singh on September 5 in the case of killing a jeweller in a loot bid. He divulged that Vipin Singh of Kakori in Jalalpur was also involved in the incident, after which a cash reward of Rs 20,000 was announced on Vipin and the police launched a search for him. After locating Vipin near Benipur crossing under the limits of Nevadhia police station, the STF personnel caught him in the afternoon. During initial interrogation he confessed to have been involved in attacking the jeweller brothers for loot in June. The STF said it also came to light that Vipin had also fled with crores of rupees from Palghar in 2014, after which a case had also been registered against him. He was currently staying in Manduadih in Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/stf-arrests-looter-in-jaunpur-dist/articleshow/78395277.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||2nd woman EO alleges harassment by public representative in UP, FIR filed||Strap: Husband of nagar palika chairman arrested after complaintBijnor: The husband of a city council chairman was on Tuesday arrested following a complaint by an executive officer (EO) who alleged that he was meddling in the affairs of the nagar palika in UP’s Amroha district. Deepika Shukla, EO of Joya nagar panchayat in Amroha, had alleged that she was being forced to give tenders to a few people, apparently favourites of the chairman’s husband.Based on her complaint, an FIR was registered against Zahid Hussain, the chairman’s husband. He was arrested on Tuesday morning. It comes two days after EO of Meerut’s Sardhana municipal corporation was transferred after leveling a similar allegation against MLA Sangeet Som. It was the 17th transfer of Amita Varun, who had joined as EO in Sardhana in September last year.Soon after the EO Shukla’s allegation, district magistrate Umesh Mishra set up an inquiry and police protection was granted to her on Saturday.“I was being pressured by the representative's husband and my staff as well. They wanted to take tenders of development work. I was extremely upset and unable to sleep. There was danger to my life from them. I met the district magistrate on Saturday and narrated my ordeal to him,” Shukla said.The DM said, “EO approached me on Saturday. She collapsed suddenly while talking to me and was taken to hospital for treatment. Now her condition is normal. Probe is on. She was granted police protection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2nd-woman-eo-alleges-harassment-by-public-representative-in-up-fir-filed/articleshow/78391690.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka joins states in demand for IGST share||Bengaluru: After getting its GST compensation share through borrowings, Karnataka is mounting pressure on the Union government for its due share of Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST) in 2018-19. The government will write to the Centre soon and take it up at the next GST meeting on October 5. “It’s a revelation after the CAG exposed the slip-up. We’re trying to figure out the exact loss and we’ll write to the Centre for our share,” said a senior finance department official. The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) said the Centre did not apportion the tax component to the tune of Rs 13,944 crore in 2018-19 to states but retained it in its consolidated fund. The Centre erroneously devolved an IGST sum of Rs 15,001 crore and the CAG report stated that the goof-up resulted in states receiving lesser funds. While state finance department officials are ascertaining the loss Karnataka incurred, a back of envelope calculation shows it’s more than Rs 1,500 crore. However, considering claims of Telangana (Rs 2,641 crore) and Tamil Nadu (Rs 5,727 crore) and Karnataka’s advanced commercial activity, the IGST share could be higher. Kerala found a similar botch-up in 2017-18 and the Centre retained Rs 1,76,000 crore that was supposed to be distributed among states. If this is true, Karnataka’s claim will be much higher. The IGST issue has cropped up at a time when the Centre has suggested a new method to settle the issue of GST compensation. “The IGST issue has added to the muddle over GST compensation. The best way is that the Centre and states settle the matter without giving scope to one-upmanship. Otherwise, taxpayers, who have paid taxes promptly, will suffer and they will lose trust, which is not good for the economy,” said BT Manohar, member, Karnataka State GST Advisory Council. IGST is the tax component levied on interstate transactions and collected by the state where goods are sold and sent to the Centre, which shares with the consumption state to where the goods are transported in 50:50 ratio. “While the Centre is supposed to settle the IGST amount every month to states, Karnataka is getting quite regularity. The dispute cropped up about 2018-19 and we hope it’ll be settled amicably,” said the finance department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-joins-states-in-demand-for-igst-share/articleshow/78396312.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 30, 2020||Goa||Anti-IIT stir: Melauli villagers block road access, send back surveyors||VALPOI: A large crowd, comprising mostly women from Melauli-Sattari, blocked the road leading to the village to prohibit the entry of government officials from demarcating land for the proposed IIT-Goa project on Tuesday. Roughly 500 people squatted on the road chanting slogans. Despite a strong posse of police being deployed at the spot, the villagers managed to send back the surveyors who had come to demarcate the land. Sattari deputy collector Rajesh Ajgaonkar along with mamlatdar Dasharath Gawas rushed to the spot and requested villagers to allow the surveyors to demarcate the land, however, the officials could not pacify them as the villagers stood firm by their decision of saying no to the IIT. The aggrieved villagers said they are not afraid of getting arrested. Elderly women from Melauli said they would sit daily on the road but would never allow an IIT to come up in the village. Unnati Melekar, a local, said that the villagers will not have any fear as they “have run out of patience”. “Even if the government officials or police take their vehicles over us, we will still sit on the road fearlessly as we all have made our minds to die for our lands,” she said. Melekar further added that politicians come begging for votes during elections, “but when people are faced with a problem, they add to the problem rather than solving it”. Another villager Nikita Naik said that the officials always say they are under pressure from the government, “but now the people of Melauli will bring the pressure to the officials as well as the government”. “No problem if we all die, we will not allow this project to come up in our village. We are ready to face any consequences,” Naik said. Dasharath Mandrekar, president of the Valpoi block Congress committee, who supported the villagers said that the villagers are ready for a ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’. “If the police harass the villagers individually by sending summons, then all the villagers will march to the Valpoi police station,” he said. Meanwhile, late Tuesday evening, Mandrekar and social activist Vishwesh Parab were arrested by the Valpoi police under sections 143, 341, 353 and 149 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-iit-stir-melauli-villagers-block-road-access-send-back-surveyors/articleshow/78394639.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Pune||‘Bhimashankar tribal people safe from eco-sensitive tag’||PUNE: The Junnar division of the state forest department said on Tuesday that the central government order declaring Bhimashankar wildlife sanctuary and surrounding areas as eco-sensitive zone will not affect the livelihood of tribal communities in the area. The declaration by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) came on August 5, which notified Bhimashankar, encompassing parts of three districts — Pune, Thane, and Raigad — and covering around 101 square km, as eco-sensitive zone. Environmentalists welcomed the move owing to vanishing forest cover in the region and increasing conflict between human and wildlife. Declaring a region eco-sensitive prohibits a set of activities within the protected area or in an area within ten km of its boundary. These activities are commercial mining and quarrying, new encroachments or regularising them, releasing untreated effluents into rivers or on land, and setting up of hydroelectric projects and polluting industries. Eco-tourism facilities are allowed only if they are temporary in nature, such as tents or prefabricated structures. Permanent hotels and resorts are not allowed within the protected zone. Tribal communities living in the area said that they were not consulted regarding their concerns for such a notification, including potential loss of livelihood, and a possible erosion of their rights as notified under the Forest Rights Act. The 2008 law was enacted to ensure tribal communities living in notified forested areas are able to gather forest produce, engage in farming activities and continue to live in the area. “We recognise that there are apprehensions among tribal communities in scheduled areas and panchayats in the Bhimashankar region about their livelihood and forest rights. We want to assure those communities that none of their rights will be affected in any way. Under the Forest Rights Act, they will be able to live in the area, they can farm on the land and continue to gather forest produce,” said Jayaramegowda R, deputy conservator of forest, Junnar. There are certain restrictions on setting up commercial establishments, but if they are for bonafide livelihood purpose, there are no issues with that either. A lot of these communities depend on eco-tourism, and facilities such as tents or small eateries can be set up using temporary materials or prefabricated structures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhimashankar-tribal-people-safe-from-eco-sensitive-tag/articleshow/78394590.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||With social distancing near impossible, Bengaluru salons in doldrums||BENGALURU: Nearly 20% of salons in Bengaluru have shut shop due to lack of business and half of them don’t intend to reopen again. Since it is next to impossible to meet social distancing norms -- physical touch is required for hair-dressing and skincare services -- salons are finding it difficult to draw customers. Moreover many customers feel that a well-groomed look is not essential since most are working from home and social life has been reduced to near zero. Manoj Padikkal, general secretary, Karnataka Salon and Wellness Centre Owners Association, said, “Work from home has spelt doom for our industry. Since people are not going to their workplaces, not meeting others or attending weddings or parties, they don’t find the need to visit a salon.” Padikkal said salons have noticed a new trend: Men prefer to shave their heads completely in order to avoid hair-cuts for two or three months. “It doesn’t matter to them since they are working from home,” Padikkal said. Restrictions like mandatory wearing of masks and hand sanitisations are also piling up woes on salon operators. “The money we make is low and we not only have to pay salaries and rent but also spend on masks, shields, gloves and sanitisers for our customers and our employees. None of these products are cheap,” Padikkal said. Many salon owners said they are making only 15% of their pre-pandemic business and they are forced to cut down on the number of employees to make ends meet. Many salon employees have are working as domestic helps and selling homemade food products to earn a little extra money as they have either lost their jobs or are receiving half salaries. Manjula Devi, who has been running a salon for six years, said, “We lost all our employees, most of whom were from the northeast and we had to go through the recruitment process all over again. We are now working with skeletal staff and are following all protocols such as temperature checks and sanitisation. We are also using masks and single use gloves and sheets which is resulting in more garbage. We have to pay BBMP extra to clear it. It’s not much but it’s an added expense.” Deepa Pradeep, who has been running two salons for nearly 20 years now, said, “There are several people who are earning their bread and butter because of my salon. I cannot just ask them to leave. But a few of my employees did leave after I reduced their pay. A few beauticians, who work for me, have started working as cooks or maids in apartments because of the pay cuts.” Another salon owner said, “I have closed both my salons and am planning to wind up the business completely. I invested nearly Rs 45 lakh on my new salon which was functional only for 15 days before the lockdown was announced. I had put all my savings into opening the branch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-social-distancing-near-impossible-salons-in-wind-up-mode/articleshow/78392438.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Kufos to map diversity of subterranean fish||KOCHI: Spotting of snakeheads (varaal) or eel-like fish was common when homestead wells are cleaned ahead of monsoon. Scientists now consider these beings, whose presence is an indicator of aquifer water quality, worthy of research because they are evolutionarily unique and are relics of ancient fauna given their long-term isolation. Researchers at the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos) have now launched a project to map the diversity and distribution of cryptic subterranean fish, many of them blind, and prepare a roadmap for their conservation. These Western Ghat species are poorly known and no information is available on their systematics, distribution and population status. “The lack of awareness about them is a major threat as many confuse the species like Monopterus, an eel-like fish, with poisonous snakes and kill them as soon as they are found,” says Rajeev Raghavan, assistant professor at the department of fisheries resource management, Kufos. Use of chemicals like bleach would also affect them and pollute the aquifers. Collecting specimens for research was quite difficult until two years ago but the 2018 floods have changed this. “In 2018 and 2019 we managed to get 50 to 60 records from across the state. This could be due to the disturbances caused by the floods or because they are getting increasingly documented on the social media,” says Raghavan. In May 2019, Kufos researchers identified a new genus and species of snakehead which they named Aenigmachanna gollum, after The Lord of the Rings character, with the help of fish hobbyist Ajeer from near a paddy field near Kottakkal in Malappuram. “This is a paddy field where many go fishing for the past two decades but no one remembers encountering the species. But now if you go past 11pm and shine a torch beam into the waterbody you can see them in abundance,” says Raghavan. Researchers have so far identified 11 subterranean fish species in Kerala, which is considered a hotspot. They include four swamp eel species, four catfish species, two species of snakeheads and an eel loach Pangio bhujia, named after the popular snack. Many of these species have been assessed as ‘Data Deficient’ on the IUCN Red List of threatened species, with recommendations that urgent surveys be carried out. “We are planning to use traps and underwater cameras to document them. We have envisaged this as a citizen science initiative,” says Raghavan, who is actively involved with the work of the IUCN SSC and is currently the South Asia coordinator of the Freshwater Fish Specialist Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kufos-to-map-diversity-of-subterranean-fish/articleshow/78391728.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 30, 2020||Agra||Tundla gears up for bypoll, Cong & BJP yet to declare candidates||Agra: Vacant for the last 14 months, the countdown of the by-election on the Tundla (SC) assembly constituency of Firozabad district has begun. According to the schedule released by the election commission on Tuesday, the voting on seven assembly constituencies of UP including Tundla will take place on November 3. Meanwhile, the political parties have already started preparation for the by-election. The Tundla seat was vacated by BJP’s SP Singh Baghel after he became Agra MP in 2019. Firozabad district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh said, “According to the directives of the election commission, the candidate nomination process for by-election on the Tundla assembly constituency will be completed by October 19. The voting will take place on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10. Required arrangements are being made in this regard.”Presently, BSP and Samajwadi Party have declared their candidates to contest the by-election on Tundla assembly constituency. BSP has fielded Sanjeev Chak and SP will be represented by Maharaj Singh Dhangar on the reserved seat.Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are yet to declare their candidates. The first assembly election on Tundla seat was contested in 1952. From 2007 to 2017, two assembly elections on the seat were won by BSP candidate Rakesh Babu. The 2017 assembly election was won by BJP candidate SP Singh Baghel. In 2019, BJP fielded Baghel to contest the Lok Sabha election in Agra. After becoming MP, Baghel resigned as MLA. Besides Tundla (SC), 7 other assembly constituencies on which the by-election will be conducted included Naugawan Sadat, Bulandshahr, Bangermau, Ghatampur (SC), Deoria and Malhani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tundla-gears-up-for-bypoll-cong-bjp-yet-to-declare-candidates/articleshow/78391706.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Boy, sister electrocuted while playing||Rajkot: A 10-year-old boy and his younger sister were electrocuted accidentally while playing in a farmhouse in Bhaadva vllage near Rajkot city on Monday evening. Ajit Ganva and his eight-year-old sister Krishna were playfully swinging on the iron gate of the farm. However, an electric wire passing from above the gate suddenly snapped due to frequent closing and opening of the gate. Both children received severe electric shock and died on the spot.Their parents did not know about the incident as they were harvesting chillies in the field. Two hours later when they came home, they saw the kids lying unconscious. They were rushed to the hospital but both had died by then, said [police sourcesThe children's parents Rajesh Ganva and Kali were natives of Dahod and were employed as labourers in the farm owned by Dhiraj Rupapara who informed police about the incident. They were working here for the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boy-sister-electrocuted-while-playing/articleshow/78391721.cms||---
September 30, 2020||India||Opposition fighting for middlemen, not farmers: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Attacking the opposition for its protests against the newly enacted farm laws, PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday termed it “opposition for the sake of opposition”, saying some people are feeling troubled because the reforms will shut one more avenue for acquiring black money. Referring to the burning of a tractor at India Gate on Monday by Congres workers, he said, “These are the same people who have insulted farmers by torching farm equipment which are worshipped by farmers.” The PM, who was speaking at the launch of projects meant for rejuvenation of Ganga in Uttarkahand, did not name any party, but his remarks seem to be aimed against Congress, which is spearheading protests in party-governed Punjab and some districts in neighbouring Haryana. He attributed the protests to the frustration of a party that had been in power for generations and did not want farmers to have the freedom of selling their produce in open market. He said “one party” has opposed everything from Jan Dhan accounts, GST, One Rank One Pension, Rafale, Statue of Unity, 10% reservation for the poor to celebration of November 26 as ‘Samvidhan Diwas’. Modi said people had seen for themselves the role of Jan Dhan accounts in direct benefit transfer schemes during the Covid pandemic and they must remember how the scheme was opposed while being introduced by the Centre. He said after opposing the Ram Mandir in the SC for decades, they even began opposing laying of its foundation stone in Ayodhya. “They want middlemen to continue to make profit by buying farmers’ produce at lower prices,” said the PM. The PM’s remarks came even as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman targeted Congress over party chief Sonia Gandhi’s advice to party-governed states to bypass farm laws and said the opposition party in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committees Act, reports ANI. She asked in tweets if Congress had made false promises or was “provoking people now”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-fighting-for-middlemen-not-farmers-pm-modi/articleshow/78396376.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala tourism department plans travel packages||KOCHI: With the state government likely to reopen tourism activities by October second week, the tourism department here is planning to offer various packages, including one-day trips, to popular tourist spots. One-day tour packages to Thattekkad-Boothathankettu, Kochi city tour, Alappuzha-Fort Kochi, Kochi-Athirappilly, Munnar and Thekkadi have already been prepared. “We will start the tourism activities when the government issues an order in this regard. We will be conducting the tour packages by strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocol,” said an official with the tourism department. The department will soon start a booking counter at Durbar Hall Ground. The per head cost of one-day tour to Thattekkad-Boothathankettu is Rs 1,299. There will be a special discount for group booking, the tourism department has informed. In the next phase, the department will prepare packages for two-day tour. Two-day tour packages are being planned to locations like Thekkadi, Wayanad, Thenmala and Munnar. “If there are at least 18 tourists to a location, we will arrange a bus. Otherwise, we will provide cars or other air-conditioned vehicles. The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) has a 24-seater luxury bus,” an official with Ernakulam DTPC said. Officials are set to provide updates on tour packages through WhatsApp. Anybody who would like to get updates from DTPC should just send the message ‘Add Me’ through WhatsApp to 7907733011. Moreover, officials will give clarifications to the queries of tourists through WhatsApp. The tourism department has started training for its staff as part of its preparation for reopening the sector. “We are giving training for staff on how to ensure Covid-19 protocol,” an official said. Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the tourism development project at Boothathankettu on October 10 through a virtual platform. A treehouse, which is a first-of-its-kind in the area, will be set up at Boothathankettu. Two quarters of Periyar Valley Irrigation Project (PVIP), which had been remaining unused for the past few years, would be renovated and converted into cottages for tourists. Various beautification works like landscaping will also be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tourism-dept-plans-travel-packages/articleshow/78391743.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Mega project eases thirst in rural Karnataka||Bengaluru: Improving potable water access in rural Karnataka has long been a challenge amid overuse of groundwater, contamination and drying surface sources. A project proposed in 2013 is now helping the state achieve the target. In the past four and a half years, the Jaladhare-Jal Jeevan mission, a joint initiative of the central and state governments, has covered several taluks with piped surface drinking water. The aim is to provide it to at least 2 crore people out of the estimated rural population of 3.7 crore, or 12 of 15 districts, by 2023. The Rs 10,000-crore effort involves drawing water from major reservoirs. “We are bringing water to most parts of the state where the groundwater is severely haemorrhaged or where there is no local source. The water is supplied through pipes to these taluks and stored in overhead tanks,” said LK Atheeq, principal secretary, rural development and panchayat raj department. According to the government, 1 crore rural citizens have already been linked to the piped supply. But a lot of work remains as districts like Kolar and Chikkaballapur and parts of Tumakuru are still “out of coverage” area. “These districts find it difficult to even envisage a surface drinking water project as the only proposal that is being actively considered is drawing water through the Yettinahole scheme. And that is still a big if,” said a government official. To fund the piped water project, the state has decided to use multiple resources, including loans from commercial banks, Nabard and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). “Going forward, we are looking at tapping resources from the central government’s Jal Jeevan scheme, Nabard, NIDA and AIIB, which is based in Beijing but is a multinational bank with considerable shareholding by India,” Atheeq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mega-project-eases-thirst-in-rural-karnataka/articleshow/78396330.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Fire compliance measures ignored by CPR hospital admin||Kolhapur: Despite repeated communication by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), the city’s largest public medical facility — Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital — has failed to compile with the civic body’s suggestions to avoid fire disasters. According to authorities, the fire audit of the CPR hospital was carried out twice in the last three years. The contract of carrying out the audit was given to a semi-government agency. The reports of the audit were presented to the fire department of the KMC which suggested several changes in the electrical systems of the hospital. Chief fire officer of the municipal corporation Ranjit Chile said, “After conducting fire audits, we met with the CPR hospital authorities for taking up the task of replacing old electrical systems, making way for evacuation, placing systems to douse fire, etc. However, except for installing fire extinguishers, no other suggestions were taken into consideration by the hospital. We even told the CPR authorities to make changes according to the structure as most of their buildings are old.” Meanwhile, CPR authorities said that the fire that broke out in the trauma care unit of the hospital on Monday was due to some short circuit in the plug of electric connection which was connected to a ventilator. The wires connected to the ventilator got burnt in the mishap. The authorities claim that there was no fault in the ventilator and that a major mishap was averted after switching off the power supply of the trauma care centre. The officials even said that no person from the centre building or the room in which the fire broke out was harmed or injured due to the incident. According to authorities, there were 15 Covid-19 patients in the trauma centre at the time of the incident. However, they were shifted to other wards after the fire broke out. Hours after they were shifted, three patients passed away. The death audit conducted by health team stated that the patients died due to the severity of the infection. “I have asked for the fresh fire audit of the entire building. The safety of the electrical systems will be thoroughly checked by the officials of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). Also, I have directed for the fire audit of all the public Covid hospitals, Covid Care Centres from the district, ” said district collector Daulat Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fire-compliance-measures-ignored-by-cpr-hospital-admin/articleshow/78393147.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Facing financial crisis, 30-year-old barber ends life||Rajkot: A 30-year-old barber in Vavdi village of Amreli's Babra taluka allegedly committed suicide last week due to prolonged financial distress since the lockdown began in March.Lakha Parmar consumed acid in the village and was found unconscious. He was taken to the local hospital and then referred to the Rajkot Civil Hospital as his condition deteriorated. He succumbed there on Tuesday morning.Parmar's father Virji told police that his son had not been getting customers as people were shying away from going to barber shops due to the fear of Covid-19 infection. As a result, his income plummeted and he slipped into depression.Parmar was the youngest among three brothers and was unmarried, said police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/facing-financial-crisis-30-year-old-barber-ends-life/articleshow/78391751.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Madurai||Couple threaten to kill selves saying son harassing them||Madurai: An elderly couple who came to the district collectorate on Tuesday attempted self-immolation demanding action against their son who was threatening them by asking them to transfer their properties to his name. Pandian, 63 and his wife Raja Ponnu, 60, of Erapatti village near Vadipatti in the district, said that their son Chandrasekhar was angry that they had written their property and wealth in the names of their grandchildren Madesh and Kanisha. When they refused to transfer it to his name, he chased them out of his house and the couple had to live in their house on their farm. On Monday, Chandrasekhar had felled 20 coconut trees on their farm and threatened his parents that he would destroy them in a similar manner if they did not give ownership of the property.Fearing for their lives, the couple had come to the district collectorate and attempted to commit self immolation. District collector Dr T G Vinay said that the Madurai SP Sujit Kumar had been asked to inquire into the charges and take appropriate action. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/couple-threaten-to-kill-selves-saying-son-harassing-them/articleshow/78395280.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Varanasi||MGKV exam postponed due to paper setter’s error||VARANASI: Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth had to postpone the MA (Gandhian Studies) fourth semester examination for indefinite period after wrong set of the question papers reached the exam centre due to mistake of paper setter on Monday. MGKV registrar Sahab Lal Maurya said that a probe has been ordered and new date for the exam will be announced soon. On Monday afternoon, on opening the sealed envelope of the question papers, the MGKV authorities found that the papers of second semester were packed in it instead of the fourth semester. Following the delay in distribution of question papers, students created a high drama while some students including Rajmangal Pandey staged a sit-in at the examination hall. Initially, the authorities tried to convince the students with assurance of alternative arrangements but they continued the stir. Later, the registrar reached there and assured the students that new dates of the exam will be announced soon after which the stir was called off. When TOI contacted Maurya on Tuesday, he said, initial investigation revealed that the paper setter was asked to set the papers of MA (GS) second and fourth semesters. After finalising the papers, the paper setter packed the question paper of second semester in the envelope of fourth semester and vice versa.The mistake came to light only when the envelope was opened for distribution, said Maurya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mgkv-exam-postponed-due-to-paper-setters-error/articleshow/78395290.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP’s Covid expert committee includes private doctors, actor||BENGALURU: On the heels of the Karnataka high court asking the state government to include members of civil society on its Covid-19 expert committee, the BBMP has set up a 13-member panel that includes NGO members and a film star to inspect private and government hospitals and assess the quality of treatment provided to patients. The expert committee, which has been divided into three groups given the huge number of hospitals in the city, also comprises people working in private hospitals and the WHO representative in the state. The panel has already begun work. Swati Ramanathan of Janaagraha, a member of the panel, said, “Medical members of the committee have drawn up a checklist to assess hospitals. The teams will check clinical and administrative operations and adherence to the standard operative protocols.” However, she admitted she has not participated in any inspections so far due to health issues. On September 22, the HC had expressed disappointment over members of the committee not visiting hospitals. Only the member-secretary had conducted inspections. The committee had been set up on directions from the Supreme Court. The BBMP’s panel, a district-level initiative, was set up on September 24. Actor Ramesh Arvind, who heads one of the committees, told TOI that his role is to spread awareness on safety measures to prevent Covid-19. “When some awareness message needs to be communicated to the public, the commissioner sends a message which I articulate in my style,” he said. BBMP has already released two videos featuring the actor. Dr Ravindra Mehta, another member, said they are not finding fault with hospitals but only checking if they are adhering to protocol. “We also ask hospitals if they have any issues,” said Dr Mehta. But questions have been raised over the presence of representatives of private hospitals in a committee that has to audit and inspect private hospitals. “There are several organizations, individuals, movements and networks working with communities on public health matters. Why have they not been included in the ‘expert’ committee? The entire process seems to be non-transparent,” Dr Sylvia Karpagam, public health expert and researcher, said. If BBMP was really concerned, a grievance redressal mechanism should have been set up by now, she said. “Where is the platform for people who have accessed services in private hospitals to air their views?” she said. When contacted, N Manjunatha Prasad, commissioner, BBMP, said the committee has members from non-medical fields too and their reports will be submitted to the HC. “We have members from NGOs working in the public health area. We can add more members if need be,” he told TOI. He said committee members who are doctors with private hospitals do not inspect institutions where they work. “There would have been questions raised if there were only doctors from government hospitals in the committee. We struck a balance by getting members from various sections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmps-covid-expert-committee-includes-private-hosp-docs-actor/articleshow/78392478.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 30, 2020||Goa||Guirim stretch of NH 66 is a nightmare for motorists||Saligao: Heavy monsoon showers have left the service roads leading to NH 66 unmotorable. Severely pitted with muddy water-filled potholes of various depths, the roads are especially hazardous for two-wheeler riders. At Guirim, motorists have a harrowing time going from the Guirim cross flyover to the Green Park junction. Guirim panch member Sunny Nanodkar told TOI that the village panchayat had requested the PWD to carry out the road repair work and that it was carried out last month, but the potholes resurfaced following the recent spell of incessant rain. “The PWD had informed us that they had put a hotmix layer on the damaged sections during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. However, the layer was washed away during the recent heavy showers,” Nanodkar said. PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said on Monday that all road repair works have been pending from April due to labour and material shortages because of the pandemic. He said that the road repair works across the state will start soon and will be completed before January. Beside posing danger to lives, the bad roads are also a financial strain of motorists pockets as their vehicles are left damaged. They said that already several minor accidents have also taken place, mostly involving two-wheelers trying to negotiate their way around the potholes. “During this Covid crises hospitals do not have sufficient number of beds as it is and if a serious accident occurs due to these potholes where will the person or persons be admitted,” a local Bola Ghadi told TOI. Nanodkar said that the jerks also put a strain on the backs of motorists even as he appealed to the authorities to repair the roads as soon as possible. “It is the duty of the government to ensure the safety of the people. They should see to it that these potholes are filled up at the earliest,” Ghadi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guirim-stretch-of-nh-66-is-a-nightmare-for-motorists/articleshow/78394778.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Rajkot||Two cheat seven traders of over Rs 15 lakh, booked||Rajkot: Based on cement trader, Vishnu Kukadiya’s complaint, Jasdan police booked two persons on Monday for cheating seven traders of construction materials in Jasdan taluka. Accused Ghanshyam Patel and Pradeep Soni had given cheques amounting to Rs 15.6 lakh which bounced for want of balance in the bank account. Police said that the duo had started a shop under the banner of Vishal Trading at Rudraksh Complex on Atkot Road around a month back. They approached the traders dealing in cement, iron rods and other construction materials to place orders claiming that they are starting a big project. On receiving their orders, the duo made payments through cheque this month. However, all cheques given by them were returned by banks as the two accused did not have enough balance in their bank account. When the traders called Patel and Soni their phones were found to be switched off. The traders then got together and approached police when they realized that they had been cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-cheat-seven-traders-of-over-rs-15-lakh-booked/articleshow/78391778.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Surat||Vapi man caught in mephedrone racket||Surat: A 55-year-old man from Vapi town was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly supplying around 400 gram mephedrone that he had bought from Mumbai. Police arrested Manoj Bhagat, a resident of Lavachha near Vapi, after his name cropped up during interrogation of prime accused Salman alias Aman Hanif Zaveri. Zaveri who was arrested on September 22 when Surat police busted the massive mephadrone trafficking racket flourishing in the city.Zaveri had told police that he was supplied 400 gram mephedrone by Bhagat. Zaveri was caught with 1011 gram mephedrone worth Rs one crore on Dumas road. Police have arrested one Sanket Aslaliya and Pragnesh Thummar who too are linked with Zaveri. Aslaliya and Thummar claimed that they manufactured drugs in a rented room in Kadodara near the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vapi-man-caught-in-mephedrone-racket/articleshow/78391835.cms||---
September 30, 2020||Meerut||Deoband frowns onNusrat Jahan's Durga pose as MP seeks protection in London||Muzaffarnagar/Kolkata: Actor-MP Nusrat Jahan on Tuesday sought additional security from the Indian High Commissioner in the UK for receiving death threats for an Instagram post, in which she wished her followers a “Shubho Mahalaya”, along with a photograph of her posing as Goddess Durga, in traditional attire.She has also alerted the Ministry of External Affairs and the Bengal government.The Trinamool Congress MP from Basirhat has even drawn the ire of hardliners. In UP’s Deoband town, home to one of the largest Islamic seminaries of the country, clerics asked her to “repent”.Nusrat has been in London since Sunday for the shoot of a Bengali film that’s supposed to start on Wednesday, and is expected to stay there till October 16. Her initial Instagram post was on September 17, followed by a short video on September 20.The actor-MP on Tuesday sent a letter to Gaitri Issar Kumar, Indian High Commissioner to the UK. “I have received a death threat via my social media pages (ie. Facebook/Instagram/Twitter etc) from some fundamentalists who belong to India and neighbouring countries... During my stay in London, I require immediate police protection as the threat is very serious and affecting my mental health. Kindly arrange to provide me necessary protection in London,” she wrote.A member from her team in Kolkata told TOI that similar threats were “always coming”, and were usually brushed off. “Since she is travelling outside, the letter was sent to the Indian High Commission to London, seeking police protection in England. She has always stood for her secular and inclusive viewpoints, and such trolls do not deter her. We have kept the Bengal government informed. Since she will be in London for 20 days, we have also informed the Ministry of External Affairs.”In Deoband, Islamic scholar Moulana Ishaq Gora said: “Nusrat Jahan likes to do such things; she is always in controversy. These things are forbidden in Islam, but she is doing it. People are often offended by her work. I think it is totally wrong. She must repent.” Moulana Asad Qasmi, another Deoband-based cleric, was also critical of her. “This is against the tenets of Islam. She should apologise to God,” he said.Nusrat, busy in pre-production work for the movie “Swastik Sanket”, was unavailable for comment.This is not the first time that the actor has faced the wrath of hardliners. Last year, she was slammed for wearing vermilion and taking part in Durga Puja festivities.Mufti Azad Wasmi of Darul Uloom Deoband had then slammed her for embracing Hindu traditions and issued a fatwa for marrying outside her religion and wearing symbols of Hindu matrimony like mangalsutra and sindoor. The actor had then said that her “thought process” couldn’t be “hindered” by trolls. “I am not bothered if these people want to be in the limelight, taking my name. I don’t even feel like answering them. That’s because I don’t want to talk to people who do not have a basic understanding of humanity,” she had told TOI last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/deoband-frowns-onnusrat-jahans-durga-pose-as-mp-seeks-protection-in-london/articleshow/78391782.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Minister Jagarnath Mahto still critical, 12 new Covid deaths take toll to 700||RANCHI: With 12 more deaths, Jharkhand’s Covid toll touched 700 on Tuesday as the state recorded 1,123 new infections, and 1,295 recoveries, the state health department’s said. The state’s cumulative caseload stood at 82,540, of which 69,898 have been cured. In some respite for health officials, the number of active cases dropped to 11,942, the first time it has been below the 12,000-mark this month. Meanwhile, state education and excise minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was admitted to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Monday after testing positive of Covid, remained critical and on high level oxygen flow on Tuesday. Doctors treating him said Mahto was put through echocardiogram as he undergone an angioplasty procedure in 2018. Hospital sources said Mahto’s family members are planning to shift him to a higher medical center for better treatment and care soon. Tuesday’s body count of 12 is the highest in the state in a week. Jharkhand recorded a single-digit casualties since September 23. Ranchi recoded five deaths, East Singbhum three, Bokaro two and Ramgarh and Hazaribag one each. Of the new infections, Ranchi reported 319 new infections followed by East Singbhum (209). Bokaro (119) was the only other district with new cases in three digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/min-mahto-still-critical-12-new-covid-deaths-take-toll-to-700/articleshow/78392995.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Karni Sena seeks arrest of stars in drug scandal, says outfit will swing Bihar polls||Ranchi: Suraj Pal Ammu, national president of fringe Hindutva outfit Karni Sena, on Tuesday called for the arrest of all Bollywood superstars involved in drug trafficking and substance abuse. Speaking to mediapersons at Ranchi Press Club, he said, “The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) should arrest them as they have set a bad example for the youths who idolize them.” Ammu, who was in Ranchi to launch a statewide enrolment drive, said his organization will launch a protest against actor Deepika Padukone as she visited Jawaharlal Nehru University to support those who wanted to divide the country. “She has now been found involved in a drug scandal. We will soon take to the streets and launch a campaign in this regard in Jharkhand and Bihar.” The outfit aims to enroll five lakh members in the state over the next three months. “Karni Sena activists went to Mumbai airport in support of actor Kangana Ranaut after she was threatened by Shiv Sena. We will stand by our sisters who face humiliation,” he said. He also demanded that the Jharkhand government takes steps for checking drug abuse and called upon Karni Sena to take action against those abusing drugs and hand them over to the NCB. Asking the Hemant Soren government to implement the state’s anti-conversion law strictly, he said people engaged in forced religious conversions will not be spared by his organization. He added that Karni Sena will play an important role in Bihar elections and added a team of seven members has been formed to take a decision on contesting the polls or supporting any political parties. “A report on this will be submitted to the Sena’s central leadership on October 3. We have the power to upset all calculations in the Bihar elections.” A Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh member since the age 10 and BJP’s Haryana media coordinator, Amu hails from a Rajput family in Gururugram. The law graduate had earned notoriety in 2017 by announcing Rs 10 crore reward anyone who beheads Padukone and director Sanjay Leela Bhansali for the movie ‘Padamvat’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/karni-sena-seeks-arrest-of-stars-in-drug-scandal-says-outfit-will-swing-bihar-polls/articleshow/78392671.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Model code in force in Dumka & Bermo, Section 144 clamped||Dumka/Bokaro: The model code of conduct came in force in Dumka and Bermo on Tuesday after the bypoll election to the two assembly constituency seats were announced. Prohibitory orders (section 144) have been clamped in both the places and assembly of four or more people have been barred. In Dumka, deputy commissioner and district returning officer Rajeshwari B said, “In view of the prevailing pandemic, a proposal to set up 84 additional polling booths has been sent to the election commission to ensure proper social distancing norms among voters. Once approved, the total number of polling booths in the constituency would be 368 from the previous 286.” Dumka assembly constituency comprises two block areas, including Dumka sadar and Masaliya, having 185 and 101 booths respectively. The DC had also presided over a meeting with the representatives of all political parties earlier and acquainted them with the modalities for polls. “Guidelines have been sought from the poll commission regarding modalities for electorates above 60 years of age as they are vulnerable to Covid-19. All electorates will have to undergo thermal scanning before being allowed to join the queue for voting. Those found symptomatic would be asked to turn up during the final hours of polling to cast their vote,” she said. For Bermo sub-division, Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh said, “Any kind of election campaign within 100 meters of the polling stations will be considered a violation of the model code of conduct. The use of sound amplifiers will be prohibited from 10pm to 6am. No part of the government-owned guest house or building will be used for any political activities or meeting.” He also said that all precautions will be in place to curb the spread of Covid-19 during the voting process. “All people will have to continue using face masks and sanitizers, undergo thermal scanning wherever required, and ensure social distancing norms. If any person does not follow the instructions, they will face action,” he said. Voting will be held in 468 polling booths here in which polling agents of above 55 years of age will not be deployed while voters who have tested positive can vote through postal ballots. In one polling booth, a maximum of 1,000 residents can vote. Total 18 cells, including Covid-19 cell and coordinating cell, have been formed for the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/model-code-in-force-in-dumka-bermo-section-144-clamped/articleshow/78392620.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||BJP looks to forge alliance with Ajsu-P for twin bypolls in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Ahead of the November 3 bypolls in the Dumka and Bermo seats, BJP is looking to forge a well-coordinated alliance with Sudesh Mahto’s Ajsu-P so that this time the latter does not leave the alliance over lack of consensus in seat-sharing. Both BJP and Ajsu-P suffered after the two-decade-old alliance was broken ahead of the assembly election. While BJP lost its hold in Jharkhand despite offering the state its first stable government that finished its five-year term, Ajsu-P’s base shrunk to just two seats of the 70-odd it contested. BJP spokesperson Pratul Sahadeo said, “Our focus will be to field a joint candidate in both the seats. I am sure Ajsu-P, which returned to the NDA fold after the assembly election, will be onboard with us. As far as a seat-sharing is concerned, the party’s central leadership will take a call.” Reacting to Shahdeo’s claims, Ajsu-P’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said, “Yes, as of now we are a part of NDA, but we will hold a meeting soon and decide the way forward. The party has authorised its president (Sudesh Mahto) to take a call.” Meanwhile, the Jharkhand unit of Janta Dal United is vying for the Dumka seat and is known to have requested the saffron camp to not field a candidate in the interest of a healthy alliance in the backdrop of the upcoming Bihar polls. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, a BJP insider said, “Although JD(U) doesn’t have much base in Jharkhand, but if it decides to field a candidate in Dumka, it could certainly split the votes. Although, JD(U) is a part of NDA, an alliance with the party is only in Bihar. We are exploring ways to tackle them.” Meanwhile, in the ruling camp, all seems set with JMM fielding a candidate in Dumka and Congress contesting Bermo. Both the parties have already begun mobilising resources to retain the seats. Dumka fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren left it to retain Barhait while Bermo got emptied after the demise of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-looks-to-forge-alliance-with-ajsu-p-for-twin-bypolls-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78391739.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||‘Palash’ pushes rural products to retail stores||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government on Tuesday evening launched ‘Palash’, a trademark brand of Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) under the state department of rural affairs. The new brand was unveiled by chief minister Hemant Soren at Project Building. With this development, masks, sanitizers, phenyl, soaps, pickles, mustard oil, lemongrass oil, rice, wheat, pulses, marua and other edibles, prepared by the women self-help groups (SHGs) of Jharkhand, will be up for sale in the city’s premier retail chains from October onwards. “The brand will prove to be a milestone for women empowerment in Jharkhand and can be at par with similar brands such as Amul and Lijjat Papad if nurtured properly,” Soren claimed at the launch. State rural affairs minister Alamgir Alam, health minister Banna Gupta, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, labour minister Satyanand Bhokta and transport minister Champai Soren were also present at the event. Soren, who also took a tour of the makeshift stalls, announced that he will use the products at home. Aradhana Patnaik, the state rural development secretary, said the move was aimed at providing bigger markets for the items being produced by the SHGs. “After the SHGs produced PPE kits, masks, sanitizers and other products, the need was felt for linking their products to urban markets as the products are already popular in rural areas. Keeping that in mind, the brand Palash has been registered. JSLPS has tied up with Reliance Retail, Suvidha Supermart and other retail outlets. Under it, there will be special kiosks where items marketed under Palash will be displayed for sale,” Patnaik told TOI. Besides launching the brand, Soren also launched two schemes aimed at generating women employment. The first one, Ajivika Samvardhan Hunar Abhiyan (Asha), is aimed at linking 17 lakh rural women with agriculture, livestock rearing, forest produce, and small businesses to increase their income. Each woman from one family will be linked to multiple activities for employment generation. Among the targeted women population, there are 4 lakh women who belong to the families of migrant workers who returned to their homes in Jharkhand during the lockdown. The women were identified in a special drive conducted by the rural development department under the name ‘Mission Saksham’. The second scheme, Fulo Jhano Ashirwad Yojana, is aimed at providing alternative sources of income to 15,000 women across the state who make ends meet by selling country liquor on the roadsides. These women were identified in a state-wide survey conducted in recent months under the name ‘Mission Navjivan’. In May, the government had launched three schemes to generate rural employment amid the influx of migrant workers during the lockdown. While the opposition termed the schemes, which have been rolled out under MGNREGS, as damp squib, Alam defended them. “Through these schemes, we have created 7.62 lakh man-days in Jharkhand,” Alam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/palash-pushes-rural-products-to-retail-stores/articleshow/78391681.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Minister Jagarnath Mahto still critical, 12 new Covid deaths take toll to 700||RANCHI: With 12 more deaths, Jharkhand’s Covid toll touched 700 on Tuesday as the state recorded 1,123 new infections, and 1,295 recoveries, the state health department’s said. The state’s cumulative caseload stood at 82,540, of which 69,898 have been cured. In some respite for health officials, the number of active cases dropped to 11,942, the first time it has been below the 12,000-mark this month. Meanwhile, state education and excise minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was admitted to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Monday after testing positive of Covid, remained critical and on high level oxygen flow on Tuesday. Doctors treating him said Mahto was put through echocardiogram as he undergone an angioplasty procedure in 2018. Hospital sources said Mahto’s family members are planning to shift him to a higher medical center for better treatment and care soon. Tuesday’s body count of 12 is the highest in the state in a week. Jharkhand recorded a single-digit casualties since September 23. Ranchi recoded five deaths, East Singbhum three, Bokaro two and Ramgarh and Hazaribag one each. Of the new infections, Ranchi reported 319 new infections followed by East Singbhum (209). Bokaro (119) was the only other district with new cases in three digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/min-mahto-still-critical-12-new-covid-deaths-take-toll-to-700/articleshow/78400822.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Extend deadline for green ration card plan: Food activists||Ranchi: Food security activists have asked the state government to extend the last date for ration card application by a fortnight due to the difficulties being faced by applicants, particularly in rural areas. The state launched an ambitious plan under Jharkhand State Food Security Scheme (JSFSS) to include at least 15 lakh people not covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013, with an aim to extend the benefit of 5kg of rice of wheat to every individual every per from November 15. In a letter to state minister for food, public distribution and consumer affairs Rameshwar Oraon, noted economist Jean Dreze and state convener NREGA Watch James Herenj said, “This scheme is a useful attempt to ensure that the poorest households are all covered under the public distribution system (PDS). The priority criteria are also helpful.” “Unfortunately, the purpose of the scheme is likely to be defeated because the application process is too demanding. Applicants have to provide not only their Aadhaar numbers but also their bank account details and a phone number. Often, the poorest households lack at least one of these documents. Some do not even have Aadhaar cards.” the activists added in the letter, requesting the government to reduce the number of requirements. Talking to TOI, Herenj said that they have been trying to help the people in Latehar apply for the cards, but many do not have all the documents required. “Bank account and phone number should be made optional information. Since the last date is September 30, the window must be extended till mid-October,” he said. Herenj said in cases where the name of a household member is already on some other ration card, that name should be included in the new (green) ration card and later deleted from the other card. “This is important to ensure that recently-married women are able to apply when their name is still on their parents’ ration card,” he said. The activists have also asked government to allow filing of offline application without Aadhaar number and give the applicant adequate time to seek and furnish their Aadhaar details later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/extend-deadline-for-green-ration-card-plan-food-activists/articleshow/78392742.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||JBVNL looks to draw power from Dumka grid for supply in Dhanbad||Dhanbad: The state-owned power distribution company, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, has decided to depend less on the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) for supply to the coal town of Dhanbad and other districts by drawing more from the Dumka grid. Officials said work for connecting one more electrical circuit to the Dumka grid is on and once complete, it will ensure power supply to PMCH-based sub-station of Dhanbad apart from Bhuda and Manaitand areas. Talking to TOI, JBVNL general manager (Dhanbad supply area) Paritosh Kumar said, “At present, four circuits of Dhanbad are connected to the Kandra substation but with one more being integrated, the number of grids will increase. All five of them will draw power from the Dumka grid which in turn is linked to the national grid.” He added, “At present, we are receiving 45MW from Dumka grid and expecting to draw around 55-60 MW after the integration.” The coal town requires around 270MW, most of which is drawn from the DVC. Six other districts like Giridih, Bokaro, Koderma, Hazaribagh, Ranchi and East Singhbhum are also drawing power from DVC but after the setting up of a new substation at Kandra by the Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Limited last year, JBVNL had already decreased its dependence on DVC. Industries and Commerce Association of Dhanbad (ICAD) president B N Singh said, “Though we welcome the JBVNL initiative, we demand immediate steps to improve the supply in areas like Baliapur where the hard coke industries are getting power supply for only 5-6 hours daily. This causes difficulties for several industries and stone crushers. We have written a letter in this regard to the JBVNL general manager on Tuesday.” Jharkhand Rajya Bijli Kamgar Union general secretary Ramkrishna Singh said, “The purpose of integrating the new circuits to Kandra power substation will be served only when people get relief from the current power crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jbvnl-looks-to-draw-power-from-dumka-grid-for-supply-in-dhanbad/articleshow/78391708.cms||Praduman Choubey
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||2 PLFI rebels nabbed during extortion bid in Itki area||Ranchi: Two operatives of the banned People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) were arrested on Tuesday while they were extorting money from a trader under the Itki police station area. Police said a loaded pistol, posters, cash and a bike were seized from them. Among the accused are Sonu Kumar, who wanted for murder, attempt to murder and carrying illegal arms at three other police stations of the state. The other rebel is identified as Lav Barla. Addressing the media, SP (rural) Naushad Alam said trader Deepak Kesri had registered an FIR with the police on Monday informing that the PLFI cadres were trying to extort money from him and they were coming at Prem Nagar to collect the amount. He said, “Police teams in plain-clothes led by Bero DSP went to the spot for verification of the information. A little later, the PLFI members were seen taking money from the trader. The police teams surrounded them from all sides and caught them red-handed.” Alam added that the arrested persons revealed names of several PLFI active members and that steps are taken up for verification. In another development, Bero police station personnel arrested a criminal identified as Seikh Saifullah from the Mukunda crossing during a raid. He was wanted in at least five cases registered with Bero, Mandar and Narkopi police station areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-plfi-rebels-nabbed-during-extortion-bid-in-itki-area/articleshow/78391828.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Chatra hosp gets 15 oxygen devices, will aid Covid fight||Chatra: The Chatra sadar hospital recently received 15 oxygen concentrators — a device that removes nitrogen from the ambient air to enrich it with concentrated oxygen for patients in need of respiratory support. The hospital authorities said that they will require a week to install these devices. A doctor at sadar hospital said that most Covid patients do not need ventilator support but require oxygen support to improve their respiratory rate. “Oxygen concentrators can be useful in such cases,” he added. Civil surgeon Arun Kumar Paswan said that oxygen cylinders were not readily available these days. “So oxygen concentrators will help in treatment of critical patients. We will send a few devices to block health centres as well,” he said. Moreover, the community health centre in Itkhori will move into a new building, which has been built at a cost of Rs 6.68 crore. The centre is currently being run from a dilapidated building. The new facility will have 30 rooms to house OPDs and surgery wards, besides chambers for doctors. Till Tuesday afternoon, Chatra had 1,175 cases of Covid-19, of which 213 were active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-hosp-gets-15-oxygen-devices-will-aid-covid-fight/articleshow/78391791.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Clear air over Durga Puja, Steel City organisers to CM Hemant||JAMSHEDPUR: Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS) has urged the state government to announce the guidelines for Durga Puja, scheduled to be held in the latter half of October this year. Samiti president Chandra Nath Banerjee in a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren requested the latter to issue a directive in this regard, so that the uncertainty over celebrating the festival comes to an end. Banerjee said that a large number of Bengalis reside in Jamshedpur and Durga Puja is the most important festival for the community. He said that clubs and Puja committees were apprehensive whether the administration would allow them to observe the festival this year, and in case permission was granted then what would be the new protocols. A delegation of the Samiti had met Soren over the issue earlier as well. In that meeting, the chief minister had assured the delegation of taking necessary steps at the right moment. The Samiti has also asked the state government to open religious institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/clear-air-over-durga-puja-steel-city-organisers-to-cm-hemant/articleshow/78391609.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 30, 2020||Ranchi||Bypolls for Dumka, Bermo on Nov 3, strict virus norms for poll campaigns||Ranchi: The Dumka (ST) and Bermo assembly constituencies in Jharkhand will go to polls on November 3, the Election Commission (EC) announced on Tuesday. The Dumka seat fell vacant on January 6 this year after its MLA-elect chief minister Hemant Soren (JMM) took oath as a member of the fifth Jharkhand assembly from Barhait assembly constituency. Hemant had contested and won from both the seats. The bypoll to the Dumka seat was mandated to be held by July 6 but was deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Bermo assembly seat fell vacant on May 24 after its incumbent MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh (Congress) died of a prolonged illness at a private hospital in New Delhi. Singh, a former minister and a veteran politician, had taken part in the budget session of the assembly, which concluded in March. The gazette notification for the polls will be issued on October 9. The last date of filling nominations is October 16 while scrutiny will be held on October 17. The last date for the withdrawal of nominations is October 19. The votes will be counted on November 10. In its guidelines titled ‘Conduct of General Election/Bye Election during Covid-19’ issued in August this year, the EC has mandated wearing of face masks, face shield and gloves for polling officials mandatory on voting day and capped the number of voters in one polling station to 1,000 from 1,500. All voters will be screened for temperature outside the voting room. While filing of nominations has been made online, candidates are allowed to conduct door-to-door campaigning with a maximum of five people accompanying him or her. Candidates and political parties have been mandated to conduct road shows with a maximum of five vehicles. In case of public meeting, the district electoral officer has to be intimated of a suitable ground in advance. “In all such identified grounds, the district election officer should, in advance, put markers to ensure social distancing norms by the attendees,” the guidelines read. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha remained upbeat about its prospects. “Our preparation is complete. We will retain the seat,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. When asked about its candidate, Bhattacharya said: “Party workers in the constituency and the people are rooting for Basant Soren. Rest is up to the central leadership to decide.” Basant, the youngest son of JMM chief Shibu Soren, is the president of the party’s youth wing. He unsuccessfully contested Rajya Sabha elections in 2016. Three years later, he was the election manager for his father Shibu in 2019 parliamentary polls and for his elder brother Hemant in the assembly polls in Dumka parliamentary and assembly segments, respectively. While the Congress camp has remained tight-lipped, it is almost certain that Singh’s son Anup will be the candidate in Bermo. Anup, who served as the president of Congress youth wing, is currently the national secretary of Congress-backed trade union INTUC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bypolls-for-dumka-bermo-on-nov-3-strict-virus-norms-for-poll-campaigns/articleshow/78392600.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||NMC stops razing 134 illegal bldgs after protests, HC stay||Nagpur: Tension gripped Baghdadiya Colony near Baba Farid Nagar on Tuesday morning after Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s anti-encroachment department reached to demolish 134 illegal pucca houses. The construction did not have permission from civic body or Nagpur Improvement Trust. The drive, planned on directives of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, was stopped after the same court issued a stay. “A dharna by residents, led by West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, and a subsequent high court stay order procured by a couple of residents forced NMC to put the action on hold,” NMC enforcement inspector Sanjay Kamble told TOI. “Now, we will initiate action after reviewing the court stay order,” he added. The anti-encroachment department demolished around 15 temporary structures in the locality, he said. While hearing four petitions of residents, the Nagpur bench of Bombay HC on Tuesday granted a stay to demolition of their properties by the NMC. While issuing notices to the government and other respondents, the court had kept the issue for final disposal after eight weeks. “There shall be stay to the demolition of the properties in question,” the HC said. Sources in NMC told TOI that the matter of illegal constructions of such a large number of pucca houses came to fore after the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe received a tip off. He was told about a completely illegal three-storey bungalow of alleged mastermind in honeytrap audio clip case Sahil Sayyed in Baghdadiya Colony near Baba Farid Nagar. Following Mundhe’s directives the department had demolished Sayyed’s illegal bungalow constructed by encroaching on two 500 sq m plots. Sayyed tried to prevent NMC action and approached the high court, where he had cited the many other illegal properties in the localities in his neighbourhood. It later surfaced that almost 134 constructions on the 288-plot layout spread across 16 acres belonging to Sataranjipura Badi Masjid Sanstha were unauthorized, with no permission obtained either from NMC or NIT. Later, the high court directed NMC to demolish all illegal properties within eight weeks. Sources said several complaints had been filed with Mangalwari zone about illegal constructions in the locality. The zone officials stayed mum for almost 48 days after the HC order to demolish all illegal constructions. With just eight days left to implement the order, the enforcement team of Mangalwari zone led by assistant municipal commissioner Harish Raut went to demolish the structures on Tuesday. In the past too, despite having all information, the zone had done nothing, sources alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-stops-razing-134-illegal-bldgs-after-protests-hc-stay/articleshow/78393299.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||CP releases Addl DG Ramanand’s novel||Nagpur: Addl DG, prisons, Sunil Ramanand’s first novel ‘Cops in a quagmire’ was released by city police chief Amitesh Kumar at Press Club on Tuesday in presence of other senior officers. Ramanand, an IPS officer of 1994 batch, had penned booked based on his experience as a superintendent of police in western Maharashtra. Published by Vishwakarma Publications, the book release was a low-key affair given the pandemic norms in place. The 312-page book is fictionalized version of a true story based on a police squad that had run into rough weather trying to bust a gang of robbers who targeted the jewelers. A woman informer’s death and the legal and socio-political complexities developed around it was the theme around which the story has been spun. CP Kumar said it was a challenge for the cops to turn author while doing a job that keeps them engaged round the clock. “As a cop, I could connect with the content of the book that revolves around the challenges an officer may face in their daily life,” he said congratulating Ramanand for his maiden endeavour as an author. Ramanand, who had started writing the book in 2013, said it took him a long time to get the book ready for publishing due to his official engagements. “The book is all about the challenges the squad faced after a woman informer had been found dead under mysterious circumstances,” he said. “It does not take a vast vocabulary to become a writer but simple usages and sentences make for better and lucid reading,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-releases-addl-dg-ramanands-novel/articleshow/78393314.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Clear debris from Zero Mile in 2 days: HC||Nagpur: Expressing anguish over neglect of Zero Mile monument, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed all authorities to clear debris within two days. “We want everything to be cleared within a day or two and the iconic structure maintained in proper shape,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. While allowing an intervention by former Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) heritage committee member P Ahuja, the bench directed Mahametro to maintain cleanliness of the monument till further orders and also orally warned it that its display adjacent to it should be removed in case of failure. The directives came while hearing a suo motu PIL on neglect of Zero Mile monument by the authorities where Kartik Shukul was appointed as amicus curiae. In last hearing, the DCP (Traffic) was told to inform on feasibility option presented by Mahametro. However, after he sought time, he was told to submit his reply by October 7, fixed as next date of hearing. Earlier, the amicus informed that monument belonged to Maharashtra government as per its notification of October 15, 2003, issued under Section 31(2) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966. The structure, in form of pillar and horses besides it in sandstone, is of 1907 and was declared as Grade-I heritage. It was earlier under maintenance of Nagpur Improvement Trust. In last hearing, the Mahametro explained its plans to beautify city’s iconic monument and stretch of Wardha road between Zero Mile metro station and monument and requirement of land for it. The HC was informed that Mahametro has plans to beautify iconic monument that included a museum of survey to commemorate ‘first surveyors of India’ and small amphitheatre, where the people can seat and enjoy the beauty. There is also a proposal of landscaping with garden and beautification of area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clear-debris-from-zero-mile-in-2-days-hc/articleshow/78393327.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 30, 2020||Nagpur||Families of paraded minors file plaint against policemen||Nagpur: The action by police personnel of parading five minors semi-naked in Jaripatka and caning them last week in full public view has landed them in trouble. The families of three minors have filed complaints against the personnel at their own police station. However, two families have refrained from lodging complaints.The cops had conducted medical examination of the minors at Mayo hospital but there were no major injuries in the doctor’s report. Following intervention of the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), a second examination of the minors was conducted at GMCH in which there were mentions of injuries on their bodies in the form of cane marks.The police personnel are under the scanner for tying their hands, putting them in the lock-up, caning them repeatedly and parading them in undergarments. They were being caned as public egged on the police. The video of their act went viral on social media.Senior inspector of Jaripatka police station Khushal Tijare too was seen in the video without a mask.The minors were picked up by Jaripatka police from Patansawangi on September 23 for their alleged role behind creating a ruckus at a liquor bar with sharp weapons an evening before. The masked minors had also wrenched Rs 7,000 cash from the bar owners. The video of their robbing the place with sharp weapons too went viral on social media. After they were produced before the JJB, the board learnt to have directed the families to file a complaint against the cops at Jaripatka police station. Following the complaint of the families, the JJB also directed the department concerned to take the minors for medical examination at GMCH.Earlier, city police chief Amitesh Kumar had instituted an inquiry against the cops. ACP, Koradi division, Parshuram Karyekarte, was conducting the inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/families-of-paraded-minors-file-plaint-against-policemen/articleshow/78393336.cms||Soumitra Bose
