01-12-2020||City||17-year-old youth beaten to death in Tarn Taran village||A 17-year-old youth succumbed to his injuries after he was brutally thrashed near Bhoora Kohna village, under the jurisdiction of Khemkaran police station, on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Anmolpreet Singh of Mahmood Pura village.His cousin, Gurbhinder Singh, who is the complainant in the case, said the attack was carried out at the behest of his female friend and her family members. He said that he, along with Anmolpreet, was returning after shopping for another cousin’s wedding when his friend, Ninder Kaur, rang him up and asked him to meet her near Bhoora Kohna village. He took Anmolpreet along and on reaching there; he saw that Ninder was accompanied by her sister Amarjit Kaur.As they were conversing, Ninder’s cousin, Lovepreet Singh alias Lubha and his aides turned up at the spot. On seeing them, the two sisters fled the scene. Gurbhinder said that he and his cousin also tried to leave but the attackers hit their bike with an SUV and started thrashing them.Anmolpreet succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital, Khemkaran station house officer Shaminderjit Singh said.Gurbhinder, in his statement, said that Lubha had threatened to kill him in the past and he suspects that the attack was planned in connivance of Ninder. Based on his complaint, a case has been registered against Ninder Kaur, her sister Amarjit Kaur, Lovepreet Singh alias Lubha of Bhoora Kohna, Aman Singh of the same village, Nishan Singh of Bhoora Karimpura village and three unidentified persons under Section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. All accused are at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-youth-beaten-to-death-in-tarn-taran-village/story-2Vlkcj8dXSXeIfrPginx6H.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays BA-LLB (Hons) counselling at Panjab University’s legal studies institute||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the Wednesday counselling scheduled for admission to BA-LLB (Hons) five-year integrated course at the University Institute of Legal Studies. The high court acted on the plea of Malayika Verma, a course aspirant, who stated that Panjab University was carrying out admissions to the course based on marks obtained in the qualifying examination of Class 12, but in the revised merit list for the counselling, four marks being awarded to those who passed legal studies exam had been withdrawn. The court was told that the decision to award weightage of four marks each for BA-LLB (Hons) and BCom-LLB courses was taken after issuing the prospectus, but later it was withdrawn only in the former case. The varsity can’t be allowed to resort to pick and choose, that too for similar courses offered by the same institute, the court was told. The matter will be taken up on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-ba-llb-hons-counselling-at-panjab-university-s-legal-studies-institute/story-r6DjNU4NHmFZ9QYOCjDedP.html
01-12-2020||City||In November, Mohali sees 60% jump in Covid cases, 45% in deaths||The number of Covid-19 cases saw around 60% jump in November as compared to October in Mohali district, and fatalities also went up by 45% in the same period .In comparison, Panchkula and Chandigarh recorded 35% and 20% rise in infections, respectively, while the number of deaths, in fact, dropped by 50% and 20%, respectively, between the two months. Mohali recorded 3,140 cases in November, which account for 20% of the total tally till November 30. As many as 42 people died, which is 15% of the fatalities. Even recovery rate has dropped to around 85% after reaching as high as 93.7% in October.Civil surgeon Dr GB Singh attributed the high number of cases to poor implementation of social distancing norms and lack of precautions being taken by citizens. “We have again deputed information, education and communication vans in remote areas to spread awareness and sample people,” he said.Aashika Jain, additional district commissioner, confirmed that testing has been increased in the district, with instructions given to the civil surgeon to ensure round-the-clock availability of sampling teams at hospitals and two dedicated mobile sampling teams for the needy. “The control room is also being strengthened with requisite staff to attend to callers round-the-clock,” she said.Maximum cases, deaths on December 1 tooEven as a new month began on Tuesday, Mohali reported maximum number of cases and deaths in the tricity.As many as 129 people tested positive while three died in the district, followed by 128 cases and one death in Chandigarh, and 89 cases and no death in Panchkula.Among the new cases, 112 were reported from Mohali city alone, which also accounted for nearly 75% cases in the district last month.The total has reached 15,598, of which 2,003 are active. As many as 13,313 patients have recovered, including 192 discharged on Tuesday, and 282 have died. In Chandigarh, 17,537 have tested positive so far, of whom 278 have died. With 103 patients being discharged on Tuesday, the number of those cured has reached 16,173, leaving 1,086 cases active.Of 8,786 people who contracted the virus in Panchkula, 8,162 have been discharged, 127 have died and 497 are still to recover. The district has not reported any casualty for the past five days.Night curfew is back, fine for not wearing mask doubledMeanwhile, complying with orders issued by the Punjab government, district magistrate Girish Dayalan imposed night curfew for non-essential activities from 10pm to 5am in Mohali from Tuesday. Under the new restrictions, penalty for not wearing masks in public places has also been increased from ₹500 to ₹1,000. Even the Chandigarh administration had doubled the fine to ₹1,000 last week. Meanwhile, hotels and other hospitality units, including marriage palaces and restaurants within shopping malls, have to shut by 9:30pm. Dayalan said the SSP, SDMs, civil surgeon and MC chiefs will have to ensure strict compliance of social distancing and other norms. Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-november-mohali-sees-60-jump-in-covid-cases-45-in-deaths/story-nIpcysOAARPUexBNVcrXzJ.html
01-12-2020||City||Katra-Delhi expressway: Farmers gherao Sangrur DC’s office to oppose land acquisition||Hundreds of farmers gheraoed the Sangrur deputy commissioner’s office on Tuesday to protest land acquisition for the Katra-Delhi expressway. The protesters, hailing from Sangrur and Patiala districts, blocked all three gates of the district administration complex, claiming that the government was forcefully snatching their land.The Katra-Delhi Expressway, also known as NE-05, will reduce the travel time between Katra and Delhi to six-and-a-half hours, and cover Patiala, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar. Jagjeet Singh, one of the protesters, said, “Many farmers are at the Delhi border to oppose the Centre’s new agricultural laws. So we will not allow any acquisition until those farmers return.”He added, “The protest is not about compensation. We have decided that farmers will not give up their land to the Centre as it will ultimately hand it over to the corporate houses. The expressway will not help farmers in any way; instead, it will only make cultivation in the area difficult.” Ranjit Singh, another protester, said, “The farmer unions held protests on the Delhi border and we staged a dharna outside the deputy commissioner’s office. We have informed the farmer unions about the situation. This land acquisition for Katra-Delhi Expressway is the first step of the implementation of the three agriculture laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/katra-delhi-expressway-farmers-gherao-sangrur-dc-s-office-to-oppose-land-acquisition/story-YAE1WCKXD0kk8aEyOPIguN.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays Chandigarh admn’s move to privatise power dept||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed the Chandigarh administration’s move to privatise the power department. The high court bench of justices Jitendra Chauhan and Vivek Puri acted on the plea of UT Powermen Union, a worker’s collective that had challenged the move to privatise 100% distribution and supply functions of the electricity wing of UT’s engineering department. Even as the detailed order was awaited, by the evening, the administration said it will file a review petition. “We will first file a review in the HC, failing which we will move the Supreme Court,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12 after directions from the Centre. An empowered committee has been constituted to oversee and implement the process. The administration has assured the Centre that the process will be completed by the end of this year. As many as 17 firms, including Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited and Sterlite Power, have expressed interest after the administration on November 9 invited bids for privatisation, which primarily involves the distribution of electricity supply.“The electricity department caters to a city with relatively low demand of around 400MW. If privatised, the efficiency is expected to improve, specifically of the distribution of power,” said a UT official, not wishing to be named. Not sustainable in law, argue powermenThe union had sought quashing of the decision to privatise the department and subsequent process of tendering initiated by the administration. The court was told that the administration is selling 100% stake of the government in the absence of such a provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003. As per Section 131 (2), the power department cannot be transferred to a totally private entity with no stake or control of the government at all, the court was informed. The department is running into profits and its revenue has been surplus for the past three years, the court was told, adding that the current system is economically efficient with transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15% fixed by the power ministry.It was pointed out that the transfer scheme has been prepared without calling for objections from all stakeholders — neither employees nor consumers. “In the absence of an advise from the advisory committee to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) and without there being any recommendation of the JERC to that effect, privatisation of electricity wing of UT is not sustainable in the eyes of law,” it was argued. Issue has led to several protests, strikeThe power department serves 2.3 lakh consumers in the city. It has 1,780 sanctioned posts, with 1,490 approved by the JERC, though its employee strength is 1,220. Of them, 900 are regular and the remaining on contract. Powermen have been protesting the move and had even gone on a one-day strike last Thursday. Despite the administration’s warning, more than 90% of the field staff had not reported for duty, leading to major power disruptions across the city.Even the Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh, an apex RWA body, had joined their protest march last Monday, questioning the administration’s motive behind privatising a profit-making department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-chandigarh-admn-s-move-to-privatise-power-dept/story-fon2WVmevwm64o4elYKqyH.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers protest: Shaheen Bagh’s Bilkis Dadi turned away from Singhu border||New Delhi: Bilkis ‘dadi’, the octogenarian protester who was the face of the anti-citizenship law protests at Shaheen Bagh, was on Tuesday stopped from joining the farmers’ protests at outer Delhi’s Singhu border.Bilkis, who featured in TIME Magazine’s list of 100 most influential people of 2020, said she had gone to the protest site to extend her solidarity to the protesting farmers who are demanding repeal of the Centre’s farm laws.The 82-year-old had visited the Ghazipur protest site on Monday evening. Her son Manzoor Ahmed alleged they were detained at the Singhu border. “We wanted to visit the protest site but the police did not allow us. They detained us and drove us to Sarita Vihar before letting us go,” he said.Police said some women tried to help her gain entry at the protest. Police had prior information and she was sent back in a police vehicle. Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said she was not detained and was requested to go back keeping in mind security concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-shaheen-bagh-s-bilkis-dadi-turned-away-from-singhu-border/story-lpATIY61CPq3oHSGmgKdDP.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Air quality falls as winds calm down||While the farm fires in neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab have drastically reduced -- it contributed just 4% to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels on Tuesday, according to System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research -- the national capital’s air quality plunged further to the upper end of the “very poor” zone of the air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday. According to government agencies, it is likely to remain there throughout the week owing to the wind speed calming down and wind patterns changing in the coming days.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI on Tuesday was 367, even worse than Monday’s 318, though both are in the very poor category. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and those above 400 are considered severe.The air quality levels continued to deteriorate further on Tuesday evening, with most of the hotspots slipping into the ‘severe’ zone. By 9 pm, 11 of the 35 monitoring stations recorded ‘severe’ air quality including --- Anand Vihar (414), Ashok vihar (437), Bawana (413), DTU (409), Jahangirpuri (443), Mundka (413), Nehru Nagar (404), Patparganj (410), Punjabi bagh (405), Rohini (414) and Vivek Vihar (425). Delhi had last seen average air quality levels in the ‘severe’ zone on November 25 with an AQI reading of 413. After this air quality had improved to ‘poor’ and even recorded a ‘moderate’ air quality day on November 27, but it started deteriorating again from Monday onwards with the AQI plunging to ‘very poor’. This November saw nine ‘severe’ air quality days. According to experts, every year, after the peak pollution in November, which is mostly attributed to stubble burning, bad air episodes are seen towards end-December and early January. This is mainly because meteorological conditions are least favourable during that time, while the baseline pollution (local emissions) stays the same. According to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the average wind speed during the day reduced to 7-8 kmph from 10-12 kmph on Monday. “The wind speed will further reduce from December 4 or 5 and the direction is likely to change to easterly, from the present north-westerly. The change in direction is due to a western disturbance that will affect Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh from the night of December 3, which will also have an impact on Delhi. Whenever there is a change in wind pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He said easterly winds are also likely to bring in moisture, which when combined with calm winds allow pollutants to accumulate. There is also a forecast of shallow fog on December 4 or 5. “Besides, the change in wind pattern will also lead to a rise in minimum temperature between December 4 and 7, when it is likely to remain around 10-12 degrees Celsius. Thereafter, north-westerly winds are likely to return resulting in a drop in temperature,” Srivastava further said.On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory --- the official marker for the city’s weather --- recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The maximum settled at 27.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT-Delhi, said, “In October and November, farm fires contribute about 25% to the overall pollution in Delhi. In December, we record the same pollution level even without stubble burning because of reduced dispersion of pollutants. This year, while a large section is still working from home, the benefit derived from reduced work-related travel was lost to low use/frequency of public transport,” Dey said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said at present, the only factors at play are meteorological and local pollutants. “Even though there has been a declining trend in the overall pollution levels since 2017, Delhi still has to reduce its PM 2.5 concentrations at least by 60% to mitigate these peak episodes and meet the clean air standards. Also, on-ground monitoring of waste burning and emissions from illegal industries need to be stepped up to have some real impact. If we are able to achieve all that, air quality may not touch ”severe” during December and January,” she said. The CPCB, which is now officially in charge of implementing the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) --- to combat different levels of air pollution --- in Delhi-NCR, is taking day to day measures to keep local pollution levels under control.“We are monitoring the situation closely. Measures under the ‘very poor’ zone are already being enforced. Patrolling teams are carrying field inspections regularly,” said a senior CPCB official, who did not wish to be named. Meanwhile, despite repeated attempts, MM Kutty, chairperson of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and adjoining areas, could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-quality-falls-as-winds-calm-down/story-7soDdoxZVx16gAY6wGf5QK.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||North corporation employees threaten strike again over pending wages||Hundreds of North Delhi Municipal Corporation employees — including engineers, teachers, ministerial and horticulture staff — have again threatened to go on a strike later this month against non-payment of their pending salaries. The north body employees had called off their indefinite strike earlier last month after they were promised a month’s salary before Diwali, with the remaining dues — along with bonus and pension — being cleared by the end of November 2020. Representatives of Confederation of MCD Employees Union said that they were just given a month’s salary before Diwali and are yet to get paid for four months. They said that they have written to the mayor and the commissioner about the issue of non-payment and had also told them that they will be compelled to go on a strike if their demands are not met.AP Khan, convener of Confederation of MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of civic workers in the three municipalities— said that the salary of employees is pending for August, September, October and November months for north corporation employees.“This has become a regular affair now. We were promised that pendency (of salaries) will be cleared by November end. But those promises turned out to be shallow. We had a meeting with the north corporation mayor (Jai Prakash) on Monday, where he again promised to solve the issue by the end of this week. So, we are waiting till December 4 and if our grievances are not met by then we will have no option but to go on strike again,” Khan said. He added that a decision regarding date and timing of the strike and future course of action will be decided in a meeting with the employees unions on Wednesday. There are nearly 55,000 employees in the north corporation and requires nearly Rs 360 crore to pay salaries and pensions every months. Earlier, employees of horticulture department, engineers, teachers, clerical staff, group D staff — including labourers and beldars — of north corporation had gone on strike on November 9, but the agitation was called off the next day after assurances from municipal authorities. Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said that strike was not a solution for payment of pending salaries. He appealed to the employees to understand the financial situation of the corporation and “have faith in the system”.“We are arranging funds to release pending salaries of employees. Salary disbursement is our top priority. But we just need cooperation from our employees too as the municipality is undergoing a financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-corporation-employees-threaten-strike-again-over-pending-wages/story-9vJXhfbcMv629U0tJI9GvM.html
01-12-2020||City||Delhi HC asks Centre to list steps to include data on transgender prisoners||New DelhiThe Delhi High Court on Tuesday wanted to know from the Centre what steps it had taken to include data on transgender prisoners in its latest prison statistics report of 2019 and in the future.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma what the government had done on the matter which was brought to its attention in September this year.The ASG said the matter is being examined by an expert committee after which the court asked them to take instructions and inform it by December 7 on what has been done.“Take instructions and let us know by December 7. Else we will call the committee here,” the bench said.The court was hearing a PIL filed by Karan Tripathi, an independent researcher in the field of criminal justice and criminology, seeking a direction to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to “make requisite policy and format amendment to include data on transgender prisoners either in the latest Prison Statistics Report, 2019 (through revision)” or “incorporate it in subsequent reports, which will be published in the coming years”.Appearing for Tripathi, advocate Akhil Hasija sought a direction to the central government to ensure the prison authorities and departments “maintain data on transgender prisoners/inmates in each and every document/report required to be maintained by them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-list-steps-to-include-data-on-transgender-prisoners/story-nsbOxXaDnD1OF3j1P7lqBO.html
01-12-2020||City||NDMC launches mask for plastic campaign||New Delhi: The New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) on Tuesday launched a “plastic lao-mask pao” campaign, as part of which citizens can deposit their plastic waste in exchange of masks.The campaign was launched by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev at Charkha museum in Connaught Place. The campaign is a joint effort of NDMC and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).NDMC officials said the objective of the campaign is to emphasise the use of masks to control the spread of Covid-19 and also that plastic waste can be recycled into useful products. A statement issued by the civic body stated that chief secretary Dev highlighted the need for wearing masks, hand sanitisation and social distancing to keep Covid at bay. He asked people to remain cautious while organising and attending marriage functions.As part of the campaign, a mini collection centre has been set up at the Charkha Museum in Connaught Place to promote the “responsible use of plastic” and its disposal. “Visitors are encouraged to bring waste plastic products and exchange the same for reusable cloth masks, and take a pledge (#Pledge4Change) to become responsible citizens for sustainable future. All the waste collected, and the types of waste would be recorded to validate the impact of the campaign. The campaign’s goal is to ensure around five tons of plastic waste is recovered from our streets by responsibly recycling with better environmental outcomes for Delhi,” the statement said.It said the mini collection centre will be operative on all days from 11 am to 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ndmc-launches-mask-for-plastic-campaign/story-V9ezEYkqg56XafTflaYubL.html
01-12-2020||City||PAU’s agricultural engineering college alumni walk down memory lane||The alumni association of College of Agricultural Engineering and Technology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised online alumni meet e-moments 2020, which was attended by around 300 former students along with their family members on Tuesday.Alumni from different batches and various parts of the country and abroad attended the meet to share their reminiscences and sense of nostalgia. The alumni meet was also joined by former deans of the college and other dignitaries of the university.Chief guest Manjeet Chinnan, alumni of the college, currently residing in the USA, recollected his memories. He exhorted the alumni to stay connected with their alma mater through alumni association as they are the ambassadors of this institution.PAu’s vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon appreciated the role of the college in the crop residue programme. He also appreciated the efforts of the alumni association of the college to connect with its alumni through the mentorship programme.The chief patron of the alumni association and dean of the college Ashok Kumar highlighted the accomplishments of the college and apprised of the selection of 17 students through prestigious on-campus placements and admission of two students for a postgraduate programme in the Indian Institute of Management. The specially prepared videos capturing the moments from the previously held alumni meet, a virtual tour of the college and university campus along with hostel tour, a colourful cultural programme with performances of alumni, a video crafted to celebrate the alumni who met their partners from the college, and a show stopper video of the unique collection of old photographs from the college life, and sporting events were shared with the alumni. A live interaction session was also organised where the alumni cherished their old memories with their batch mates, seniors and juniors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-s-agricultural-engineering-college-alumni-walk-down-memory-lane/story-gahAZfGb5IC7DpOTPhA2xH.html
01-12-2020||City||Dentist held for south Delhi hit-and-run case||New Delhi: Police on Tuesday said they have arrested a 42-year-old dentist for allegedly running over a 38-year-old woman when she was crossing the road in south Delhi’s Lado Sarai last month. The dentist allegedly fled the mishap spot after hitting the woman who worked at a private bank. The Honda City car he was driving has been recovered, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that around 8.30 pm on November 17, the police control room received a call about an accident at the Lado Sarai traffic signal. A police team reached the spot and found that the injured woman had been shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The team reached the hospital and learnt that the woman was declared brought dead. She was identified as Archana Kushwaha, a native of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh. Kushwaha worked as a customer associate at a private bank in Gurugram, Haryana, and lived at a paying guest (PG) accommodation in Lado Sarai.“It was a case of hit-and-run and the suspect fled along with his vehicle. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death was registered and teams were formed to investigate the case,” said a police officer.Kushwaha’s family members used social media to disseminate information about her death and to seek help from people in getting justice for her.“I posted details about my sister’s death in the road accident case. The police assured they will find the culprit. On Tuesday, they informed me about his arrest and seizure of the Honda City car that hit my sister,” said Pankaj Kushwah, brother of the woman.DCP Thakur said CCTV cameras on the route were scanned and police zeroed in on a Honda City car and apprehended its driver, who was identified as Pankaj Sudhakar (42), a resident of Kalkaji Extension in Delhi. Sudhakar runs a dentist clinic in Saket, Thakur said.“He was speeding at the time of the accident,” Thakur said.Kushwaha is survived by her parents and four siblings, including two sisters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dentist-held-for-south-delhi-hit-and-run-case/story-PayDpbbGLaTKqefoDl53EJ.html
01-12-2020||City||Woman shot dead in Delhi’s Mansarovar Park, daughter injured||New Delhi: A 45-year-old woman was killed and her daughter was injured after a man known to them allegedly opened fire at them at their home in Mansarovar Park area in northeast Delhi on Monday evening. The attackers fled and were not arrested till Tuesday night, the police said.A senior police officer said a case of murder and attempt to murder was registered at the Mansarovar Park police station and the case is being investigated for personal enmity, family dispute and other possible angles. A total of three bullets were fired, two of which hit the woman in her head, killing her on the spot.The third bullet hit the jaw of the woman’s 23-year-old daughter Mehar, additional deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Sanjay Kumar Sain said. On Monday around 9 pm, the police station received information about the incident. A team reached the spot and learnt that the woman identified as Shama Khan and her daughter Mehar were shot by a person known to them. Both of them were taken to a nearby hospital where Khan was declared brought dead. Mehar was shifted to Safdarjung hospital and her condition is out of danger. The police said the prime suspect had gone to the woman’s home along with two men on Monday night when an altercation broke out between them.“When the woman’s daughter objected, the man whipped out a pistol and shot her in the jaw. When the woman tried to save her daughter, the man pumped two bullets into her body, one of which hit her in the head. By the time the neighbours could come, the suspects fled,” said the officer, who did not want to be named.Khan worked with the enforcement team of a power distribution company in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar. She had separated from her husband four-five years ago and lived with her three daughters at a rented home in Mansarovar Park, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-shot-dead-in-delhi-s-mansarovar-park-daughter-injured/story-DyzCGwx7Pi1wFVAYCDHTyK.html
01-12-2020||City||Device to filter fumes installed at Nigam Bodh Ghat crematorium||New Delhi: To curb local sources of pollution that usually go under the radar, the National Environmental Engineering Institute (NEERI) on Tuesday said it has designed a new device to filter fumes at crematoriums, which contribute significantly to air pollution levels. One such air pollution control (APC) system has been installed at Nigam Bodh Ghat, Delhi’s oldest and busiest crematorium.According to an analysis by NEERI, even though the annual overall contribution of fumes from the crematorium to the city’s PM 2.5 levels (the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air) is 0.2%-0.5%, the localised impact is high.“High pollution levels have been observed at air quality monitoring stations close to the crematorium (Nigam Bodh Ghat), where over 20,000 bodies are cremated every year, according to 2016-17 data. It is important to check these localised sources of pollution to reduce emissions in different pockets of the city, which contribute to the overall PM 2.5 levels. We have designed an air pollution control device to clear fumes at crematoriums. One such device has been installed at Nigam Bodh Ghat, which is yet to start functioning after formal inauguration,” said Rakesh Kumar, director, NEERI, during a webinar on air pollution in Delhi-NCR on Tuesday.He said for conventional cremation, around 300-400 kgs wood is required per pyre, which emits substantial fumes. “There is a need for air pollution control systems in all crematoriums in Delhi-NCR.Local sources of pollution in Delhi-NCR that do not get adequately accounted for their contribution to bad air quality include tandoors/stoves used at smaller restaurants, solid waste burning, construction dust and use of unapproved fuels by industries, among others. “There are around 35,000 open tandoors in Delhi, which use solid fuel and an ill-designed system, resulting in emissions. Besides, the use of unapproved fuels in factories and small units also add to emissions,” Kumar said.Talking of initiatives taken by NEERI to curb emissions, he said they have designed a Smart tree- Green pillar, which is an organic light tower of metal framework covered with living plants such as money plant, crassula, orchids, etc., with a controlled system of drip irrigation so that there is no wastage of water and provides a mist cooling system. “Such tree pillars can be installed at traffic junctions to curb emissions and must be experimented with in all metro cities, including Delhi,” Kumar said.The webinar was organised by the environment committee of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/device-to-filter-fumes-installed-at-nigam-bodh-ghat-crematorium/story-P0VWRrou4ARwJu9NZIns0N.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||NCB moves NDPS court, wants bail granted to Bharti Singh, her husband cancelled||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday approached the special court under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, for cancellation of bail granted to comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa. The NCB has also challenged the magisterial order, demanding Singh and Limbachiyaa to judicial custody. The agency claimed it needed to interrogate Limbachiyaa to find out the source of drugs recovered from their premises and had sought his custody. However, the plea was rejected by the magistrate court and he, along with Singh was remanded to judicial custody November 22.The agency has now urged the special NDPS court to set aside the order remanding them to judicial custody and permit the agency to interrogate them in its custody.The plea came up for hearing on Tuesday and the special court issued notice to Singh and Limbachiyaa. The pleas would now be heard next week.NCB officers arrested Singh on November 21 and her husband Limbachiyaa the next morning, under provisions of the NDPS Act following raids at their residence and production house, seizing 86.5 gram of cannabis from both the places.The agency claimed that Singh in her statement revealed that she used to smoke cannabis purchased by her husband.Following a tip-off, the NCB also conducted raids in Khar Danda area and nabbed a 21-year-old drug trafficker in possession of various narcotics substances including 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantities) and 40 gram of cannabis and nitrazepam (psychotropic medicines).A team of NCB officers then carried out a search at the production house of Harsh Limbachiyaa located in Versova, Andheri and recovered 65 grams of dry green leafy substance which tested positive for cannabis, NCB said in its November 22nd remand application.Based on further input, another search was carried out at their residence located at Oberoi Springs, off New Link Road in Andheri (West). Another 21.5-gram dry green substance (which tested positive as cannabis) and unaccounted cash of ₹1.49 lakh were seized from their residence.The agency claimed that Limbachiyaa in his statement disclosed that he used to procure and smoke cannabis. Further, he disclosed that he purchased cannabis from one peddler and kept one bag at his office and another one in his house for his consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-moves-ndps-court-wants-bail-granted-to-bharti-singh-her-husband-cancelled/story-dB2rM9aHnFYKLGxwm53pIJ.html
01-12-2020||City||₹650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project set to commence in a month: Ashu||The local bodies department is expected to start the Rs 650-crore rejuvenation project for the polluted Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana next month, said cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and department’s principal secretary AK Sinha.They were speaking during an interactive session held at the Guru Nanak Dev Stadium on Tuesday to clear the doubts of stakeholders, including industrialists, NGO members, and residents regarding the project.Out of the total Rs 650 crore allotted for the project, Rs 519 crore will be spent on infrastructure development and the remaining amount will be utilised for beautification and other purposes.With a deadline of two years, the project will focus on upgrading and establishing new sewage treatment plants (STPs). The proposal regarding the shifting of dairy units has been kept on hold. Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company’s CEO Ajoy Sharma gave a detailed presentation of the project. He said domestic sewage, industrial effluent, solid waste and dairy waste were prime sources of pollution in the nullah and the department had taken care of every aspect under this project, which had been planned considering the needs of the residents.Against the existing capacity of 418 megalitres per day (MLD) (excluding the 48 MLD Jamalpur STP, which is lying defunct), the department will increase the capacity to 703 MLD by upgrading the existing STPs and establishing two STPs at Jamapur and Balloke. While new STPs with 285 MLD capacity will be established at the cost of Rs 375 crore, Rs 29.5 crore will be spent on establishing an effluent treatment plant for dealing with 6 MLD dairy waste, Rs 49 crore will be spent on upgrading the existing STPs and Rs 65.5 crore will be spent on establishing pumping stations in different parts of the city. As per the information shared by officials, 625 MLD sewage is dumped into the nullah on a daily basis.Besides, there are 16 points from where sewage is getting into the nullah without any treatment.The National Green Tribunal has set March 2021 as the deadline for the municipal corporation to plug the points otherwise a monthly penalty of Rs 10 lakh for every point will be imposed.Industrialists, local bodies dept lock horns over budgetThe interactive session turned stormy after the officials of the local bodies department and representatives of industrial bodies had a disagreement over the budget of the project.President of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, Tarun Jain Bawa claimed that the work for establishing new sewage treatment plants (STP), upgrading existing STPs and installation of effluent treatment plants (ETPs) for dealing with dairy waste can be completed by them at a cost of Rs 325 crore, instead of spending Rs 519 crore.In response, officials of the local bodies department, including principal secretary AK Sinha and secretary Ajoy Sharma, and Ashu questioned the association on why no bids for the project were submitted by them when the tenders were floated.Ashu also expressed annoyance when industrial representatives raised questions over the bypassing of rainwater mixed with sewage into the nullah during monsoon season, and concluded the session.The industrialists had stated that in the absence of storm sewers, the STPs got overloaded in monsoon, with rainwater getting into sewer lines. As such, they should also be allowed to bypass the waste into the nullah.”A section of industry is responsible for the pollution. Rather than taking a sarcastic dig , the industry should work with the department to deal with pollution,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/650-crore-buddha-nullah-rejuvenation-project-set-to-commence-in-a-month-ashu/story-yTVgkotk1La9akbC5Ph02K.html
01-12-2020||City||Masked man opens fire at Tarn Taran-based realtor in Jagraon||A Tarn Taran-based realtor had a close shave after an unidentified man fired four bullets at him near Sidhwan Kalan village in Jagraon on Monday night. The victim escaped the murderous attack as the bullets hit his car.The victim, Pargat Singh, 45, of Jawandan Kalan village, Tarn Taran, said that he was commuting to Ludhiana in his Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car via Harike, Moga and Jagraon. On the way, he stopped at a shrine near Jagraon to pay obeisance. As he resumed his journey, he reached near Sidhwan Kalan village, where a masked suddenly came in front his car. He was wearing a “parna” on his head that he had also used to conceal his face.As he slammed the brakes, the masked man approached him and flashed a gun. Before he could comprehend what’s happening, the accused fired four bullets at him. But he dodged the shots, which hit various parts of the car. He raised the alarm which prompted the assailant to flee.Sub-inspector Kamaldeep Kaur, who is investigating the case, said the shooter was alone and didn’t rob the victim, which points at the incident being a fallout of a rivalry.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been lodged against the unidentified accused. Police have not ruled out involvement of a contract killer in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masked-man-opens-fire-at-tarn-taran-based-realtor-in-jagraon/story-i7I8AHTXfZ9wKOHFxDSs1K.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||At 24.4°C, Mumbai records second highest December minimum temperature in 11 years||The city recorded one of the warmest December night temperatures in more than a decade on Tuesday.The Santacruz weather observatory representative of the suburbs and Mumbai recorded the second-highest minimum temperature during December in 11 years at 24.4 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Celsius above normal), according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Last year, Mumbai had recorded 25.3 degrees Celsius on December 5, 2019, equaling the minimum temperature recorded on December 2, 2013, both are currently the highest in 10 years. On December 1, 2008, Mumbai had recorded 25.2 degrees Celsius. In other years (between 2009 and 2018), the highest minimum temperature ranged between 20.8 degrees Celsius and 23.6 degrees Celsius.Santacruz also recorded one of the highest day temperatures over the past decade. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 35.8 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees Celsius. On December 3, 2019, the maximum temperature was 35.1 degrees Celsius. The highest over the past decade for the month was recorded on December 1, 2015, at 36.5 degrees Celsius. It was also 36.3 and 36.2 degrees Celsius on December 6, 2012, and December 5, 2016, respectively. However, while the all-time high maximum temperature was recorded on December 4, 1987, at 39.8 degrees Celsius, 37.7 degrees Celsius was recorded on December 6, 2008.The weather bureau said owing to warm and dry easterly winds prevailing over the region, temperatures had increased on Tuesday. “Temperatures are expected to decline by the third week of December as a shift in wind pattern is expected by then,” said an IMD official.Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 25 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, which was 3 degree Celsius above normal while 34.2 degrees Celsius was the maximum temperature, a degree Celsius above normal.The rise in temperatures on the first day of December comes after one of the warmest November month recorded over the past decade. The average maximum and minimum temperature last month were 34.3 and 21.8 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, the pollutant-measuring indicator - air quality index (AQI) entered the moderate category (118) on Tuesday after two days of satisfactory air quality. Worli had the cleanest air in the city at 76 (satisfactory). Researchers said even though temperatures had increased dust carried by easterly winds combined with calm winds had led to a marginal rise in pollution. The AQI for Wednesday has been predicted to be 116 (moderate).Highest minimum temperatures during December in Mumbai over the years· December 1, 2020 – 24.4 degrees Celsius· December 5 2019 – 25.3 degrees Celsius· December 5, 2016 – 23.6 degrees Celsius· December 2, 2013 – 25.3 degrees Celsius· December 1, 2008 – 25.2 degrees Celsius(Source: Weather information for Santacruz observatory by IMD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-24-4-c-mumbai-records-second-highest-december-minimum-temperature-in-11-yrs/story-3SQ5N3e3MAJI1cEwtxvW6M.html
01-12-2020||City||Homeless brave the wrath of winter as Ludhiana MC dilly-dallies opening of shelters||Even as the winter chill is tightening its grip on the city, the homeless are still without a roof to protect them.The city has five permanent night shelters, but the municipal corporation (MC) has yet to open their doors, forcing the homeless to bear the cold on roadsides.Besides the permanent night shelters situated at Haibowal, near Clock Tower, Moti Nagar and Millerganj, the civic body was to come up with temporary shelters in more areas, but there has been no progress.This, despite the fact that the city witnessed its coldest November day since 1997 on the 25th with a maximum temperature of 19°C, while November 21 also recorded the lowest minimum temperature since 1975 – at 5.2°C.A visit to the night shelters near Clock Tower and in Millerganj area revealed their doors were closed, with the destitute making do with cardboards and quilts nearby.“We asked the MC staffers to let us in, but they replied that the shelters have not been opened yet and the authorities are making arrangements,” said Gopal, while waiting outside the shelter near Clock Tower.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said normally, the shelters were opened for the homeless by the last week of November. But, this year, the chill set in earlier, catching the staff by surprise, while they had made no arrangements to implement the Covid-19 safety protocols.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I have already directed the officials concerned to deliberate upon what steps can be taken to open the night shelters while following the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. I will conduct a meeting with the officials in a day or two, following which these centres will be opened. MC is also working on establishing temporary shelters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homeless-brave-the-wrath-of-winter-as-ludhiana-mc-dilly-dallies-opening-of-shelters/story-tzB4xXIezQ5DiNtkwAji5O.html
01-12-2020||City||Covid cases in Ludhiana swell to 118 a day after Gurpurb||A day after huge crowds gathered for Gurpurb celebrations at various gurdwaras, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city swelled to 118 on Tuesday, taking the tally close to 23,000.On Monday, the number of cases was 90.The district also reported a fatality on Tuesday, which pushed the death toll to 906. The deceased was a 52-year-old man from Palam Vihar, Pakhowal Road.Of the total 22,942 cases in the district, as many as 898 are active, while 21,135 patients have recovered.Cases rising againAs residents continue to cock a snook at social distancing norms, it’s the first time in 66 days that the figure of positive cases is this high.While as many as 160 cases were reported on October 6, the infection rate saw a steady decline ever since, with the figure of positive cases crossing the 100 mark only eight times in over two months. However, five of these occasions were in the past week – between November 24 and December 1, when 802 positive cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-in-ludhiana-swell-to-118-a-day-after-gurpurb/story-uRa7d9UGscykLdmaDcZP8M.html
01-12-2020||City||Distributor of mobile service firms among five held for SIM fraud in Ludhiana||The police claim to have busted a gang of fraudsters, who procured SIM cards using identity proofs of unwary people and then sold mobile connections for up to Rs 250. Police said the gang comprised retailers and distributors attached with mobile service providers and misused their access to customer information for easy money.Among those arrested, Rahul Manchanda is a distributor, Prince is a retail agent, while Sarabjeet Singh, Jatinder Kumar and Saurav Kumar used to sell the SIM cards to people. Rahul is from Mohalla Peeru Banda, Prince from Santokh Nagar, Sarabjeet from Bhola Colony, Jatinder Kumar from Guru Teg Bahadur Colony and Saurav Kumar from New Shivpuri. They were nabbed through various raids in the city on Monday night.“When people approached the accused to buy a SIM card, they would issue two cards against one identity card without the customer’s knowledge. They would retain one card and sell it to other people, especially migrants, who didn’t have identity proof, for up to Rs 250,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP City 1), Deepak Pareek.“Police tracked down the gang while investigating a case of cheating and forgery lodged in 2019. A man was arrested for stalking and harassing a woman. He used to call her from different numbers and also circulated her morphed pictures. The accused had procured SIM cards through Saurav, who misused the documents of a Rahon Road resident,” said the ADCP.He said the gang was active since January 2019 and its members had confessed to issuing 120 SIM cards through fraudulent means.Police are investigating whether the gang worked with online fraudsters, who duped people by luring them with lottery and investment schemes.The accused were produced in court on Tuesday and sent to police remand. Police are expecting crucial disclosures during their questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/distributor-of-mobile-service-firms-among-five-held-for-sim-fraud-in-ludhiana/story-AsbD9qMTDvE3XZyxreMpuL.html
01-12-2020||City||Head-on collision between car, truck leaves two members of pipe band dead in Ludhiana||Two members of a pipe band died and five others suffered injuries in a head-on collision between their Toyota Innova and a truck in Jalah Majra village of Machhiwara on Monday morning. The truck driver, Harmesh Singh of Dharamkot, Nawanshahr, managed to escape the scene, leaving his vehicle on the spot.The deceased, Jasvir Singh, 35, and Jagjit Singh, 32, hailed from Rara Sahib, Ludhiana.The wounded victims, Davinder Singh and Rana of Rara Sahib, Makkhan Singh and Pavittar Singh of Doburji village, and Tarsem Singh of Lapran village, were referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, due to the nature of their injuries.Tarsem told the police that they were heading towards Rupnagar for a performance in a Toyota Innova. When they reached near Jalah Majra village in Machhiwara, a speeding truck hit their vehicle head-on. The crash left the car mangled, trapping the injured band members inside. Police and onlookers toiled hard to rescue them, but Jasvir and Jagjit had already died.ASI Karamjit Singh said they had registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A, 337, 338 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code against the absconding truck driver. He will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-on-collision-between-car-truck-leaves-two-members-of-pipe-band-dead-in-ludhiana/story-Ol8X5sJR6pd4hEeLiycAEO.html
01-12-2020||City||Groom’s mother, niece returning from wedding killed in accident at Khanna||Wedding celebrations turned sour as the 58-year-old mother of the groom and her granddaughter were killed after their tempo traveller rammed into a stationary truck on the national highway near Libra village in Khanna. The mishap also left their 10 relatives and the driver injured.The deceased have been identified as Gurcharan Kaur, 58, of Kot Mangal Singh, Amritsar, and her granddaughter, Jaishree, 3, of Dehradun. The injured are Davinder Kaur, Satnam Kaur, Prabhdeep Kaur, Ginni Kaur, Harpreet Singh, Rinkle, Sarabjit Kaur, Roshan Singh, Jasmeet Kaur, Gurnoor Singh and driver Umesh Kumar.Gurcharan’s husband Ajit Singh, 60, said they were returning to Amritsar from Delhi after the wedding of their son, Parminder Singh. While he was travelling in a car, Gursharan and other relatives were in a tempo traveller that they had hired.After they reached near Libra village, the driver suddenly rammed the vehicle into a stationary truck, killing his wife and their granddaughter on the spot. The driver and their relatives were rushed to the hospital with the help of passers-by.ASI Baljit Singh said the truck driver, Rakesh Kumar, of Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh, had been booked under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code. He managed to escape on foot after the accident.The victims’ bodies were handed over to the family following autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/groom-s-mother-niece-returning-from-wedding-killed-in-accident-at-khanna/story-g64e3YAN6xFoJwPHN7dDDP.html
01-12-2020||Gurugram||Farmers on way to Delhi detained at Sohna||At least 24 farmers and members of the civil society were taken into preventive detention by the police in Sohna, on their way to Delhi to join the farmer’s agitation, on Tuesday. Nearly 300 farmers and civil society members, including members of Bharatiya Kisan Union and Mewat Vikas Sabha, had gathered at Gandhi Park in Nuh and IMT Sohna, from where to they were to proceed to Delhi to protest against the new farm laws and extend their support to their counterparts.Protesters said that they were initially stopped by the Nuh Police, but managed to reach IMT Sohna, the final meeting point. Shortly after entering Sohna, they were detained by the police near Raipur barricade. While 20-30 farmers were taken to the Sadar police station, some of them managed to cross the Gurugram border while others returned.Thousands of farmers across the country have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws— The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — passed by Parliament during the monsoon session. The farmers fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and lead to the removal of the minimum support price they receive on important crops.“We were proceeding towards Delhi on foot and tractors when we were stopped from doing so by the police near Raipur barricade. We were rounded up in buses by the police and detained at Sohna sadar police station. The police misbehaved with us while detaining us,” said Azad Khan, Haryana vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Salamudeen Meo, Mewat Vikas Sabha president, one of the leaders of the march, said that farmers from different parts of Nuh had assembled with the motive of joining the stir in Delhi on Tuesday but were prevented from doing so by the police. “Police tried to detain the vehicles of those who were leading the march. Around 20-30 of us are at the police station. The police is not telling us under what provision of the law we have been detained,” said Meo.Ram Kishan Mehlawat, BKU Haryana’s general secretary, who was marching towards Delhi with other farmers, was also detained. “We were stopped at the barricades near Sohna. The police impounded our vehicles but we started walking on foot. Police used force and rounded us up in buses. We have no idea where other farmers are,” said Mehlawat.He said that the police had detained farmers who were simply walking towards Delhi to raise their voice against the three farm laws that were detrimental to the interest of farmers. “These laws will hurt the farmers and benefit corporates and middlemen. There is no guarantee of minimum support price. Farmers will be left at the mercy of corporates,” said Mehlawat.Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “About 24 farmers moving in cars were stopped by the police at Sohna border after crossing Nuh jurisdiction. They were not allowed to cross following which they parked their cars and started walking. We have requested them to return and have tried to pacify them, telling them that they should not risk their lives and others as the coronavirus is on the rise and it may affect their health. We had a peaceful meeting with them,” she said.Modi refuted charges of inappropriate behaviour or use of force to prevent farmers from entering Gurugram. “No force was applied nor did the situation go out of control. No additional force was called to the spot to control the farmers. Even the farmers did not take law in hand and tried to convince the police with their point of view,” she said.Yogendra Yadav, convener, Swaraj India, criticised the Gurugram police for detaining farmers. Condemning the move, he said that the arrests were undemocratic. He also took a swipe at chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s earlier comments that farmers from Haryana were not participating in the agitation. “On one hand, chief minister Khattar says that farmers from Haryana are not participating in the movement whereas, on the other hand, they are arresting farmers,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-on-way-to-delhi-detained-at-sohna/story-E2lO9aNelLoB5ZFgdopoLM.html
01-12-2020||Gurugram||Border checks, barriers at Sirhaul and Aya Nagar lead to traffic congestion||The Gurugram Police on Tuesday placed barricades at the Sirhaul and Aya Nagar borders in order to prevent protesting farmers from reaching the national Capital, resulting in traffic congestion during peak hours. The police said they had received information that farmers from Rajasthan had entered Nuh through Rewari and Tauru and were trying to cross the Gurugram border to reach the Capital.Thereafter, Gururgam and Delhi police started checking commuters, following which vehicles started piling up. This resulted in a kilometre-long jam. The police said they had to eventually ease checking in order to decongest the stretch. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “Traffic congestion was reported during the peak hours in the morning as we were checking suspected vehicles. The farmers were boarded in cars and had taken the Nuh route but did not cross the Sirhaul border. More than 50 police personnel were deployed at each border to ensure smooth passage for commuters,” she said. Commuters had to face inconvenience during the morning hours, but the situation in the evening was relatively better. The police teams, however, continued to periodically check vehicles throughout the day.Himanshi Mehta, a daily commuter to Delhi, said that she got stuck in a jam from Shankar Chowk to Rajokri in Delhi due to the checking by both police forces. “Only one lane was operational due to which only one vehicle could pass through the barricade at a time resulting in a jam. The journey from Gururgam to Delhi is becoming worse day by day,” she said, adding that police should make arrangements for daily commuters so that they are not stuck in traffic jams.. More than 100 personnel were deployed at the Gururgam-Delhi Expressway and kept a close watch on passing vehicles ferrying more than four passengers. According to the police, no farmer’s trolley or heavy vehicles crossed the borders. Twenty police control room van were also deployed between Kherki Daula toll plaza and Sirhaul border to check passing vehicles. As per the police, more than 100 vehicles were stopped for checking. The Gurugram Police regularly coordinated with the Delhi Police to streamline vehicular movement throughout the day. Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the farmers had reached Tauru through Dharuhera. “Our teams were deployed at the borders and the stretches connecting other districts. No vehicle carrying farmers tried to cross the border through any route connecting Gurugram with Manesar or KMP. There was no congestion on the stretch any time of the day and commuters had a smooth passage,” she said. According to the police, the additional forces were kept on the standby but situation at the borders remained peaceful throughout the day. An additional force of more than 100 personnel was deployed on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway as they were suspecting farmers to take that route. However, no farmers used this stretch, said police. The police said they were prepared with diversion plans and had even prepared maps for the routes, which were shared with the traffic police and police stations concerned. However, they were not required. The border routes connecting Delhi, Rewari, Rajasthan, Nuh and Jhajjar were less affected, said the police. An officer of Delhi Police said each vehicle entering the Capital was checked thoroughly, which slowed down the traffic. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said they had adequate police deployment at the borders with Gurugram and situation was peaceful throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/border-checks-barriers-at-sirhaul-and-aya-nagar-lead-to-traffic-congestion/story-E4O4uB7VXzZ9M0AKvFJO7K.html
01-12-2020||Gurugram||Police launch drive to check misuse of hotels by minors||The police on Tuesday conducted checks at more than 50 hotels Manesar, Pataudi, Farrukhnagar and Sohna as part of a drive to check the presence of minors in hotel rooms. Twenty police teams were deployed for the drive after several instances of violations were found at hotels in these areas, officials said.Strict instructions have been given to the staff of the hotels to verify the identity cards of people checking in and not to allow any minors to reserve rooms, officials said. The 20 teams will regularly check their records and CCTV footage to ensure all rules and regulations are followed by the hotels, said officials.Police said there have been several instances wherein minors had booked rooms through online applications or on the spot despite carrying identification cards that showed them to be under the age of 18.The police said there have been instances wherein minors have booked rooms by paying extra to hold parties, without informing their family members. “The minors are served liquor as well, which is against the law. We have informed hoteliers not to entertain minors if they are not accompanied by their family members,” said Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar).A social media campaign will also be run by the Gurugram Police to spread awareness among parents and other society members to ensure minors are prevented from engaging in illegal activities.Last week, the police had arrested a 35-year-old man who had checked into a hotel in Pataudi along with a 15-year-old girl. A senior police officer received a tip-off following which a raid was conducted. The minor was rescued and was handed over to her family members, said police.Gehlot said that the suspect was arrested under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the girl’s parents were called. A strict warning was given to the minor not to accompany anyone to hotels, she said. “We had booked the hotel owner as well for allowing minors despite the girl carrying her school identity card. He (the suspect) is still absconding,” she said.Gehlot said they have informed all hotels across the city not to allow unaccompanied minors to take up rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-launch-drive-to-check-misuse-of-hotels-by-minors/story-wucFXkyOLxVHSN3K6bXStK.html
01-12-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination programme: 550 private hospitals, clinics told to share details of staffers by December 4||Over 550 private hospitals and clinics in the district have been directed to submit the details of their healthcare workers prior to December 4 for Covid-19 vaccination programme. Prioritising health workers for administering Covid-19 vaccine, the state government had earlier asked the district health department to submit the details of at least 728 private healthcare units in Gurugram.Of these, only 230 units, comprising more than 20,000 front-line workers, have submitted their details so far. Health officials said that many private clinics are reluctant to share the information of their working staff. Acting on the guidelines issued by the state and central government, under which healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 management will be covered on a priority basis for vaccination, district administration along with the health department on Tuesday held a meeting of the task force. It included representatives from Indian Medical Association (IMA) and nursing homes. “Only 31% private health care units have registered under the Covid-19 vaccination programme. Over 550 hospitals have been asked to register their workforce on the government portal in the next 48 hours,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO). “IMA and nursing homes’ associations have been directed to coordinate with private hospitals and clinics to furnish their details before the task force meets again on December 4 to discuss other planning issues related to vaccine distribution,” he said.Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, who chaired the meeting expressed concern over the delay by the private hospital and clinics in sharing the details, according to the minutes of the meeting accessed by HT. Dr Ajay Gupta, secretary, IMA, said, “It’s been an ongoing process but now the IMA has taken the task on a priority basis. Within next two days, all small clinics and private hospitals will upload information on the spreadsheet shared by the health department.” The issue of incomplete details furnished by some of the health units was also raised during the meeting. Currently, 230 health units comprising of big private hospitals, diagnostic labs, private clinics and nursing homes have registered. It involves a workforce of 20,348 healthcare workers. Dr Naresh Garg, district immunisation officer, said, “Of the 728 health care units, some private clinics are not keen to share their details as they fear coming under the scanner of the health department. It is for this reason, IMA has been asked co-ordinate with its members.” Yadav said that list of employees and workers under the health department has already been prepared. At least 4,575 people from Urban Primary Health Centres(UPHCs), primary health centres, community health centres, government dispensaries, anganwadis and Ayush department have been listed. In October, the Union ministry of health and family welfare clarified that front-line health workers like doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitary staff, ASHA workers, surveillance officers will be considered as the priority population group to receive Covid-19 vaccine. States have been told to work on cold chain facilities and other related infrastructure at the block level for vaccine distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-vaccination-programme-550-private-hospitals-clinics-told-to-share-details-of-staffers-by-december-4/story-EQsPZHZC3KnseLo9iXQizJ.html
01-12-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 1,000 people to receive doses of experimental Covid-19 vaccine under Phase 3 trial||At least 370 participants have so far received the doses of the upcoming Covid vaccine candidate, Covaxin, at PGIMS Rohtak — one of 26 designated trial sites across the country. Experts overseeing the trial said they will administer another 750 odd doses of the vaccine to the same number of participants by December-end, as part of the ongoing Phase 3 of the trial of the vaccine. About 25 new participants per day will be administered their first shot of the vaccine over this month, followed by a booster dose after 28 days. In Rohtak, the sample size for Phase 3 trials is expected to be around 1,000 people, officials said, while about 26,000 people will participate nationally. Covaxin is an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune. It is one of the two Indian vaccine candidates that have received the Drug Controller General of India’s nod to proceed with Phase 3 trials.Phase 1 of the Covaxin trials, which began at Rohtak in mid-July, involved 10 participants — all of whom were healthy adults, between the ages 18 and 55, and without any prior history of SARS-Cov-2 infection. “After we ruled out acute side effects, we proceeded with Phase 2 trials in September to test the immunogenicity of the vaccine. In this phase, we gave Covaxin shots to about 130 people between ages 12 and 65. Some also had comorbidities such as diabetes and asthma, but well within control. Now, in ongoing Phase 3 trials, we are administering the vaccine in the realm of real life,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhury, nodal officer for Covid-19 management in the state and co-principal investigator of the Covaxin trials at PGIMS Rohtak. At least 30 percent of the Phase 3 trial’s sample population, Chaudhury said, will include people having pre-existing comorbidities and health workers. “All participants have been informed that they must continue to remain cautious and maintain social distancing even after receiving the shot, as neutralising antibodies are not produced immediately but can take up to 42 days to develop. We take blood samples at 28 days and 42 days after the first shot to check for the presence of antibodies” Chaudhury said. Chaudhury said that Phase 3 trials for Covaxin are expected to be completed by mid-January. He did not, however, comment on when interim data regarding vaccine efficacy (from Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the trial) would be shared. Covaxin is an “inactivated” vaccine, which relies on using samples of the SARS-Cov-2 virus that have been isolated at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The vaccines consist of virus particles which have been rendered inactive or are unable to replicate. However, the antigens will give a signal to the immune system to produce immunoglobulins or antibodies. This is different from the other Indian vaccine candidates, which does not contain any attenuated virus particles, and instead only relies on messenger RNA, or genetic code of the spike proteins of the virus, to signal our immune system,” explained another co-investigator at PGIMS Rohtak, who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-1-000-people-to-receive-doses-of-experimental-covid-19-vaccine-under-phase-3-trial/story-0skEaPcwkMV8Y4RvotOXfL.html
01-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram crosses 50k-mark in Covid-19 cases||The total tally of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram crossed the 50,000-mark on Tuesday. Data shows that 19,065 of the total infections were recorded in November – the highest-ever increase in a single month since the outbreak of the pandemic. November’s tally is nearly 52% higher than the 9,091 new cases confirmed in October and 54% higher than the 8,699 cases recorded in September. Due to the upsurge in Gurugram as well as the neighbouring National Capital Region (NCR) districts, Haryana is now among the five states in the country with the highest active case load. Health officials, however, point out that in the last three days, new infections, which was growing at an unprecedented rate since the first week of November, has come down to less than 500 a day, thereby pointing towards the fact that the infection might have reached a plateau. Officials say police enforcement on mask discipline has increased and the crowd at weddings, political and religious gatherings has also been restricted in the district to 50 people for indoor events and 100 for outdoor ones. The police have deployed 550 personnel in residential areas where maximum violations of mask rule in public places have been reported, officials.Around 2,000 people across the city have been fined for not wearing masks. According to the district health bulletin, 495 new infections of SARS-CoV-2 virus confirmed on Tuesday took the total count to 50,087. Out of these, active cases, including home isolated or hospitalised patients, stands at 6,092. The Covid-19 toll reached 297, with five people succumbing to the illness on Tuesday. In the last few days, new cases have shown a slight decline, with a corresponding dip in the test positivity rate. From 18% in the first week of November, it has come down to less than 10% in the last week of November. On an average, 635 new cases were confirmed each day in November. However, from November 29, daily figures have hovered between 479 and 495. In tackling the situation, the health department is still continuing with nearly 6,000 tests a day, with a higher percentage of gold front-line Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction(RT-PCR) test than the rapid antigen tests. Over 1.6 lakh tests were administered last month, with record 25,000 tests in single a day on November 28. Thereafter, the testing numbers have fluctuated between 5,750 and 5,504. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “We will continue with increased testing till the overall test positivity rate comes down to seven percent. Our focus is on timely contact tracing tobreak the chain of transmission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-crosses-50k-mark-in-covid-19-cases/story-W1ModR8fpfivBkdJO7GUBP.html
01-12-2020||City||CITU, HP Kisan Sabha activists threaten to join farmers’ stir in Delhi||The Himachal unit of Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) on Tuesday staged demonstrations condemning the Centre and Haryana government’s “brutal suppression” of farmers protesting against the new agricultural laws.The activists, who were joined by the members of Himachal Kisan Sabha, have urged the farmers and workers of the state to travel to Delhi to extend their support to the protesters there.The demonstrations were held in Chamba, Dharamshala, Hamirpur, Una, Mandi, Kullu, Nahan, Solan, Bilaspur, Tapri, Shimla, Rampur and Rohru.CITU state president Vijendra Mehra said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister are acting like dictators and are determined to crush the farmers, which is highly condemnable.He said suppressing the farmers’ movement has exposed that both these BJP-led governments are with the capitalists and corporate houses to ensure their profitability, but labourers and farmers of the country will not let that happen.“Government’s sticks, bullets, tear gas, digging of potholes on the roads, barricades and water cannons are not enough to break the courage of farmers,” he said.Meanwhile, Himachal Kisan Sabha district president Satyawan Pundir said that if the central government fails to fulfil their demands, farmers from every district of the state would go to Delhi and participate in the ongoing movement.He said that farmers of Himachal would also be affected by the new agricultural laws. “During the 2014 elections, PM Modi had in his Himachal rallies said that farmers here should also get support price on products like fruits, vegetables, milk, wool, honey etc, but after coming to power he is ending the MSP system,” Pundir rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citu-hp-kisan-sabha-activists-threaten-to-join-farmers-stir-in-delhi/story-nSGYEXBpfZgw5AAoTULSmI.html
01-12-2020||City||Himachal logs 21 Covid deaths, 709 fresh cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 709 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 41,227, while the death toll mounted to 656 as record 21 patients succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, 200 were reported in Shimla 159 in Kangra, 85 in Mandi, 75 in Solan, 56 in Kullu, 36 in Chamba, 33 in Bilaspur, 17 in Sirmaur, 16 in Una, 15 in Hamirpur, 12 in Lahaul-Spiti and five in Kinnaur. Six patients died in Kangra, four in Mandi , three each in Shimla and Kullu, two in Solan and one each in Hamirpur and Chamba. There are 8,218 active cases in the state whereas 32,309 people have recovered. As many as 759 recoveries were recorded on Tuesday. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 7,456 cases and is followed by Mandi where 6,697 people have tested positive till date. A total of 5.31 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. Kangra has 5,392 cases, Solan 5,060, Kullu 3,678, Sirmaur 2,641, Una 2,156, Bilaspur 2,108, Hamirpur 2,103, Chamba 2,000, Lahaul-Spiti 1,087 and Kinnaur 849.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-21-covid-deaths-709-fresh-cases/story-SXEjpxun6TAId9ldiYVhhI.html
01-12-2020||City||Gupkar-Tukde gangs’ tacit link should be exposed: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday said that the tacit understanding between “Gupkar and Tukde-Tukde gangs” should be exposed as both were enjoying terror funding.Canvassing for the party amid the district development council polls in Kishtwar, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said terror funding was no more a secret after Abdul Rashid Shora, father of former JNU Students’ Union vice-president Shehla Rashid, stated that her daughter had received Rs 3 crore from her mentors in Pakistan to join students’ politics in JNU.Shora, he said, had already sought a probe into his daughter’s finances, accusing her of receiving Rs 3 crore from two people under investigation for terror funding.Chugh said this incident has come close on the heels of the arrest of PDP’s candidate for the DDC polls, Waheed Parra, by the NIA for allegedly conspiring with Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists to get their support during the 2019 parliamentary elections.He said Parra also had “close links” with some Irfan Shafi Mir, who was arrested along with HM terrorist Naveed Babu.“It is now more than exposed that Mufti’s PDP and the Tukde-Tukde gang had the same source of funding from the terror groups in Pakistan,” Chugh alleged.He called upon the people to be “vigilant against the subversive gameplan of the Gupkar alliance and the “Tukde” gang.“While the Tukde gang is conspiring to break the country, Gupkar gang is bent upon insulting the national flag and all other national symbols to spread hatred in J&K,” Chugh said making an appeal to the people to overthrow the Gupkar alliance members and vote for the BJP for the development of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gupkar-tukde-gangs-tacit-link-should-be-exposed-bjp/story-HgL3ebNIuEE5sNHpTaju2M.html
01-12-2020||City||J&K’s Covid recovery rate crosses 94%||Jammu and Kashmir recorded eight more deaths due to Covid-19 and 454 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the total Covid count to 1,10,678 and death toll to 1,702.Officials said 237 people tested positive in Kashmir and 217 in Jammu, while five persons succumbed to the diseases in Jammu, three died in Kashmir. They added that so far, 1,04,068 people have recovered in the UT as 503 patients were discharged on Tuesday taking the recovery rate to 94.02%, the highest so far. With this, there are 4,908 active cases in the UT. A total of 1,107 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 595 in Jammu. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 30.37 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 118 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 45 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 95, followed by 25 each in Udhampur and Rajouri districts.Srinagar tops the case tally with 23,177 cases and 418 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 20,772 cases and 302 deaths.Till date, 7.90 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 20,353 in home quarantine, 4,908 in isolation, and 33,671 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.30 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-s-covid-recovery-rate-crosses-94/story-8YmpZDoPC9tynO4Du5lMnM.html
01-12-2020||Lucknow||A woman or her family can now fearlessly go to the police||The ordinance against unlawful religious conversions in Uttar Pradesh is largely based on the UP Law Commission’s report and draft legislation on the matter. Pankaj Jaiswal speaks to Justice Aditya Nath Mittal, the chairperson of the commission and former judge of Allahabad high court, even as the governor has given her assent to the ordinance, called the Uttar Pradesh Vidhi Viruddh Dharm Samparivartan Pratishedh Adhyadesh 2020 (UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance-2020).Now that the draft ordinance has been passed by the UP cabinet, how effective do you think it will be in checking unlawful conversions?It will be very effective in checking such conversions and harassment of women. It has stringent provisions. A victim woman or her family can now fearlessly go to the police.What prompted you to work on the report and draft legislation?Media reports prompted me. At that time, there were a lot of reports and incidents of such religious conversions, by deception, force, coercion, allurements, and marriage, were surfacing. So, I decided to take it up.How long did you take to make the report and draft legislation and what all did you study?It took three months of work. We studied a lot. The 268-page report, including the draft legislation, was prepared after researching pre and post-independence laws in India and the neighbouring countries like Nepal, Myanmar, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Various rulings of the Supreme Court and high courts against conversions were cited. Studied existing laws in 10 other states — Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Odisha, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. On November 21, 2019, we submitted the report to the chief minister.What happened after the submission of the report? Were you involved later?The report then went to the UP home department and while the government worked on it, the commission was consulted whenever required.What about the term love jihad?There’s no such term in the report and draft legislation.Since you became the chairperson of the UP law commission, how many reports did you submit to the government?I took over in August 2017. Since then, we submitted a total of 12 reports. Some of them are on the recovery of damages to the public and property, transgender rights in agricultural property, unlawful religious conversion, and the UP cow and its progeny bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/a-woman-or-her-family-can-now-fearlessly-go-to-the-police/story-PWuqPCeIhPRtb1egAnoLRM.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Online or offline: PU to take a call soon on mode of semester exams||As the first semester of the 2020-21 academic session is about to end, Panjab University (PU) will take a call on the mode (online or offline) of conducting the exams. A special committee has been set up to make recommendations on the matter.The institute had earlier conducted semester exams of final year students in online mode.No decision was taken on Tuesday’s meeting of the committee. “We will call another meeting in the coming days,” said a member who wished to remain anonymousSemester exams of the ongoing batches are likely to be conducted in January next year and those of first year students of postgraduate courses likely in March. Exam schedules were also discussed at the meeting.Feedback from collegesBefore taking a final call on conducting exams, however, the committee will take feedback from affiliated colleges with a meeting of their representatives likely to be held at PU’s Dean College Development Centre in a few days. “They are our stakeholders and we will take their feedback first,” said a member of the committee, again on condition of anonymity.Most panel members, he added, felt that the exams should be held in offline mode.Punjab Engineering College had also called the students for exams on campus, though it was optonal.Another member of the panel said, “We do not have the proper infrastructure for online exams at the varsity compared to some premiere institutions of the country. So exams should be conducted in offline mode. maintaining their sanctity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-or-offline-pu-to-take-a-call-soon-on-mode-of-semester-exams/story-WFBUBfn47MuEeCKTOlWDbP.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||No decision yet to fully reopen PGIMER OPDs||Despite the dip in the number of Covid-19 infections, full outpatient department services will not resume at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and physical patient consultations will be limited, it has been learnt. However, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 will start limited physical consultation in four more departments from Thursday. PGIMER authorities had said early in November that the situation would be reviewed after Diwali since an infection surge was feared. “We have decided to wait for some more time before taking any decision on (opening the OPDs). We are expecting the number of cases fall to below 50 per day and that period will be more conducive for reopening the OPDs to full strength. For now, we may increase the number of physical consultations being provided after telephonic sessions,” said professor Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER. The OPDs were completely shut down on March 19, a day after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the city. The institute then shifted focus to teleconsultation services.“Teleconsultations can be a part of the medical services. However, though we need to go back to the earlier system as soon as possible, we cannot risk the lives of patients as well as attendants,” prof Jagat Ram added. PGIMER provides services to patients from the adjoining regions as well, with 10,000 OPD consultations logged in a day often during normal times. The campus almost sees a footfall of around 25,000 persons daily, mainly from Punjab and Haryana. According to GMCH-32 hospital spokesperson Anil Moudgil: “Urology, neurosurgery, plastic surgery and cardiothoracic and vascular surgery will restart from Thursday, with online and telemedicine registration done from December 2.” At present, 12 OPDs at GMCH-32 that are operating with restrictions are: Paediatric, pulmonary medicine, psychiatry, radiotherapy, obstetrics, gynaecology, psychiatry, radiotherapy, physiotherapy and dermatology, surgery and medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-decision-yet-to-fully-reopen-pgimer-opds/story-UGqmsRwGWGXlK6hrLmnjLK.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh liquor vend extortion case: Two policemen identified in CCTV footage||After a liquor store owner in Sector 40 complained about alleged extortion by policemen and submitted CCTV footage substantiating his claims, Chandigarh police have identified the men in the video as crime branch head constables.Both men, however, have not been traced as yet even as other liquor contractors have come forward with more complaints of extortion.Confirming this on Tuesday, UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “Based on the video footage we have identified the cops as Anil and Pawan. Both were clearly visible in the video and we are tracking them down and will take action against them.”Officials revealed that Pawan and Anil had been missing since the liquor contractor complained to the police even though no money exchanged hands in the CCTV footage.‘Suspicious behaviour’However, police officials privy to the investigation said that the behaviour of the two policemen in question seemed suspicious. “In the CCTV footage it can be seen that the policemen are entering the liquor store multiple times on different days and the way they are speaking to the shopkeepers is suspicious. They can be seen entering other shops too and repeating this, which confirms what the complainant was saying,” said an official who wished to remain anonymous as he was not authorised to speak to the media.A case under Section 383 (extortion) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) was registered on November 29 at the Sector 39 police station against unidentified persons. Police officials revealed that although the accused had been identified in the video, the case was lodged against unknown persons as the liquor contractor hadn’t named them in his complaint.No evidenceAssistant superintendent of police (south) Shruti Arora confirmed that “around four more liquor contractors have approached us alleging extortion. However, they haven’t presented any evidence and we are verifying their complaints.”A notice will be sent to the crime branch on Wednesday to summon both the identified policemen, Arora addedThe matter came to light when the liquor contractor from Sector 40 (name withheld) approached the police with what he alleged was CCTV footage of policemen extorting money from his vends. He claimed that he was paying them Rs 96,000 per month for the past few months. Earlier too, inspector Ranjit Singh of the operations wing of the Chandigarh police had tried to extort Rs 2.5 lakh from a Sector 21 based liquor contractor. He was transferred to the police lines last week and a departmental inquiry initiated against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-liquor-vend-extortion-case-two-policemen-identified-in-cctv-footage/story-Io6uXSvzScWpYlEsMSCx5I.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Haryana Police issues travel advisory for those travelling to Delhi||Haryana Police on Tuesday advised travellers to avoid approaching the national capital from Singhu border on national highway 44 (Ambala-Delhi) due to the gathering of farmers between Rai and Kundli. “Those wanting to go to Delhi from Ambala should take the Panipat-Rohtak-Jhajjar-Gurugram-Delhi route,” an official spokesman said. Keeping in view the mass gathering of farmers at Tikri border from Bahadurgarh side in Jhajjar district, the local police have also suggested several alternative routes to reach Delhi as traffic is disrupted on Tikri border. Those wanting to go to Delhi from Hisar should also take the Rohtak-Jhajjar- Gurugram-Delhi route. However, smooth movement of traffic continues on all other routes across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-haryana-police-issues-travel-advisory-for-those-travelling-to-delhi/story-OVnOjLQHlTuGLVN0bgtpIM.html
01-12-2020||City||Panel for action over misleading information on discharged effluents in Yamuna||The Haryana Yamuna Monitoring Committee has recommended action against government department officials for submitting misleading information to the panel regarding discharge of effluents into the Yamuna.The HYMC has inspected the operational status of Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and Common and Combined Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) located in catchment areas of Yamuna.The status reports submitted by the government department officials mentioned that these STPs and CETPs were complying with the norms. However, in its report, the HYMC mentioned that various discrepancies were found during the inspection. The information about these projects provided by the panchayat department, urban local bodies department and Haryana Sehri Vikas Pradhikaran was either not complete or incorrect. The urban local bodies department has been asked to provide names of officials, who provided misleading information, at the earliest.S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “ We need to collect the information from individual departments about these officials (who provided misleading information). We are also placing it as one of the agenda items for review at chief secretary level meeting which will be held soon”, he added.The committee also revised timelines for the projects of various departments which could not be completed in the action plans submitted to the National Green Tribunal. The committee has also sought progress reports from concerned departments on management of e-waste, bio-medical waste, plastic waste and hazardous waste management and solid waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panel-for-action-over-misleading-info-on-discharged-effluents-in-yamuna/story-omZqL2TZbzooyqCeWN5wMP.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: JJP suggests written assurance from Centre on MSP||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana, on Tuesday suggested that the Centre should give a written assurance to the agitating farmers that the practice of procuring food grains on the minimum support price (MSP) will continue. “People holding high positions in the (Union) government have been repeatedly giving statements that the MSP regime will continue. Union agriculture minister has said so... Prime Minister has reiterated that the MSP will continue...then what is the harm in adding that line,” Ajay Singh Chautala, party chief and former MP, told reporters in Sirsa. Repeatedly referring to the farmers as “annadata” who he said is “very disturbed and sitting on the roads”, Chautala said the deadlock should be resolved at the earliest. “Everyone is facing problems, including the government, people...We have been urging the government to find out a solution to the problems of farmers,” he said. This is for the first time that the JJP, which primarily banks on the support of the farming community, has categorically demanded a written assurance from the Centre on MSP to break the logjam. Not only the farmers’ union leaders but the opposition parties too have been asking the Centre to include in the farm bills that the MSP will not be discontinued. The official stand of the JJP, so far, on the farms laws has been that there is no question of doing away with the MSP regime, that the farm laws are in favour of the peasants and that the Congress has been misleading the farmers. Right from the beginning of the unrest among the peasants over Centre’s three farm laws, the JJP has been walking a tight rope. The BJP has 40 MLAs in 90-member assembly and the JJP’s support is crucial even as there are five independent MLAs supporting the saffron party. The JJP has 10 MLAs and the pressure has been mounting on the party from its constituents the Jat community, predominantly the peasants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-jjp-suggests-written-assurance-from-centre-on-msp/story-gMg3Jwlc0QTwUF0PCh7YFN.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Keylong records heaviest snowfall for November in 11 years||Keylong, the headquarters of the tribal and remote district of Lahaul Spiti, recorded the heaviest snow spells in 11 years at 57 cm during November 2020.About 58 cm of snow was recorded in 2009, in the same month, while in 2011 and from 2016 to 2018 there was no snow. In 2019, Keylong recorded 41.2 cm snow.Himachal Pradesh received 43.1 mm precipitation during the month, which was 112% above normal, breaking a two-month long dry spell. In 2019, 49.1 mm rain was recorded, which was 142% above normal; and in 2018, 37.3mm rain was received, which was 84% above normal. There was no rain in November 2016, the lowest for any year.Manmohan Singh, director of the state’s meteorological department, said there were five rain/snow spells in HP this year, while the rest of the days were dry. All the 12 districts of the state had above normal rain. A significant amount of precipitation occurred on November 16 and 26 with 43.1 mm recorded for the whole month. The lowest minimum temperature in the state last month was recorded at –9.9 °C on November 27 in Keylong, while Una recorded the highest maximum temperature 31.3° C.Snow and rain in isolated places at the higher hills are likely to occur on December 7. Manmohan Singh said the weather was likely to remain clear throughout the state till December 6 and in the middle hills, lower hills and plains of the state till December 7.“A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from December 4” he added.Weather was mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours. Minimum and maximum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures in state Capital Shimla and Kufri were 10.3°C and and 9.5 °C, respectively.Tourist destinations Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 3.4°C, 8.8°C and 10.4°C, respectively.Una recorded minimum temperatures of 7.3°C; Solan, 4.8°C; Bilaspur, 7°C; Hamirpur, 7.1°C; Nahan, 12.5°C; Mandi, 5°C; and Kalpa, district kinnaur, 2.6°C.Keylong remained the coldest place in the state with minimum temperatures of –2.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/keylong-records-heaviest-snowfall-for-november-in-11-years/story-cQJoO16sansogpdKZ8LHYN.html
01-12-2020||Pune||Navale bridge accident: Drivers use neutral gear, or cut engine on slope to save fuel, observe traffic police||Pune: The Navale bridge stretch has turned into an accident prone spot as it sees a lot of speeding vehicles. The Pune traffic police have launched a study to spot check the road and come up with solutions to slow the traffic after three people died and six were seriously injured in the accident caused by a trailer whose driver lost control near the bridge on Sunday evening.The police have observed that drivers taking advantage of the slope shut down the engine to save fuel causing break failure and accidents. The authorities, a few months back, have put up roadside boards near Navale bridge alerting drivers to not shut engine or put on neutral gear. “This is a vulnerable spot as heavy vehicles speed from ‘dari pul’ bridge on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway at Katraj and while entering the service road do not slow down as other vehicles are also moving on this stretch. One of the reasons for yesterday’s (Sunday) accident could be either shutting down the engine or driving on neutral gear. The driver finds a slope after ‘dari pul’ bridge and puts the vehicle either on neutral gear or shuts the engine to save fuel. So, when these heavy vehicles reach an exit to service road it either gets out of control or brakes don’t work leading to accidents,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).Shrirame along with other senior officials of the Pune traffic police department conducted a review of the accident spot on Monday. They also spoke to the local residents.“We have installed boards appealing to drivers not to close down the engine or put on neutral gear. Now, we plan to making some changes in vehicular movement and infrastructure with the help of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on the stretch between ‘dari pul’ bridge and Navale bridge,” Shrirame said.Several residential areas, including Narhe, Ambegaon Budruk, Dhayari and Vadgaon Budruk are connected to this stretch.Nilesh Girme, Shiv Sena leader said, “Many residents pass through the service road used by the heavy vehicles. The administration should come up with a traffic solution as it has become an accident-prone spot.”Taking risk to save 3-4 litres of fuel Swapnil Pangare, area sales manager of KGP Auto Ltd, Ghatge Trucking BharatBenz said, “When a truck driver crosses the tunnel before the ‘dari pul’ bridge he puts the vehicle on neutral gear. When he nears Navale bridge, he starts applying brakes as other vehicles also enter this stretch. On neutral, the brake liners gets heated and sometimes causes brake failure. Turning engine off and on neutral gear could result into brakes getting oil drained. Power brakes will not function if the vehicle is switched off. Turning off engine can also lead to locking of steering. There is a brake control button in every heavy vehicle or truck which should be used by the driver on such slopes, but to save fuel of around three to four litres they take the risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navale-bridge-accident-drivers-use-neutral-gear-or-stop-engine-at-slope-to-save-fuel-observe-traffic-police/story-Uwpf6fGYkuJNC3JX3Trj8I.html
01-12-2020||Pune||Pune district data: Average stay of patients on ventilators at 7.5 days, in ICU at 8.8 days||Pune: An analysis of the number of days Covid-19 patients spent on ventilators in ICUs shows that the average length of stay for patients in Pune, is higher than the state or national averages. The case fatality rate (CFR) in Pune district is similar to the national average, but lower than the state average. Doctors have said that a Covid-19 patient would probably stay longer on a ventilator in an ICU as compared to other ailments, as recovery is harder. Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble Hospitals, said, “We have had patients who were on ventilators for almost 90 days, or in one case, for 43 days on an invasive ventilator and then 11 days on a non-invasive ventilator. The first patient could not survive while the second patient was successfully discharged. We have observed that once a Covid-19 patient enters the critical phase, it is extremely difficult for the person to recover. Initially, we also had a patient who landed at the hospital in a critical condition and had to be admitted right away in the ICU. In case of other infections, we usually have multiple sources of treatment and background information which we do not have in the case of Covid-19.” The study says that the average length of stay, in number of days, on a ventilator in Pune district is about 7.5 days; as against 5.5 days for the state and 6.9 days for the country. While for patients who are in ICU, the average length of stay, in number of days, for patients in ICU is 8.8 days for Pune district; 7.4 days for state and 8.7 days for the country. The average length of stay for patients who went into isolation is about 8.5 days in Pune, 7.8 days for the state average and 8.4 days for the country average. While for patients on oxygen-supported beds, the is 8 days in Pune which went up to 8.3 days for state average and 8.9 days for country average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/average-stay-of-covid-patients-on-ventilators-was-about-7-5-days-and-icu-was-8-8-days/story-MoLLL7NZXTS9ZTSZ7ie65I.html
01-12-2020||Pune||Migrants to Pune record high positivity rate than SARI and ILI patients||Pune: A data analysis based on the Covid-19 cases and various details uploaded on the Covid India portal shows that in the initial days when the migrants and refugees were returning to the city they had reported a higher positivity rate. The positivity rate among the migrants and refugees who returned from neighbouring city to Pune was higher than the (severe acute respiratory infection) SARI and (influenza-like illness) ILI patients found in flu clinics and who were hospitalised later. The study also found that over 40% of the symptomatic patients found in containment zones tested positive while over 56% of the symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases also tested positive for Covid. Pune had reported its first case on March 9 which was also the first case in the state of Covid. However, in the months of May and June, Mumbai reported a much higher surge in the number of cases than Pune. Pune rural which reported the first case and also the first case of local transmission also saw more newer cases coming in as migrants started returning to the city as most of the rural villages border the Pune-Mumbai highway. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) said, “Pune rural had nominal Covid cases up until mid May, however, once the migrants started pouring in we saw newer cases coming in from the neighbouring cities, especially Mumbai, which saw a drastic rise during those months. Migrants came via road, in their own vehicles or even walking in some cases. We found that people walked the ‘kachcha rasta’ to get to their homes. Once things opened up we did not keep track of these cases as migrants or refugees.”Dr Abhijit More, public health expert said, “The health infrastructure of the city faced huge burden as the cases started spreading faster. The city’s hospitalisation could have Maharashtra’s average contact tracing for 20-25 which in Pune was only 10 for which the civic body was also rapped by the state government. Poor contact tracing even in the beginning led to the surge due to which Pune is now the worst-affected city in the country. Also, in the initial days itself experts from WHO and also our doctors from the task force warned about the upcoming threat and its intensity, but the administration chose to ignore the facts. The current huge number is because the administration did not contact trace the international passengers or the migrants.” The report also says that about 56% symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases tested positive for the infection while 22% of the asymptomatic contacts tested positive. Also indicating a higher prevalence in concentrated zones, the study states that about 41% of the symptomatic (ILI) patients in hotspot/ containment zones tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/migrants-to-pune-record-high-positivity-rate-than-sari-and-ili-patients/story-WbQ2BbFxStvSDA03Q3K26H.html
01-12-2020||Pune||Pune graduate and teacher constituency polls: Prestige fight for BJP, MVA faces its first real test||Pune: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party-Congress-Shiv Sena alliance are all set for first major fight post formation of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government last year with both sides vying for maximum turnout. Till 10 am, Pune graduates’ constituency recorded 8.52% turnout while teachers’ constituency reported 11.38% turnout, according to the statistics shared by the administration. Among those who cast their vote in Pune was BJP Member of Parliament Girish Bapat, who claimed victory of party candidates. The Graduates and teachers’ constituency polls in Pune division as well as other parts of Maharashtra on Tuesday is a real electoral test for both the MVA constituents and the BJP, which has made the polls for five seats in the state prestigious by concentrating on the campaign, including one from teachers’ constituency in Amravati division and one each under graduate constituency in Nagpur and Aurangabad divisions. Elections for Member of Legislative Council from Dhule-Nandurbar local authorities constituency will also be held on Tuesday. Only two contestants – Amrish Patel from the BJP and Abhijeet Patil from the Congress are in the fray.For Pune graduates’ constituency polls, among 62 candidates, BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh is locked in direct fight with NCP nominee Arun Lad with backing from MVA. For Pune teachers’ constituency polls, the NCP has pitted Jayant Asgaonkar against an independent Jitendra Pawar, whom the BJP has supported. There are a total of 35 candidates in the fray for teacher constituency. The Aam Aadmi Party and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena have also nominated Amol Pawar and Roopali Patil respectively for graduate constituency polls, for which counting will takes place on December 3. A total of 5.25 lakh voters have registered for graduate constituency while 1.18 lakh will vote for teacher constituency polls.BJP’s top leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and party state unit chief Chandrakant Patil campaigned for party candidate. “We are confident to retain the graduate constituency even as Sena, NCP and Congress have come together. For teacher constituency, we have extended support to Pawar,” said Patil, who has twice represented the seat in the past. Given that the electorate from at least four to five districts will participate for each constituency polls, the BJP has made the polls important enough to make it a verdict on the MVA as also Uddhav Thackeray’s governance. For Pune graduate and teachers constituency polls, voters from five districts – Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur – will cast their votes. The BJP believes that favourable outcome in these polls will send a message that people are not supporting tripartite MVA government while the defeat of saffron party candidates’ would stave off the threat to the coalition in the immediate future, feel political observers. BJP union minister Raosaheb Danve had recently said, “The MVA government may last only for next two-three months. We are just waiting for legislative council polls to conclude.” The NCP and its allies are focusing more on rural parts of western Maharashtra to garner voter support. During the assembly polls last year, the NCP could win more seats from rural parts. NCP state unit chief Jayant Patil has personally campaigned and overseen the canvassing process for candidates with party chief Sharad Pawar and others also joining the campaign. “We are confident that both of our candidates will win the polls. The alliance with the Sena and the Congress will only prove as an added advantage,” Patil said at recent campaign meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-graduate-and-teacher-constituency-polls-prestige-fight-for-bjp-mva-faces-its-first-real-test/story-eVnUH215mXKCOWHynLBneN.html
01-12-2020||Pune||PSI arrested for accepting bribe of Rs 35,000||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Pune, on Thursday arrested police sub-inspector (PSI) attached to Yerawada police station for accepting a bribe of Rs 35,000.The accused has been identified as Prashant Kondiram Kirve, attached to Laxminagar police chowki, Yerawada.The Yerwada police had registered a case for offences under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the accused PSI was the investigating officer in the case.The accused threatened to arrest a family member as co-accused in the POCSO case and demanded a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. The amount was later negotiated to Rs 35,000. He accepted the bribe amount and then allowed them to go free in the case.He was arrested after the family member who was threatened by him lodged a first information report (FIR) in the case.The complaint states that “Kirve had threatened the POCSO accused to frame his mother in the case and allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. The amount was later negotiated to Rs 35,000.”After the complaint was lodged, ACP Vijaymala Pawar of Anti-Corruption Bureau arrested the accused.A case under relevant sections of the Anti Corruption Act has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/psi-arrested-for-accepting-bribe-of-rs-35-000/story-9fVr0qDhJnFieSSSir5isI.html
01-12-2020||Pune||Child-friendly police station inaugurated in Pune||The city’s first “child-friendly” police station was inaugurated at the cantonment police station premises by Abhay Karandikar, director, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), on Monday.The mandate for a “child-friendly” police station arisen out of Juvenile Justice Act 2015 outlines the steps to be taken for the protection of rights of children in need of care and protection as well as for the children in conflict with the law.Amitabh Gupta, Pune police commissioner, said, “Such police station will provide the necessary safety and security to the juveniles apprehended in different cases where they will be counselled and provide necessary protection under the ambit of the Juvenile Justice Act.”The city police are working closely with Hope for Children Foundation, NGO working in the field of juvenile justice in Pune and across different parts of the country.“We will follow a standard format mandated by the Juvenile Justice Act while dealing with cases related to children in conflict with the law. Establishing “child-friendly” police station will enable our staff to deal with the issue more effectively in sensitive cases where children are involved and will provide a safe environment to them,” he said.The current police station is dedicated space spruced up with latest arrangements where the children can feel at ease in a supportive environment. A special team of police officers with necessary expertise have been assigned to the police station to look after the sensitive unit.Caroline Ador of Hope for Children Foundation said, “The police stations are the first in the line of interface with the children and the new facility would provide the much-required intervention in the administration of juvenile justice without fear and intimidation while dealing with serious juvenile related crimes like child marriage, child abuse, neglect and exploitation and other crimes.”Karandikar said, “ The said project should be replicated in all commissionerates and police stations across the state of Maharashtra. We are working closely working with the police departments in areas like CCTV footage monitoring and analysis and drone technology. We believe the power of technology in providing justice to the citizens.”Bacchan Singh, DCP (crime), said, “In view to curb the growing participation of juveniles in crime, an initiative called “Keep moving movement” was started to provide counselling to the juveniles along with the Life School Foundation was started in 2019. At least 2,693 children have been counselled and provided skill-based training on various topics like mobile repairing, AC repairing, computer hardware repairing among others in all nine heads to 23 juveniles that have helped them to improve their skills.”As many as 276 offences were registered against juveniles in 2019 and 175 in 2020 (till last week), according to data provided by officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/child-friendly-police-station-inaugurated-in-pune/story-1fBAmrXhXwzoaI60KA6ToO.html
01-12-2020||Pune||MVA faces first real electoral test today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)-Congress-Shiv Sena alliance are all set for first major fight post-formation of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government last year. The graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls in Pune division, as well as other parts of Maharashtra on Tuesday (December 1), is a real electoral test for both MVA constituents and BJP, which has made the polls for total five seats in the state prestigious with putting all its might.For Pune graduates’ constituency polls, among 62 candidates, BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh is locked in a direct fight with NCP nominee Arun Lad with backing from MVA. For Pune teachers’ constituency polls, NCP has pitted Jayant Asgaonkar against an independent Jitendra Pawar, whom the BJP has supported. There are a total of 35 candidates in the fray for teachers constituency.The Aam Admi Party (AAP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) have also nominated Amol Pawar and Roopali Patil respectively for graduates constituency polls, for which counting will take place on December 3.As many as 5.25 lakh voters have registered for graduates’ constituency while 1.18 lakh voters are registered for teachers’ constituency polls.The BJP has made the polls extremely prestigious with all its top leaders from the state unit including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil campaigning for party candidate extensively.“We are confident to retain the graduates’ constituency even as Sena, NCP and Congress have come together. For teachers’ constituency, the party has extended support to Jitendra Pawar, who is a strong candidate,” said Patil, who has twice represented the seat in the past.Given that electorate from at least four to five districts will participate for each constituency polls, BJP has made the elections important enough to make it a verdict on the MVA as also Uddhav Thackeray’s governance. For Pune graduates’ and teachers constituency polls, voters from five districts – Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur – will cast their votes.The BJP believes that favourable outcome in these polls will send a message that people are not supporting tripartite MVA government while the defeat of saffron party candidates’ would stave off the threat to the coalition in the immediate future, feel political observers. This is also well explained from recent remarks from BJP union minister Raosaheb Danve, who said, “The MVA government may last only for next two-three months. We are just waiting for legislative council polls to conclude.”The NCP has also made all efforts with the party and its allies focusing more on rural parts of western Maharashtra expecting support from voters. During assembly polls last year, NCP won more seats from rural parts, which the party believes is solidly backing it.NCP state unit chief Jayant Patil has personally campaigned and overseen the entire canvassing process for candidates with party chief Sharad Pawar and others also joining the campaign.“We are confident that both of our candidates will win the polls this time. The alliance with Sena and Congress will only prove as an added advantage,” Patil said at a recent campaign meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mva-faces-first-real-electoral-test-today/story-lTh3pffcejnaxC20dTnfGP.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Muslim man converts to Hinduism before marriage, couple under police protection||A Muslim man who converted to Hinduism before marriage was under police protection with his Hindu wife after the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court.Haryana home minister Anil Vij had said last week that the state government had set up a three-member committee to draft a law against ‘love jihad’, a term used by BJP leaders to describe religious conversions in the guise of marriage.The 21-year-old man, who has also changed his name, married the 19-year-old woman on November 9 following Hindu rituals, Yamunanagar superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal said on Tuesday.The couple had approached the high court stating that they feared a threat to their lives and personal liberty from the woman’s family, while submitting that opposition to their marriage was a serious abuse of their rights provided under Article 21 of the Constitution.The police later lodged the duo in a protection home here for several days, while acting on the high court’s directive to evaluate the threat perception and provide them security.The police also met the girl’s family and tried to convince them that the two were legally wedded and they should allow them to live together, the SP said.The woman had earlier declined to meet her family, who during a hearing in the case on November 11 expressed the wish to meet her once, Goyal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/muslim-man-converts-to-hinduism-before-marriage-couple-under-police-protection/story-IGfNH1xkrC1WLHyy7erysK.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Nephew, if liable to inherit property is bound to provide maintenance to senior citizen: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has held that the nephew, who is in possession of the property of a senior citizen or liable to inherit his property, is bound to provide maintenance to him. The HC bench of justice GS Sandhawalia upheld the order passed by the Ambala deputy commissioner in the case of a 64-year-old Ambala resident, who is 100% disabled. The DC, acting as a tribunal under the Act, had dismissed the appeal of the nephew against the award of Rs 8,000 per month maintenance to the senior citizen since December 2018. The maintenance was awarded by the sub-divisional officer, Ambala, authority under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. “The factum of close relationship being a nephew has already been noticed and the fact that both the shop and house are in occupation of the petitioner (nephew). Once the petitioner is in possession of the property and liable to inherit the property after the death of the senior citizen, the section provides that maintenance can be claimed by a childless senior citizen as per Clause g of Section 2. Therefore, the argument of the counsel of the petitioner that the application was not maintainable in the absence of any relationship, is not made out,” the bench said. The petitioner nephew had approached high court in February 2020 after the DC’s order. He had argued that the tribunal be asked to pass the order afresh since he had not participated in the proceedings. It was also argued that the petitioner was not a relative being a nephew and, therefore, the tribunal could not have passed the award of maintenance. There are other relatives who are earning handsome income and the liability has only been fixed upon the nephew, the court was told. It was also informed that the uncle had shifted to Delhi and after 37 years returned to Ambala in the year 2017 and started quarrelling with them by claiming to be part of the a shop, being run by the petitioner on rent. The court found that the ancestral house was now owned by the nephew and the shop, taken on rent by the father of the senior citizen and his brother, where they too worked, and is now being run by the nephew. It was also found that the nephew was aware of the maintenance proceedings before the Tribunal in Ambala, but chose not to appear and it was decided ex-parte. The court observed that the authorities below have already found that the nephew is earning from the business of the shop. By keeping the senior citizen out of the shop, he is also debarring him from earning and getting the fruits from the said shop. Similarly, now the ancestral house was mutated in the name of the father of the nephew. “In such circumstances, the present petitioner would come under the purview of Section 2 (g) of the 2007 Act and liability to maintain the respondent No.3 (senior citizen) would fall upon him. Accordingly, the orders passed by the authorities below cannot be held to be unjustified in any manner, which would warrant interference by this Court,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nephew-if-liable-to-inherit-property-is-bound-to-provide-maintenance-to-senior-citizen-hc/story-Gh2shgeSkmRvDioGtCJQfP.html
01-12-2020||Pune||Students of architecture from the city win 5th edition of Drawing Board competition||The fifth edition of - The Drawing Board - a competition for architecture students across South East Asia was won by Pune students, Purushottam Deth, Nikhil Patne and Somesh Kachawar. All of them are students at VIT’s PVP College of Architecture and bagged a cash prize of Rs50,000 in a competition that saw participation of 1,300 students from 14 countries. The jury for the competition consisted of architect Takaharu Tezuka of Tezuka Architects - Japan; architect Bijoy Jain of Studio Mumbai - Mumbai and architect Rahul Gore of Opolis Architects- Mumbai. This year’s design challenge aimed to provide humane living conditions for transient construction workers in India. To create successful housing for construction workers, they must feel that they are rooted in a given place. They should be able to experience a sense of community with their neighbours though they stay for a short time and change of families as per the construction demand. The design should foster a sense of community and participation.The competition’s online streaming across multiple platforms was attended by 640 attendees from several countries. Organisers acknowledged the online format as one of the contributing factors to the increased response this year as compared to the offline format followed in the previous editions. The first runners-up was a team from the Chittagong University of Engineering and Technology, Bangladesh comprising Faisal Hossain, Sumaiyya Sultana, and Sadman Ali who won Rs 35,000 and a certificate. The third podium finishers were Anusha Mukherjee and Naman Shroff from Amity University, Kolkata, who won Rs 25,000 and a certificate. All the winners are also eligible for paid internships at Rohan Builders to experience real world design and execution.This is the fifth year of this competition jointly organised by Bengaluru-based Mindspace Architects and Pune-based Rohan Builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-students-win-5th-edition-of-drawing-board-competition/story-Xqi6S5EkET2ipqZCxPlr9O.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rebel Punjab MLA Amarjit Sandoa back in AAP fold||Rebel MLA Amarjit Sandoa returned to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday, calling his decision to switch sides to the Congress the biggest blunder of his life. The Ropar MLA announced his return to the party fold in Delhi where he was welcomed by AAP legislature party leader Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and party legislators from the state. “I tender my sincere apologies to the party high command and state leadership, who were devastated by my decision to quit the AAP. I undertake to work for the party like a tireless volunteer without any ambition for party post of position,” Sandoa said in a post on social media. SAYS AMARINDER FAILED TO FULFIL POLL PROMISES Sandoa also said that he was ashamed of his decision to join the Congress in a tearing hurry. “Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has done nothing for the people of Punjab. All sections are bearing the brunt of his anti-people stance. Before assuming power in 2017, Amarinder had peddled promises, like crushing the drug mafia within weeks, ghar-ghar naukri (jobs for every household), complete loan waiver to farmers among a host of others, which have remained unfulfilled,” he said in a statement. LEFT AAP DAYS BEFORE 2019 LOK SABHA ELECTIONS Sandoa, who stayed in the party during the infighting that saw several MLAs turn against the leadership, had joined the Congress on May 4, days before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The rebel AAP MLA was welcomed into the party by Amarinder. He is the second rebel AAP MLA to return to the party. Jaitu legislator Baldev Singh, who left the AAP in July 2018, after the leadership unceremoniously removed Bholath MLA legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira from the post of leader of opposition, also returned to the party in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rebel-punjab-mla-amarjit-sandoa-back-in-aap-fold/story-WVqFWoIu63C9VrfFQHhJJJ.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||In solidarity with farmers, Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan withdraws support to Haryana’s BJP-led coalition govt||A day after quitting as chairman of the Haryana Livestock Development Board, Dadri Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan on Tuesday withdrew support from the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government. “I have sent a letter to the Haryana Vidhan Sabha about my decision to withdraw support from the government. I cannot continue my support to this government that has been pursuing anti-farmer policies,” the MLA said when contacted over phone. Also read: Farmers’ protest: All you need to knowHowever, an official of the Vidhan Sabha secretariat said that it had not received the letter from the MLA. During a meeting of the Sangwan Khap at Dadri on Monday, the MLA announced that he had resigned as chairman of the board to extend support to the agitating farmers. His decision to withdraw support does not pose any threat to the 13-month-old BJP-Jannayak Janta Party coalition government in the 90-member Vidhan Sabha. The BJP-JJP coalition government, comprising 40 BJP and 10 JJP MLAs, has the support of some Independent MLAs, including Ranjit Singh, who represents Rania segment, and is a cabinet rank minister. The party-wise position in the House is: BJP: 40 JJP: 10 Congress: 31 Independents: 7 INLD: 1 HLP: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-solidarity-with-farmers-independent-mla-sombir-sangwan-withdraws-support-to-haryana-s-bjp-led-coalition-govt/story-CFdq5fYCq72zH5ABxBkAGI.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew back in Punjab, fine for not wearing masks doubled to ₹1,000 from today||Though the number of Covid-19 cases decreased in Punjab in November as compared to October, night curfew has been re-imposed in the state and fine for not wearing masks or following social distancing has been doubled from Tuesday amid fears of a second wave of the coronavirus infection. The curbs, which shall be reviewed on December 15, also restrict the opening timings of all hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces till 9.30pm, while the decision on closing liquor vends will be taken at the deputy commissioner level. “Night curfew will remain in force from 10pm to 5am from December 1,” chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced after chairing a Covid review meeting last week, warning people against letting their guard down amid the grim Covid situation in Delhi-NCR, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana and fears of a second wave in Punjab. Also read: India’s daily Covid-19 count drops to 31,118, active cases further downAn official spokesperson said that the fine for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour shall be hiked from the present ₹500 to ₹1,000. Given the inflow of patients from Delhi for treatment in Punjab, it has also been decided to review and optimise the beds availability in the state’s private hospitals. CONTAINING THE SPREAD OF THE VIRUS Punjab was able to contain the threat of the virus further in November when it added fewer new cases as compared to previous months. This was the second consecutive month in which the state saw a decrease in fresh cases. The daily average of cases in November was 614 against 637 in October. In all, the state witnessed 18,433 cases in November against a total of 19,772 in October. Also, the state’s total deaths due to the virus in November also came down to 604 as compared to 797 in October, the state health department’s media bulletin said. The state witnessed the pandemic peak in September. However, the number of active cases nearly doubled from 4,195 on November 1 to 7,842 on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-curfew-back-in-punjab-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-doubled-to-rs-1-000-from-today/story-QYDqhDBFjONIWGPYt6KdmM.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Decision should be for farmers of entire country, not Punjab alone: Farm leaders||With the Centre inviting them for a fresh round of talks on Tuesday and Union home minister Amit Shah likely to attend the meeting, Punjab’s farmer leaders went into a huddle at Singhu on the Haryana-Delhi border to build consensus on issues and stand to be taken. “The Centre has had two meetings with you (farm bodies) to resolve problems of the farmers. In the same chronology, we invite you for a meeting with a high-level ministers’ group at 3pm on December 1,” read the latest invite by agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal that was received late on Monday night. Also read: Govt to hold talks with farmers today as protests intensifyThe farm leaders will ask the cabinet ministers meeting them to bring on board farm unions of the entire country for talks. They want a decision being taken keeping in mind farmers of the entire country, not a particular state. Responding to the invite, Bharti Kisan Union (Dakounda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said the farm organisations are expected to attend the meeting and seek a common decision for farmers of the entire country. “A Punjab-specific package or offer is not acceptable,” he said. Punjab’s farmer organisations are spearheading the agitation opposing the new farm laws passed in Parliament that liberalise agriculture and have descended on the borders of Delhi since November 27, seeking a repeal of the laws that they claim are not in farmers’ interest. The Centre, however, says the new laws will lead to reforms in the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/decision-should-be-for-farmers-of-entire-country-not-punjab-alone-farm-leaders/story-2BGIUgUF8uzUx19ZtYSX5N.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI rises to 339, continues to be in very poor zone||Air quality in Delhi remained in the very poor zone on Tuesday morning with the air quality index (AQI) at 339. The average AQI on Monday was 318. Government agencies have forecast a deterioration in air quality over this week due to dipping temperature and reduction in wind speed. According to scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed will slow down from December 2 onwards and turn calm thereafter. “The winds will turn calm from December 4-5 when the air quality may deteriorate further, as both low temperature and absence of winds will not allow dispersion of pollutants,” said a senior IMD scientist. Also read | November was coldest in 71 years, shows IMD dataSAFAR, the Union government’s air quality and weather forecasting wing, also said that ventilation conditions have become unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants and air quality is likely to remain in the very poor zone over the coming days. The IMD has forecast below normal minimum temperatures over most parts of north and northwest India, including Delhi during this winter (December-February). In Delhi, the minimum temperature is likely to remain 2-2.5 degrees Celsius below normal during this time. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 6.9 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. It is expected to hover around 7-8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday as well, the scientist added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-rises-to-339-continues-to-be-in-very-poor-zone/story-7C1gxVAaRSI8cXLSwkL43K.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||2 FIRs registered in connection with clashes at Delhi borders||The Delhi Police have registered two separate FIRs in connection with the clash between the farmers protesting against the new farm laws enacted by the Centre and the police at Delhi’s borders with Haryana at Tigri and Singhu border and Alipur, senior police officers said on Monday. Gaurav Sharma, DCP (outer-north), said an FIR was registered against unknown persons at Alipur police station following the clash between farmers and the police at the Singhu Border. “We had registered the FIR on the day of the clashes. We have not taken any coercive action against anyone though,” said the DCP.An FIR has also been registered in connection with the clash at Tigri border. However, district police officials were not immediately available for a comment on the matter. VIsuals of the clashes between farmers and police showed scores of protesters trying to wade through the heavy security, removing barricades and forcing their way ahead in a bid to reach Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-firs-registered-in-connection-with-clashes-at-delhi-borders/story-kibQWTTkPQJgVNqtMIzzTO.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Govt lowers cap, RT-PCR tests for Rs 800 at private labs||The Delhi government on Monday capped the price of RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) detection, at Rs 800 for all private laboratories, reducing the amount from Rs 2,400.Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are accurate but have so far remained costly, and with higher turnaround times than rapid antigen tests. Rapid antigen tests, however, are often inaccurate when it comes to so-called false negatives, or giving negative results to people who may be Covid-positive.According to an order issued by Delhi’s health department, while RT-PCR tests at all private laboratories and hospitals will cost Rs 800, and home collection of samples will be conducted at Rs 1,200. Until Sunday, the cost of an RT-PCR test was capped at Rs 2,400 irrespective of whether a person visited a laboratory or opted for home collection. The changes came into effect after the order was issued on Monday afternoon, and most private labs calibrated their systems by early evening.Covid-19 tests at all government facilities in Delhi will continue to be free, the government said. “I have directed that the rates of RT-PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in government establishments, however, this will help those who get their tests done in private labs,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Monday.A record 69,051 tests, including 33,147 RT-PCR tests, were conducted on Friday. The Centre announced on November 17 that it planned to double the testing capacity to 100,000-120,000 by the month end, with a focus on increasing RT-PCR tests in the Capital. Though RT-PCR tests have consistently been scaled up in the city over the past fortnight, the plan to double testing is yet to materialise.Monday’s order mandated all labs and hospitals to display the revised rates at prominent places within their premises by Tuesday for awareness among the people. It also reminded all private stakeholders involved in Covid-19 testing to ensure that the processing of samples, sharing of reports with the clients and updating all reports in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal is done within 24 hours of the collection of the sample. On June 18, the Delhi government capped the price of all Covid-19 tests at private labs at ₹2,400. The decision was taken at a Delhi Disaster Management Authority meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, and attended by Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot and other top officials from the Delhi Police, administration and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Prior to the ₹2,400 cap, the cost of a Covid-19 test was ₹4,500 if the private labs collected the sample and used their own kits; ₹3,500 if the government collected the samples and the private labs used their kits to test it; and ₹2,200 if the government collected the sample and provided the test kit as well. While the government paid these charges to the private labs, residents across Delhi were charged a flat rate of ₹4,500.“The government should have consulted with the private laboratories before capping prices; we are with the government during the crisis. The prices that have been fixed are workable. The price for kits has reduced over time. Initially, when the test prices were capped at ₹4,500, there were probably five suppliers; now we have 50 and they are offering competitive prices,” said Dr Arvind Lal, chairman of the Dr Lal PathLabs.Dr Deepak Sadhwani, head of Prognosis Laboratories, said: “The prices are fair and will allow us to work with a narrow margin. The only issue that I find would be one of billing. The order says that we can charge patients ₹800 at the collection centre or at hospitals but ₹1,200 if we go home. The charges for all samples collected by the government should have been ₹800 and all samples collected privately ₹1,200; if a phlebotomist collects a sample from home and tells me it has been collected from a hospital, I will have to believe them. And, it will be a loss for the laboratories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-lowers-cap-rt-pcr-tests-for-rs-800-at-private-labs/story-KjGKkkciQd3N3EixSFL1EK.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the lonely man||From a distance, he looks like a dot in the world. The sprawling ground has only this man. He is sitting quietly on the edge of a pavement.It’s a cold, smoggy evening. The plaza facing Dilli Gate used to be filled with clusters of pigeons in the pre-Covid times. A handful of bird-food sellers would sit here and there while a continuous stream of customers would stop by to buy grains, which they would throw at the fat birds enjoying the free buffet. But now, there are no sellers and no birds. The head of a leader’s statue, standing in the middle, is bare. In better times, there would always be a bird perched on it.The man has wrapped himself in a shawl. He is unmasked. His solemn face shows great calmness, as if he were free of all worries. Which is surprising, knowing that he recently got his rickshaw stolen.“It happened a few nights ago,” mutters Sanjay. He explains that he was sleeping, as always, on a pavement near Gandhi Nagar Market while his rickshaw was parked beside him. “When I woke up in the morning, the rickshaw was gone.”Sanjay didn’t approach the cops. “I’ll have to get a new rickshaw someday soon... I don’t know how, I have no money.” He smiles faintly and turns to look at the evening rush hour traffic moving sluggishly on the road ahead. “This city has many people... I have no friend here.”And what about his other possessions? He surely has more clothes, for instance, than what he is wearing at the moment?Sanjay’s face shows no expressions.“I have my family’s phone number.” He draws out a small paper chit from his pocket. “This is my most keemti (valuable) samaan (possession).”Sanjay himself owns no mobile. “Whenever I have to talk to my family, I go to a shopkeeper in Gandhi Nagar market, who gives me his mobile phone to talk to my wife.”Sanjay’s folks live in a village near Kanpur, in UP.“Someday I will go back home to Kanpur, or I will go back sooner if I don’t find a new rickshaw.”Responding to a query he confirms he has no cash with him “but I always get lunch and dinner... there are people who distribute food for free to the needy.”He now falls quiet while a great number of mosquitoes gather upon his head. From a distance, it appears as if the lonesome man were wearing a hazy crown.Soon it gets dark, but Sanjay continues sitting on the bird-less plaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-lonely-man/story-K3My1O4PqHZCvqAGvi9g6J.html
01-12-2020||Jaipur||RLP chief Beniwal threatens to walk out of NDA over farm laws||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief and MP, Hanuman Beniwal on Monday threatened to walk out of the Bharatiya Janata Party led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), if the three-farm laws weren’t withdrawn and recommendations of Swaminathan commission implemented. In a tweet, Beniwal appealed Union home minister Amit Shah that in view of the ongoing farmer agitation in the country, the three farm laws should be immediately withdrawn, all recommendations made by the Swaminathan Commission should be implemented, and dialogue be held with farmers in Delhi in the right spirit. In another tweet, he said, “RLP is an alliance partner of NDA but its strength is youth and farmers, if prompt action isn’t taken than in the interest of farmers, I will have to reconsider being part of the NDA.” In a video message on farmer protests, he said, the RLP has protested against the three farm laws through social media and on roads. Today have written to Shah, if laws aren’t withdrawn then will reconsider our alliance with NDA. “We are with the farmers and if required will kooch (march) to Delhi. The PM and Shah should hold dialogue with farmers, and provide space to hold dharna in the capital. If any kind of ill-treatment is done with the farmers than the farmers of entire country will be on streets to gherao Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rlp-chief-beniwal-threatens-to-walk-out-of-nda-over-farm-laws/story-KtlbUvyVKgHX1A15Jeg0LO.html
01-12-2020||Jaipur||22-yr-old cousin held for minor’s rape, murder||The 22-year-old cousin of a minor girl has been arrested for allegedly raping and murdering the eight-year-old in Rajasthan’s Pratapgarh district, police officials said on Monday.Police officials said that the accused strangulated the minor after raping her on Saturday.The girl’s father filed her missing complaint on Saturday afternoon.“The accused is the victim’s cousin. He raped her on Saturday and later killed her by strangulation. The accused then threw her body in a well of the village,” said Ravindra Pratap Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Choti Sadri police station. A post-mortem of the minor revealed that her neck was broken and grievous injuries were inflicted on her, the official said. “When the body was recovered, blood stains were found on different parts of the body,” SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/22-yr-old-cousin-held-for-minor-s-rape-murder/story-uPvSDlyKCZdkH5Vgoqo8yH.html
01-12-2020||Lucknow||2nd ‘love jihad’ case filed in UP||Uttar Pradesh Police have lodged a second case under the new law promulgated to punish forced religious conversions in India’s most populous state.This first information report (FIR), a copy of which is in HT’s possession, was filed on Monday against a man identified as Tahir Hussain and his brothers, Sagir and Munna, under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance. The complainant is a resident of Izzat Nagar police station limits in Bareilly district.The first FIR too was lodged in Bareilly on November 28, hours after the ordinance received governor Anandiben Patel’s assent. The state cabinet cleared the ordinance earlier this month, targeting what many right-wing groups term “love jihad”, which involves Muslim men marrying Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, such marriages will be declared null and void. Additional director general of police, Bareilly zone, Avinash Chandra confirmed that the FIR was registered at Izzat Nagar police station and an investigation was underway.According to the FIR, the victim has been in a relationship with Tahir Hussain since November 2019. They started living together after getting married in a temple, the FIR said. When the woman became pregnant in November this year, she urged Hussain to get their marriage registered in court.. The FIR also said that when the woman urged family members of Hussain to get their marriage registered in court, her husband and his brothers assaulted her on November 20, resulting in an abortion. In the FIR, the victim also alleged that Hussain told her that he did not want to marry her, but that he believed in “love jihad” and making a Hindu girl pregnant. The victim alleged that Hussain lured her by promising to marry her, but continued to rape her, the FIR said.The first FIR under the new law was lodged by Tikram Rathore against Owais Ahmad. Both belonged to Sharifnagar village of Bareilly district. Rathore had complained in the FIR that Ahmad was pressuring his daughter to convert to Islam. They were not married, but had known each other from their college days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/2nd-love-jihad-case-filed-in-up/story-yVBUc9xMU9K1WSDVGXoQ0I.html
01-12-2020||Bhopal||Muslim man held in MP for ‘forcing’ wife to adopt Islam||A 28-year-old Muslim man was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Shahdol district on Monday for allegedly forcing his wife to adopt Islamic practices, local police said. The accused, 28-year-old Irshad Khan was arrested under sections 3, 4 and 5 of the 1968 Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act 1968 and section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (harassment or cruelty), said Mukesh Bais, additional superintendent of police. “The 27-year-old woman lodged a complaint on Sunday that she married Irshad Khan in 2018 but after two years, Khan started pressurising her to read Namaz and adapt to the Islam culture. When the woman refused to do so, Khan started physically harassing her,” said the ASP. Khan rejected the charges and said his wife was giving a communal taint to a personal issue .”Before our marriage, the woman had given a statement before the magistrate that she was aware of my religion and she wanted to marry me. We had a Nikah but now she is levelling baseless charges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/muslim-man-held-in-mp-for-forcing-wife-to-adopt-islam/story-4IJKrZcDCSWComuBebT79K.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Modern Housing Complex residents decry poor sanitation, faulty streetlights||Residents of Modern Housing Complex (MHC) in Manimajra are complaining of poor sanitation in their area and problems due to non-functioning streetlights.The resident welfare association (RWA) has written to the UT adviser and the municipal corporation commissioner regarding this. President of the RWA, Colonel (retd) Gursewak Singh, said, “Even after safai karamcharis ended their strike, hardly any worker has come to our area.”Singh added that there was a dearth of safai karamcharis in their area. “A few years earlier, MHC was provided with 48 workers. Today their strength has been reduced to 30 while their area of responsibility has been increased to include Govindpura and Marriwalla town as well as the new vendor market.”General secretary of the RWA SA Qureshi added, “Even streetlights are not functioning properly and at night many patches of the area are completely dark. There is a lack of coordination among the MC, the administration and a private company over their upkeep. One agency needs to be made responsible and there needs to be one window for complaints.” The local area councillor here, Jagtar Singh Dhillon, who is also the deputy mayor of the MC, said, “From among the 30 sanitation workers, some of them have gone on leave due to Covid. I will raise this issue in the House that all 48 designated for this area be reconstituted.” He added that he will also speak to the residents regarding the streetlights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/modern-housing-complex-residents-decry-poor-sanitation-faulty-streetlights/story-lQ6YjRZ5FWLTRSWk3VoGkL.html
01-12-2020||City||Transporters, commuters on the receiving end of farmers’ protest||The continued blockade of the main highways connecting several northern states to the national capital Delhi has left commuters high and dry.Due to the farmers’ indefinite protests, most of the regular commuters are avoiding travelling to Delhi, and those who have no other option, are facing several difficulties in reaching the National Capital. Hundreds of goods carriers are lined up on the slip roads of NH-44 as the drivers are waiting for the blockade to be lifted to resume their journey. “We were taking ply-boards to Delhi from Yamunanagar. We have decided to wait here as it is difficult to travel Delhi due to the protests,” said Gurdial Singh, a truck driver sitting on a roadside dhaba near Karnal.Since there is no clarity on how long the blockade of the two main highways of NH 1 and NH 10 will continue, people are hesitant to take these routes.“On a regular day, over 40,000 vehicles pass the NH-44. But in the last three days, there has been a 50% decline in the movement of vehicles on this highway,” said an employee of Bastara toll plaza, on the condition of anonymity.He said that not only private vehicles, commercial vehicles have also been affected due to the blockade on Haryana-Delhi border.With the state government banning the movement of roadways’ buses from Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, especially at a time when the movement of trains is already restricted due to the pandemic, the regular travelers are the most affected. “Yes there is a big impact of this blockade on small traders, especially the traders of electronics goods as most electronics items come from Delhi,” said Harish Dhawan an electronics shopkeeper from Yamunanagar.Police officials deputed to monitor the traffic on highways said that due to the blockade of NH 1 from Rai in Sonepat to Singhu border, most commuters are traveling via Eastern Peripheral Expressway and Kundli Manesar Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/transporters-commuters-on-the-receiving-end-of-farmers-protest/story-A4v0acdG4viE4w0BI0QTFM.html
01-12-2020||City||Ready for the long haul, say farmers at Haryana-Delhi borders||Farmers gathered at the Tikri and Kundli-Singhu borders for the last five days say they are ready for the long battle against the government if their demands are not met.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, farmer leaders said there is no scope for talks with the Union government until their fellows sitting at Burari ground are not freed. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni)’s Haryana unit chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “Earlier, the Union government had asked us to appear for talks on a conditional basis but now they are calling for unconditional talks. The government’s intention is not clear as they are not giving us anything on paper. The Prime Minister should listen to farmers’ Mann Ki Baat.”Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said this is not an agitation of Punjab farmers alone. “Farmers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Kerala and other states are also joining our protest. The government is making all attempts to break this agitation and even calling us middlemen. We will appear for a dialogue only after a meeting with all unions from every state,” added Yadav.The farm leaders also urged Haryana residents to block all routes to Delhi so as to stop the supply of essential goods.“We want to apologise to the residents of Delhi for planning to stop the supply of essential items. But our problem will be looked into only if we stop the supply of vegetables, milk and other goods,” the farm leaders said.Farmers have currently blocked national highway-71 near Safiyabad by parking their tractors in the middle of the road, besides another highway which connects Delhi via Gurugram. Jhajjar police have issued an advisory for commuters looking to reach Delhi. They have been asked to come via Najafgarh from Bahadurgarh, from Badsa to Ghalibpur, and via Faruknagar in Gurugram to Delhi. People have been asked to avoid the Tikri border completely.Earlier in the day, farmers offered prayers on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti and distributed ‘prasad’ among each other and security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ready-for-the-long-haul-say-farmers-at-haryana-delhi-borders/story-efDsg6qD3WMqKoVQDwX42I.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Free speech doesn’t entitle a person to make derogatory remarks: HC||Free speech doesn’t entitle a person to make derogatory remarks against any community or gender, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said.The high court bench of justice Alka Sarin dismissed the bail plea of a Hisar resident booked for controversial posts allegedly hurting religious sentiments and sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 registered in Hansi area of Hisar on August 13.“The Court is refraining itself from commenting on the nature of the posts made by the petitioner herein at this stage. Suffice it to say that freedom of speech does not entitle a person to make derogatory remarks/posts against any community or gender,” the bench of justice Sarin said dismissed the bail plea.The petitioner, Vijender Kumar had argued that charges of hurting religious sentiments are not made out. Also he is in custody since September 24, hence, be granted bail. The complaint against him was lodged by one Savita Kajal and Kuldeep Bhukkal alleging that Savita Kajal had uploaded a post of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar on her Facebook ID following which the accused made insulting and objectionable comments on the post to create disharmony in the society. He was also accused of using filthy language and making objectionable comments against females belonging to scheduled castes and Muslim women.The police had told court that the complainants produced a photocopy of the derogatory comments posted by him on Facebook, a copy of the same was given to the court as well. The court observed that a perusal of the screenshots of the said posts prima facie reveals that the posts are not only derogatory in nature but are made against particular communities. In fact, the petitioner along with the plea has appended as just one of the posts whereas a number of posts as made by him, which are part of the status report submitted by the police, the bench said dismissing the bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/free-speech-doesn-t-entitle-a-person-to-make-derogatory-remarks-hc/story-ECL0qnfHebqi6FWCrNFKaN.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Flexibility for students: PEC senate to discuss detailed curriculum||With Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, deemed to be a university, planning to offer flexibility to undergraduate engineering students while choosing subjects apart from their core subjects, the detailed curriculum for the December batch will be discussed in the next meeting of PEC senate.PEC senate meet is scheduled to meet this week. The flexibility in curriculum for undergraduate (UG) students was also discussed in the last meeting of senate wherein credits and rough outline were approved. For the effective adoption of this choice-based credit system, PEC has decided to introduce several new courses for UG engineering students.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We will now specify the courses and curriculum for the first-year students. We have already held several meetings and now, the matter will be taken up in the next meeting of the senate.”At present, PEC offers eight BTech courses and 14 MTech courses to over 3,000 students. Other than the regular engineering subjects, PEC will offer credit-based elective courses in humanities and social sciences to the December batch.To finalise the subjects, several panels were constituted during the last meeting of the senate.The plan to introduce new courses is being carried out in line with the provisions of the New Education Policy 2020. As per the plan, students will be given options to choose subjects other than their core subjects in the third and fourth year of the undergraduate courses.Credit break-up for BTechAccording to the proposed credit break-up for the BTech programme that was tabled in the last senate meeting, all curricular components will have 160 credits for those who do not opt for major or minor specialisations; for those who do, grand total will be of 176.Institute core courses will carry 36 credits; humanities, communication and management elective courses will have a total of 12 credits; department core courses will carry 40 credits; and the department elective courses will have 20 credits. Besides this, the institute’s open electives will carry a total credit of 24. For internship and non-academic courses, credits will be 18 and 10, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/flexibility-for-students-pec-senate-to-discuss-detailed-curriculum/story-Z7eZV6dCm5AfqB36mBQIjM.html
01-12-2020||City||Covid cases jump 34% in November in Panchkula||With 18 new cases reported on Monday, Panchkula district’s tally of Covid-19 infections in November reached 1,547, which is 17.7% of the total caseload (8,697).As compared to 1,158 cases in October, a rise of 34% was seen in November. As far as deaths are concerned, November witnessed a dip in fatalities with Panchkula logging 14 deaths, 11% of the total death toll (127) reported so far. In October, 27 deaths were reported. Covid-19 nodal officer for Panchkula district, Dr Rajiv Narwal, said, “Due of the festive season, people didn’t follow Covid-19 norms like wearing masks and ensuring social distancing. They did not even come for testing, which allowed the infection to spread faster. Winter is also one of the reasons.”He said the health department has increased sampling. “Daily, 900-1,000 samples are taken and on Saturday, the number was more than 3,000. The purpose is to trace the hidden cases, which are now emerging,” he said. The rise in Covid cases is also causing troubles for those in need of beds. “Bed occupancy is increasing at private medical facilities. Private hospitals are almost full and in another one week, so will the civil hospital,” Narwal said, adding that in such circumstances, a “surge plan” will be implemented, wherein 150 beds out of 300 kept for non-Covid ailments will also be used for Covid patients.The weekly report of new cases shows a spike in the second week of November. However, cases witnessed a gradual decline by the fourth week. While 293 cases were reported in the first week, the count increased to 419 by second week, declined a bit to 408 in the third week and to 345 by the fourth week. The last two days of November witnessed 82 cases.Till date, Panchkula has registered 8,697 total cases, out of which 487 are active, while 127 people have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-jump-34-in-november-in-panchkula/story-K167DmVsr8jZvx3DrOOr3L.html
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC’s ₹20-crore public toilet renovation project hits dead end||The dilapidated condition of public toilets, which fall under the ambit of Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), is unlikely to improve in the near future.First, the UT administration refused to fund the ₹20-crore project involving construction of 29 new toilets and renovation of 236 existing ones. Now, with even the MC General House saying no to foot the bill for the time being, the ambitious project has hit a dead end.The MC had brought an agenda in the November 27 General House meeting seeking its approval for the release of funds sought for the project. The councillors, however, deferred the issue to “a more appropriate time in future”. The MC is facing acute fund crunch and struggling to meet its routine expenditure like paying of employees’ salaries.In bad shapeThe public toilets in many residential and market areas, constructed a long time ago, are in urgent need of renovation. Charanjiv Singh, chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “The toilets require renovation on priority basis. Some having been built several years ago have broken tiles, or water leaking from the roof, or in general are in bad condition. We have taken up the issue with the MC and are pushing for renovation work to be taken up as soon as possible.”The condition of the public toilets is even worse in the city’s colonies and villages. There are no local maintenance committees in place for their routine upkeep.In addition to improving the condition of the toilets, the MC was also hoping to generate revenue through advertisements in the better-designed spaces, which could have made the structures financially self-sustainable.“One of the necessary infrastructure and regulatory conditions added this year in the ODF++ protocol, under the Swachh Bharat Mission, stipulates that there should be a sustainable financing mechanism from public toilets. MC has to make earnest efforts towards generating revenue from toilet premises. Space has to be earmarked for advertising,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO).Pinning hopes on CSRMaheshinder Singh Sidhu, councillor and member of the sanitation committee, said, “We have suggested that the MC should explore the option of generating funds under the smart city project. The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has already constructed some public toilets in the city.”Though the MC commissioner and chief executive officer KK Yadav said CSCL will work on the House’s suggestion, he added that it had exhausted its funds on the issue.The House also suggested that the MC could also consider approaching business houses under corporate social responsibility (CSR). “Some companies have earlier contributed to some of the projects and the MC can again seek their help,” Sidhu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-s-20-crore-public-toilet-renovation-project-hits-dead-end/story-K6ityZllt2A6loBBzUoR8H.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 situation under control, need to watch till mid-December: Mumbai civic body||A rise in infections, without a sharp spike, suggests the Covid-19 situation is in control post Diwali, say Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, however, insisting the need to watch it till mid-December. Between November 1 and 28, 23,476 cases were reported, compared to 46,620 cases during the same period in October. According to data, 3.68 lakh tests were conducted between October 1 and 28, compared to 3.48 lakh tests in the same period during November. In the same period, the case positivity rate came down from 12% to 6%. The daily number of Covid-19 cases, however, has risen to 1,000, from the range of 500 earlier this month before Diwali. “In the past 15 days, the testing has gone up, and we have also witnessed a little surge in the daily cases being reported. With the increase in testing, we will have to wait and watch at least till December 15 to understand better the post-Diwali surge,” a BMC official said. Further, the fatality rate has come down from October 1 to 28 (1,224 deaths), to 529 during the same period during November. According to BMC officials, the testing had gone down in November in the city owing to Diwali and festive mood. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “The testing went down in first half of November, but has improved in the second half. The next few weeks are crucial as we aim to maximise testing by setting up 244 testing centres and taking other initiatives to test citizens. Apart from this, our surveillance at railway stations has increased. We are testing BEST drivers, offices, street vendors, which has pushed up the testing count.” However, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based doctor, said, “Cases might have gone down because testing has also gone down. The positivity rate may have gone down due to increased use of rapid antigen kits, which have lower positivity rate in comparison to RT-PCR kits. I do not feel there is any period in the coming days that is crucial. All I can say that until we have a vaccine, everything is crucial. We have to continue with our Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.” Meanwhile, on Monday, the city reported 646 new cases, taking the tally to 283,467; 19 deaths took the toll to 10,884. Further, 256,303 patients have been discharged . The city’s discharge rate is 90.41%. The city has 15,473 active cases in Mumbai and fatality rate is 3.83%. Dharavi recorded only nine new cases. Dharavi’s tally is 3,692, of whom 3,361 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-situation-under-control-need-to-watch-till-mid-december-mumbai-civic-body/story-WTefJxsGXKIM9Nt3j6upYN.html
01-12-2020||City||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi parties to contest against BJP in polls for 6 MLC seats today||The elections for six legislative Council seats from the graduates, teachers and local bodies’ constituencies will be held on Tuesday, while the counting of votes will take place on Thursday. The elections assume great significance as the three ruling parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – are contesting the polls together against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).There are three seats from the graduates’ constituencies (Aurangabad, Pune and Nagpur), two from teachers’ constituencies (Pune and Amravati), and one from the local bodies’ constituency in Dhule-Nandurbar that will go for polls on Tuesday. In the Nagpur and Pune graduates’ constituencies, there is a direct fight between the MVA and BJP candidates. While in the Aurangabad constituency, NCP candidate Satish Chavan has an edge over his rival candidates, in Dhule-Nandurbar, BJP’s Amrish Patel is in a ‘safe position’, their respective party insiders have said. In the Amravati teachers’ constituency, Sena’s Shrikant Deshpande, who is the sitting legislator, has an edge over other candidates. There are around 2.65 lakh voters in the Nagpur graduates’ constituency, while 19 candidates are in the fray from here. In Pune, around 4.26 lakh graduates would cast their ballot for 62 candidates. In Aurangabad, there are 3.73 lakh voters and 35 candidates. The Amravati and Pune teachers’ constituencies have 35,622 and 72,545 teachers as voters respectively.For the Dhule-Nandurbar seat, 437 voters, including legislators and elected representatives of local self-governing bodies, will cast their votes. The by-election was necessitated after Congress legislator Amrish Patel quit the party to join BJP last year in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-parties-to-contest-against-bjp-in-polls-for-6-mlc-seats-today/story-axJe6I9epBiSpDRH87IEkK.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP planning to shift Bollywood to Uttar Pradesh, says Congress||In the wake of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s proposed Mumbai visit later this week, the Congress has alleged it as Bharatiya Janata Party’s conspiracy to take Bollywood away to the northern state from Mumbai. The Congress has also alleged that there was possibility of threats to industrialists and film producers about shifting their base to Uttar Pradesh.Sachin Sawant, Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson, said that like Prime Minister Narendra Modi shifted the International Finance Services Centre to Gujarat from Mumbai, the UP CM is trying to take Bollywood away from Mumbai. “Yogiji is meeting industrialists and producers in Mumbai for investment in UP. The BJP has been trying to create fear in Bollywood by using central investigating agencies like the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for the past few months. UP CM Yogi has been on the forefront to defame Maharashtra with the help of the Central government. This is a systematic attempt of reducing the importance of Mumbai, the financial capital of the country. The Thackeray government should take steps to protect the Bollywood from the conspiracy,” he said. Sawant said the UP CM should put in efforts to make the environment in his state conducive for investment instead of conspiring destabilising other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-planning-to-shift-bollywood-to-uttar-pradesh-says-congress/story-evZPQ9V8EB8x9wCS44odxJ.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body records 3% positivity rate at free Covid-19 testing centres||The 244 free Covid-19 testing centres started by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are getting good response. Since its inauguration in November first week, more than one lakh citizens have voluntarily gotten themselves tested, of whom 3% were found to carry the pathogen of Covid-19. With the intention to bring testing facilities to the doorsteps of the citizen, the civic body started centre across all 24 wards. The addresses of the centres can be accessed by calling the toll free number — 1916 — run by BMC’s main control room, and on the dedicated Covid-19 website. The centre conducts both reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen tests.Any individual who develops symptoms of Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, or has come in contact with an infected patient can undertake undergo the tests at these centres free of cost.Classical Covid-19 symptoms include fever, cough, cold, difficulty in breathing and pneumonia.“Individuals can walk-in to any nearby centre and undergo the test which is free of cost. This has encouraged people to undergo tests. But we have seen that the positivity rate is only 3%, which is much lesser than the city’s cumulative positivity rate,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Due to the rise in the number of daily Covid-19 testing which has increased to over 17,000, the positivity rate has dropped from 16% to 15% on November 28. Health activists have welcomed the civic body’s initiative. Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist, said, “Either civic hospitals, which provide free testing, were far off or individuals couldn’t afford the expenses at private laboratories. So, this has given an affordable solution to the people near their houses.”The state government has already reduced the rates of tests conducted at private laboratories. A test at a private lab now costs ₹1,400 while a sample taken from home is charged ₹1,800.In the next phase, BMC will start testing domestic maids, security guards, delivery boys who are most exposed, and therefore, vulnerable to the public and can turn into super spreaders. “We have already started testing public vehicle drivers along with vegetable vendors,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-records-3-positivity-rate-at-free-covid-19-testing-centres/story-el43BOq2VXLbhpuV7q7ZsI.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||HIV screening drops by 65% amid Covid-19 pandemic: Mumbai District AIDS Control Society||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the screening for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has taken a back seat. On the eve of the World Aids Day, observed on December 1, data shared by the Mumbai District AIDS Control Society (MDACS) has revealed that between April and October, there has been a decline of around 65% in the tests conducted for HIV infection in the city as compared to the pre-pandemic period. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, MDACS used to screen more than 32,000 people, including suspected patients and individuals from groups vulnerable to infection such as truck drivers, sex workers, prisoners, members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, for HIV infections every month. However, in the past seven months, MDACS has tested only around 11,000 people each month for the virus. Between April and October, a total of 83,190 people have been tested for HIV, of whom, 803 have been found infected with the virus. “The outpatient departments (OPDs) in hospitals were closed in the first three months of the lockdown. Only the anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centres and fever clinics were open. Due to the lockdown, people couldn’t visit hospitals, which led to delay in screening,” said Dr Srikala Acharya, additional project director, MDACS, adding that after the relaxation of the lockdown norms, the situation has gotten better.Raising concerns over the issue, health activists have said that a delay in diagnosis can be life threatening for people living with HIV. “Due to the pandemic, the screening of suspected patients has largely been affected. But the civic-body can’t be held responsible for it. Generally, when a person develops symptoms, they go to a hospital. After preliminary examination, doctors prescribe them for the test. During the lockdown, patients couldn’t go to hospitals. Also, many avoided going to hospitals due to the fear of contracting Covid-19 infection too,” said Ganesh Acharya, who is an HIV activist. Decline in new HIV infections in 5 yearsThe city’s fight against HIV is showing results as the number of patients diagnosed with the virus has decreased drastically in the past five years.In 2015-16, as many as 7,592 new patients with HIV infection were diagnosed. However, despite increasing the annual testing from 2.8 lakh in 2015-16 to 4.8 lakh in 2019-20, the number of newly infected patients fell to 4,473.HIV causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a condition that weakens the body’s ability to fight infections. The virus can be transmitted through contact with infected blood, semen or vaginal fluids.So far, there is no cure for the disease. But if patients follow the antiretroviral regimens (ARVs), it can drastically lead to slowing of the progress of the illness by repairing the body’s immunity system.As per MDACS, unprotected sex is the main reason for the transmission of the virus among people.The society has started a new campaign named ‘Mitawaa’ for adolescents living with HIV.“Often children of HIV-infected parents are born with the infection. Even though we start their medicines from the first day of their birth, they begin refusing it once they start growing up. Also, they slip into depression. So we have decided to counsel the infected children regularly at ART centres,” said Dr Acharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hiv-screening-in-mumbai-drops-by-65-amid-covid-19-pandemic-mumbai-district-aids-control-society/story-ASA856horKM885vzhrvAcO.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader from south Mumbai announces azaan contest; BJP questions party over Hindutva||Shiv Sena’s south Mumbai zonal head (vibhag pramukh) Pandurang Sakpal’s announcement to hold azaan chanting competition – on the lines of Bhagvad Gita chanting competition – has stirred a controversy, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing its ally-turned-enemy Sena of shedding Hindutva, advocated by the late Bal Thackeray, for the sake of vote politics. Azaan is the call to ritual prayer made by muezzin from the minaret of a mosque. Sakpal, who is believed to be close confidant of party’s chief spokesperson and MP Sanjay Raut, announced the competition for school-going Muslim students from south Mumbai. He said azaan chanting sounds melodious and he always has been curious about it. “Many students from the community chant azaan very skilfully. I think the competition is first-of-its-kind. It is an age-old tradition among Muslims and nobody should oppose it. Azaan is as holy as mahaarati among Hindus,” he said. He said the competition was being organised by the Shiv Sena and prizes will be given out to the winners selected by a panel of maulanas. The BJP, however, attacked the Sena for “deviating from its ideology after forging an alliance with the Congress for the sake of power”. Leader of Opposition in legislative Council and party leader Pravin Darekar said, “Sakpal has given Balasaheb Thackeray’s reference while advocating his attempt of appeasement of Muslims. Balasaheb has always targeted minorities for their ideology. He had opposed the use of loudspeakers in masjids for namaaz. Today, the party has messed with Hindutva for the sake of vote bank. Sakpal is known to be a close confidant of Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who has been compromising with the fundamental ideology of the party just to save the government from falling.” After the backlash and criticism, Sakpal issued a statement in the evening stating, “The competition was organised by Foundation For You, one of the NGOs in Mumbadevi constituency. After the officebearer approached me, I told them to not hold the competition by congregating children as it would have led to violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. Following it, they decided to hold it online. There was no religious or political aspect to it and I do request all to not politicise it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-leader-from-south-mumbai-announces-azaan-contest-bjp-questions-party-over-hindutva/story-a3ZG0oBjZOhOBxZXILpfMI.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||As daily Covid-19 cases decline, 10k+ hospital beds free in Delhi||With the Delhi government having increased the number of beds earmarked for the treatment of patients with Covid-19 and the number of daily cases on the decline, 10,596 Covid-19 beds were vacant in hospitals across the city, according to Monday’s health bulletin. On Monday, Delhi reported 3,726 new cases and 108 deaths due to Covid-19. The number of deaths in a single day crossed the 100-mark again after five days, with 108 fatalities on the day. Even as tests dropped on Monday’s bulletin, which logs data from the previous day, on account of the weekend, the positivity rate stayed lower than 8%, in a sign that the third wave of infections may be on the wane in the Capital.Of 50,670 tests conducted on Sunday, more than half (52.6%) used the more accurate RT-PCR method, and of the total samples collected, 7.35% tested positive. This is the first time since the cheaper and faster alternative rapid antigen test had been deployed in mid-June that the ratio has tipped in favour of RT-PCR tests. “An RT-PCR is a much more sensitive test, and is likely to pick up more cases than the rapid antigen test. It is good that the government is scaling up the molecular tests, but there will always be some people — especially those asymptomatic — who will get missed out. The best way to prevent infections is to assume everyone has it and behave accordingly — wear masks, maintain social distance, and wash hands frequently. There could be an increase in cases as the temperature drop because people are likely to huddle up indoors increasing the opportunity for transmission,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The overall number of hospitalisations on Sunday dropped to 8,098 across hospitals in the Capital. As on Monday evening, only 43% of all Covid-19 beds were occupied and almost 70% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds were occupied, as per the government’s Delhi Corona app. The ICU occupancy had gone up to 86%, prompting the government to ask its own hospitals to increase ICU beds as well as reserving 80% ICU beds in around 75 big hospitals in the city. “The number of new admissions have started going down, especially those patients arriving in a serious condition,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi’s largest Covid-19 treatment facility. “The disease is unpredictable, but with so many people having had the infection, it is unlikely we will see such a huge surge in cases. New cases are likely to be reported from smaller pockets in the city where people haven’t had the infection so far,” he said. It will take some time for these numbers to reflect in one of the big private hospitals. “Our ICUs are still running at capacity and even the wards are full. This is because we had long waiting lists of people and we get patients referred from smaller centres as well. However, seeing that the number of cases in the city are on the decline, it is likely that we will start seeing the decline in some time too,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis, Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-daily-covid-19-cases-decline-10k-hospital-beds-free-in-delhi/story-TQQFLmACmE1xBx9SyrSogM.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Pollution in November 2020 up from last year, shows CPCB data||The average pollution levels this November, when air quality was a dip due to a combination of factors such as farm fires, firecracker bursting on Diwali and adverse meteorological conditions, were higher than last year during the same time.An analysis of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) air quality data shows that the monthly average air quality index (AQI) this November was 327.9, as compared to 312.2 in November 2019. However, it was slightly better than the monthly average of 334.9 in 2018, 360.93 in 2017 and 374.06 in 2016.This November saw nine ‘severe’ air quality days, as compared to seven last year. Also this year, Delhi had six consecutive ‘severe’ days from November 5-10, the longest ‘severe’ spell seen in the city since 2016. Besides, only two ‘moderate’ air days were recorded this year -- November 17 (171) and November 27 (137). In November 2019, three ‘moderate’ days were seen -- November 27 (134), November 28 (106), November 30 (193) -- as well as a ‘satisfactory’ day (84) on November 29. While the year 2018 saw one ‘moderate’ day on November 4 with an AQI reading of 171, the years 2017 and 2016 did not record a single ‘moderate’ day.On Monday, the average air quality index (AQI) plunged to ‘very poor’ after remaining in the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ range over the past three days. The average AQI on Sunday was 256. It was 231 on Saturday and 137 on Friday.According to experts, a combination of factors playing up at the same time was behind the high pollution levels this November, including a prolonged and intensive stubble burning season that coincided with firecracker bursting and unfavourable meteorological conditions.“This year, farm fires started early on and continued till late November. The number of fires was much higher than last year. Besides, last year, Diwali was early (October 27) as compared to this year (November 14). This season starting from October itself was drier, as compared to last year. Only one instance of rainfall was seen this November, which helped clear the post-Diwali pollution. All these factors combined contributed to higher particulate matter (PM) concentration this time,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).V K Soni of the India Meteorological department’s environment research centre, said this October -November, the number of fire counts were at least 50% more than last year. Besides, a late Diwali impacted the air quality. “All these factors, with meteorological conditions not being favourable for dispersal at the same time, did not allow the pollutants accumulated in the air to disperse. Since the accumulation was higher, it took longer to disperse, resulting in a long spell of bad air,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pollution-in-november-2020-up-from-last-year-shows-cpcb-data/story-34vLB8FK1dAgcFazV69jEJ.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Tihar undertrial stabbed to death after argument over watching TV||A 23-year-old undertrial prisoner at Tihar jail was stabbed to death by three others on Monday morning after an argument over watching television the previous day. Police said the man was stabbed multiple times with an improvised sharp weapon. The prisoner who died was identified as Dilsher, a resident of Jahangirpuri, who was lodged in jail number three and was under trial in a murder case. He was in jail since June 11, 2019.Police said they got information around 9:30 am that an under trial prisoner who was attacked by three others following a quarrel was pronounced dead at the central jail hospital at 7.25 am.Preliminary enquiry revealed Dilsher and the three men had fought on Sunday after an argument over watching television. “The argument was resolved on Sunday by other prisoners and jail staff. On Monday morning, the trio found Dilsher alone and attacked him with a sharp, improvised metallic weapon and stabbed him multiple times. Other prisoners alerted the jail staff. Dilsher was rushed to a hospital inside the jail where he was pronounced dead. The matter was reported to the local police,” said a senior police officer who wished not to be named. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said all three prisoners have been booked for murder. “The crime spot was inspected. Post-mortem reports of the man are awaited,” he said.Sandeep Goel, director general, Delhi prisons, said Dilsher was an undertrial prisoner lodged in a murder case. “His family members were informed and legal action is being taken,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tihar-undertrial-stabbed-to-death-after-argument-over-watching-tv/story-9FgL4P7QHPc9uD3yJ7dozM.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Declare results of those who were marked zero in OBE, HC tells DU||The Delhi high court has directed the Delhi University to declare results on or before December 20 of several final-year undergraduate students who had alleged that they were either marked absent, or given zero entirely in their open book examination. The court said the students must submit their application on or before November 30, in writing to the respective nodal officer in the college and inform them about the date of submission of the answer script.On November 26, while hearing a plea seeking declaration of the results, the Delhi University told the court that the students had shared answer sheets through Google Drive and they were not available with the centralised IT department as the drives required access. Hence, such students were marked absent or zero marks were awarded.The varsity told justice Pratibha M Singh that when students informed that the answer scripts were sent to the nodal officers, a notification was issued on November 19 by the Dean (Examinations) asking such students to write to the respective nodal officer in the college and inform the about the date of submission of the answer script.“It is only in the case of such students that the nodal officer would have to get the answer script evaluated and have the result of the students sent to the EDP Cell of the examination wing,” the university said.On specific query from the court, Professor DS Rawat, Dean of Examination, told the court that the evaluation of these answer scripts would have to be done immediately. He assured the court that now a specific time limit would be prescribed to conclude the evaluation, considering that almost 3-4% of students are affected, who have been either marked absent or whose result has been declared as zero. However, no date has been fixed for the declaration of their result.Following this, the court said, “Considering the timelines as communicated by Prof Rawat, it is directed that, insofar as such students who have already written to the nodal officer and brought it to their notice that they have been was marked absent or their result is awaited/declared zero, if they submit their application in terms of the November 19 notification on or before November 30, 2020, to the respective nodal officers in their colleges, their result would be declared on or before December 20, 2020”.The court directed that those students who find any discrepancy in their results can apply to the nodal officers by December 10 and within 15 days, thereafter, their results shall also be declared. The judge also asked DU to file an affidavit placing on record the course-wise list of number of students who have been marked absent/zero and whose result has now been converted to ‘awaited’ category before the next date of hearing.The high court was hearing various students’ grievances that the results of their final year exams, which were conducted in August, have not been declared yet and due to which they are unable to join higher studies. The students had also moved the court on the erroneous result given to them by the University.During the hearing, the single judge bench was informed by the university that it had declared 75 Undergraduate courses results and only four are remaining. 38 results of post graduate courses have been also declared and only 29 are pending. All these results are likely to be declared by November 30.It also said that both the two issues of students marked absent or given zero and the deadline to declare the results is already being considered by a division bench. The court posted the matter for further hearing on December 22.On November 24, the bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad had said that the varsity’s “neck is on board” if it does not meet the deadline of November 30 to declare the results of the final year undergraduate students while hearing a plea seeking a declaration of the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/declare-results-of-those-who-were-marked-zero-in-obe-hc-tells-du/story-9rTb60PAPAKBGhIHWw9cWL.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||No toilets, a sanitation challenge at farmer agitation sites in Delhi||Farmers camping at Delhi’s borders may have stacked ration for months even as they ready themselves potentially for the long haul but they face one problem, toilets.With no toilets made available for them at the city’s borders, the farmers are compelled to either use empty plots and agricultural fields or are at the mercy of the goodwill of local residents, fuel stations owners and a few businesses that have remained open around them.While bathing and drinking water has not been a major concern for most of them, using the toilets has been.“Local residents have offered their home toilets for our use. Some residents gave us their phone numbers in case any of us needed to use the washrooms. But we know their limitations. After all, the regular houses only have 500-litre water tanks and we are thousands,” said Jasjeet Singh, a Faridkot farmer camping at the Tikri Border.The farmers here did manage to convince a local hospital to let them use the toilets, but that is hardly enough.“While travelling to Delhi, we could find hotels and restaurants that let us use their facilities, but the options around here are limited,” said Poorn Singh, a farmer from Fazilka in Punjab.The farmers, however, have found ample support from fuel station owners around the protest site. Neeraj Verma, accountant at the last fuel station in Delhi, on the Tikri route towards Bahadurgarh, said two toilets have been opened up for the farmers.“We have almost no sale for the last four days, but we have thrown open our toilets for them. But most people are forced to relieve themselves in the fields around,” said Verma.The situation was slightly better at the Singhu Border where more residents were willing to open their gates for the farmers.“If I were protesting for my rights, I would have wanted toilets. So, I have been allowing the farmers to use my facility and have been refilling the overhead tank multiple times a day to ensure no one visiting my home is turned away,” said Bharat Sharma, who lives near the Singhu Border.Farmers some residents even offered to wash their clothes. “We politely refused their offer. This is winter and we can manage with the same set of clothes without troubling them,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer from Ropar.Some locals at Singhu Border have even drawn a pipe from their homes to the protest site and have been using their motors to supply water.Yet, there were many who complained about farmers using the fields and plots to relieve themselves. “They say they plan to continue their protest for weeks and months. The neighbourhood will get unlivable in a few days,” complained a local shopkeeper at Singhu Border.There is no arrangement by the administration to set up toilets at the protest sites.A senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified, said while much of these protest sites are on the Haryana side of the border, there were no plans to set up toilets there. “There are all arrangements at the Burari ground,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-toilets-a-sanitation-challenge-at-farmer-agitation-sites-in-delhi/story-fQxnPKxrgtp2Y7wDksRkOJ.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Sombre Gurpurab as farmers wait at Capital’s borders||If they were in their villages on Guru Nanak Jayanti on Monday, the Sikh farmers protesting against new farm laws at Delhi’s borders would have begun the day by wearing new clothes, visiting the local Gurdwara, reading the holy scripture, organising a langar (community kitchen) and ended the festive day by lighting lamps. At the protest sites, however, the farmers could perform only a few of these rituals and in a very limited way -- some couldn’t even find water to bathe -- but that did little to dampen their mood. A few actually managed to visit a Gurdwara. “Yes, we missed the nagar kirtan (processional singing of hymns), during which we would travel around our villages with the Guru Granth Sahib decked nicely on a vehicle ahead of us. But there we would have celebrated it only with a few hundred other villagers. Here, we have the entire Punjab and people from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for company,” Jagtar Singh, a Patiala farmer camping at Delhi’s Singhu Border, said, summing up the general mood. In the morning, at Singhu and Tikri borders, the farmers either stood in large groups or sat in their tractors and trolleys to do paath (reading of the holy text). That was followed by the distribution of prashad, and then a langar was organised even as a holy discourse was broadcast on loudspeakers.“If we were back home, we would have had a sumptuous langar comprising of kheer, pakode, many varieties of sweets, and other dishes,” said Shamsher Singh, a farmer from Amritsar. At the two border points, however, the langar had fewer options with the menu consisting of rice, roti, dal, vegetable and halwa.There are two Gurdwaras close to the Singhu border on the Delhi side. A few farmers who entered Delhi via internal roads also made it to the Gurdwaras. “I haven’t missed a Gurdwara visit on this day ever since I was a child. I didn’t miss it this time either,” said Jasjeet Singh, a farmer from Faridkot, who took a bath, offered prayers and ate at the langar of the Dera Sant Baba Resham Singh Ji Gurdwara, about two kilometres from the Singhu border. The Gurdwara authorities chose to downplay visits by the protesting farmer, lest they draw unnecessary attention. “There were many devotees we have never seen before, but we don’t ask questions of anyone visiting this Gurdwara,” said an official who didn’t reveal his identity.The Sikh farmers at the Tikri Border weren’t lucky enough to find a Gurdwara in close proximity.Farmers assembled at the Burari ground too had to be content with limited celebrations at the venue although they danced and sang together to celebrate the festive day. “We didn’t have the Guru Granth Saahib with us, but we found new people to celebrate the festival with,” said Jasvinder Singh, a farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri in UP. Many Sikh farmers said they had woken up on the festive day by 4-5 am to bathe and wear fresh clothes. “Our Diwali and Dussehra, too, was lost in the protests. So we were not very optimistic about celebrating Guru Nanak Jayanti with our families. But I had kept aside a pair of clean clothes for the day,” said Inderjeet Singh, a farmer from Tarn Taran. While farmers at the Singhu border had sufficient water to bathe, many at the Tikri border struggled to find water. Jasjeet Singh, a farmer from Faridkot, said that he decided to give the prayers a miss as he hadn’t taken a bath or changed his clothes for the past week. “But we’ll light lamps along the police barricades and outside our trucks at night. We’ll also light our vehicle headlamps and indicators at night to celebrate the festival,” he said.Sikhs in Delhi and Haryana brought milk, fresh fruits and even lamps and battery-operated lights for the farmers. “This time I have decided to celebrate the festival with my farmer brothers,” said Jagtar Singh, a Sikh businessman from Rohini in Delhi.Farmers said they missed being with their families on the festive occasion, but it was a small sacrifice, given the task ahead of them. “I have asked my wife to light an extra lamp on my behalf. She has asked me not to return until our demands are fulfilled. We’ll celebrate the festival again when we return home victorious,” said another farmer, Hardeep Singh, from Ludhiana.At the Singhu border, farmers even walked up to police personnel to offer them prashad even as the police continued to maintain physical distance because of the pandemic. “We may be on the other side of the barricades, but we are not enemies. So, we accepted the prashad and wished them,” said a policeman who didn’t want to be identified.Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), did not comment on the limited interaction between the Sikh farmers and the police personnel. “I wish them on the festival and urge them to proceed to the Burari ground to carry on their protest peacefully,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sombre-gurpurab-as-farmers-wait-at-capital-s-borders/story-5R14B8guWdFK6MNxw5fp3N.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||On the border of resistance, farmers stay put and police remain alert||At the Singhu Border where protesting farmers either had a choice to shift to the Burari ground in north Delhi or stay behind the Delhi Police barricades since Friday, a few hundred farmers on Monday made slight inroads into the national capital by driving their tractors and trolleys on alternative routes to occupy a few streets in the capital.Until Sunday evening, the protesters had stayed in Haryana, but by Monday, the police barricades and barbed wires over them did not really mean much. Hundreds of farmers occupied the main crossing of the Singhu Border even as they parked their vehicles on the adjoining roads in Narela -- almost 200 metres from the point they were earlier stopped. “The police weren’t allowing us beyond the barricades. So, we drove on the inner roads and reached this point,” said Jasvinder Singh, a farmer who arrived from Ludhiana.So, unlike earlier when there were farmers on the Haryana side of the barricades and police on the Delhi side, the scenes have now changed. Now, there are farmers behind the barricades, then police for the next 200 metres of stretch, another smaller group of farmers occupying the Singhu intersection behind them, and another cordon of the police. Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), acknowledged the further push by the farmers and said that they were anyway invited to protest in Delhi. “We are ourselves asking them to go to Burari ground to protest peacefully,” said Sharma.In contrast, at Tikri Border, the barricades have become more impenetrable and the credentials of people are being checked before they enter or leave the Delhi side. The farmers there have remained strictly behind the barricades and there is limited interaction between them and the police. A Koan, DCP (outer) did not comment on the situation.At the Sant Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari, the arrangements for protesting farmers were enhanced by setting up tents on a large section of the ground. But they have mostly remained unused as less than a thousand farmers have chosen to shift to Burari. The situation at the two border points has remained peaceful after clashes between farmers and police on Friday. The police said there was no trouble at the Gurgaon and Faridabad borders even as the public continued to face inconvenience at the Jharoda Kalan Border near Dwarka.The farmers had announced on Sunday that besides the two border points, they will also block the highways from Hapur, Gurugram and Faridabad. RP Meena, DCP (south-east), said that while checking was on at the Faridabad and UP borders connecting his district, there were no farmers attempting to enter the city from any of those points. Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (south-west), too said that the situation at the borders connecting Delhi and Gurgaon were incident-free. “There is no gathering at any of these borders,” said Singh. But the Jharoda Kalan Border continued to be under strict vigilance. “We are allowing traffic out of Delhi, but anyone entering the city using that route will be inconvenienced as strict checking is being enforced,” said Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP (Dwarka). The problem persisted there because the Rohtak Flyover on which farmers are moving towards the Tikri Border is just 200 metres from the Jharoda Kalan Border, said the DCP.The checking of those entering the Burari ground as well as those leaving it too continued to be very strict as the police took down names and phone numbers of those entering the ground as well as checked the credentials of those leaving. But Vijayanta Arya, DCP (north-west), said that this was nothing unusual and were general crowd control mechanisms. “People have been coming and going as per their wish. There is a floating crowd at the ground,” said Arya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-border-of-resistance-farmers-stay-put-and-police-remain-alert/story-FjTi0QkcFkvr3K2SKMVwuL.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Chief minister Kejriwal appeals to Delhi residents to help protesting farmers||Chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to Delhi residents and party workers to extend all help possible to the farmers protesting at the Capital’s Singhu and Tikri borders. Kejriwal also urged the Centre to hold talks with protesting farmers at the earliest.In a video message extending his greetings on Gurupurab, Kejriwal said, “On this occasion, I appeal to all Delhiites to do whatever they can for the protesting farmers in all possible ways.”“I hope that the Centre holds talks with the farmers as soon as possible and agrees to their demands. The farmers are braving the cold and holding their protest. AAP volunteers, MLAs and members are helping the farmers in all possible ways, whether it is food, medical aid, water etc,” he added. Following Kejriwal’s appeal, senior AAP leader and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha inspected the protest site at the Singhu border and distributed blankets. He said the DJB is ensuring the availability of drinking water for farmers protesting there.“We have arranged for portable toilets at the back, and have also deployed an ambulance to arrange for medicines, first-aid, blood pressure checking facilities, and other treatments, etc for the farmers. The Delhi government and Delhiites welcome the farmers from across the country. The Central government should not make it a battle of their egos. The Centre should talk to the farmers without any conditions, listen to them, and accept their demands,” Chadha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chief-minister-kejriwal-appeals-to-delhi-residents-to-help-protesting-farmers/story-f03110fBe7c0Rtc3WwcdsK.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers at Ghazipur announce section 288 against police’s 144||Taking a jibe at Delhi police for imposing section 144 at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border in Ghazipur, disallowing the gathering of more than three people, farmers protesting at the spot on Monday said they had imposed “section 288” of their own. Farmer leaders said 288, which is double of section 144, is symbolic in nature and essentially means the entry of anyone other than farmers in that area is restricted, and, most importantly, that the police and farmers will not interfere in each other’s business.The announcement came after police increased its presence at the Ghazipur border in the afternoon and placed concrete barricades when the situation heated up briefly as farmers started raising slogans against the new farm laws. There was no untoward and the groups were calmed down by their leaders.Chaudhry Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, who is camping at the Ghazipur border since Friday with hundreds of other farmers, said, “We’ve imposed 288, but it does not mean any disrespect to our country’s law. It is just symbolic and means that entry of anyone other than a farmer in our protest is restricted. It is also to disallow anti-social elements from getting into our groups,” he said.Tikait said hundreds of farmers at camping at the Ghazipur border from various parts of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. “We are peacefully protesting. We are in touch with other unions and farmer groups in Haryana and Punjab and our next move will be decided on December 3,” the farmer leader said.The farmers put up notices and wrote on the main Ghazipur Road, which is blocked, saying “section 288 of the Bhartiya Kisan Union is in effect here. No one apart from farmers are allowed here.”Rapid Action Force, Border Security Force along with Central Armed Reserve Force and Delhi Police personnel in riot gear were deployed at the barricades to prevent the farmers from entering Delhi.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said the farmer gathering at Ghazipur has been peaceful since Friday. “At times, they did climb up the police barricades but were convinced to retreat by their farmer leaders. We have adequate arrangements and deployment in place to ensure law and order,” Singh said.Farmers from parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are camping at Ghazipur since Friday, when they were marching to Delhi but were restricted from entering the Capital.The same day, farmers from Haryana and Punjab, who had reached Singhu border, clashed with Delhi police when stopped. Later, the police allowed them to camp at Sant Nirankari ground in Burari but turned down their proposal to some to Ramlila Maidan. On Sunday, farmers had announced that apart from Tikri and Singhu borders that they have blocked since Friday, three more highways connecting Delhi with Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Gurugram will be blocked completely. Hours after the announcement, on Monday morning, cement barriers were placed at the Ghazipur border along police barricades to prevent farmers from barging in with vehicles.In contrast, the Chila border, which connects Noida with Mayur Vihar in Delhi, remained unaffected. However, as a precautionary measure, paramilitary and Delhi Police officials remained deployed at both sides of the border for the fourth consecutive day.DCP Jasmeet Singh said situation at the Chila border is normal. “Traffic is normal there. We are in regular touch with Noida Police and the situation is being closely monitored with sufficient force in place,” he said.Police said traffic was not affected much at the Ghazipur border as the farmers have gathered under the elevated highway that connects Delhi and Ghaziabad. “The service lane has been completely blocked by farmers since Friday but we have diverted traffic to the elevated road. Because of this, commuters are not facing much traffic issues,” said Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-at-ghazipur-announce-section-288-against-police-s-144/story-db39iyIRfxo9TEoXHD78qL.html
01-12-2020||Delhi||‘Not in footage, call records do not match’: Delhi High Court grants bail to man in Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man accused in a north-east Delhi riots case, saying neither has he been seen in CCTV footage nor his call detail records match with the place of the incident. The case is related to the alleged murder of a man by a riotous mob.Justice Suresh Kait released Shahrukh alias Rinku for a bail bond of Rs.30,000 with one surety of the like amount, saying co-accused Anwar Hussain, Kasim and Khalid Ansari have been already released on bail even though their offences are “graver” than those of Shahrukh.“It is not in dispute that accused Anwar Hussain, Kasim and Khalid Ansari have been released on bail and as per the charge sheet, the role of the said accused persons is graver than the petitioner (Shahrukh)….,” the court said in its order of November 27.“The other co-accused, who are on bail, are seen in CCTV footage and their CDR matched with each other whereas in the case of petitioner (Shahrukh), neither his CDR matches nor is he seen in CCTV,” the judge added.Shahrukh, lodged at Mandoli jail, was arrested on April 3. According to the prosecution, he was a part of a riotous mob that was behind the death of one Deepak. The police said one of the eyewitnesses, Sunil, had claimed he had seen Shahrukh inflicting injuries on the deceased.The court said the statement of Sunil was recorded on June 25 and that of others who claimed to be eye-witnesses was recorded on March 12, whereas the incident took place on February 25.“In view of the above, without commenting on the merits of the prosecution case, on parity, this court is of the view that the petitioner deserves bail,” the court said.Communal riots had broken out in February in north-east Delhi, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-in-footage-call-records-do-not-match-delhi-high-court-grants-bail-to-man-in-delhi-riots-case/story-JTc5Dk0mkWevm9KworYXAI.html
01-12-2020||City||Delhi: Families facing income crunch,100k+ kids turn to anganwadis||Over 100,000 children have enrolled in the city’s anganwadi centres over the course of the pandemic, official data shows, as families whose incomes have been severely hit over the past few month move their children from private institutions in search of nutritious food and with an eye on savings.These anganwadi centres, part of the central government’s Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme, provide supplementary nutrition diets to children up to age six, as well as pregnant and lactating women. They also provide these children with pre-school education, health education, immunisation, and medical check-ups.While the city’s 10,700 anganwadi centres have been physically shut since March, the Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) has been providing children supplementary nutrition - including dalia, black chickpea (chana), jaggery, and roasted chickpea - through door-to-door services on a fortnightly basis. According to data shared by the department, around 560,000 children were enrolled in Delhi’s anganwadi centres before the lockdown was enforced in March, a number which has since shot up. “This number has increased to 680,000 in the last few months. A majority of the recently admitted children used to study in budget private schools. But since the schools are now shut and many people have lost their livelihoods, parents have enrolled their kids at anganwadi centres in order to get a regular supply of nutrition,” a senior official at Delhi’s WCD department said.WCD minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said there were two reasons behind the increased enrolment. “The first is the closure of schools and the second is financial crises faced by people amid the pandemic. Besides, people now know that we are delivering nutritious food on a regular basis and have registered their children,” he said.Gautam added that the department was preparing, and even welcomed, further enrolments.A senior official at the WCD department said the ministry has made budgetary provisions to ensure a regular supply of nutrition to the newly enrolled children. “There has been a 20% increase in the budget for nutrition… We expect the number of beneficiaries to increase further if schools stay shut for the next few months.”Some anganwadi workers said the number of beneficiaries nearly doubled in the past few months. An assistant Child Development Project Officer (CDPO), who looks after 28 Anganwadi centres in north Delhi, said, “For instance, in one of our anganwadis, there were 50 registered child beneficiaries till March, and this has now crossed 110,” she said.HT had in July reported that many budget private schools in Delhi witnessed mass withdrawals amid the pandemic. Padma, an anganwadi worker in east Delhi, said, “Many of the new beneficiaries are from municipalities or government schools as well. They were earlier getting mid-day meals and now since the schools are shut, their parents have enrolled them in the anganwadi. They do not have to come here every day since we have not resumed classes but they receive dry ration regularly.”Dilshad, who worked at a garment store in Lakshmi Nagar but lost his job in April, recently registered his children in a local anganwadi centre. “My children, a four-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter - were enrolled in a private school in Seelampur. I had to withdraw them after not being able to pay the fees July. I am still out of work and we are struggling to afford daily meals. I enrolled them in an anganwadi in August and they are at least getting some dry rations now,” he said.Sheela Devi, a resident of Trilokpuri, said she registered her children - who are enrolled in a government school - in an anganwadi in June. “We are not able to provide nutritional food to our children regularly even though we got some money as mid-day meal allowance in their bank account. My husband [a daily wage labourer] has hardly earned anything in the last few months. Someone suggested that we enrol kids in the anganwadi so that at least they can get nourishment regularly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/families-facing-income-crunch-100k-kids-turn-to-anganwadis/story-1bLorNRQMmDSykh6mDFdMO.html
01-12-2020||Education||Under new regime, DU promotions in fast lane||The Delhi University has cleared 800 pending promotions and cleared 37 recruitments at several departments ever since the President suspended vice-chancellor Yogesh Kumar Tyagi on October 28 over “dereliction of duties and lack of commitment” after a bitter spat between two factions led to an unprecedented administrative crisis at the institution. Officials confirmed to HT that besides files pertaining to appointments and promotions being cleared, several committees related to teachers welfare and promotion of non-teaching staff have also been set up. According to the October 28 suspension order issued by the Union education ministry, the Centre had pointed out several shortcomings in the functioning of the university under Tyagi’s tenure with pending recruitments being one of the major issues. It pointed out how several key posts including that of the Registrar were being managed with ad-hoc arrangements and posts of teachers and other staff were not being filled despite clear orders and follow ups by the education ministry. Pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi, who was appointed acting V-C, said, “In the past four years, many things had been stalled and there had been minimal administration. We are trying to clear that backlog, including the ones on promotions. The philosophy of the new administration is that deserving teachers should get a timely promotion. We are working on recruitments as well as complaints against the university officials that had been raised in the previous years. We are addressing all the problems that were pointed out in the President’s order.” In October, a faction led by Tyagi -- who was on medical leave since July and is due to retire in March -- overrode the recommendations of the executive council (EC), the highest decision making body of the varsity, to first appoint a new registrar and then a new pro V-C. The group led by Joshi had appointed Vikas Gupta as the Registrar, an appointment that was ratified by the EC. For a brief period, the university had two registrars and two pro V-C’s. The President had nullified all orders, appointments made by Tyagi. Taking stock of the work done in the past one month, EC member Rajesh Jha said, “In addition to promotions and departmental recruitments, the communication between the new administration and teachers is also better. We recently had an academic council meeting after more than a year. The new administration seems to be in action mode and we can see things moving.”Jha, however, opposed the formation of a new committee to implement the new education policy, saying it was formed without due discussion. Enlisting priorities for the new administration, Jha said, “The new administration has to look into several other areas like restarting research and development grant and innovation projects and problems faced in the centralised admission process and online open-book exams.” Several principals have also acknowledged that works are being expedited under the new administration. Manoj Sinha, general secretary of DU principal’s association, said, “There was no logical reason for promotions to be pending for over a decade in colleges. Things are now moving due to a certain push by the new administration. The process of recruitment has also started. This has caused excitement among stakeholders since things had been stagnant for a long time. The new administration has also looked into the promotions of non-teaching staff, rules for which were revised nearly two years ago but had not been implemented until now.”A principal at a DU college, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the administration will have to ensure that promotions are done according to the pace of recruitments. “Though they have been going ahead with the promotions if we don’t carry recruitments at the same pace, the gap between temporary and permanent teachers will widen. While we welcome the promotions, the administration has to communicate with all principals and listen to us. Constitution of governing bodies is pending in so many colleges and that has to be looked at immediately as it affects the ability to make everyday decisions.” Across colleges, these governing bodies (GB) take all decisions for the smooth functioning of a college, including the appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff.Reacting to the responses, the acting V-C said that the issue of constituting GBs has been resolved in the past one month. “While it (constitution of GBs) was an issue, we have managed to resolve most of these cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/under-new-regime-du-promotions-in-fast-lane/story-Nh8cI5qaxUTlqlEhMNqXjI.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: IITs set to start virtual interviews in first phase of placements from Dec 1||Virtual interviews, written exams and group discussions will replace the in-person interviews at the much-awaited placements in the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) that kick off on December 1. Most institutes have already finished training their students in advance to ease into the virtual-mode in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic this year.“The format of interviewing will be through online software via video conferencing and in some cases telephonically,” said BV Ravishankar, training and placement officer, IIT-Bombay. Over 1,700 students from various programmes of the institute will seek employment through the placement drive this year. Most other IITs confirmed to HT that their placements will be done online this year in the interest of health and safety of students.HT has previously reported the surge in pre-placement offers (PPOs) across IITs compared to 2019. Earlier this month, most IITs had managed to bypass the total PPOs received last year, bringing cheer and hope to students in general. “This entire virtual interview concept is new and while our placement cell has encouraged us to attend virtual workshops to understand the concept, we’ll know more only once the interviews begin. Most of us are anxious about it,” said a final-year BTech student of IIT-Bombay.The first phase of placements across IITs commences on December 1 and continues for a week or two depending on registration of companies and students opting for placements. Last year, three students from IIT-Roorkee had bagged an annual salary package of ₹1.54 crore each. The same company had offered similar package to students at IIT-Bombay, Kanpur and Madras as well.This year too, students are expecting annual packages for domestic as well as international job offers to match up to previous few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-iits-set-to-start-virtual-interviews-in-first-phase-of-placements-from-dec-1/story-U5P7JRrP0JcCMsPZjcMAvO.html
01-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CET results out: Twelve from city get the perfect score||Results for the common entrance test (CET) cell, engineering exams were announced late on Saturday night. As per the information shared by the state CET cell, 41 students have scored a perfect 100 percentile this year—22 in the physics-chemistry-maths (PCM) group and 19 in the physics-chemistry-biology (PCB) group. This year, Sanika Gumaste topped the exam in the PCM group while by Anish Jagdale topped the PCB group, both from Pune.Of the 1.74 lakh students who attempted the exam this year in the PCM group, 22 students managed to score 100 percentile, including eight students from Mumbai. Similarly, of the 2.11 lakh students who attempted the exam in the PCB group, 19 students scored 100 percentile including four students from Mumbai suburban and city.Seventeen-year-old Nishtha Pandey, a resident of Kandivli, who was one of the eight students from the city to top the exam, said, “I spent the last two years preparing for competitive exams and while I appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains as well, my focus was always on CET.” She now hopes to bag a seat in the computer science (CS) department of Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI), Matunga.Rishabh Bali, 18, not only managed the perfect score in CET exams but also scored 91.2% in his Class 12 board exams. “CET was my focus, but I made sure I was well prepared for Class 12 exams as well. While I’m still unclear about which institute I’ll choose for Bachelors in Technology, I am sure of taking up computer science (CS),” said Bali, a resident of Borivli.Experts feel that the decision of the state CET cell to award marks to students for errors in questions asked during the exam this year has boosted the overall performance of students.Earlier this week, the CET cell had released a circular on their website revealing that of the many objections raised by students against questions asked in the CET exams held in September and October this year, many have been accepted. This means that all students who appeared for the exam received full marks for at least 29 questions.The previous circular shared by the CET cell, mentioned a total of 65 questions against which objections were accepted. Maximum questions that have been awarded full marks are either due to an error in the question itself or the errors in the options provided per question. It further explains each unique question ID across the four sections (physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics) for which objections were raised by students and accepted by an expert committee put together by the CET cell.This year, results for the MHT-CET exam were delayed by several hours on Saturday, leaving students on edge all day. Originally supposed to be announced before 1pm, the results were finally announced post 11.30pm on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-results-out-twelve-from-city-get-the-perfect-score/story-fCsbpQT9rbEii5t8aVOuIJ.html
