02-12-2020||Mumbai||Maha minister says Bollywood can’t be shifted away from Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Gulab Patil lashed out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for holding discussions with members of the film industry for the proposed film city in Uttar Pradesh.Patil said, “Why will Bollywood go to Uttar Pradesh? Are they going to be dacoits? Mumbai is the commercial capital of the country and no one can take Bollywood away from Mumbai.”Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday met several members of the film fraternity over the film city which will be built over 1,000 acres of land in Gautam Budh Nagar district by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA).The UP CM while addressing a press conference said, “We are not taking anything anywhere. Mumbai Film City will work in Mumbai itself, new Film City in UP is being developed in a new environment according to new requirements.”The UP government’s move to build the film city has led to arguments and criticism among the Shiv Sena and the BJP.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said that Mumbai’s film industry has been developed with a lot of hard work and it will be a hard task to shift the film city elsewhere. He told news agency ANI, “It is not easy to shift Mumbai’s film city to another place. It has a long history and it is developed with a lot of hard work over the years.”Raut also asked UP CM Adityanath to make similar efforts in shifting other film cities to Gautam Budh Nagar. He questioned Yogi Adityanath if he is only trying to shift the film city from Mumbai. He said, “The film industry in south India is also big, there’re film cities in West Bengal and Punjab too. Will Yogi Ji also visit these places and talk to directors/artists there or is he going to do so only in Mumbai?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-minister-says-bollywood-can-t-be-shifted-away-from-mumbai/story-U8EKtFE97hRTqOv6OkFHKN.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Decline in crimes this year compared to 2019: Panchkula police||The Panchkula police on Wednesday said that there has been a decline in murder, theft and snatching cases this year compared to 2019.“Setting up of beat system, barricading, night patrolling and active police presence are some of the reasons for decline in crimes this year,” a press statement from the police department states.However, it does not mention the pandemic induced lockdown as a reason behind the dip in crimes.Deputy commissioner of police, Mohit Handa, said that to keep a check on thefts, special drives were initiated. Also, meetings were held with in-charges of every police station and police post to ensure there is enough police patrolling in their respective beats.Similarly, there has been a decline in cases of murder and snatching, he added.The number of theft cases registered dropped from 134 in 2019 to 100 in 2020. In 2019, 243 cases of vehicular thefts were reported, which dropped to 171 this year.As many as 51 snatchings were reported from Panchkula in 2019, which dropped to 47 this year. Ten murder cases were reported this year compared to 19 in 2019. Last year, 39 people were arrested in 19 murder cases; whereas, in 2020, police have already arrested 18 people in 10 cases.ACP holds meeting under women’s awareness campaign As part of the women’s awareness campaign, a meeting was conducted under the chairmanship of Noopur Bishnoi, assistant commissioner of police, at Morni. About 50 anganwadi workers from the area attended and discussions were held about the 1091 women’s helpline, Durga Shakti App and Durga Shakti Rapid Action Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/decline-in-crimes-this-year-compared-to-2019-panchkula-police/story-wMSQMc2EjuHdNfE8BOLRTN.html
02-12-2020||Mumbai||BMC to procure deep freezers to store Covid-19 vaccine at storage facility in Kanjurmarg near Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to procure multi-purpose deep freezers for its proposed vaccine storage centre in Kanjurmarg to store Covid-19 vaccines, once they are available. The multi-purpose deep freezers, according to BMC officials, will be suitable for all under-trial vaccines, which require temperatures between -80 and 8 degrees Celsius. “We have sought opinion from certain experts on procurement of deep freezers, and after getting it, we will be in a position to float bids any time this week or next. The plan is to float bids for setting up of a cold storage centre in Kanjurmarg. The location was chosen considering it is central located. For now, we are going to occupy one floor in a five-storey building owned by BMC, and further on as need arises, we will use more space,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.According to BMC officials, the civic body’s six medical institutions currently have deep freezers of all types of configuration to store vaccines, but they plan to set up a dedicated cold storage centre for Covid-19 vaccines. “The primary target for vaccine distribution is going to be the 1.25 lakh frontline workers. They will be given a vaccine first, and this preparedness at Kanjurmarg is being done for that. After them, it will be senior citizens, but the Central and state governments will issue guidelines on this. Also, participation by private health institutions will be required if we are talking about vaccinating complete cities, but again the government will issue guidelines on all this. The priority for now is frontline workers,” said Kakani.The Central government, two months ago, has already formed an expert committee comprising representatives from all relevant ministries and institutions, and the state government has also announced formation of a task force to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan – from identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration.The BMC, on its part, already has devised a vaccine distribution strategy for around 40% population of the city that has been tagged as vulnerable.Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of Microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “Making availability of deep freezers is the right step for now. It is very clear that the first focus will be frontline workers followed by senior citizens… Also, once we start vaccination of vulnerable population, the risk and positivity will start falling down, and the spread will be restricted. Fortunately we have excellent systems in place for mass vaccination due to a well-planned health delivery system. Covid-19 vaccination will be a massive and challenging task as people will need to take two shots. By 2021, we should vaccinate at least 50-60% of the total population in Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-procure-deep-freezers-to-store-covid-19-vaccine-at-storage-facility-in-kanjurmarg-near-mumbai/story-0eaulbpYdoe5dCQSEQBb3L.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board holds 3rd draw for allotment of EWS flats||The third computerised draw for allotment of 416 EWS flats to residents of pre-fab shelters was held here on Wednesday.The draw was streamed live on the website of pre-fab shelters through a display van. Immediately after the draw, the result was uploaded on Chandigarh Housing Board’s website. A copy of the result has also been displayed at the pre-fab shelters site in Sector-52.Allotment letters and possession slips to successful applicants will be issued on December 4 at the CHB premises.They must bring the original receipt of Rs 4,000 and original Aadhaar Card. Both husband and wife are required to come for their specimen signature on the possession slip. Physical possession of the flats at Maloya-I will be handed over from December 8 in staggered manner to avoid rush. The allottees are required to bring original allotment letter, possession slips and Aadhaar Card/ID proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-holds-3rd-draw-for-allotment-of-ews-flats/story-ttq4udjYiP3yyzwIhtttuI.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Amid surging cases, Chandigarh decides against night curfew for now||In contrast to the neighbouring states of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, the UT administration has decided against imposing night curfew and changing shops’ timings in Chandigarh for the time being.The call was taken at the Covid-19 review meeting, chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, on Wednesday.While a night curfew is in place in Punjab and some districts of Himachal Pradesh in the wake of the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, UT has only increased the penalty for not wearing masks from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. “Night curfew has limited impact on containing the spread of infection. Besides, the Covid-19 situation is under control in Chandigarh,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.The administration’s decision also comes in the wake of the November-30 meeting with the cabinet secretary. In the meeting, the Centre had advised against imposing fresh lockdown restrictions and sought focus on enforcing social distancing norms and ensuring wearing of masks.Following Wednesday’s meeting, Badnore appealed to patients, who were in home isolation to approach hospitals for medical treatment, without waiting for their condition to become critical.NO BEND IN CURVENotably, Chandigarh saw a 20% surge in Covid cases in November as compared to October, though the fatalities dropped by 20% in the same period. With 2,991 cases, November accounted for around 17% of total infections reported in the city so far, while October had 2,480 cases, while the deaths decreased from 64 to 51 between the two months.In Mohali, the cases jumped by 58% between October and November, from 1990 in October to 3,140 in November, which accounts for 20% of the total cases reported so far. Similarly, the number of deaths, too, increased from 29 in October to 41 in November.Here, the curfew from 10pm to 5am was imposed from December 1 for two weeks. The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities is prohibited during these hours. Besides, the fine for not wearing masks has also been increased from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. Hotels, other hospitality units, restaurants and marriage palaces have to shut down by 9.30 pm. However, essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts in industry and offices, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes, are permitted. While no fresh restrictions have been imposed in Panchkula, the cases here also saw a 34% spike between October and November. While there were 1,158 cases in October, these rose to 1,547 in November, which is 17.7% of the total caseload till date.As far as deaths are concerned, November witnessed a dip in fatalities with Panchkula logging 14 deaths, while 27 deaths were reported in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-surging-cases-chandigarh-decides-against-night-curfew-for-now/story-4eomSIydZtoshQ9ghm1ERL.html
02-12-2020||Mumbai||Over 1,500 treated for post-Covid ailments at BMC hospitals, jumbo centres in Mumbai||More than 1,500 patients with post-Covid complications have sought treatment at the Outpatient Departments (OPDs) of civic-run hospitals and jumbo centres across Mumbai, with most suffering from lung fibrosis, kidney problems and diabetes, among other ailments. Although there is no cumulative data available of such patients, doctors said around 10% cases turn serious. “We have so far got around 500 recovered patients and most of them have been diagnosed with lung fibrosis, kidney ailments, breathlessness and uncontrolled diabetes,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean, BYL Nair hospital. “But only 10% develop serious illnesses, which require admission to the hospital.”Nair Hospital along with the other two civic-run facilities – Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital) and King Edward Memorial (KEM) – have provided treatment to around 1,000 patients with post-Covid complications. The BMC’s jumbo Covid care centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) has treated around 500 patients and the Nesco centre in Gorergaon, which opened on Monday, has got five cases so far. Apart from the residual lung damage, which could be a consequence of Covid pneumonitis leading to shortness of breath and chronic cough, post-Covid complications range from neuropsychiatric symptoms – extreme fatigue, memory loss, loss of concentration and insomnia – to cardiovascular complications – heart attacks and strokes – and gastrointestinal disturbances.Along with physical complications, patients also develop mental disorders. “This phenomenon has been common all over the world. Undergoing treatment in an isolation ward for days does have an impact on patients’ minds. We are observing depression and anxiety post recovery even among younger patients,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital. Doctors have raised the need to conduct more research to understand the implications of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, on the health of people even after they have recovered. “Individuals often report body temperature irregularities and irregularities of heart rates resulting in palpitations, all which could be the result of an autonomic dysfunction (dysfunction in the neural systems that regulate body functions). We are likely to see more and more individuals report these, and research needs to be carried out towards helping such individuals cope better,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, consultant pulmonologist, PD Hinduja Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-1-500-treated-for-post-covid-ailments-at-bmc-hospitals-jumbo-centres-in-mumbai/story-W7YYiehYo6O7oGEFDgEBwO.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad’s 65% case load concentrated in nine residential segments, Indirapuram tops the list for third consecutive month||Ghaziabad: Although Ghaziabad as a whole witnessed only a minor spike in Covid-19 cases in November, certain residential areas such as Indirapuram and Carte suffered a sharper increase.According to the records of the health department, the two localities had the highest case load in the district at 2,827 (Indirapuram) and 2,527 (Carte). In October, Indirapuram had 2,131cases and Carte had 1,960 cases. Nine residential segments in Ghaziabad had aggregate individual cases over 1000 cases each and together accounting for 65% of the total 23,114 cases (till November 30) in the district. Both Indirapuram and Carte have been figuring on the top-2 most infected spots since September. Dr. Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association-Ghaziabad said that a different strategy was required in these segments. According to official records, daily testing in the district was around 4000 tests per day in November when compared to 4065 in October and about 3928 in September. “Against the present testing of about 4,000 per day in the district, the health department needs to increase testing to about 10,000. This will require lot of staff and there will be initial surge in cases. But overall, cases will be contained. Further, more testing camps are needed to be put up in such areas and effective surveillance is also needed,” said Dr. Agarwal. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the testing and surveillance has been beefed up in high-risk areas. “We are doing aggressive testing and soon focussed testing will also start in these areas besides enhanced surveillance. Further, contact tracing and regular monitoring is being taken up on daily basis,” he said. According to a senior officer from the district health department, increased testing is limited by the availability of equipment.“The state government had said that 40% of our tests must be through RT-PCR and the rest could be rapid antigen testing,” said the officer. “At present we are conducting about 2500 antigen tests and 1500 RT-PCR tests. Testing teams have increased their efficiency but the major issue is the availability of rapid antigen kits and the viral transport media kits for transporting RT-PCR samples. We need more of these to test more.” UP’s additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad, said that from December 4 to December 10 another round of focussed testing -- where certain groups of people who come in contact with many people are tested-- and surveillance in the state. “This will be done in areas with high cases are mapped by respective districts. It is aimed to filter people with symptoms and also those who came in contact with positive cases. This will immensely help us in breaking the chain of infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-s-65-case-load-concentrated-in-nine-residential-segments-indirapuram-tops-the-list-for-third-consecutive-month/story-soliqbWNYIaiHH8QDHnckK.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Age group over 60 years has highest fatality rate of 45.38% in UP, Ghaziabad trend similar||Ghaziabad: Of the 7,817 people who died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh till Wednesday, 45% of them were over 60 years old and 75% had comorbidities.The state health department said that the lowest fatality rate was for children up to 10 years of age at 0.82%, those aged 11-20 were 1.36%, 21-30 was 4.41%, 31-40 was 8.33%, 41-50 was 14.7% and 51-60 was about 25%. Releasing the figures, UP additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said that the overall case fatality rate in UP was about 1.4%, while the recovery rate is about 94.40%. “Senior citizens and people with co-morbidity need to take all precautions and are advised not to move out unnecessarily besides they should avoid crowded places. Even if there are talks about a second wave, we can say that spread of infection in UP is under control at present and we must take precautions for at least next two months,” Prasad said.Ghaziabad district administration said they were taking extra precautions.“We have different wings which are setup at our Covid control and command centre in Ghaziabad. These wings monitor health status of senior citizens and pregnant women besides people having co-morbidity and also others. With the strategy of early testing and speedy referrals we have been able to keep control over the fatalities,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to state control room figures, Ghaziabad till December 2 had 93 fatalities which account for about 0.4% of the total 23321 cases in the district.The officials of the health department said that a similar pattern of increase in fatalities with increase in age group was also witnessed in Ghaziabad.Of the 93 deaths, there were two of the age group 0-15, nine betweeen 16-30 years, 16 between 31-45 years and 33 each between 46-60 years and those over 60 years old.“It becomes vital that old aged people and especially those having co-morbid conditions stay indoors. During treatment it is also observed that older people take longer to recover. The young have recovered faster,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/age-group-over-60-years-has-highest-fatality-rate-of-45-38-in-up-ghaziabad-trend-similar/story-MknyBwfGz2GJiwPeUfWMvJ.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Makeshift beds, bitter cold, lack of amenities: 200 farmers spent night under open sky at Chilla border||Noida: Forty nine-year-old Ratan Nagpal is no stranger to sleeping under the open sky. A farmer from Kasganj, Nagpal used his tractor trolley for sleeping on Tuesday night while being camped at the Chilla border with Delhi. Over 200 farmers from western Uttar Pradesh were stopped at the Delhi border on Tuesday while they were on their way to Burari in Delhi to join those from Punjab and Haryana protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. “If they won’t let us go to Delhi, we will stay here only for as long as it is needed to let our brothers know that they aren’t alone in their struggles. I am used to sleeping in the open in our fields. The only difference here is that there are no stars visible,” said Nagpal. The Noida side of the border is lined with tractors and carts which are acting as makeshift beds for these farmers. Some of them have piled mattresses on roadside while others are using blankets, quilts and shawls as temporary bedding. “When we came here, we didn’t know that we would not be allowed to go. We had brought some provisions (ration and water) with us. But we had thought that once we reached Delhi, we would be able to procure more. But now we are sharing utensils and food, and taking help from local contacts,” said Mahendra Singh, a farmer from Mainpuri. The farmers are camped at the border with no idea of when they would be able to move ahead. They believe that going back is not an option. “The government policies are not in our favour. If we don’t speak up now, we will never be able to express our plight in which we are. Some of us are barely keeping their families fed. We will not move from here unless some changes are made,” said Singh. With no facilities being provided to them, the farmers are braving the cold weather conditions to spend another night near the Chilla border. Small groups could be seen throughout the day sitting, talking, cooking and trying to pass their time in hopes that the border will open and they will be allowed to go. While some of them want to join others at Burari, others feel that they would be better off highlighting their concerns at Jantar Mantar. “They (police personnel) want us to camp out elsewhere to free up the road. Our intent is not to inconvenience people, but if we move now, we will simply be dispersed and no one will listen to us,” said Satveer Bhanu, another farmer from Kasganj. A senior Noida police official said that if the farmers had only gone to Burari, they would have been let go. But just before the border it was found that they were going to Jantar Mantar and that is why they were stopped by the Delhi police. “We even offered to provide them with portable washrooms and drinking water facilities if they move to a designated area near Pari Chowk. But they refused to negotiate,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/makeshift-beds-bitter-cold-lack-of-amenities-200-farmers-spent-night-under-open-sky-at-chilla-border/story-si0pxncDGexGsScfAgjqoM.html
02-12-2020||Noida||At UP Gate, protesters find solace in hukkah and music||Ghaziabad To beat the blues of a protest, farmers who are part of the “Dilli Chalo Andolan” and camping below the UP Gate have found solace in their hukkahs and Ragini, a popular genre of music in the hinterlands of western Uttar Pradesh. Wednesday was their fifth day of protesting the Centre’s new farm laws, which they say are against their interests.Their day starts early with an attempt to bring down the Delhi Police barricades and although they manage to pull down the some of them, they refrain from crossing the border. The exercise was to energise the protesters, they said.Chants of “Takht badal do taj badal do, beimano ka raaj baadal do (change the rule of cheaters),” “Hamari mange puri karo, kisan ekta zindbad (Fulfil our demands, long live farmers’ unity)” and “Abhi to ye angdai hai, agey aur ladai hai (the fight has just begins)” fill the air.“However, the protests cannot go on for the entire day even as we remain on streets,” said Deshpal Singh, a farmer who has joined the protest from Umarpur village in Sharanpur. “At such time, a discussion over the hukkah helps. It is a favourite pastime for many and especially for older farmers.” Groups of people huddle together around a hukkah and share a smoke while reviewing newspapers and discussing strategies. Adding to the discussion would be views on social media, supplied by the younger and more tech savvy protesters. Others would be reading under the shade of the flyover while still others played their harmonium and played cards. On a usual day, they would be visiting friends and neighbours after a day’s work on the field. “In the evening, Ragini songs devoted to folk tales, patriotism and even desi folk are sung and this goes on till late night. Farmers here remember Baba Tikait (Mahendra Singh Tikait, who founded the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) that is leading the protest) ,” Singh said, adding that he has been a member of the group since 1987. Tikait is remembered for bringing Delhi to a standstill in 1988 and forced the then Rajiv Gandhi central government to agree to their many demands. Many of the vehicles at the UP Gate protest site on Wednesday had his photographs. At night, the farmers retire to under the flyover where the beds they had brought in their tractor trolleys protect them from the cold road and blankets keep away the winter chill.“Puaal (haystacks) serve well as beds for some of us. While most sleep, others keep vigil against any theft or any breaking development on the protest,” said Sandeep Chaudhary, a farmer from Lalpur village in Hapur. For cooking meals, the protesters have made wood-fired stoves on the roadsides.“We have brought potatoes, pulses and rice that can be stored easily for long. People offer us food but we try to cook our own. Fellow farmers from villages in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida send stocks of fresh vegetable,” said Chaudhary.“A group of farmers from Uttarakhand have also put up langar where they serve food all day long. It is heartening to see that many media persons also join us for food and tea at the site,” said Rajvir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU. “Talks are scheduled with the government on Thursday. So, we are expecting lot of people from states like UP, Uttarakhand and even from Madhya Pradesh to arrive. We will be holding a Mahapanchayat to discuss further strategy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-up-gate-protesters-find-solace-in-hukkah-and-music/story-AeOKQfJrLdKXVunP09e7QL.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Congestion on DND Flyway as farmers protest at Chilla border||Noida: There was heavy traffic on the DND Flyway, which connects Delhi to Noida, on Wednesday as many farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws blocked the road between the two cities at the Chilla border. The protesters had arrived on Tuesday afternoon and blocked both routes. On Wednesday, authorities and farmers combined to allow traffic from Delhi through, reducing some of the pressure on the DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj road between the two cities.The Delhi Police on Tuesday had barricaded the Chilla border on Tuesday to keep the farmers from crossing the border. “Normally, I use the Chilla border to go to Delhi but today I had to use the DND where traffic was slow. Due to the diversion at the Chilla border, many vehicles were taking U-turns that created confusion,” said Sadhna Gupta, a Noida resident.Noida Traffic department kept updating commuters about the situation on social media.“The traffic did not come to a standstill. It was moving steadily through Kalindi Kunj and the DND. We kept sharing updates with the through Twitter,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic.Around 3.30 pm, Delhi Police opened up a section of Chilla border allowing traffic to move from Delhi to Noida. The protesters gathered at the other section without crossing the border.Meanwhile, Noida Police detained a group of nearly 45 farmers in the afternoon who were camped at the Mahamaya flyover.“They wanted to go to DND but were stopped at Mahamaya. Traffic was not affected as they kept on the side of the road. But when they refused to leave, the group was taken in police detention and will be challaned,” said DCP (zone 1) Rajesh S.Another smaller group found moving towards the DND Flyway border was asked by Noida Police to move to the Dalit Prerna Sthal, which they agreed.Nearly 160 Noida Police personnel, including one company of the PAC, several SHOs, ACPs etc were deployed to monitor the situation at the Chilla border, DND flyway, Mahamaya flyover and Dalit Prerna Sthal.A senior police officer said that as soon as Delhi Police allowed farmers in, they would let them move ahead. He also said that the groups in Noida will probably disperse on December 3 when farmers’ representatives in Delhi and the central government arrive at an agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/congestion-on-dnd-flyway-as-farmers-protest-at-chilla-border/story-XSOi0DWiZwWhUDYE7CY3NP.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Committee on Jewar airport to take a decision on runways||GREATER NOIDA The apex committee monitoring the Jewar international airport is likely to finalise the number of runways in a meeting on Thursday in Lucknow.The project monitoring and implementation committee (PMIC) is headed by the chief secretary R K Tiwari and is authorised to make critical recommendations to the government on the airport. Eariler, reports indicated that the airport could have eight runways, but a PricewaterhouseCoopers report on feasibility recommended five.“The PMIC is to discuss and decide about the number of runways on airport project at Jewar in Lucknow. The airport will start operations by two runways under the phase-I by 2023-34 as per the detailed project report. However, we are likely to start land acquisition for second phase of airport. When it will be developed to its full capacity the airport may have either five or six runways. The PMIC will take a decision on it,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), which gave land for the airport, and Noida International Airport Limited, the company that is developing it in four phases.Switzerland Company Zurich International AG will invest Rs 30,000 crore in the project. It will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to government after 40 years. Yeida has already sought permission from the state government to acquire 1365 hectares for the second phase and prepared details of the acquisition. In phase-2 it is expected to acquire 1,318 hectares and phase 4 will have 735 hectares acquired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/committee-on-jewar-airport-to-take-a-decision-on-runways/story-BfiSYyZQvaMqDYv7I2lo8I.html
02-12-2020||Noida||After intervention by minister, discom calls off disconnection drive||Following the recent instructions by state energy minister Shrikant Sharma, officials of Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) have decided to approach power defaulters, instead of disconnecting their lines for not clearing their outstanding dues for the past three months. Calling off the disconnection drive will benefit as many as 65,000 defaulting consumers, said the discom officials said. PVVNL chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that the relief has been given to these consumers, taking cognisance of Covid-induced economic impact. “We have 3.25 lakh consumers in Gautam Budh Nagar district. The total outstanding dues of these consumers stand at ₹3.25 crore. We had earlier decided to carry out a massive disconnection drive in the district. But, ever since the minister gave the instructions, we have decided not to launch the disconnection drive anymore,” he said. He added that these consumers have also been given the option of clearing the dues in instalments. “To avail the instalment scheme, the defaulting consumer will have to clear at least 60% of their outstanding dues in the first instalment,” he said. When contacted, Uttar Pradesh energy minister Shrikant Sharma said that disconnection is never a solution to make debt-ridden companies self-reliant. “I’ve appealed to the public to clear their power dues in time. “If consumers clear their dues in time, not only will this help the debt-ridden discoms in overcoming their losses, but it will also ensure electricity at cheaper rates,” he said. He added that after launching the initiative called, “No Disconnection, Knock the Door”, he has asked the power officials not to disconnect electricity connections of consumers, who have not cleared their outstanding dues for the last three months. “Not only that, I’ve also asked the power corporation officials, to ensure no tripping in the National Capital Region (NCR) by next summer. The PVVNL officials have also been instructed to provide correct bills to all the consumers on time,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-intervention-by-minister-discom-calls-off-disconnection-drive/story-Gvquid8XiVXKtgpKdLFoBK.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Minor killed, four injured in an e-rickshaw battery explosion||A 12-year-old boy was killed while four others were injured, when an e-rickshaw battery, which was being charged, exploded in a house under the Ecotech 3 police jurisdiction.The incident was reported around 5am from a residential colony in Haldwani market, where one Bablu, a native from Bulandshahr who lives in a rented accommodation with his family and works as an e-rickshaw driver, was charging a battery. According to police officials, he had taken the battery out of the rickshaw to his house on Tuesday night for charging.“Around 5 am, the battery exploded probably due to overcharging. It was next to a temporary brick wall between his house and his neighbour’s,” said Bhubhnesh Kumar Sharma, station house officer(SHO), Ecotech 3 police station.Police officials said that such was the force of the explosion, the wall of the house collapsed.Bablu’s father, Idrish (55), was injured by the acid that splashed out of the battery. The neighbour, Islam (38) and his sons, Arman and Sultan, both aged eight, got trapped under the fallen wall and were also injured, said the police.“Islam’s nephew, who was visiting him from Rabupura, was also trapped under the brick wall. He was pulled out but died on his way to the hospital. He was declared dead upon arrival,” said the SHO.The four injured people were also taken for treatment. Since their injuries were not major, they were discharged from the hospital after treatment, said the police.Police officials also said that more damage was done to Islam’s house rather than Bablu’s whose household appliances like fridge, washing machine and a cupboard were damaged by the explosion. Teams from the field unit and fire department inspected the area after clearing out the debris.No complaint has been filed in the case yet, said the SHO.The body of the minor was sent for an autopsy before being handed over to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/minor-killed-four-injured-in-an-e-rickshaw-battery-explosion/story-UofE028CvwJNJxucesodYI.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida authority begins process to finalise locations for street vendors||GREATER NOIDA: To regulate street vendors and ensure smooth flow of traffic on city roads, the Greater Noida authority has decided to finalise the locations for them and issue vending licences. The vendors will also be given licences for moving carts on some city roads, said officials.The officials said that the authority will get rid of all squatters after issuance of licence and offering possession at the designated site. The authority’s chief executive officer, Narendra Bhooshan, along with other officials, on Tuesday conducted an inspection in various sectors, including Alpha 1 and 2, and Beta 1 and 2 to finalise vending zones. Notably, the authority has started the process to identify street vending zones more than two years after the state government issued an order in this regard. In February 2018, the Uttar Pradesh government had approved livelihood protection and street vendor settlement guidelines, 2018, under Section 36 of the Street Vendors (livelihood protection and street vendor settlement) Act, 2014. The purpose was to identify vending zones to regulate street vendors and also issue licence to them.“We have inspected some residential areas to identify the locations for the vending zones. We have instructed the staff to identify the locations in a manner so that the vending zones do not cause hindrances to smooth flow of traffic and also benefit the residents,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.However, the Greater Noida authority has not fixed any deadline as to when they will identify these locations. The authority has decided to allow vends at a distance of 800 metres and in some areas the distance between two vending zones will be 2,000 metres depending upon the area’s population and vehicular pressure, said the officials. According to the officials, there will be three categories of vending zones -- vending zones along city roads, zones for moving vendors and zones meant for the weekly markets in each locality. The authority CEO has directed the circle officials and others to conduct a survey, talk to residents’ welfare associations or market welfare associations and others before finalizing the vending zones, the officials said. Alok Singh, founder member of Active Citizen Team, a social group, said, “The vending zone should be approved in a manner so that it does not cause traffic jams and nuisance in residential areas. Also, vends should be regulated in markets so that they do not cause sanitation issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-authority-begins-process-to-finalise-locations-for-street-vendors/story-1b3AkD49glTF0c1KR9G7NJ.html
02-12-2020||Noida||After Lucknow Municipal Corporation floats bond, Ghaziabad civic body to follow suit||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation will soon bring its bond at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). CM Yogi was addressing a gathering in Mumbai at the occasion of the listing of Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s bond at the BSE. It was in July 2019 when the UP cabinet approved the proposal of floating government bonds by the municipal corporations of Lucknow and Ghaziabad to fund their infrastructure projects. Bonds amounting to ₹350 crore, including ₹200 crore for Lucknow and ₹150 crore for Ghaziabad, were proposed to be floated. “Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of municipal bodies in the country. Nearly 80 million people live in urban areas. In a bid to provide better infrastructure and facilities, we have listed bond for Lucknow Municipal Corporation — the first civic body in north India to do so. After Lucknow, we will ask the civic body of Ghaziabad to do the same. This move will help in bringing in transparency and financial discipline in their workings, along with creating healthy competition,” UP CM said during the event in Mumbai. CM Yogi participated in the traditional ‘bell-ringing ceremony’ to release the bond in Heritage Hall of BSE on Wednesday and described the listing of the bond as “the starting of a new era” in the history of the state. “This step is important to change the fundamental work culture of municipal corporations in the state and will help not only Lucknow in augmenting infrastructural facilities and funding but also motivate other corporations t do the same. To work in such a direction, Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation will soon bring its bond in BSE,” the CM said in the presence of entrepreneurs, investors, and BSE officials at Mumbai. For Ghaziabad, bonds worth ₹150 crore are proposed to be floated for the purpose of a project, which is intended to supply treated water to industrial units at a price. “The project is estimated at about ₹236 crore and rest of the funds will be roped in through the fourteenth and fifteenth finance commissions. The supply of water will also help in generating revenue and it will be sold at a price to industrial units,” said an officer of the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation, who wished not to be named. According to the initial project report, the corporation’s sewage treatment plant (STP) at Indirapuram has a net output of 40 MLD. The project is estimated to generate a net return of ₹325.43 crore after 15 years of commissioning. The officials said that the last detailed project report was prepared in November 2019. “There are several steps which we are taking up and the balance sheet for the current fiscal is getting finalised. We already have A+ rating while other documentation is being processed as per the guidelines. The detailed project report has some cost escalation and only the revised costing needs to be incorporated. With all these steps, it is likely that we finish the pending works in February,” the officer, said. Municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said that the work for the bond got slowed down a bit but it is being expedited. “We have now initiated the process once again and we are expediting all works for the purpose of floating the bond,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-lucknow-municipal-corporation-floats-bond-ghaziabad-civic-body-to-follow-suit/story-H2qLRijiz20r1IxuywIGLP.html
02-12-2020||Noida||Greater Noida’s air turns ‘severe’, Noida’s worsens||The air quality in the city worsened once again on Thursday due to the unfavourable weather conditions. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad continued to remain the top polluted city of the country with “severe” air quality level. Same was the case with Greater Noida, while Noida continued to suffer from “very poor” air. According to the weather analysts, the slowing down of the northwesterly winds during the morning and night hours, leaves a smaller window during the afternoon for the dispersal of pollutants. Further, the winds are also carrying in smoke from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, where stubble burning is still raging.“On Thursday, the maximum wind speed was 10kmph. However it was not enough to disperse the pollutants given the current weather conditions. The wind speed may slightly increase on Thursday, but will drop again on Friday due to an approaching western disturbance,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet. According to the central pollution control board’s (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI), Noida recorded a reading of 394 as against 387 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 406 as against 388 a day earlier. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad continued to be under the ‘severe’ category with an AQI of 421 as against 424 a day earlier. The quantity of fine particles or pollutants in the air also spiked with PM2.5 levels touching three to five times higher than the safe limit. PM2.5 for past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 255.66 micrograms per cubic metres as against 183.99 micrograms per cubic metres a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 269.52 units as against 243.24 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 302.79 units as against 309.17 units a day earlier. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), air quality in the city is likely to fluctuate over the next three days with a slight improvement on Thursday, followed by a slight deterioration two days later. “Air quality is likely to marginally improve with in the ‘very poor’ for tomorrow (Thursday) owing to slightly better ventilation condition. By December 4, ventilation conditions are likely to slow down again and deterioration in AQI is expected. The higher end of the very poor category is forecasted for December 5,” read the SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-s-air-turns-severe-noida-s-worsens/story-kklKSTlr6ryzYuHttaY5DJ.html
02-12-2020||Gurugram||Toxic air to persist till Friday||Air quality in the city remained in the ”very poor” category for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, with a reading of 324 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin. Wednesday’s reading is a marginal deterioration from the previous day’s AQI reading of 311, also in the “very poor” category. Experts attributed the deterioration in air quality to meteorological conditions unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. An AQI reading between 301 and 400 is categorised “very poor” and can cause breathing discomfort and respiratory illness to people on prolonged exposure, as per air quality experts. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 292.88 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³)on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve marginally on Thursday and deteriorate on Friday, but remain in the “very poor” category throughout. As per the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), further deterioration in AQI is expected on Friday on account of poor ventilation conditions. Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and the head of regional weather forecasting centre, said while stubble burning impact had depleted, the air quality was being affected due to slow wind speed. “The wind speed will further reduce from December 4 or 5 and the direction is likely to change to easterly, from the north-westerly at present. The change in direction is due to a western disturbance that will affect Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh from the night of December 3, which will also have an impact on Delhi. Whenever there is a change in wind pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants,” said Srivastava. Gurugram’s minimum temperature settled at 8.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s minimum temperature on Wednesday. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 26.7 degrees Celsius. While the maximum temperature was two degrees below the normal, the minimum temperature was a degree below the normal temperature for this time of the year. Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover in a similar range on Thursday. As per the weekly IMD forecast, fog and mist are expected to prevail in the morning hours followed by a clear sky later during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/toxic-air-to-persist-till-friday/story-m1uXRceOomk1jaH5bEnDiM.html
02-12-2020||Gurugram||Grap fines down by 67%, officials cite strategy change||Data obtained from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) shows that the number of fines issued for violations of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) has decreased by around 67% this year.For greater supervision this year, the MCG had introduced several new measures — forming civil defence teams to monitor Grap violations, starting an air lab for analysing data of the city’s 24 air quality monitors to identify and concentrate enforcement measures on areas where Grap violations are suspected to be the highest, and setting deadlines for its officials to address citizen complaints.However, MCG officials attributed the decline in the number of fines to a change in strategy. They said that instead of focusing solely on enforcement, as has been the case in previous years, they have introduced several other new measures that, in the long-term, would prove to be far more beneficial.From October 15 to December 1 this year, the MCG has issued 267 fines for Grap violations. In the same time period last year, the MCG had issued 750 fines.“We realised that enforcement alone cannot curb air pollution. Hence, this year, we have taken a different approach. We have built an air lab, increased mechanised road sweeping activities, as well as sprinkling of water through water tankers at high dust accumulation stretches. Further, through the incorporation of citizen volunteers into civil defence teams for checking Grap violations, we are anticipating that the overall supervision and enforcement measures would be much higher than in the past,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.On October 15, MCG opened an air lab at its Sector 42 office to constantly monitor air quality data from its 24 monitors, which has helped officials check for localised pollution based on hourly readings, said officials.On October 17, MCG had set a four-hour deadline for its officials to address complaints related to garbage burning and a 12-hour deadline for any construction and demolition (C&D) waste-related issues.On October 28, the MCG deployed civil defence teams, comprising around 60 resident volunteers, to travel across the city to identify Grap violations and alert the civic body for action.Of the 267 fines, 27 were for garbage burning, 23 related to C&D waste, 195 pertaining to dust mitigation, 17 for illegal dumping of waste and five for ferrying construction materials in vehicles without proper covering.The MCG has recovered fines worth around Rs 57 lakh so far, whereas it had recovered Rs 2.49 crore from the 750 violations in the same period last year.Abhishek Srivastava, a Gurugram-based environmental engineer, who worked as an air pollution consultant with the MCG, said that due to the coronavirus outbreak, field visits by the civic body officials may have been much lower this year and could be one of the main reasons why the number of violations is much lower than last year.“Enforcement of Grap measures is extremely crucial in generating awareness among residents that certain activities such as waste burning, leaving construction materials uncovered, and C&D dumping are exceedingly harmful to the environment. A large number of citizens, especially those living in rural areas, are completely unaware of this. Further, through the issuance of fines, it will discourage them from repeating the violation again. Unless enforcement is done on a large scale, eliminating factors that lead to pollution at the source can never be achieved,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/grap-fines-down-by-67-officials-cite-strategy-change/story-CbuZ7H74Tvj2HMouYcmXqN.html
02-12-2020||City||Congress tells south Haryana farmers to support protest||The Haryana Congress on Wednesday exhorted farmers from south Haryana to come out and support the protest, after the Congress came out in support of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agriculture laws. Party leaders said that they would offer both moral and material support. Party leader and former Haryana minister Captain (retd) Ajay Singh Yadav said that the state government violated human rights when it prevented farmers from entering Delhi. “Farmers across the country are participating against the anti-people laws and it is time their counterparts in south Haryana come out in support of their brethren. The party will fully support them morally and give material support in this agitation if that is needed,” said Yadav, t a press conference in the the district party headquarters at Kaman Sarai. Yadav alleged that the three farm laws were backed by corporates and would destroy small farmers and agricultural markets, which were the backbone of the industry. “The mandis were eliminated in Bihar and some other states and the condition of farmers there are bad. The regime of contract farming, which the BJP wants to introduce will allow large private companies and business houses to take over and monopolise agriculture,” he said. Congress also questioned the farm law, whereby the farmers are allowed only to approach the district administration for arbitration of contracts. “Why are the farmers not allowed to approach the courts. Why should they be denied fundamental rights,” asked Yadav, adding that minimum support price (MSP), which many alleged would be nullified with the new laws, was a fundamental right of farmers. BJP, however, said that Congress leadership was misleading the farmers despite the fact that same proposals were introduced by it in parliament in 2012 and included by it in election manifesto of 2019. “The Congress held discussions on the same proposals in parliament when it was in power. We are not dismantling the mandis but providing an alternative to the farmers. The MSP system remains unchanged. Congress is trying to take political mileage,” said BJP spokesperson Raman Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-tells-south-haryana-farmers-to-support-protest/story-qRjrzlGlRT0nqp68s0RUgI.html
02-12-2020||Gurugram||Central team inspects sites for Science City||A central government team on Wednesday inspected four sites in Sohna for setting up the country’s fourth Science City.The team consisting of officials from the department of science and technology, the Haryana government, Union ministry of culture, and the Haryana space application centre (Harsac) visited Ghamroj, Rahaka, Nimoth and Patli Hajipura. They were accompanied by Sohna sub-divisional magistrate Chinar Chahal. The project requires at least 25 to 30 acres and will initially require Rs 500 crore investment shared equally between the central and state governments. Gurugram was selected for the proposed project in January this year. The other three cities with a Science City are Kolkata, Jalandhar and Ahmedabad. In a statement released on Wednesday, the district administration said that the Science City will serve as a centre for disseminating practical knowledge of science and mathematics in an engaging manner. “It will have thematic galleries covering physics, chemistry and other branches of science and would benefit children and students from various educational institutions, by providing them with a resource centre to satiate their inquisitiveness,” said Dr Sultan Singh, principal scientist, Harsac.Additionally, a science museum with galleries demonstrating different scientific principles will be set up to help inculcate a scientific temper in people by informing them about science through interesting practical activities. The team coordinator also shared there were plans to develop scientific facilities of Indian space research organisation (Isro) in the city. He said that the state government was keen on developing the Science City in the district so that children from neighbouring cities could also benefit from knowledge sharing. Once the site for the project is identified, its detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/central-team-inspects-sites-for-science-city/story-AWiKsqsCNOrkvfYNu3Ls8O.html
02-12-2020||Gurugram||Fake call centre duping US citizens busted; two held||The chief minister’s Flying Squad on Tuesday night busted a fake call centre, which had been operating out of an house in Sector 27 for the past two months. The employees had been allegedly duping US citizens by posing as officials of US law enforcement agencies, threatening to cancel their social security numbers if they failed to pay a fine, said the police. According to the police, the call centre was duping people of hundreds of dollars. The police said that at least 1,000 US citizens are suspected to have been targeted by the call centre. A case was registered on Wednesday at the Cyber police station under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act, after which two of the owners of the fake call centre were arrested from the spot. The suspects were identified as Anurag Tiwari and Kirti Kumar Keshav of Jind. The police said three people were running the call centre.All three had worked in call centres in Gurugram a few years ago. The kingpin, identified as Lokendra of Ahmedabad, fled from the spot and teams are tracking his location for his arrest, said the police. The suspects were paying ₹2.5 lakh monthly rent for the house, the police said, adding that they recovered seven hard disks, the script meant to dupe US citizens, and computers from the spot. The suspects were produced before the district and sessions court on Wednesday. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department, said they received a tip-off on Tuesday that a group in the city was running a fake call centre. It took them a few hours to locate the place. “We had conducted an internal investigation and our teams raided the house on Tuesday night. We will get the recovered hard disks scanned, along with their systems, to get the exact number of people who have been targeted since the call centre began functioning,” he said. The police said the confiscated hardware will be sent to a laboratory in Madhuban, Karnal, for forensic examination. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that there were 22 men and four women working as tele-callers at the call centre. The executives were given US citizens’ data, which the call centre procured from Ahmedabad.The executives used to make random calls to unsuspecting US citizens, informing them that their social security numbers are at the risk of being cancelled as they are “offenders” and they needed to pay a fine to ensure its continuation . “This call centre had a total of 30 workstations. The tele-callers underwent a week’s training to make calls to the US and a script was shared with them. They had also set up a toll-free number, which was shared with the victims,” he said. The police said the payment was generally through virtual payment gateways, credit and debit cards, gift cards, iTunes cards. The police said the exact number of victims and the total amount of money siphoned may be higher than what they anticipate. “We are also getting a forensic audit of the seized property. The same group were running call centres in Sushant Lok-1 and Sector 29; they were earlier arrested the same offence ,” said Budhiraja. The suspects used to provide pick and drop facilities to all the employees and were paying ₹20,000 a month as salary and nearly ₹35,000 as an incentive for duping US citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fake-call-centre-duping-us-citizens-busted-two-held/story-6jSWk2fTI8FQl3z3r4ZuNN.html
02-12-2020||Gurugram||Harley rider death: Car owner, juvenile co-passenger held||The police on Tuesday night arrested the owner of a car involved in a collision with a motorcycle that left the rider, a 49-year-old chief financial officer (CFO) of a private company, dead on August 23 in Cyber City. The car was allegedly driven by a minor, who was inebriated at the time of the incident.On Wednesday, the police also apprehended a juvenile who was a co-passenger in the car, under Section 304 (2) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Juvenile Justice Act. The police said he will undergo a test to determine his age and was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. The car owner, identified as Dheeraj Taneja, has been booked under Section 109 (punishment for the offence for which there is no express provision made and the act is in consequence of the abetment by conspiracy) of the IPC and Section 77 (giving intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug or psychotropic substance to a child) of Juvenile Justice Act and was sent to judicial custody. On August 23, the victim, Alok Gupta, was on his way to Noida on his Harley Davidson motorcycle around 6am, when a Ford Figo, in which the two juveniles were allegedly travelling, rammed into the divider and hit his motorcycle across the carriageway. Gupta had succumbed to his injuries and the police had registered an FIR against the juvenile driver and owner of car, a friend of the driver’s father, under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (death by negligence) of the IPC. According to the police, the juveniles had attended a party at Taneja’s house and had allegedly consumed alcohol, after which they went out for a drive. The juvenile driving the car was apprehended earlier. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said Taneja was arrested under non-bailable sections and the juvenile was sent to an observation home in Faridabad. “As per the earlier sections, the suspects were released on bail but after the investigation was reopened, the sections were added and they were arrested. We have taken legal opinion and all relevant sections have been added and all arrests have been made,” he said. Mihika Wahi Gupta, the victim’s wife, said she wants justice and also to spread awareness, to curb underage driving. “This accident is an eye-opener and the police should start booking parents and juvenile for underage driving. I am fighting for justice and will make sure the persons responsible for my husband’s death are behind bars,” she said. Earlier, the victim’s family had approached the police commissioner over alleged negligence in the investigation and sought more stringent sections of the IPC. Gupta’s family wanted the teenager who was at the wheel booked under Section 304(II) (rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) of the IPC instead of Section 304(a) which is ‘negligence causing death’. Also, they wanted the owner of the car to be booked, following which sections 309 and 304(II) of the IPC and sections of JJ Act were added. On November 9, Rao suspended two policemen, including the station house officer (SHO) of DLF Phase 2 police station.The accident and the subsequent handling of the case by the police evoked widespread protests by the family and friends of the victim. On September 26, at least 400 people, including family members, friends and cyclists, carrying placards and banners, had taken out a solidarity march from DT Mega Mall to the crime spot, near DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro station, demanding justice and action against those responsible. Similar protests were also held in Delhi, Noida, Nagpur, Lucknow, Indore and Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/harley-rider-death-car-owner-juvenile-co-passenger-held/story-yTOHowzE3oZSgIBNaWpxJJ.html
02-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to takeover maintenance of Aravalli Biodiversity Park||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will take over maintenance of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park from a city-based non-governmental organisation, IAmGurgaon, on December 15. Officials confirmed that the park will continue to be maintained as a green space under the care of a new concessionaire, who is yet to be selected.The non-governmental organisation (NGO), IAmGurgaon, which has helmed the park’s restoration from an abandoned mining site to an urban forest since 2012, is currently in talks with the MCG’s horticulture department to ensure a smooth handover. IAmGurgaon’s memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the MCG, first signed in 2012 to facilitate the park’s restoration, was extended for a period of eight years in 2014. “Our agreement with the NGO lapsed in March this year. However, due to constraints imposed by the coronavirus lockdown, we requested IAmGurgaon to continue maintaining the park in the interim. Going forward, we have decided to appoint a new concessionaire to maintain the site using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. We are still finalising this,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.In a letter to IAmGurgaon on November 19 (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times), Singh wrote, “It is a matter of great pride for Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, that it has been able to restore an ecologically degraded land into a beautiful city forest in collaboration with IAmGurgaon. We truly appreciate the efforts and hard work put in by your organisation.”The letter also informs IAmGurgaon to continue maintaining the park until December 15, after which the MCG would take over as the primary custodian.Singh’s communique comes on the heels of prolonged discussions between IAmGurgaon and the MCG about the park’s upkeep. “We are not entirely certain why the MCG is choosing to discontinue our agreement. In our discussions with them, it had been proposed that another corporate sponsor come on board as the primary caretaker and that we would continue to work with them as a secondary caretaker. However, we felt this was not in the best interest of the park and our vision for it,” said Swanzal Kak Kapoor, co-founder, IAmGurgaon.When asked about the MCG’s reasons for discontinuing its agreement with IAmGurgaon, Singh said, “The park is now a mature forest and plantation work has been completed. We would like to leverage the NGO’s experience toward other projects, such as restoration of bundhs and water bodies in the city.”In September this year, IAmGurgaon released a report — Making of a City Forest — chronicling the 10-year journey of the ecological restoration of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park — highlighting the scientific importance of the park, which experts regard as a valuable repository of native Aravalli flora and fauna. The report also seeks that the park be declared as a biodiversity heritage site (BHS) under the ownership of the MCG.Inaugurated by the then chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in June 2010, the park has since revived over 380 acres of Aravalli vegetation near Nathupur village, which had been denuded after around four decades of mining that left the land barren and infested with invasive species. Since then, the park has come to foster multiple ecosystems, including dense woodlands, grasslands, rocky outcrops and water bodies.However, with no formal legal protection for the site, IAmGurgaon’s report expresses concern over the park’s future. “The park still does not have legal sanctity. In our opinion, it has to be declared as a biodiversity heritage site under the Biological Diversity Act. By declaring the park a heritage site, we shall be able to add value to Gurugram’s heritage,” IAmGurgaon’s report states in its concluding chapter.Singh did not comment on whether such a move is under consideration.An MCG official privy to the matter, seeking anonymity, said, “The park will first be maintained by our horticulture division until a new concessionaire is appointed. There is no proposal to convert in into a biodiversity heritage site yet.”While IAmGurgaon will cease to be the primary custodian of the park from December 15, representatives said they remain committed to protecting the space. “We will continue to facilitate education and research endeavours, and will keep monitoring the growth of the forest, which has been a labour of love for us,” said Kapoor.In 2019, a proposal to create twin roads through the park — from Ambience Mall to Aya Nagar on Gurgaon-Mehrauli Road (NH 236) and another from Vasant Kunj to Aya Nagar on Gurgaon-Mehrauli road — had met with widespread disapproval from citizens and subsequently, shelved by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).However, this proposal has since been retained in a draft of the city’s upcoming comprehensive mobility plan.Speaking about the future of the project in December 2019, the then CEO of the GMDA, V Umashankar, had said, “Sooner or later, the demand for an alternative link between Gurugram and south Delhi will arise, as that is the only way to decongest traffic at Sirhaul. There is no other viable route.” GMDA officials did not respond to queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-takeover-maintenance-of-aravalli-biodiversity-park/story-wiut94Gm052IAVFtgTAi9J.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Five lose battle to Covid, 296 test positive in Chandigarh tricity area||Covid-19 claimed seven lives in the tricity, even as 296 fresh cases also surfaced on Wednesday.While Chandigarh reported three deaths, Mohali and Panchkula had two casualties each.In the daily case count, Mohali led with 149 fresh infections, followed by Chandigarh with 105 and Panchkula with 42.With three more deaths and 105 new cases, Chandigarh’s case tally and death toll climbed to 17,642 and 281, respectively.The deceased were three men, aged 57, 55 and 53, residents of Manimajra and Sector 15. They died during treatment at private hospitals in Mohali and Panchkula.The city still has 1,082 active cases, while 16,279 patients have recovered. These include 106 patients, who were discharged on Monday. In the last 24 hours, 1,754 tests were conducted.With two fatalities, Mohali’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 284, while the 149 new cases pushed the case tally to 15,747.Majority of the cases, at 119, were from Mohali city, while 14 cropped up in Dhakoli, eight in Lalru, four in Dera Bassi and three in Kharar.Wednesday also saw 71 patients being discharged, taking the total recoveries to 13,384 and leaving 2,079 active cases.In Panchkula, the case tally became 8,828 with 42 fresh cases, while the deaths reached 129 with two casualties.Those who died were a 94-year old woman from Sector 21 and a 75-year-old man from Sector 20. The woman was also suffering from hypertension and sepsis.Most of the new cases were reported from Panchkula city and Pinjore. The district still has 493 active cases after 8,206 recoveries. A total of 1,003 samples were collected for testing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-lose-battle-to-covid-296-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-WzBd6FMTyxtHG75RdkPCDK.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Congress councillors demand Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher’s resignation||Congress councillors on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher. They said that she has failed to manage the problems of the city.In a letter addressed to Kher, the councillors said, “The MP’s whereabouts are unknown and the people of Chandigarh feel cheated and neglected for choosing her.” “BJP has failed miserably to run the municipal corporation. Now, it is putting all the blame on the civic body’s officials. The same BJP councillors have been putting pressure on the officials to pass taxes in the MC House,” the letter states.The letter has been signed by leader of opposition in MC House, Devinder Singh Babla, Gurbaksh Rawat, Sheela Phool Singh, Satish Kainth and Ravindra Kaur Gujral.The councillors also targeted mayor Raj Bala Malik, stating, “Malik has been the most unsuccessful mayor in the history of Chandigarh. Despite not bringing any agenda for development in the last seven months , she has burdened the residents by imposing taxes on them. The mayor should resign ethically because BJP councillors have boycotted their own mayor’s meeting. This just shows that they are only interested in petty politics and are not concerned about the city’s development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-councillors-demand-chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-s-resignation/story-7qRQdM6gKR0A45IpFFz3IP.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar’s business incubator foundation gets ₹5 crore grant||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar has received a grant of Rs 5 crore from the department of science and technology (DST), government of India. The grant has been sanctioned to Technology Business Incubator Foundation (TBIF) – a section non-profit entity of the institute, established in the year 2016. The foundation is independently taking care of start-up related activities and entrepreneurial system for the students of IIT Ropar and Punjab region. The institute has established a technology business incubator (TBI) under the national initiative for developing and harnessing innovations (NIDHI) programme of DST. The programme would work in line with the national priorities and goals and, its focus would be to build an innovation-driven entrepreneurial ecosystem with an objective of socio-economic development through wealth and job creation. Professor Sarit Kumar Das, director, IIT Ropar, and chairman, TBI, said, “Entrepreneurship is not new at IIT, Ropar. Till now, seven companies have stemmed from here. A soft loan of approximately Rs 55 lakh has been given to these companies for developing their ideas and products. They are doing exceptionally well. Two companies even returned their soft loan amount: Rs 16,45,000.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iit-ropar-s-business-incubator-foundation-gets-5-crore-grant/story-tTz3I5RFXeaWLqYKhbzgSJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Drunk car driver snuffs out 27-year-old woman’s life in Chandigarh||A drunk car driver claimed the life of a 27-year-old woman waiting at a traffic signal on her Honda Activa near Panjab University, Sector 14, on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Geeta, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, Nayagaon. Her husband, Kamal, who was riding the scooter, also sustained injuries. Police said the couple was waiting for the traffic light to turn green, when a speeding Maruti Swift car hit their scooter from behind. The impact of the collision tossed the couple in the air and caused severe injuries as they crashed on the road. Kamal and Geeta were rushed to PGIMER, where the latter was declared brought dead. The car driver, Kuldeep Singh of Sector 15, was nabbed and taken for medical examination that confirmed that he was driving under the influence of liquor. He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Kamal’s relative Paan Singh, of Manimajra, Chandigarh.Kamal said they had come to Sector 25, Chandigarh, to meet Geeta’s parents. Besides her husband, Geeta leaves behind her seven-year-old daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drunk-car-driver-snuffs-out-27-year-old-woman-s-life-in-chandigarh/story-WPNyHgXVzOTE23AYtIbP3J.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||BEd admission in Panjab University affiliated colleges: December 5 last date for EWS candidates to apply||Saturday is the last day for submission of forms for admission of candidates from economically weaker sections(EWS) to BEd course in city colleges affiliated with Panjab University.The candidates have to submit the forms through email and have to pay an application fee of Rs 2,175 at https://payonline.puchd.ac.in against the fee code: M0120. They are also required to send all their documents in a single PDF to chandigarhbed@pu.ac.in on or before the last date. The application forms for the EWS category were made available from December 1, 2020.Panjab University, in an official communique on Wednesday, said that there is a 10% reservation for the EWS students for admission to city colleges. EWS students from across India will get a 10% reservation over and above the sanctioned intake for admission to BEd course in UT Colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bed-admission-in-panjab-university-affiliated-colleges-december-5-last-date-for-ews-candidates-to-apply/story-FbPq8GOgdSRrEuxGG216EM.html
02-12-2020||City||On Day 1 of night curfew in Ludhiana, police have hard time keeping residents indoors||Despite the strict checking by the police, city residents did not adhere to the night curfew in view of the rising Coronavirus cases. Many people ventured out on Tuesday during the night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am and police toiled to keep them indoors.Looking at the rising Covid-19 cases, the Punjab government had imposed a night curfew in the state from December 1. Apart from the night curfew, the state government had also doubled the fine from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks.Police have also issued challans to violators for not wearing masks on Tuesday night.Many residents were found roaming around the city and gave a common excuse that they were not aware that a night curfew has been imposed again. While some said that they were going to buy medicines.As it was Day 1 of the night curfew, police let the violators go with a warning.Through patrolling, police made shopkeepers close down the shops, restaurants and liquor vends at around 9.30 pm. Some shopkeepers were found operating beyond permissible hours near Division Number 3 chowk, Shingar Cinema road, Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi and Model Town areas. Police made them close down shutters and issued a warning for lodging FIRs in case of violation.Special checkpoints were installed at each major point and crossroads of the city.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that people with medical emergencies, delivery vehicles were allowed to move. The reason behind the curfew is to discourage social gatherings at night, amid the second wave of the virus.Those violating the curfew will invite FIRs.An eatery owner at Kalgidhar road was made to close down as he was operating beyond permissible hours. Another shopkeeper near Division Number 3 chowk accused police of harassing him when he was asked to shut the shop at 9.30 pm.However, police allowed people to go to railway stations and bus stands to pick/drop their relatives. Three-wheelers ferrying passengers to their destinations were also allowed to move.People negotiate with police over finePeople who were issued challans for not wearing masks were seen negotiating with the police to charge Rs 500 instead of Rs 1,000. Even as the government had increased the fine to Rs 1,000 from Rs 500 for not wearing masks, people were not ready to shell out money from their pockets.Sensing the resentment, the police officials collected Rs 500 from violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-day-1-of-night-curfew-in-ludhiana-police-have-hard-time-keeping-residents-indoors/story-U6OT0ld8S7rvWOWvQcMurK.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC quashes defamation complaint against former Kurukshetra MP Saini||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed a defamation complaint against former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini. The complaint was filed by one Sant Kanwar of Rohtak in April 2018. Acting on the same, a Rohtak court had summoned Saini to face the trial in June 2018. Subsquently, Saini had moved the high court in July 2019. Kanwar, a follower of late Chaudhary Matu Ram Hooda, an Arya Samajist, had alleged that in April 2018 Saini made several defamatory statements against Hooda. Saini in high court had claimed that Kanwar had no “locus standi” as he was not an “aggrieved person” as per law. Kanwar, despite notices, failed to appear before high court. The court observed that a ‘person aggrieved’ must have an element of personal interest, being either the person defamed himself or in the case of a deceased person, his family member or other near relative. However, in this case, Kanwar does not claim to be a member of the family or his near relative. The court said Kanwar, who is not a ‘family member’ or ‘near relative’ of late Hooda, cannot unilaterally assume unto himself the status of an ‘aggrieved person’ under Section 199 CrPC, whereby he can assert that his feelings were hurt and maintain the subject complaint against Saini. Kanwar’s claim seems to have been based more on ideological considerations rather than any actual ‘relationship’. There was no averment in the complaint itself indicative of any familial relationship, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-quashes-defamation-complaint-against-former-kurukshetra-mp-saini/story-ujJ2nowNRjOus9GRKUQR3H.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC stops tree felling at Chandigarh school||Taking note of a resident’s petition, the Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Chandigarh administration from cutting anymore trees at Government Model High School, Sector 36. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Arun Palli acted on the plea of Sudeep Mahajan, a lawyer and resident of the sector. The administration had admitted before the court that 10 to 15 trees have already been axed at the school. Mahajan had told the court that in the seventies, a large number of eucalyptus trees were planted on the school premises to provide green, cool, shady and healthy environment for the students and residents living in the schools’ vicinity. However, authorities suddenly started axing the trees for no compelling reason. He claimed that when enquiries about the exercise were made, it came to light that the trees were being felled under pressure from some influential residents, who feared the trees may fall on their houses or cars. The petitioner argued that the tall, elegant, green, healthy, salubrious and environment-protecting trees cannot be allowed to be axed on the vague, hypothetical, unsubstantiated and idle fears of some residents, and thereby allow degradation of the environment for the rest of the residents of the city. Hence, he sought that the authorities be directed to immediately stop indiscriminate felling and plant thrice the number of trees already felled. The administration has been told to respond by the next date of hearing on March 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-stops-tree-felling-at-chandigarh-school/story-AkrpZvh48DHfim7IOzlH6H.html
02-12-2020||City||Unique ID cards issued to 4,826 persons with disabilities in Mohali: Girish Dayalan||Unique Disability ID (UDID) cards have been launched in the state to provide benefits of various schemes of state and central government to persons with disabilities (PwD). “It is a single document for the identification and verification of PwDs that will enable them to access various benefits,” informed deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The DC said that so far 9,606 applications had been received in the district. Out of these, 4,826 unique identity cards and certificates have been issued, he added. To give momentum to the project in the district, an online portal has been set up to issue the cards. The PwDs can either register themselves online through this portal or at their nearest Sewa Kendras. One can also approach the health centre, civil surgeon’s office, district social security officer, and child development project officer’s office to get their cards made. The DC said that apart from all the facilities available under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the holders of these cards are also eligible to avail of a half-fare facility in Punjab Roadways and PRTC buses. Besides this, the department of social security also gives pensions to them under its financial assistance scheme. The education department and the social security department give pensions to students with disabilities. Apart from this, these unique disability identity cards are also helpful in providing assistive devices and prostheses to disable people. The DC appealed to all persons with disabilities to get their UDID cards made, and those who already have certificates can get them digitised and get their unique disability identity cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unique-id-cards-issued-to-4-826-persons-with-disabilities-in-mohali-girish-dayalan/story-RP0nTgyqtLOxhZKjCBRXpJ.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||AAP asks BJP to pay municipal employees their pending salaries immediately||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday demanded that all employees of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) be paid their pending salaries without any further delay and said the BJP should stop playing “dirty politics” with the issue.The BJP hit back saying that the AAP has been “misleading” people on the issue. Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs, said, “The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled MCDs release the salaries of the last four months to their employees immediately. The AAP demands that the BJP stop playing dirty politics and pay the pending salaries without further delay. Due to the continuous protest by the AAP and the MCD employees, the BJP was forced to release the salary for two months and but now the remaining amount should be released as well.” The Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The AAP should stop misleading people on the MCD staff salary issue. The municipal employees know very well that it is the non-release of statutory municipal grants by the Delhi government which is responsible for the economic crisis in civic bodies. Three quarters of current financial year have gone by and the Delhi government is yet to release even 25% of this year’s allocated funds to the MCDs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-asks-bjp-to-pay-municipal-employees-their-pending-salaries-immediately/story-LarvHuH4GVJErga64oTxAJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Jeev invitational golf tourney: Lahiri’s team wins pro-am event||Indian star golfer Anirban Lahiri led his team to victory at the pro-am event of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020, presented by TAKE Sports, thus warming up in style ahead of the main event scheduled to begin at the Chandigarh Golf Club from December 3. Lahiri’s team comprising amateurs Brig HPS Dhillon (retd), SPS Ghai, and Sandeep Sandhu, won the Pro-Am event with a total score of 55.6. Chandigarh-based professional Abhijit Singh Chadha and his team finished first runners-up with a score of 56. Chadha’s team comprised amateurs Bhav Karan Singh, Sahil Sahgal, and Sachin Bansal.Delhi-based professional Rashid Khan’s team finished second runners-up with a score of 56.2. Rashid’s team comprised amateurs Dhruv D Kumar, Gurmehar Brar, and CS Grewal. The prize closest to the pin on hole number 8 was won by Paramjit Arora, whose shot landed five feet from the pin. The prize for the closest to the pin on hole number 11 was won by Kanwaljeet Singh Gill, whose shot landed 11 inches from the hole. The prize for the straightest drive on hole number 5 was won by Dr Atul Sachdev, whose shot landed seven inches from the centre of the fairway. The prize for the straightest drive on hole number 13 was won by Dr Harpreet Batth, whose shot landed on the centre of the fairway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jeev-invitational-golf-tourney-lahiri-s-team-wins-pro-am-event/story-FVo6dglAzoH8sxMrbaq8BN.html
02-12-2020||City||At Ghaziabad border, locals help protesting farmers with food and water||New Delhi: Help poured in for hundreds of farmers stationed at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border (UP Gate border) on Wednesday as local residents distributed food, water, fruits and other items to the protesters. Many volunteers of nearby gurudwaras and madarsas were seen distributing food, water, tea, snacks, and fruits to the farmers throughout the day.Nitin Atri, who runs a milk products shop in Sahibabad in Ghaziabad, said, “I may not be a farmer but my forefathers were and that is the reason I can connect with the cause of farmers who have gathered here to protest against the farm laws. I won’t sleep in peace if farmers sleep hungry near my house.”Atri and his relatives and friends distributed food and bottled water during the lunch hour. Atri and his friends said they pooled in money and will continue their service till the protest continues.Among the volunteers were five children aged between 3 and 16 years from a family living in Vasundhara in Ghaziabad. They had come with their grandmother and other family members to distribute food and water. While the elder ones took charge of food distribution, the children were enthusiastically offering water bottles not only to the farmers but also to the police personnel deployed there.The children said their grandfather Surender Singh joined the farmers ever since the agitation began. “I came to the protest venue on Monday to meet my grandfather and felt bad when I saw the farmers were arranging meals for themselves. I asked my family if we can contribute. They agreed and arranged ration and packed water,” said 16-year-old Kajal, a Class 12 student.After the lunch, around 4 pm, a five-member volunteer group from a madarasa in Mayur Vihar arrived in a tempo with apples and oranges.Some Congress workers were seen offering tea and snacks to the farmers. As all of them were wearing scarves with the logo and symbol of the party, many farmers asked them either to remove their scarves or leave the venue. After a brief discussion, the party workers removed the scarves and continued the distribution of tea and snacks.Overall, the situation at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border remained peaceful on Wednesday. The farmers were seen resting in makeshift tents made on their tractors and on the road as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-ghaziabad-border-locals-help-protesting-farmers-with-food-and-water/story-DGfXGRyyb4y9cpAXFWf9kO.html
02-12-2020||City||17-year-old boy kills friend for not returning money in Delhi’s Maidangarhi||New Delhi: Police on Wednesday said they had apprehended a 17-year-old boy for allegedly killing his friend of the same age in a forested area in south Delhi’s Maidangarhi last month following an argument over not returning R2,500 the friend had borrowed from him.The semi-decomposed body of the victim with some body parts eaten by animals was found in the jungle on November 9, two days after he was battered to death by the teenager, who was apprehended on Tuesday after his father called the police and informed them about his son’s crime, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.“The teenager had confessed before his father that he had killed his friend on the intervening night of November 7 and 8. He made the confession just two days ago. Instead of hiding his son’s crime, the father informed the police about his crime. We apprehended the teenager in the case,” said DCP Thakur.According to the DCP, the apprehended teenager told the police that he had given R2,500 to his friend a few months ago. He had been demanding the money back but the friend was not returning it.On November 7 night, the two boys met in the forested area where two more boys were present. They all partied there till late night. After the two boys left, the two friends entered into an argument over the money. Their altercation turned violent and the 17-year-old boy who was demanding the money back hit his friend’s head with a stone multiple times, a police officer associated with the case said.“After killing his friend, the teenager returned home and did not tell anyone about it. A couple of days after, he went to his native village in Uttar Pradesh with his family members. They returned to Delhi on Monday and learnt about the murder of their son’s friend. The teenager panicked and told his father that he had killed his friend. The father informed the police and the boy was apprehended,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-boy-kills-friend-for-not-returning-money-in-delhi-s-maidangarhi/story-9ZynaI8zZoWpQuq5xjgd3H.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: ETT teacher dismissed for getting job with fake reservation certificate||District education officer, elementary Rajinder Kaur terminated services of an elementary training teacher (ETT), 19 years after the reservation certificate she had submitted at the time of recruitment was found fake.Kulwant Kaur, an ETT teacher at Government Primary School, Sukhdev Nagar joined in 2001 and by showing an SC certificate she was able to get the job as well as five years of age relaxation. While verifying her documents from primary, middle and senior secondary school, the district education department received records that she belongs to the backward class category.The ETT teacher was informed on November 5, 16 and 23 to give clarification on this issue but she sent a medical leave to the district education officer. The officer rejected her leave and asked the deputy district education officer, elementary Kuldeep Singh to inquire into the matter. The inquiry officer visited the school and collected all the records from the school headteacher. The ETT teacher failed to submit any document till November 30 that the certificate submitted by her was original.Kaur confirmed the dismiss orders and stated that the teacher was given three chances to report and give clarification but she went on medical leave. The records and inquiry report clearly states that she produced a fake certificate to get the job.The DEO office stated that the ETT teacher has violated rule 8 of Punjab Civil Services Rules, 1970 and she has been dismissed from services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-ett-teacher-dismissed-for-getting-job-with-fake-reservation-certificate/story-696FOQeLzETHiv48Ql2EtO.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fuel theft: Ludhiana MC chief orders suspension of chief sanitary inspector, two other staffers||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has ordered suspension of a chief sanitary inspector Jagtar Singh and two sanitary inspectors, Gurinder Singh and Satinderjit Singh Bawa, on Wednesday after their role in fuel theft was pointed out in an inquiry conducted by MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana. The employees have been stopped from coming to duty and their cases have been recommended to the local bodies department for suspension.Further, services of a contractual driver, Kulwant Singh, have been terminated. In the orders issued by Sabharwal, chargesheets against the suspended employees have also been recommended to the local bodies department.In September, mayor Balkar Sandhu had marked an inquiry after MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon suspected that employees of MC’s Zone C office have been getting fuel allocated against three defunct tractors.Satinderjit was already suspended after the mayor had caught him and a driver for stealing 43 litres of fuel allocated for a fogging machine. An official, requesting anonymity, said that Tiwana has also recommended action against audit department staff who failed to check anomalies in the log books of employees. Tiwana said, “After the mayor marked an inquiry, I checked the log books of the employees for the period from January to May 2020. Even when tractors were not in working condition, the employees got fuel allocated for them. Entries regarding the routes were also not marked properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fuel-theft-ludhiana-mc-chief-orders-suspension-of-chief-sanitary-inspector-two-other-staffers/story-VDBj4Y7UxDUq0h013U0gcK.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||DU students new to OBE look to recent graduates for assistance||Following concerns and queries over the online open-book examination (OBE) beginning next week at Delhi University, students appearing for the exams are looking to their recently graduated alumni for assistance.Last week, Delhi University had issued guidelines for the online open-book semester examination, for second and third-year undergraduate students, slated to begin from December 12.Several colleges are planning to organise online sessions with recent graduates who appeared for the first-ever OBEs at the university in August. The varsity decision to conduct OBE as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic had been met with staunch opposition from several students and faculty members, but it went ahead with the process nevertheless. Several glitches were reported during the exams, including students receiving the wrong question paper or being unable to submit their answer scripts on time.Divyanshika Pandey, a final-year student of economics at Miranda House, said, “We have asked students to send their queries as a Google form and those will be sent to our graduates. The graduates will circulate it among their groups so that anyone can respond. A virtual session is also likely to be held towards the weekend.”The queries posed by students include doubts about the paper pattern, time management, how to upload answer scripts on the portal and possible glitches that may arise.“Our teachers have also been helping us but it is always better to hear from former students on how to structure answers and understand how these answers are then graded. The logistical queries are also there -- like how to upload scripts and what to do in case of an error. We have been interacting with some graduates over the semester but a last-minute session would help,” she said.Similar attempts are made at Hindu College and Lady Shri Ram College as well. Hindu principal Anju Shrivastava said graduates proposed the idea to the college to help out their departments and encourage those appearing for their papers. She said that these interactions are organised by department societies in the college.Anupam Varshney Sharma, who teaches zoology at the college, said, “We had a meeting with teachers in charge of other departments and the principal as students were facing problems. We thought it would be better if students could connect with recent graduates as the latter would be able to give valuable inputs.”Unlike August, when students were allowed to email answer scripts, the university has issued strict guidelines this time -- undergraduate students will only be allowed to submit answer scripts through the examination portal. Dean (examinations) DS Rawat said the glitches that came up during the last OBE were addressed by the varsity’s computer centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-students-new-to-obe-look-to-recent-graduates-for-assistance/story-hjU26XSRSePpPbJy92b9aP.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Interim bails of 3,499 prisoners extended in view of Covid-19 spike in capital||The Delhi high court on Wednesday extended the interim bail of around 3,499 under-trial prisoners by a further 45 days in order to prevent a further spread of Covid-19 within the jail premises. The decision of the high court was based on the recommendation of the high-powered committee (HPC) constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to contain the pandemic.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh passed the order in view of the HPC’s recommendation and extended by 45 days the interim bail granted to 3,499 under-trial prisoners so that their surrender does not overwhelm prisons in the national capital, which are already filled beyond capacity.The committee in its meeting of November 28 had said the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Delhi shows that there is no clear timeline as to when the pandemic will abate and if the interim bails of these prisoners are not extended, they may end up bringing the infection to the jails. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, appearing for the prison authorities, confirmed that the interim bails have been extended by 45 days by the bench headed by justice Mridul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/interim-bails-of-3-499-prisoners-extended-in-view-of-covid-19-spike-in-capital/story-LkigbKLBpNswmjIidW4kcJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Virtual meetings to be held for teachers to improve English skills||To improve the English communication skills of teachers, district mentors will organise virtual get togethers from Thursday onwards. The participants will deliver 45 to 90 second speeches on topics including self confidence, English as an international language and use of classroom instructions to improve language skills.Around 35 to 40 English teachers of primary and secondary classes, as well as those of other subjects, will participate in the activity scheduled under the aegis of English Booster Club (EBC). These get togethers will be a regular feature of EBCs to build a conducive environment in government schools to mobilise teachers to develop English communication skills. Ludhiana district mentor, English, Subodh Kumar, has already conducted one meeting with subject teachers and asked them to converse in English during their class. “In these virtual meetings, teachers will get a platform to share their experiences and ideas with each other. They can also focus on activities which can be conducted to improve the spoken English of students.”Social studies and English teacher, Rupinder Kaur, said: “To encourage students to interact in English during class, I have come up with different ideas and got them to engage in various activities. I give them one sentence everyday and ask them to elaborate on it using different words. This is helping students speak in the language and they are learning new ways to express their views.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-virtual-meetings-to-be-held-for-teachers-to-improve-english-skills/story-LK7pIxyAh7Ao6RThWqPamJ.html
02-12-2020||City||VAT assessment notices: Traders in Ludhiana demand OTS policy||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal organised a protest march against the state government in Field Ganj area on Tuesday evening for its failure to notify a one-time settlement (OTS) policy to resolve VAT assessment cases from 2012 to 2016. The protesting traders said that in the last week of October, the state government had announced that the policy will be notified in a week. But, it has still not been done. State general secretary of the beopar mandal, Sunil Mehra, and district president, Arvinder Singh Makkar, said traders are already reeling under losses and the government and sales tax department are further harassing them during this time of crisis.Mehra said around 70,000 notices have been served to VAT assesses in Punjab, of which 23,000 are in Ludhiana. “A state-level meeting of the beopar mandal will be held in Amritsar on December 13. If the government fails to notify the policy by then, state-level protests will be held. If the Congress government continues to harass traders, they will lose our support in the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections,” Mehra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vat-assessment-cases-cong-will-lose-traders-support-if-ots-policy-is-not-notified/story-YGY8cALteFKPNBauzHvusM.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers camped at Chilla border suffer for want of water, toilets||Lack of basic amenities such as water and access to toilets is causing problems for protesting farmers as they remained positioned at Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) on Wednesday and continued their agitation against the three new farm laws passed by parliament. The Chilla border was closed on Tuesday evening by the police after more than 300 farmers from Uttar Pradesh and belonging to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) group blocked both the carriageways of the arterial road connecting Delhi and Noida using their tractors. This had prompted the police to place barricades to stop the farmers from entering Delhi Although the agitating farmers said they have brought along rations that will allow them to continue their protest for weeks, no arrangement for water or toilets had been made either by the Noida administration or Delhi administration. Apart from buying water cans, the farmers said they brought water from nearby houses of people known to them.“Many of our acquaintances live in Noida and east Delhi. They supplied water in cans from their houses. Some unknown individuals also contributed packed water glasses and bottles. We requested the officials of the Noida administration for water tankers and portable toilets but nothing has been done so far. We are using the nearby forested areas for relieving ourselves. Things are being managed somehow,” said Master Manoj, national general secretary of Bhanu said.When officials in Noida and Delhi Police were asked about this, they said their negotiations with the farmers were on to convince them to shift their protest either to the Burari ground in Delhi or near the zero point at Pari Chowk in Greater Noida.“We even offered to provide them with portable washrooms and drinking water facilities if they move to a designated area near zero point, Pari Chowk but they refused,” said a senior Noida police officer, not wishing to be named. As far as the arrangements for food are concerned, farmers have hired a six-member team of confectioners from Delhi’s Karol Bagh to cook meals. Though the confectioners were being paid for their services, lack of water and other food items such as salt and spices made their work difficult.The confectioners and fed nearly 700 people on Wednesday. Head confectioner Vikram Kumar said he got a call around 8am on Wednesday and the caller sought to know if he and his team could cook food for 700-800 protesting farmers at Chilla border.“I agreed but when we came here, there were no arrangements -- no gas stoves or utensils. We have used concrete tiles and bricks to make a stove. Some utensils were arranged by us. But that’s not enough to feed such a large number of people. The main problem is water. The farmers are using empty cooking oil jars to bring water for cooking and drinking,” said Kumar. On Wednesday, around 2pm, one of the carriageways -- from Delhi to Noida -- was opened to traffic after senior police officers convinced protesting farmers to shift their agitation to the Noida to Delhi side of the road.The police officers told us that ambulances as well as private vehicles carrying patients were stuck in jams. Although it was the police who had blocked it, and not us, we shifted ourselves to the carriageway from Noida to Delhi on the instructions of the police. We are here for a peaceful protest and not to cause problems to the public,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, national president, Bhanu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-camped-at-chilla-border-suffer-for-want-of-water-toilets/story-RHYlAoUCXXM3Sm4eEFGo3L.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Night shelters in Ludhiana open their doors amid precautions||A day after the homeless were forced to brave winter nights on the streets, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the civic body officials at Zone D office on Wednesday and directed them to make the night shelters operational from Thursday onward.The city has five permanent night shelters, but the MC was yet to open their doors, forcing the homeless to bear the cold on the roadsides. The shelters are situated in Haibowal, near Clock tower, Moti Nagar and Millerganj area.While the superintending engineers (SE) have been directed to make proper arrangements of bedding, lights, potable water at the shelters, the health branch officials were told to provide 100 masks at each of the four shelters, a thermal scanner and hand sanitisers. The bedding arrangements will be done to ensure social distancing among the inmates of the shelter and teams of the health department will also conduct medical check-ups of occupants.Further, the officials have also been directed to arrange food for the homeless at night shelters by roping in different NGOs and gurdwara management committees.Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh has been deployed as the nodal officer. The officials said that if required the civic body will also set up temporary night shelters in different parts of the city.Sabharwal said, “The officials have been directed to open the shelters from Thursday onward and duties have also been assigned. Strict directions have been issued to all to adhere to the Covid guidelines at the shelters, besides keeping them clean.”Four buses to ferry homeless to night sheltersSabharwal said, “This year we have also decided to deploy four city buses - one in each MC Zone, for shifting the homeless to the night shelters. Bus drivers will make rounds in different areas and the homeless will be shifted to night shelters.” MC chief donates 40 blanketsAppealing the residents to come forward for providing food and other required material at the night shelters, MC commissioner Sabharwal donated 40 blankets in night shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-shelters-in-ludhiana-open-their-doors-amid-precautions/story-xJRvXjl7YfNwzO3UCP3rkL.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||‘Sneaky little fellow’: Amarinder Singh lashes out at Delhi CM over notifying farm bill||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh called his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal “this sneaky little fellow” as the two traded charges over the notification of one of the three new central farm laws in the national capital. A day earlier the Punjab chief minister had slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader over the November 23 notification in Delhi, accusing the party of just “pretending” to support the farmers’ cause. At a press briefing in Delhi Wednesday Kejriwal hit back, but that triggered the release of another press statement by the Congress veteran in Chandigarh. Kejriwal’s AAP is the main opposition in Congress-run Punjab, farmers from where are now camped outside Delhi in a huge protest against the Centre’s agri-marketing laws. Amarinder Singh trashed Kejriwal’s assertion that states are “helpless” against central legislation, and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian” laws. He accused Kejriwal of “undermining” the farmers’ fight by notifying one of the laws and reminded that the Punjab Assembly had passed its own Bills in an attempt to “negate” them. “Instead of meekly just notifying the central laws, Kejriwal could have tried to make some effort to counter them and protect the rights of the farmers,” the Punjab chief minister said. He alleged it is evident that “this sneaky little fellow, whose double standards have been exposed time and again, is now completely cornered on the issue.” In his briefing earlier, Kejriwal had accused the Punjab CM of playing “dirty politics”, and suggested that he was under pressure from Central agencies. “I want to ask Captain saheb, are you under the pressure of these very same people because of which you are making these false allegations against me, abusing me. I know that the reason may be that your family is charged with cases and receiving notices from the ED,” he said. The three farm laws were implemented across the country with the signature of the president and no state can stop them, he said. “If the implementation of the laws depended on the states, why would farmers from across the nation reach Delhi to talk to the Centre and put their demands forward? They would have put their demands in front of their chief ministers,” he said. He accused the Punjab CM of not trying to stop the farm bills when he had the chance. “Captain saheb had many chances to stop the farm bills. Why did he not act against these bills being a member of the central government’s committee formulating and deliberating on these bills?” Kejriwal asked. “Is this Captain saheb’s friendship with the BJP or is he under pressure, because of which he is making false allegations against me?” he asked. Kejriwal also said his AAP government had angered the BJP government at the Centre by refusing to give permission for turning city stadiums into temporary jails for protesting farmers. Singh hit back, saying it was apparent that Kejriwal, whose survival depended on the central government, was more worried about angering it than about the farmers’ plight. He dubbed Kejriwal’s latest comments – including an appeal to the Centre to address the farmers’ concerns -- as “mere hogwash” and said the AAP leader’s actions had “exposed the hollowness” of his remarks. It is evident that Kejriwal is only playing to the sentiments of the farmers now because his party has completely lost the political narrative in Punjab, he charged. The Delhi government notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 on November 23. Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, are camping at Delhi’s border demanding a repeal of the central laws. Farmer union’s claim that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which the Centre denies. The Narendra Modi government says the laws give more options to farmers to sell their crops, fetching better prices for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sneaky-little-fellow-amarinder-singh-lashes-out-at-delhi-cm-over-notifying-farm-bill/story-cIQCjphRpKiCIzfJ7OJHFO.html
02-12-2020||City||Police clueless about identity of girl found murdered in Sector 69||A day after an 18-year-old girl was found dead near Gurukul School in Sector 69, police could not find any clues about her identity or the murderer on Wednesday. On Tuesday morning, the victim’s body was recovered near a tubewell opposite the school. She was strangled and bludgeoned to death with a brick that was found near the body.“The victim was a migrant. Her body has been kept in the mortuary of the civil hospital in Phase 6. The autopsy, which will help confirm if a sexual assault took place, will be held after 24 hours. We have circulated the information with the police in Chandigarh and Panchkula, so that she can be identified by her family,” said inspector Rajnish Choudhary, SHO, Phase 8 station, adding that efforts were on to nab the murderer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-clueless-about-identity-of-girl-found-murdered-in-sector-69/story-edSC7kKGcqbj1wIuOKeiFP.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to set up another Indo Israel Centre of excellence in Horticulture at Bhiwani||Ambassador of Israel to India, Dr Ron Malka, on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of the fifth Indo-Israel Centre of Excellence in Horticulture at Gignau village in Bhiwani, which will be set up at a cost of around ₹8.25 crore.According to a statement, the Israeli ambassador said both India and Israel will work together in the field of advanced agricultural resources, agricultural research and training. Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said this Centre of Excellence for Horticulture will be built on 50 acres in the next six months. “Keeping in view the increasing holdings and expenditure on agriculture, the government has decided to establish this Centre in this semi-arid region to double the income of farmers,” he said. Dalal said with the establishment of this Centre, farmers of Loharu assembly constituency will be encouraged to adopt cultivation of fruits, flowers and vegetables. He said agricultural scientists of Israel and Haryana Agricultural University will regularly give their services at the centre. Haryana already has four Centres of Excellence under Indo Israel collaboration. They are Centre of Excellence for Vegetables, Gharaunda (Karnal), Centre of Excellence for Fruits, Mangiana (Sirsa), Centre for Sub Tropical Fruits, Ladwa (Kurukshetra) and Integrated Beekeeping Development Centre, Ramnagar (Kurukshetra).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-set-up-another-indo-israel-centre-of-excellence-in-horticulture-at-bhiwani/story-My9m8HflTf9aDAddReVaGL.html
02-12-2020||City||Farmers protest: Haryana’s Dhadan khap threatens to stop supply of essentials to Delhi||One of the prominent khaps in Haryana, Dhadan khap, has threatened to stop sending vegetables, milk and other essential commodities to Delhi if the demands of the farmers protesting against three farm laws are not met by Thursday evening.While chairing a meeting of the khap body at Jind, Dalbir Sheokand, head of Dhadan khap, said they will ‘kooch Delhi borders’ on Thursday and stop the supply of all essential commodities to Delhi, if the demands are not fulfilled by the Centre. “All the khap representatives should conduct a door-door meeting to apprise people about these black laws. We will kooch Delhi on Thursday with a large group of tractor-trolleys,” he added. Meanwhile, the farmer unions on Wednesday held a joint meeting at the Singhu-Kundli border and asked the Union government to repeal the three farm laws. Dharshan Pal, president of All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), said the government’s attempts to divide them have been foiled and they want the Centre to repeal the farm laws, rollback decision to impose a fine of Rs 1 crore on farmers for stubble burning and the new electricity bill.“Our leaders will meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar to discuss these demands on Thursday. We will launch a direct fight with the government if they do not accept our demands,” he said during a press briefing at Singhu border.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said all the farmer unions are ready to come under one forum to protest against these laws if demands are not accepted by the Union government on Thursday.“We will start a protest at the village-level against the crony capitalists, who are aspiring to acquire our land. The farmers have expressed gratitude to the players and former soldiers for deciding to return the awards against these farm laws. People, who know about agriculture, are protesting against these laws and those sitting in power are explaining the profits of these laws,” he added.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the government is ready to solve the grievances of farmers.“The farmers should see the results of these three farm laws for the next three years before protesting,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-haryana-s-dhadan-khap-threatens-to-stop-supply-of-essentials-to-delhi/story-CZlJ3sDYTyOu0GS5Ggx7zL.html
02-12-2020||City||20 injured as four vehicles collide due to fog in Yamunanagar||As many as 20 people sustained minor injuries after four vehicles, including two buses, collided with each other at Tigra village in Yamunanagar’s Kalanaur area on Wednesday morning, police said. Two roadways buses from Punjab and UP and a car collided after a truck ahead of them applied brakes. The vehicles were following the truck as there was some fog in the morning, police officials said.Kalanour police post in-charge Rohan said a major accident was averted as the vehicles were moving slowly due to fog. “Around 20 commuters received minor injuries and most of them left for their homes. No complaint has been received and I would advise drivers to avoid travelling early morning,” he said. Two bikers crushed to death Two friends who were riding a motorcyle in Yamunanagar’s Bookhri area were crushed to death by a loaded dumper on Wednesday. They are Sourabh Sharma, 27, of Barthal village and Dinesh, 22, of Gadhibanjara village. They worked together at a private firm. Station in-charge inspector Chottu Ram of Jagadhri Sadar police station said they were returning from work when their motorcyle hit the dumper and came under its tyres. “Autopsies were conducted and a body was handed over to the family. The other body will be handed over on Thursday. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of Sourabh’s kin,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-injured-as-four-vehicles-collide-due-to-fog-in-yamunanagar/story-gqCrbj5NHdK5qWbryr8YCM.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||83-year-old Chandigarh woman loses ₹9.93 lakh to scammer||Fraudsters stole Rs 9.93 lakh from the account of an 83-year-old woman after offering her help regarding an issue with her bank account alerts.In her complaint, Sunita Dhawan of Sector 23 told the police that her mother received her pension in her Punjab National Bank account. Lately, her mother had not been getting alerts of her bank transactions. Therefore, she looked up the bank’s customer care number online on November 27, but got no answer to her call.After sometime, someone called her, claiming to be a bank customer care executive and asked what she needed help with. When she explained her concern, the caller sent a web link on her mobile phone. He told his mother to fill up the form through the web link and took her debit card number and PIN details. He said she will get multiple alerts for one-time passwords (OTPs) due to a server issue, and asked to share all OTPs with him, while assuring that the bank alerts will resume soon after. On November 30, the elderly woman received text messages about five transactions from her account, totaling Rs 9.93 lakh. Therefore, the family approached the police and a case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) was registered at the Sector 17 station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/83-year-old-chandigarh-woman-loses-9-93-lakh-to-scammer/story-EkqDmB2UUYUBc1tMiLVheI.html
02-12-2020||Kolkata||Firhad Hakim becomes second minister to administer ‘Covaxin’ trial shot||West Bengal’s Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim became the second minister of a state government in the country to be administered a shot of Covaxin, India’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine candidate whose Phase III trial began here on Wednesday.The trial, which started at the city’s ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED), was inaugurated by state Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.“I feel I am quite lucky to be part of the trial. I am absolutely okay after taking the shot. I do not care even if I die while undertaking this trial,” the 62-year-old minister told reporters.Hakim said that he will be very happy if his contribution helps in the quest for the vaccine against the coronavirus disease.Hakim underwent necessary check-ups to ascertain whether he was fit for the shot.At least 1,000 volunteers will be administered the vaccine during the Phase III trial here.Before him, Haryana’s Health Minister Anil Vij was administered a dose of Covaxin last month as part of the Phase III clinical trial .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/firhad-hakim-becomes-second-minister-to-administer-covaxin-trial-shot/story-EYui1crO33XmR8jWnozNxM.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||CGST official held for graft gets bail||A CBI special court has granted bail to a central goods and sales tax (CGST) official, Vijay Sehra, accused in a graft case.The court granted the bail on the condition that he will not tamper with the evidence, will not influence the witnesses and will not leave India without permission of the court. He has also been directed to furnish bail bond of Rs 1 lakh with a surety of the same amount.On November 7, CBI had arrested Sehra while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 from an auto-rickshaw driver in Sector 17. As per the CBI, Sehra, superintendent, CGST commissionerate, Sector 17, Chandigarh, had demanded Rs 50,000 from an auto driver, as service tax. Later, the deal was finalised at Rs 20,000. The investigating agency had recorded a conversation between the complainant and Sehra, where the latter was heard asking for the bribe to be handed over near his office in Sector 17.Following this, a trap was laid near Sehra’s office and he was nabbed while receiving the bribe amount. He was sent to police custody till November 9 and was in judicial custody since then.CBI had also searched his office and residence and seized some documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cgst-official-held-for-graft-gets-bail/story-y9LrexUzB7ffGFUxHbaBCK.html
02-12-2020||City||Use of cleaner fuels mandatory for new industrial units in Haryana’s NCR districts||To deal with increasing air pollution in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has made use of cleaner fuels mandatory for new industrial units set up in the NCR. As per the orders issued under the Air (Prevention and control of pollution) Act 1981, the CPCB has directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board to allow only those new industrial units in the NCR districts of the state which are using cleaner fuels including natural gas (PNG and CNG, liquefied petroleum gas, biogass, propane and butane. The HSPCB has been told to submit an action taken report in this regard to the CPCB within 30 days.The CPCB has expressed concerns over industries located in 24 districts of NCR from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi, which are discharging environmental pollutants directly or indirectly into the air and pose constant threat to the air quality. “This is the quality of air that we are providing to the people living in NCR-Delhi. It is clear violation of their fundamental rights,” the order reads.The CPCB order mentioned that in spite of availability of PNG in the region, a large number of industries did not switch their operations to PNG. However, officials of these industries had given their representations which are under examination and at this stage coercive action may not be initiated against the industrial units in NCR. However, the order made it clear that following the deteriorating air quality in NCR-Delhi and considering that directions have been issued to all the existing industries in the region to switch over to cleaner fuels, it is decided that only those new industrial units will be allowed to be set up in NCR-Delhi which use cleaner fuels. S Naryanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board said, “We have received the orders and it is being implemented with proper monitoring. Around 30% of the existing industries in NCR region of the state have been shifted to cleaner fuels and the HSPCB is working to achieve 100% target as per the orders of CPCB.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-of-cleaner-fuels-mandatory-for-new-industrial-units-in-haryana-s-ncr-districts/story-mbbgV9tqjUZ7gAILayr6pJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Gang led by police informer busted in Chandigarh, 40 vehicles recovered||Police claim to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters formed by a police informer, with the arrest of six men.As many as 40 stolen two-wheelers have been recovered from the accused, identified as Kavi Singh, 22, of Karnal, who is the gang leader; Lovepreet Singh alias, Lavi, 24, and Hardeep Singh, 23, of Fatehgarh Sahib; Ravinder Giri, alias DC, 25, and Sharanjit Singh, 20, of Mohali; and Baljinder Singh, alias Happy, 21, of Sohana.The recovered vehicles include 10 Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles, while the remaining are Honda Activa scooters and motorcycles of other brands.The accused were arrested on a tip-off as they gathered at a green belt in Sector 40 C. From police informer to gang leaderPolice said Kavi, a three-wheeler driver, had become a police informer after a complaint filed against him by the father of his girlfriend ended in compromise.He would inform police after drug peddlers and bootleggers. But after gaining knowledge of the loopholes, he himself formed a gang of vehicle lifters.All his gang members were drug addicts and started committing thefts to fund their addiction. They would steal vehicles in Chandigarh and across Punjab, and sell them for partial payments to build the confidence of the buyer in absence of an immediate no-objection certificate.Along with Kavi, Baljinder and Sharanjit were arrested in another case registered at the Sector-39 police station in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gang-led-by-police-informer-busted-in-chandigarh-40-vehicles-recovered/story-QwxJk3ugFybDITTyK6hW1J.html
02-12-2020||Patna||Sushil Modi files papers for RS by-poll, Nitish says it’s rare distinction||Former deputy chief minister of Bihar and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday filed his nomination papers for by-election to a Rajya Sabha seat that had fallen vacant after the death of Union minister and LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan. Modi filed his nomination papers at the office of divisional commissioner in presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar, BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, the two deputy CMs and leaders of NDA allies. After filing the nomination, Modi thanked BJP’s central leadership and also NDA allies for their support. Nitish Kumar said that he had come to congratulate Modi. “He is my former colleague. He had been a member of Lok Sabha, Bihar Assembly and legislative council. Now, he will be going to Rajya Sabha and it is a rare distinction to represent both houses of Parliament and the state legislature,” Kumar said. Kumar did not hide his liking for Modi as his deputy and said, “Now that they want to take him to the Centre, we are hopeful that in his new capacity he will continue to serve the State.” Modi has been one of the key architects of the NDA government in Bihar. The opposition Grand Alliance was yet to declare the name of its RS candidate after LJP rejected its offer of support to late Paswan’s wife Reena Paswan, if she contested the polls. However, the LJP on Tuesday clarified that the party was not contesting the Rajya Sabha by-poll.Also Read: RJD begins probe into poll defeat, focus on Kosi & Seemanchal routLJP president Chirag Paswan told reporters, “I appreciate the gesture made by the RJD and the consideration shown by them for us. But my mother is not interested in entering politics as of now”. “The seat originally belonged to the BJP. Following my father’s death, it is the party’s prerogative to take a decision,” he added. . With Thursday being the last date of filing nominations, Modi might end up getting elected unopposed on December 7 when withdrawal of nominations come to a close. Voting and counting are scheduled on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sushil-modi-files-papers-for-rs-by-poll-nitish-says-it-s-rare-distinction/story-mVpkk9t4x1SaJD0NoqOntO.html
02-12-2020||City||Mohali restaurant owner held for flouting curfew norms||The owner of a restaurant in Phase 1 was arrested for flouting the night curfew rules on Tuesday night.The accused, Bhupinder Singh, runs a restaurant, “Burger and Cheese Lover’s”, in Phase 1.Inspector Manphul Singh, station house officer, Phase 1 police station, said, “During patrolling, we found the restaurant operating beyond the permissible hours after night curfew was imposed from 10pm. The owner was arrested and booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.” He was later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-restaurant-owner-held-for-flouting-curfew-norms/story-WhQ9UrhrUlHU87mC65eJ4K.html
02-12-2020||City||Tyre blowouts have led to many fatal accidents in UP||LUCKNOW Worn out tyres, over-speeding, improper air pressure, high temperatures and rampant overloading are believed to be causing an increased number of tyre blowout incidents resulting in fatal accidents in Uttar Pradesh —the state that tops the chart in the number of deaths due to traffic crashes in the country every year.Sample these:*Seven people were charred to death when a truck and a van collided near a toll plaza along the Lucknow-Agra Expressway on February 15, 2020. The van’s tyre burst and its impact pushed it to the wrong side of the road, causing the mishap.*Three migrant labourers were killed and more than 12 injured after a vehicle carrying them overturned on a highway late on May 18, 2020. The vehicle, which was ferrying the people from Delhi, overturned after a tyre burst.*A bus with 64 migrants on board overturned after a tyre burst on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway resulting in injuries to 18 people on June 14, 2020.These are just a few examples of reported major road accidents due to tyre blowouts during the last six months in UP. Eight people were killed when a sand-laden truck overturned and fell over a parked SUV in Kaushambi after one of its tyres burst. The incident is a chilling reminder of the same problem that is often best ignored by authorities.“The tragic crash in Kaushambi sheds light on how overloaded trucks are a hazard to all other vehicles on the road. Fatal mishaps can occur due to tyre bursts from excessive weight or worn out brakes due to friction,” SaveLife Foundation head, Piyush Tewari, said commenting on the hazard.According to him, though there were many other reasons for tyre blowouts, the main among them was overloading of passenger and goods vehicles.“In 2019, overloaded vehicles with improperly secured loads, accounted for about 10% of the total deaths and 8% of total crashes in the country killing 14,320 people,” said Tewari.UP ranks first, both in terms of overloading related crashes and overloading related deaths in the country, he added.A transport department official said apart from people’s ignorance with regard to air pressure etc, enforcement agencies, including police and transport department, were also responsible as they often turned a blind eye to the plying of overloaded vehicles.A large number of accidents on the Yamuna Expressway are attributed to tyre blowouts because of excessive friction on the road that allegedly has design faults.Some five years ago, the union ministry of road transport and highways also raised a question mark over the quality of tyres produced in India after frequent accidents were attributed to tyre burst. “The ministry then wrote a letter to the Bureau of Indian Standards to modify rules for the production of tyres as per global standards. But nothing much has changed since,” the transport official said.“All this makes it important to stringently enforce Section 194A of the amended MV Act, which prohibits the use of overloaded vehicles and rationalises fines to Rs 20,000, apart from manufacturing high-quality tyres and making people aware of precautions like checking the air pressure in tyres before movement,” suggested Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tyre-blowouts-have-led-to-many-fatal-accidents-in-up/story-r8ucFbQjOPW112u2Q802ZN.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹5-lakh relief for parents of boy killed in Kangra school bus accident||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded a compensation of over Rs 5 lakh to a Kangra-based couple, who lost their nine-year-old son in an accident in April 2018.Rekha Devi, 34, and Kewal Singh, 40, of Khowara village, Kangra district, Himachal Pradesh, had filed a complaint against the principal of Wazir Ram Singh Pathania Memorial Public School, Gurchal village, Kangra, and National Insurance Company Limited, Sector 17-C, Chandigarh.In their petition, the parents stated that on April 9, 2018, their son, Gaurav Pathania, was returning home in his school bus.“The bus was being driven at a fast speed and in a rash and negligent manner by driver Madan Lal. There were about 30 passengers in the bus. Lal lost control of the vehicle as he reached near Cheli Khuther village and it fell into a 250-metre-deep gorge,” the parents contended.Their son died in the accident that also claimed the life of the driver.Following the accident, a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Nurpur police station in Kangra district.The school authorities responded that no such accident took place as alleged, so the claim petition was not maintainable and the amount claimed (Rs 75 lakh) was highly exaggerated.The insurer stated that neither this court had the jurisdiction to try the petition nor had the cause of action accrued within the territorial jurisdiction of this court. Also, the driver didn’t have a valid licence.After hearing the arguments, the tribunal, on Wednesday, directed both respondents to pay a compensation of Rs 5.05 lakh, along with 7.5% interest per annum from the date of filing of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-lakh-relief-for-parents-of-boy-killed-in-kangra-school-bus-accident/story-kWPDL8ZcTdXWFQbTTkAU2M.html
02-12-2020||Kolkata||Oxford Union debating society postpones Mamata Banerjee’s virtual address at last minute||The Oxford Union debating society postponed the virtual address of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the last moment on Wednesday afternoon, citing unforeseen problems. “The request has been made telephonically from the organisers’ end, citing some unforeseen problems, a brief while ago. The program with Oxford Union today stands cancelled,” the state home department tweeted a few minutes before the chief minister was supposed to deliver the address. Banerjee would have been the first Indian woman leader and an administrative head to address the forum, according to the Trinamool Congress. The Oxford Union was founded as a debating society in the early 19th century. Eminent personalities like the Dalai Lama, Stephen Hawking, Albert Einstein and Mother Teresa have addressed the union debates. Also Read: Cannot work with the party, says TMC rebel Adhikari after talks Later, the union sent a letter to Goutam Sanyal, principal secretary to the chief minister. “I sincerely hope that the Hon’ble Chief Minister will understand, and might honour us with her esteemed presence at the earliest possible convenience to you. With your permission, I will pass your details onto my successor, to whom I hand over this Friday,” Beatrice Barr, president of the OU wrote in her letter to Sanyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/oxford-union-debating-society-postpones-mamata-banerjee-s-virtual-address-at-last-minute/story-2d1k5PijMVWmyZCZkzjBdN.html
02-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand officer who highlighted interfaith marriage scheme, transferred||The Uttarakhand government has transferred district social welfare officer of Tehri Garhwal district, Dipankar Ghildiyal, who had issued a press release to promote a government scheme to encourage inter-faith marriages. He has been shifted to the directorate of social welfare department in Haldwani. The transfer order by director, social welfare department, came nine days after the controversy erupted, leading to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordering an enquiry headed by state chief secretary to find out the ‘circumstances’ necessitating the press release. The transfer order was issued Tuesday late evening. HT has seen a copy of the same. “District social welfare officer of Tehri Garhwal, Dipankar Ghildiyal has been transferred to directorate, social welfare department in Haldwani with immediate effect,” states the transfer order, issued by director social welfare Vinod Goswami. The order instructs Ghildiyal to take up his new charge ‘immediately’.Ghildiyal had issued the press release on November 19, mentioning an existing government scheme promising Rs 50,000 incentive for interfaith and inter caste unions ‘to promote social unity and harmony’. However, on November 21, the press release started making rounds on social media with many accusing BJP-led Uttarakhand government of promoting love-jihad by offering money to interfaith couples. Also Read: Congress leader in Uttarakhand blames ‘BJP sleeper cells’ for differences in party Following the controversy, economic advisor to the chief minister, Alok Bhatt clarified, saying, “The press release is concerned with one scheme in force under one such scheme of Uttar Pradesh government since 1976 as made applicable to Uttarakhand.” “As UP is the parent state, there is an unwritten code that schemes, rules etc are generally copied from it in Uttarakhand and so was this scheme,” he said, adding that the then Congress government in 2014 had increased the initial amount of incentive from Rs 20,000 to Rs 50,000. Later, the same evening, CM Rawat ordered an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-officer-who-highlighted-interfaith-marriage-scheme-transferred/story-KBWwOP62zfALsySZEMTfjM.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in 11 Haryana cities ‘very poor’||The air quality in 11 cities of Haryana was recorded as ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ in nine other cities on Wednesday even as stubble burning due to paddy harvesting is almost over in the state.The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Panipat, Manesar, Kurukshetra, Jind, Hisar, Gurugram, Fatehabad, Faridabad and Bahadurgharh plunged into “very poor” category, hovering between 325 and 366, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The overall AQI of Bahadurgarh was 325, Faridabad 326, Gurugram 324, Fatehabad 352,and Yamunanagar 366. The air quality of Ambala, Ballabgarh, Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Sirsa and Sonepat was “poor”. The AQI in Bhiwani was “moderate”. The AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory and 101 to 200 moderate. The AQI enters ‘poor’ zone when it is between 201 to 300. The AQI is categorised ‘very poor’ between 301-400 mark and it crosses over to ‘severe’ zone at 401.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-11-haryana-cities-very-poor/story-2TlNz5W1il5VmqbTwbYsbI.html
02-12-2020||Pune||Tempo carrying 190kg of illegal sandalwood logs intercepted, driver arrested||The Local Crime Branch (LCB) of Pune police unearthed a major sandalwood theft smuggling racket after they raided a tempo and seized sandalwood logs estimated to be worth Rs 25.82 lakh in Shikrapur on Nov 30. The LCB under the guidance of police inspector Padmakar Ghanwat had received a tip off that a tempo bearing number MH 17 BD 2698 carrying sandalwood logs illegally was passing through Shikrapur on Pune-Ahmednagar highway. After the alert, a team of LCB policemen apprehended the tempo at Chakan Chowk and made inquiries with the driver. The logs were hidden inside the tempo under camouflage and could not be visible to any layman at first look. On tearing apart the cloth curtain, the logs worth 190 kilograms were recovered by the cops. The driver identified as Suraj Kailas Ubale, (24), a resident of Chanda Taluka was taken into custody for interrogation and later arrested and handed over to the Chakan police for further investigation. Police inspector Ghanwat said, “Carrying out sandalwood smuggling is a crime under the law and action has been taken based on an input received by the LCB that a tempo, suspiciously carrying sandalwood illegally was passing through. We laid a trap and arrested the suspect and further investigation is on in the case.” The police have booked the accused under IPC sections related to sandalwood theft, criminal conspiracy and other sections of the Indian Forest Act. The rural police have in recent times taken strict action against illicit sandalwood trafficking taking place through their jurisdiction and recovered red sanders worth crores of rupees in the national and international markets. A special team has been readied under the LCB to keep a tab on the concealed movement of sandalwood and a detailed list of the smugglers is being readied for massive action, rural police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tempo-carrying-190kg-of-illegal-sandalwood-logs-intercepted-driver-arrested/story-NdW03mg7xdd9XLmXR82cWL.html
02-12-2020||Pune||71-year-old fights off chain snatcher in Bibvewadi||A chain snatcher had a tough time after a 71-year-old woman offered stiff resistance to him when he allegedly tried to snatch her gold chain in Bibvewadi on Sunday. The incident has once again put a spotlight on the vulnerability of senior citizens on roads. The victim Shalini Sharad Tisgaonkar, (71), a resident of Lokesh Society in Bibvewadi has lodged a complaint against an unidentified chain snatcher in this regard. According to the complaint, the incident took place around 8pm on Sunday when Tisgaonkar was taking an evening stroll in the area. A motorcyclist with his face covered came from behind and asked for an address. While answering his question, the accused tried to snatch her gold chain. Being alert, the victim pushed the thief aside and offered stiff resistance. She also held the gold chain tightly making it difficult for the thief to snatch and escape. Tisgaonkar also raised an alarm after which a young boy came to her rescue and tried to catch the chain snatcher. The thief fell down from his bike and fled the spot. He was joined by three others who gave the accused a hot chase. However, the thief escaped under the cover of darkness but before that, he had thrown his helmet in their direction. PSI Kiran Deshmukh said “A case under relevant sections of the IPC has been filed and the motorcycle has been seized. We will check the CCTV footage and investigation is on. The accused will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/71-year-old-fights-off-chain-snatcher-in-bibvewadi/story-lXV4rqLvu9NG0eEljL9L0H.html
02-12-2020||Pune||Weakness, breathlessness most common symptoms among Covid patients in Pune||Pune: A study on the data of 6,631 critical patients uploaded to the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) app found weakness and breathlessness to be the most common symptom present in 3,657 Covid-19 patients. A loss of smell and taste was reported in 10% of the patients. The study also showed that of all the admitted patients who turned critical, 69% did not have any comorbidity. The study is based on data uploaded to the PMC’s iHealWell app for critical patients from 70 hospitals across the city. The patients were admitted between July 25 and October 28. Data of 6,631 patients admitted to hospitals was entered into the database, of which 4,535 (68.5%) were male and 2,096 (31.5%) were female. The average age of patients was 53.73 years. The study also revealed that of these critical patients, 37.5% were admitted to oxygen beds, while 15.9% required a ventilator in ICU. Diabetes (20%) and hypertension (20.8%) were the most common comorbidities among these critical patients. The most common symptoms were weakness and breathlessness with close to 63% and 60% patients reporting these symptoms, while only 24% reported fever and 10% reported loss of smell or taste. Some of the other symptoms reported were diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, and body ache. This data was analysed with an intent to reduce the case fatality ratio (CFR).Dr Sanjay Pathare, medical director, Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We report symptoms, including breathlessness and weakness which were most common. However, fever was the third most common symptom in critical Covid patient. The data from the app cannot be considered as factual as most private hospitals, including ours, were reluctant to update data on it since it was time consuming and tiring at the time when we were witnessing the peak in cases.”Additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “The data helps us understand that patient management system of critical patients in the city hospitals. However, it is also true that most hospitals refused to update information on the portal. The quantity may be low, but the conclusion is right based on the data uploaded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/weakness-breathlessness-most-common-symptoms-among-covid-patients-in-pune/story-U81SsE2mupFFtAtSst0vuN.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Withdraw support to Haryana govt: State Congress chief Selja to JJP, Independents||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Wednesday called upon JJP legislators, Independents and “farmer friendly BJP MLAs” to withdraw support to the Haryana government and join the farmers agitation. Stating that the statement of the Janayak Janata Party (JJP) regarding the agriculture laws was just a show-off, Selja said the JJP, which had won 10 seats by seeking votes against the BJP before the election, had betrayed the people of the state by extending support to the saffron party. “Now, the JJP has an opportunity to withdraw its support to the Haryana government and stand in favour of the people of Haryana,” Selja said in a statement, appealing the Independent MLAs and BJP MLAs to leave the state government and join the farmers.She said the BJP government at the Centre and the state is immersed in arrogance and that it only thinks about benefiting capitalist friends. “Today, entire Haryana stands with the farmers and against the BJP government,” she added. Selja said the “annadata” is agitating on the open roads in this fierce cold, enduring all the atrocities of the BJP government. She added that the Congress has stood firmly with the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/withdraw-support-to-haryana-govt-state-congress-chief-selja-to-jjp-independents/story-GZQF4fRcD4X73Xyf1C2sHK.html
02-12-2020||Pune||Vaccine candidate safe and immunogenic: SII||Pune: Pune-based vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Tuesday that its vaccine candidate for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is “safe and immunogenic”.SII has said the principal investigator, data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) and the ethics committee, an internal mechanism, have independently reckoned that the issue raised by the Chennai volunteer, who alleged neurological breakdown after participating in Covishield trial, was not related to the vaccine trial. DSMC is a monitoring body comprising independent experts, with task to evaluate study data of participants during trial. The statement issued by SII on Tuesday states that the vaccine would not be released for mass use unless it is proven “immunogenic and safe”. The statement comes after a volunteer from Chennai alleged that he faced a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions after he took part in the “Covishield” vaccine trial. The volunteer sent a legal notice to multiple parties, including SII, which is currently mass producing Oxford University’s “Covishield” vaccine. The 40-year-old volunteer had sought to cancel approval for its testing and also sought a Rs five crore compensation. In response, the institute defended its vaccine and stated to seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims. The man had alleged that he suffered from acute encephalopathy, damage or disease that affected the brain after he was administered the vaccine and that all the tests he underwent confirmed that the setback in his health was due to the test vaccine. Defending its product, SII said that the vaccine is safe and immunogenic. “The incident with the Chennai volunteer, though highly unfortunate, was in no way induced by the vaccine and the institute is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition. However, we would like to clarify that all the requisite regulatory and ethical processes and guidelines were followed diligently and strictly. The authorities concerned were informed and the principal investigator, DSMB and the ethics committee independently cleared and reckoned it as a non-related issue to the vaccine trial,” the SII statement read. The institute has submitted all the reports and data related to the incident to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The institute said that the vaccine would not be released for mass use unless it is proven immunogenic and safe. Taking into consideration the complexities and existing misnomers about vaccination and immunisation, the legal notice, seeking defamation amounting to Rs 100 crore, was sent therefore to safeguard the reputation of the company which is being unfairly maligned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sii-says-its-vaccine-candidate-covishield-safe-and-immunogenic-incident-with-volunteer-no-way-induced-by-it/story-ybX5Ro5cJDVEGUiZH5jP9H.html
02-12-2020||Pune||Saibaba temple appeals devotees to wear “civilised” attire||The Shri Saibaba Sansthan trust, Shirdi has put up a board appealing to devotees to be dressed in a “civilised” manner as per “Indian culture” when they come to the sacred place to offer prayers. The trust, however, did not describe any clothes that it’d like the devotees to wear. While the decision was welcomed by many in the local town, there were reactions questioning the move. Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust’s chief executive officer Kanhuraj Bagate while clarifying the trust’s stand on Tuesday said that it is just an appeal, and the trust has not imposed any dress code on devotees. According to Bagate, the appeal was made after devotees complained that some people come to the shrine, located at Shirdi in Ahmednagar district, in “objectionable” attire. “We have only made an appeal after we received complaints from many devotees and local residents. There is no intention to make it as a diktat,” said Bagate. Akash Satave, a local resident, said, “Many come here with costumes which are not “very decent” while forgetting that they have come to the temple. We welcome the step taken by trust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/saibaba-temple-appeals-devotees-to-wear-civilised-attire/story-NvLciBh6lRqvy8gsXSl4cM.html
02-12-2020||Pune||BJP-NCP locked in a tussle to seek credit for completion of Bhama Askhed project||With the work on the Bhama Askhed project now complete, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are locked in a political tussle to seek credit for the project.BJP’s city unit president Jagdish Mulik issued the press statement and blamed local NCP MLA Sunil Tingre for trying to claim credit for the project. Mulik said, “During BJP’s tenure, the party had approved funds from the standing committee for this project. The party even conducted various meetings to ensure that the project work is completed.”Immediately after Mulik’s statement, Tingre released a press statement. Tingre said, “The project was approved by the Congress and NCP. The central government approved funds for the project under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal mission in 2014. It was decided at that time that the local self government would incur some cost for the project. The BJP is unnecessarily trying to take credit for the project.”Tingre alleged that the BJP was ruling at the Pune corporation level, state government level and at the Centre, yet the project was stuck in limbo for almost two to three years. “Despite conducting a meeting by the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and guardian minister Girish Bapat, the project work had not been started,” he added.Areas which would benefit due to the completion of the project include, Wadgaon Sheri, Kharadi, Kalyaninagar and Ahmednagar road, hence, both the BJP and NCP leaders from this constituency are trying to seek credit for the project as it would end the water crisis in these areas.PMC is currently drawing water from 50km away from the Bhama Askhed dam which is near Chakan MIDC. The project work is completed and trials are going on for the same. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) initiated the Bhama Askhed water pipeline project in 2014. It was designed to meet the drinking water needs of 14.5 lakh residents of eastern Pune. As per the plan, a 42-km pipeline will be laid from the Bhama-Askhed dam to Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-ncp-locked-in-a-tussle-to-seek-credit-for-completion-of-bhama-askhed-project/story-HER7dSapHMIPLbBYlwzoeN.html
02-12-2020||Pune||State recommends 18K Covid tests daily, Pune logs 6K||The state government has issued a letter to all districts to ramp up testing for Covid-19. While the target recommended is over 18,000 tests daily, as of Monday (November 30), Pune district carried out only 6,340 Covid tests covering Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies, rural Pune, councils and three cantonment boards. The state has recommended that the ratio between reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT -PCR) and rapid antigen test (RAT) tests should be 75-25 before February 2021. The letter issued by principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas on Monday (a copy of which is with HT) specifies the daily test target for every district and civic body in the state. “Given the population and positivity rate in the state, Maharashtra is conducting least number of Covid tests in the country. To control the Covid pandemic the district administration must ramp up testing,” states the letter. It has been recommended that the state must conduct at least 1.58 lakh Covid tests daily. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have gone through the letter. We will gear up the testing accordingly and also the testing capacity at BJ Medical has been increased. Even at the peak of the first wave, rural administration tested only close to 5,000, and now we have a target of about 8,600 according to our population. We will target SARI, ILI and comorbid patients who could be tested at regular intervals so that the case fatality remains in control due to early detection and early treatment.” The administration must survey all influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) cases in the district who must be tested regularly for Covid. During the contact tracing of every confirmed Covid, all the high-risk contacts must be tested, 100% of SARI and ILI patients in containment zones must be tested, superspreaders, including vendors, hawkers, public servants and others who come in contact with a large number of people and others, must be tested as per the district’s requirements.The state has also recommended increasing the proportion of RT-PCR in comparison to RAT which are often known to report false negatives. The RT-PCR testing proportion must be increased gradually from 65% as of December to 75% as of February 2021. To ramp up the testing, administration has to also ensure that the current testing facilities have enough manpower so that they work to their full potential and that the reports are submitted as soon as possible. Also, the RT-PCR kits and consumables must be provided. To cover the expenses, the administration may use CSR funds or local administrative funds, as per the letter issued by the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-recommends-18k-covid-tests-daily-pune-logs-6k/story-cG2nxdYyCraVryClYmSZVM.html
02-12-2020||Pune||After Pune civic body notice, road work on hill slope halts at Vetal Tekdi||Following the notice from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the road work at hill slope at Vetal tekdi (hill) was stopped on Tuesday in Kothrud. Earlier on November 19, the PMC served a stop-work notice to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey no 123 in Kothrud. HT has a copy of the notice PMC has served. The MIT denied reports that any norms are being flouted while carrying out the work. Mahesh Chopade, registrar at MIT said, “The said hill slope and survey number 123 belongs to MIT. We have 12 to 15 acres of land with some of it being part of the hill. These are baseless allegations that we are excavating in forest land, instead we are making an internal road for the use of the students in the future. Besides our students plant trees atop the hill which is part of MIT, during summer, there is not ample water, hence we were in the process of making a ‘kaccha’ road to help provide water on top through tankers. We are not constructing any road but making an internal road for which we don’t think we need any kind of permission.” This was brought to the cognizance of PMC ward officers by local citizens who shared video clips and photographs of excavation work carried out during Diwali. “We live near the MIT campus and we were surprised to see a major part of excavation carried out during the Diwali days, causing irreparable damage to the hill. This being a hill slope, we were worried about concretization taking place on the site,” said Pankaj Modi, a resident of Kothrud. Yuvraj Deshmukh, deputy engineer at PMC building permission department said, “MIT had begun dumping rubble, sand and stones to create the base of the road and had excavated part of the slope. MIT did not seek any permission and hence it is an unauthorized construction activity for which we have served them a notice thus bringing the work to a halt.” According to Sushma Date, member of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti, “Survey 123 is a part of the hill top-hill slope zone and hence as per DC rules 2017; all construction activity is banned here.” Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted: “Citizens have approached me with concerns about the private road planned on #Vetal Tekdi. Understandably they are worried about the ecological impact. I will be talking with the authorities and concerned institution to ascertain repercussions and work towards an amicable solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/after-pune-civic-body-notice-road-work-on-hill-slope-halts-at-vetal-tekdi/story-h7aZxn3eujYMuL33n5l8qJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||HPCC issues notice to 12 Mandi Congress leaders for indiscipline||The Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee has issued notice to 12 party leaders of Mandi over their unfavourable statements in the media about the party. Among those who have been asked to reply in 15 days are Champa Thakur, the daughter of former minister Kaul Singh Thakur and the Congress candidate in the 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections, and two former MLAs Sohan Lal and Mansa Ram. A party leader, requesting anonymity, said the state Congress chief had issued notice to district and block Congress members but not to those from the state party committee. The notice has also been sent to Deepak Sharma, Pawan Sharma, Jagdish Reddy, Jeevan Lal Thakur, Lal Singh Kaushal, Suman Chaudhary, Sanjeev Guleria, Vijay Pal Thakur and Veena Sharma. DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE TO DECIDE ON FATE These leaders have been asked for a response for issuing statements to the media and writing to the party high command against Himachal Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore. After receiving the reply of the leaders, it will be placed before the disciplinary committee of the state Congress. The committee, headed by Solan legislator Dhani Ram Shandil, will decide on their fate. Other members of the committee are Pawan Kajal, Sharmila Patial and Chet Ram. The meeting of the disciplinary committee, which was to be held in the first week of December, was deferred after a member, Virender Sood, died of Covid-19. WERE ONLY TRYING TO STRENGTHEN PARTY: DETRACTORS Rathore detractors say that they wrote to the high command to strengthen the party. “The high command should tell what’s wrong in writing to it or organising a meeting that aims to strengthen the party,” one of the detractors said. Congress leaders in Mandi, who owe allegiance to former HPCC president Kaul Singh Thakur and former state party chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, have been feeling slighted. In the letter, they alleged that Rathore did not consult them while constituting the block and district units. In October, Sukhu spearheaded a closed-door meeting with a group of former legislators from Shimla district, which has eight assembly segments, to chalk out their strategy. Former Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator Rohit Thakur, former Chopal legislator Subash Manglait, former Shimla legislator Harbhajjan Singh Bhajji, former Kasumpti legislator Sohan Lal and Deepak Rathore, who unsuccessfully contested the election from Theog during the last assembly elections, attended the meeting. It’s likely that the party is also contemplating disciplinary action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hpcc-issues-notice-to-12-mandi-congress-leaders-for-indiscipline/story-WjvYEiSKPnEvfJCbXEl7lO.html
02-12-2020||Pune||Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls: Higher turnout despite Covid pandemic||Despite elections in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the turnout for Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency on Tuesday was very high.Until 4 PM, the administration had recorded 49.52 % turnout for graduates’ constituency and 67.36 % voting for teachers’ constituency. Pune constituency consists of five districts including Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur. The total numbers of voters in the graduate constituency are 4.26 lakh and for teachers’ constituency, the total voters are 72,545.Solapur registered a voter turnout of 62.06 per cent for the graduates’ constituency and 85.37 per cent for the teachers’ constituency. On the other hand, Kolhapur registered a voter turnout of 68.09 per cent for the graduates’ constituency and 86.77 per cent for the teachers’ constituency. Counting of votes will take place on Thursday, December 3.With higher polling percentage, both BJP and Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders claimed that outcome will be in their favour. Chandrakant Patil, BJP state unit chief said, “The higher turnout will ensure the victory of BJP nominees as the party workers had ensured higher registration for these polls.” As there were a total of 62 candidates for graduates’ constituency and 35 candidates for the teachers’ constituency, it was a big challenge in front of the administration to conduct the voting, which was carried out through ballot paper instead of the Electronic Voting Machine (EVM). For the graduates’ constituency, BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh was locked in a direct fight with NCP nominee Arun Lad with backing from MVA. For Pune teachers’ constituency, the NCP pitted Jayant Asgaonkar against an independent Jitendra Pawar, whom the BJP has supported. The administration made enough arrangements and voting centres and ensured that there is enough social distancing while performing the votes.Keeping the Covid pandemic in mind, the administration had made ample arrangements. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We’ve made the necessary arrangements at all polling centres. Sanitisers, use of masks and social distancing was maintained in all the five districts. Despite all the restrictions, the voter turnout was good.” On the background of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was expected that there would be less voting but until evening, the voter turnout was good. Given that the electorate from five districts participated for each constituency polls, the BJP had made the polls important enough to make it a verdict on the MVA as also Uddhav Thackeray’s governance. For Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls, voters from five districts – Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur –cast their votes. The BJP believes that a favourable outcome in these polls will send a message that people are not supporting tripartite MVA government while the defeat of the saffron party candidates would stave off the threat to the coalition in the immediate future, feel political observers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-graduates-and-teachers-constituency-polls-higher-turnout-despite-covid-pandemic/story-1Zm6xrnf9BTtiSHKW0MU9H.html
02-12-2020||Mumbai||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik gets bail in drugs case||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother, Showik Chakraborty, has been granted bail in a drug case related to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput who was found dead on June 14. A special NDPS court has granted Chakraborty bail on Wednesday in a case which was registered by the Narcotics Control Bureau. Both Showik and Rhea were arrested by the NCB in a drug probe related to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Showik has been in jail since September 4, while Rhea was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 7. Showik has appealed for bail several times in the past few times in special court and as well as in the Bombay high court which got rejected. In one of his past bail application, Showik’s lawyer also referred to a recent Supreme Court judgment that “confessional statements” made to the NCB officials cannot be considered as evidence.NCB alleged that Rhea Chakraborty and Showik used to facilitate drug deliveries and payment through credit cards, cash and other payment gateways. On November 24, Showik Chakraborty’s friend Suryadeep Malhotra — arrested in the same case — got bail.The NCB has been probing the alleged use of drugs in some quarters of Bollywood which came to the fore after the death of Rajput in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-showik-gets-bail-in-drugs-case/story-OnNRMzeymEjI9Nmo5LWN1O.html
02-12-2020||Kolkata||Phase 3 trial of Covaxin launched in Kolkata; Bengal Governor, minister offer to volunteer||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, 69, and state minister Firhad Hakim, 61, have expressed their willingness to volunteer for the phase 3 trial of Covaxin, the government-backed Covid-19 vaccine. The trial was launched in Kolkata on Wednesday.“I have been getting calls from a lot many people who want to come forward and volunteer for the trial. As the first servant of the state, I am ready...,” said Dhankhar after launching the trial here.Covaxin is the first Covid-19 vaccine being developed indigenously in India. Bharat Biotech is developing it in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Kolkata’s National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) is one of the institutes selected to conduct the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation-approved regulatory trials. The trials will be conducted at around 25 sites across 10 states. The trial has started in some places.Also read | Government plans technological road map for Covid immunisationA NICED official said Hakim, who has also expressed his interest to volunteer for the trial, was likely to visit the institute on Wednesday. “The governor has also expressed his interest. But we have to consider his age and comorbidities. We are in touch with his physician.”Around 350 people have applied to become volunteers. NICED is looking for around 1,000 volunteers. Those living within 10 km of the institute would get a preference as they need to be closely monitored for a year.“The applicants would be invited one by one for interviews and tests. If they are eligible, they can become volunteers. The enrolment of 1,000 volunteers for the trial would have to be completed by February 2021,” said a second official. “It would take a year to analyse whether this has enough protective efficacy. There may be an interim analysis after six months. The government will take the final call.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/phase-3-trial-of-covaxin-launched-in-kolkata-bengal-governor-minister-offer-to-volunteer/story-CZIK8y9UqUjKdJAkJmafTM.html
02-12-2020||Lucknow||After Lucknow, Ghaziabad to raise money through municipal bonds: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said Ghaziabad will be the next local body in the state which will be raising money through the issuance of municipal bonds. Lucknow has become the first city in Uttar Pradesh and seventh nationally to raise money through this route. The Chief Minister was speaking at the listing ceremony of Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) bonds. LMC had raised Rs 200 crore through the bond issue last month. Adityanath called the listing a historic moment and added that other cities including Ghaziabad, Agra, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Varanasi will be using this route for raising resources. “I am confident that very soon, we will be present here with Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation’s bonds,” he said, speaking at Asia’s oldest stock bourse BSE. Adityanath said raising resources through the bond issue improves the accounting practices and other systems at a municipal body, and also helps deliver services for the citizens of the city as the required resources get raised. The Chief Minister also said that the 10-year issue, which happens when borrowing rates are the lowest in over a decade, comes at the second lowest coupon ever of 8.5 per cent. The 4.5x subscription to the bond issue is representative of investors’ desire to participate in Uttar Pradesh’s growth, he said. He also seemed to appreciate the financial capital’s role in resource mobilization, saying the “Mahalaxmi Temple” is aiding in the economic progress of the country for over a century. Adityanath said there are 700 urban bodies in the most populous Indian state that support a population of over 8 crore people. Seventeen of these are municipal corporations, and ten of them have been selected under the Smart Cities mission, he said. The Chief Minister was accompanied by his cabinet colleagues Ashutosh Tandon, Satish Mahana and Siddharth Nath Singh, Lucknow Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, and other officials at the event. He met actor Akshay Kumar on arrival from Lucknow late last evening and is scheduled to meet other Bollywood personalities and industrialists including Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran later in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-lucknow-ghaziabad-to-raise-money-through-municipal-bonds-adityanath/story-qLSoRrmiqqSC4fXkBahECN.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Northern Railway cancels six trains due to farmers’ protest in Amritsar||Northern Railway on Wednesday said that six trains will remain cancelled in Punjab in view of the ongoing farmers’ rail blockade a Jandiala Guru near Amritsar against the Centre’s new farm laws. Ambala divisional railway manager GM Singh said, “Farmers continue to protest at Jandiala Guru in Amritsar district so the railway authorities have to plan routes of various trains accordingly.” The decision comes a day after the central and Punjab governments told the Punjab and Haryana high court that all rail tracks have been cleared of protesters. Both governments told the court that the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee members had vacated the tracks and were sitting in nearby parks. They had assured to allow goods trains but not passenger trains. Zonal chief public relations officer Deepak Kumar said 12 trains have been short-terminated or short-originated this week. Also read: Farmers’ stir enters Day 7: Here’s all you need to know about the anti-farm law protestsThe 04998/04997 Bathinda-Varanasi-Bathinda Express Special will remain cancelled till further orders, while the 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar Express Special commencing on December 2 shall remain cancelled. Consequently, the 09612 Amritsar-Ajmer Special starting on December 3 will also be cancelled. The 05211 Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express commencing on December 3 will remain cancelled. Consequently, the 05212 Amritsar-Dibrugarh Special commencing on December 3 will also remain cancelled. TRAINS TERMINATED EARLY The trains that have been short-terminated or short-originated are: The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express on December 2 will be terminated at New Delhi. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded on December 4 will start from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar. The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar train will be terminated at Chandigarh on December 2 and the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus train will start from Chandigarh on December 4. The same train will remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh and Amritsar. The 08237 Korba-Amritsar Express will be terminated on Wednesday at Ambala and the 08238 Amritsar-Korba train will originate from Ambala on December 4. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 02407 New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar Express will be terminated at Ambala and the 02408 Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Express will start from Ambala on December 4. The same train will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar Shaheed Express will start from Ambala on Wednesday and the 04651 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express will be terminated at Ambala on December 4. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar. The 04654 Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Express will start from Saharanpur on Wednesday. Consequently, the 04653 Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Express will be terminated at Saharanpur on December 4 and remain partially cancelled between Saharanpur and Amritsar. THREE TRAINS DIVERTED The railway authorities have also planned diversion of the following trains: The 04650/74 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express commencing on Wednesday will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas. The 08215 Durg-Jammu Tawi Express starting on Wednesday will be diverted via Ludhiana-Jalandhar Cantt-Pathankot Cantonment. The 08216 Jammu Tawi-Durg Express commencing on December 4 will be diverted to run via Pathankot Cantt-Jalandhar Cantt-Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/northern-railway-cancels-six-trains-due-to-farmers-protest-in-amritsar/story-iNBCNseYltX6Lk6PtWkV5N.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||On National Pollution Control Day, Satyendar Jain urges people to make Delhi pollution free||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday urged people of the national capital to take a vow to not only reduce air pollution, but bring down water, land and noise pollution as well in order to make the city pollution free.His tweet came on the occasion of ‘National Pollution Control Day’, which is being observed on Wednesday.“Let’s take a pledge on National Pollution Control Day that we will take forward our efforts to not only reduce air but water, land and noise pollution as well and make Delhi pollution free,” Jain tweeted in Hindi.आइए राष्ट्रीय प्रदूषण नियंत्रण दिवस पर प्रण लें कि सिर्फ वायु ही नहीं बल्कि जल, थल एवं ध्वनि प्रदूषण को कम करने के अपने प्रयत्नों को और आगे ले जाएंगे तथा दिल्ली को प्रदूषण मुक्त बनाएंगे। #NationalPollutionControlDay pic.twitter.com/EsYvJG2rXUMeanwhile, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan urged people to adopt green good deeds and an environmental-friendly lifestyle to help curb pollution.“Clean air & water are the greatest resources available to mankind. #ModiGovt is committed to a path of clean, sustainable growth. On #NationalPollutionControlDay, pledge your support by adopting green good deeds & an environmental-friendly lifestyle to help curb pollution,” Vardhan tweeted.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality inches closer to ‘severe’ zoneThe ‘National Pollution Control Day’ is observed in memory of those who died in the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, which occurred on the intervening night of December 2 and 3 in 1984 at the Union Carbide India Limited (UCIL) plant in the Madhya Pradesh capital. More than 500,000 were exposed to the toxic gases while nearly 4,000 lost their lives. However, unofficial figures state that thousands more have died in the following years. Those who survived this disaster continue to live with severe health problems. Clean air & water are the greatest resources available to mankind. #ModiGovt is committed to a path of clean, sustainable growth. On #NationalPollutionControlDay, pledge your support by adopting green good deeds & an environmental-friendly lifestyle to help curb pollution. pic.twitter.com/eO7OV8LPRYThis day is also observed to make people aware about the harmful effects of industrial disasters along with all forms of pollution.For the past several years, Delhi has gained spotlight for being among the most polluted cities in India - specifically in terms of air pollution. Stubble burning, industrial emissions, festive season and increased traffic among other factors have led to a sharp rise in air pollution levels.This year, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has made the situation worse.On Wednesday, the air quality in Delhi was moving towards the ‘severe’ category and the air quality index (AQI) showed a reading of 381 at 7 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/let-s-vow-to-make-delhi-pollution-free-satyendar-jain-tweets-on-national-pollution-control-day/story-jMaNX8oOhLABxWRvQMR7dO.html
02-12-2020||Education||Initiative at Garhwal varsity to evaluate economic impact of women working in hills: Pokhriyal||The new initiative - Indian Himalayan Central University Consortium (IHCUC) - launched by NITI Aayog at Garhwal university will evaluate economic impact of women workers in the hilly regions of the Himalayan states, union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said at the convocation ceremony of the university on Tuesday. “The consortium should work on agro-ecology of Himalayan states with special reference to marketing; development of affordable and environmentally friendly tourism in hilly areas; creation of employment opportunities for migration control from mountainous regions. This will help evaluate the economic impact of women working in the hills,” Pokhriyal said. He asked vice-chancellors of the Himalayan universities to undertake research in Hill Agriculture, Horticulture, Herb Production, Floriculture, Organic Agriculture, Eco-tourism, and Technology. This would produce the sources of livelihood in Himalaya. Hemvati Nandan Garhwal University in Pauri Garhwal celebrated its 8th convocation on Tuesday. Pokhriyal was the chief guest at the event. This year, 155 students registered for online convocation of which 72 students were awarded Ph.D., 59 gold medals were awarded to the toppers in various subjects. Vice-chancellor Prof Annapurna Nautiyal said, “This year, the university decided to have the convocation through an online medium to promote an academic spirit despite the Covid-19 global epidemic. Despite various geographical disparities and resource shortages, the university has successfully converted the challenges arising out of Covid-19 into an opportunity by using online mediums.” Talking about research and educational activities, the vice-chancellor said establishment of the Indian Himalayan Central Universities’ Consortium (IHCUC) in 2020 under the coordinator-ship of the HNB Garhwal University to conduct five multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional thematic studies sponsored by NITI Aayog, New Delhi, is a great leap to promote the idea of ‘One Himalaya’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/initiative-at-garhwal-varsity-to-evaluate-economic-impact-of-women-working-in-hills-pokhriyal/story-cis5yKqmPhi5Of4dlSatqN.html
02-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Commuters stage rail roko in Palghar, Kelwe and Saphale over change of timings||Commuters, mainly essential services employees, resorted to a 30-minute rail roko protests at Mumbai’s Palghar, Kelwe Road and Saphale railheads on Wednesday morning over the change of timings of Dahanu suburban train services from Thursday. The protesters occupied the tracks saying they will be unable to reach their offices on time with the change of the timings.Sumit Thakur, a railway official, said the timings have been changed temporarily. Sarita Sankhe, a nurse, said the services should run as per earlier timings. “Earlier I used to reach my workplace around 6.30am and the night duty staff would be relieved. Now with the timing change, the night duty staff will have to stay put,” said Sankhe.“From mid-December, the biometric attendance will resume and I will get late for work and face the ire of my superiors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-commuters-stage-rail-roko-in-palghar-kelwe-and-saphale-as-wr-changes-timings/story-2Hcxnt6x0TMgajnMUoW4OO.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||With AQI at 381, Delhi’s air quality stays in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on Wednesday, with the air quality index (AQI) at 7am being recorded at 381.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) it is likely to remain very poor throughout the week owing to slow wind speed and a change in the wind patterns in the coming days.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI on Tuesday was 367, even worse than Monday’s 318, though both are in the very poor category. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and that above 400 is considered severe.According to IMD scientists, the average wind speed on Tuesday reduced to 7-8 kmph from 10-12 kmph on Monday. “The wind speed will further reduce from December 4 or 5 and the direction is likely to change to easterly, from the present north-westerly. The change in direction is due to a western disturbance that will affect Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh from the night of December 3, which will also have an impact on Delhi. Whenever there is a change in wind pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Also read | Pollution in November 2020 up from last year, shows CPCB dataHe said easterly winds are also likely to bring in moisture, which, when combined with calm winds, allow pollutants to accumulate. There is also a forecast of shallow fog on December 4 or 5.“Besides, the change in wind pattern will also lead to a rise in minimum temperature between December 4 and 7, when it is likely to remain around 10-12 degrees Celsius. Thereafter, north-westerly winds are likely to return, resulting in a drop in temperature,” Srivastava added.On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory -- the official marker for the city’s weather -- recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The maximum settled at 27.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-aqi-at-381-delhi-s-air-quality-stays-in-very-poor-category/story-WlzxJ45jAhGP81CvQ3Q0jO.html
02-12-2020||Kolkata||Eastern Railway to resume 54 non-suburban passenger services from today||The Eastern Railway (ER) is set to resume non-suburban passenger services in West Bengal from today with 54 trains in operation. The non-suburban services were disrupted in the last week of March due to the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in the country.The announcement was made by Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Friday (November 27). “Effective 2nd December, Railways to run 54 non-suburban passenger services (27 pairs) from West Bengal. With adequate safety measures in place, this will greatly enhance ease of movement, connectivity & convenience of people of the state,” he had said on Twitter.News agency PTI quoted an official as saying that out of the total 54 trains, 30 will operate in Howrah, 22 in Asansol division and the remaining two in Malda division.In the Howrah division, eight trains each will run in the Bardhaman-Rampurhat section and the Rampurhat-Gumani section respectively, the official said adding that two will run in the Rampurhat-Dumka-Jasidih section. 📢 Effective 2nd December, Railways to run 54 non-suburban passenger services (27 pairs) from West Bengal.With adequate safety measures in place, this will greatly enhance ease of movement, connectivity & convenience of people of the state.“Apart from these, eight trains in Katwa-Azimgang and four passenger trains in Katwa-Azimganj sections will also be run in Howrah division,” he added.Among the 22 trains in the Asansol division, eight would run in the Bardhaman-Asansol section, two trains in the Andal-Jasidih section and four each in Andal-Santhia, Asansol-Dhanbad, Asansol-Jasidih-Jhajha sections, the Eastern Railway official said.The remaining two trains in the Malda division would run in the Malda-Barharwa section.Earlier, local train services resumed in Bengal on November 11 after a period of more than seven months as authorities maintained strict vigil and passengers were seen following Covid-19 norms. As many as 413 suburban trains were being operated in the Sealdah division and 202 in the Howrah division, the Eastern Railway had said.Authorities urged passengers to follow all virus protocols and also made wearing of masks mandatory for entering stations or trains. They also ensured regular sanitisation of stations and trains, alternate seating arrangements in compartments to maintain physical distancing and spot markings at all places including platforms and ticket counters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eastern-railway-to-resume-54-non-suburban-passenger-services-from-today/story-2ZHObSlaKvrrHP0ikMC98H.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hosting domestic season: BCCI officials inspects cricket grounds in Chandigarh, Mullanpur||Secretary of Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) Jay Shah, accompanied by BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal, on Tuesday, visited the Punjab Cricket Association stadium in Mullanpur and the Mahajan Cricket Ground at IT Park for inspection ahead of the curtailed Indian domestic season.UT Cricket Association (UTCA) and Punjab Cricket Association are expected to jointly host the domestic matches amid the pandemic by creating a secure bio-bubble facility in January 2021. Shah and Dhumal were accompanied by UTCA and PCA officials at the Mullanpur stadium, which is yet to host first-class cricket. The BCCI duo inspected the ground and other facilities there before visiting the Mahajan Cricket Ground, which had hosted its first Ranji Trophy match last season.In a communication sent to its 38 regional units, BCCI has sought their opinion on whether they agree to a curtailed season of only Ranji Trophy, only Syed Mushtaq Ali T20, Ranji Trophy and T20, or T20 and Vijay Hazare Trophy ODI tournament. The state units have to revert on this soon.PCA and UTCA officials had shown interest in hosting the domestic games for the upcoming season when they had visited Dubai for IPL 13 finals and met the BCCI officials. From UTCA, president Sanjay Tandon and joint secretary Yuvraj Mahajan were present during the inspection, while PCA president Rajinder Gupta along with secretary Puneet Bali were present at the Mullanpur stadium.Sources said the BCCI officials were satisfied with the grounds they inspected in Chandigarh and Mullanpur on their two-day visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hosting-domestic-season-bcci-officials-inspects-cricket-grounds-in-chandigarh-mullanpur/story-G5tVwq4QZAOL5Qb1cFtxcP.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A citizen’s monument||The plastic banner clings to the roadside fence. Bhure Khan Baraf Depot supplies ice in great quantity for wedding banquets—though any customer could also buy individual ice slabs directly from the stall, here on a pavement near Gurugram’s Sector 14 market. One wonders how many people, while driving down the road, notice the banner. It has no photo, and displays Bhure Khan’s name (and that of one of his sons), his trade, his mobile numbers, and the number 786, considered sacred in Islam.Bhure Khan himself no longer exists.“He died in February last year,” says Allah Pyari, his wife, on the phone. A conversation with her makes it possible to draw a sketch of his life.A native of Etah, in UP, Bhure Khan left his village for Gurugram about 20 years ago. He started modestly and ended modestly as an ice seller, his wife says, but through sheer doggedness he firmly entrenched his new roots in NCR by building a house in Sheetla Colony. A father to seven, Bhure Khan hoped to make a pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia after “completing the responsibilities of marrying off all his children.” Last year, however, while visiting a relative in Kasganj, UP, he succumbed to a heart attack. “I got to know of the attack only after he was no more,” his wife says.Two of Bhure Khan’s five sons have strayed into other professions—one is an auto driver, another is into “boring” (a process in machining), while the rest are carrying on with their father’s legacy of trading in ice. “Their work situation is growing very bad because of corona,” says Allah Pyari, referring to the pandemic.Despite breathing his last close to his native district, Bhure Khan was buried in Gurugram, in a graveyard near the bus stand. “My husband considered Gurgawa (sic) as our home, not Etah.”Bhure Khan lived to 55. He isn’t famous but the continuous existence of the roadside banner bearing his name is like a monument, discreetly commemorating the lives of all those like him who move to big cities and dream on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-citizen-s-monument/story-MmGFvG7xOqy5YAMyKk90RN.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Top names to feature in four-day Jeev invitational golf tourney in Chandigarh||The country’s top golfers will feature in the third edition of the ₹1.5-crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational presented by TAKE Sports at the Chandigarh Golf Club from December 3 to 6.Host Jeev Milkha Singh, PGA Tour regular Anirban Lahiri, European Tour regulars Gaganjeet Bhullar and SSP Chawrasia and Asian Tour regulars Jyoti Randhawa, Rashid Khan and former champion Chikkarangappa, along with top names from the city—Karandeep Kochhar, Akshay Sharma, Aadil Bedi and Harendra Gupta—will be part of the strong field that will feature 120 participants.The tournament was jointly launched by TAKE Sports and TATA Steel PGTI in 2018 as a gesture to honour Indian golfing legend Jeev Milkha Singh. “I am fortunate to have a tournament named after me. It’s a great honour for me. It is the third edition of the tournament and every year, its field is growing stronger. This time we have top names of the country playing here,” said Jeev at a media briefing at Chandigarh Golf Club on Tuesday.“Earlier the tournament used to be held in October or the first week of November, but this time as it is taking place in December, an early tee off will be a challenge because of the cold weather in the North. I am expecting a score of 15-20 under in four rounds for the winner,” he added.‘Follow Covid protocols’Jeev has the rare distinction of being the only Indian to have won the Asian Tour Order of Merit twice (2006 and 2008). He has won multiple titles on the European Tour, Japan Golf Tour and Asian Tour and has 14 major appearances to his name. Jeev has also achieved a career-high world ranking of 28, an Indian record.“We are going through tough times being in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic so I would like to request everyone to kindly follow all the safety protocols during the event in order to stay safe and healthy. The PGTI (Professional Golf Tour of India) has done a great job with the smooth conduct of two events in the Chandigarh tricity region last month. I’m sure that they will conduct this tournament with equal efficiency,” says Jeev.Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO, PGTI, said, “The event is our tribute to Jeev Milkha Singh for his unparalleled achievements on the international stage which brought glory to India and inspired a whole generation of Indian golfers.”“This tournament is one of the most prestigious events on the PGTI and we at Chandigarh Golf Club are proud to host it. The golf course is playing in its prime condition and as a testimony of it we had a 10-under-62 score by Sunit Chowrasia in the recently concluded PGTI event which was a new course record,” added Sandeep Singh Sandhu, president, Chandigarh Golf Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/top-names-to-feature-in-four-day-jeev-invitational-golf-tourney-in-chandigarh/story-0ILYzPvovXotKx2jhG3QUL.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University student bodies urge V-C to reopen varsity||The student bodies of Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday urged the authorities to reopen the varsity for students.The student bodies also demanded that the varsity should open a library and hostels for MPhil students. The members of students organisations including All India Students’ Association (AISA), Punjab Students’ Union (PSU-Lalkaar), Students For Society (SFS) and Students Organisation of India (SOI) wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar in this regard. In their representation, the student bodies reminded the authorities that the final-year MPhil students have to submit their thesis by December 31, 2020. The students also insisted on reopening for final year students.Aman, who is a member of PSU-Lalkaar, said, “I think that there seems to be no reason for keeping the university shut. We have given a deadline to the authorities after which we will be forced to open the university on our own.”Earlier this month, PU announced that the varsity will continue online teaching in its teaching departments and affiliated colleges for the current semester even though the University Grants Commission (UGC) allowed the higher educational institutions to reopen. Even the Chandigarh administration has allowed colleges to reopen for final-year students.The student bodies also claimed that the varsity has stopped releasing fellowships for PU toppers, and demanded their immediate and regular release.The student representation further read, “PU authorities are irresponsibly denying hostels to PhD scholars who have completed five years on a guest basis. This is seriously hampering their research work at the verge of thesis submission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-student-bodies-urge-v-c-to-reopen-varsity/story-vuCIW6NhABTZTWU5QIIPjJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Public bicycle-sharing system to be rolled out in Chandigarh on December 10||Good news for cycle enthusiasts in the city: from December 10, the public bicycle-sharing system will be rolled out across the city. Being launched as a pilot under the Cycles4Change challenge, under the project cycles will be offered on an half-hourly payment basis.Chandigarh is one of the 95 cities to have registered for the challenge, which aims to encourage cities to implement cycling-friendly initiatives in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. KK Yadav, MC commissioner and CEO of Chandigarh Smart City Limited, said, “We will be launching the pilot project with 25 docking stations and 250 bicycles.”The project will be launched from the Rock Garden by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on December 19, added Yadav.The docking stations have been installed in different locations including the Rock Garden, high court, Sukhna Lake, PGIMER, Sectors 17, 22, 34, and 43.The user charges will be ₹5 for half an hour (for members) and ₹10 for non-members. People will be able to use the cycle through a mobile app that will allow booking of the ride and availing an annual membership.The bicycles are GPS-enabled and will be supported by a 24x7 control centre with a facility of a call centre and where cycle movement can be tracked.Main project by December-endAfter much delay in commencing, the public bicycle-sharing project being implemented by the CSCL is now picking pace.In the first phase, which is scheduled to be completed by December-end, 600 cycles will be available at 60 dock stations across the city. Even the availability of e-bikes will be a part of Phase 1.“The docking station location and designs are getting necessary approvals from the UT urban planning department. A committee of the CSCL, the department and the firm installing the stations has visited the proposed locations, and the plans have been prepared keeping in mind the requirements of each site,” said a CSCL official.After the project is completed, expectedly by June 2021, as many as 5,000 ordinary cycles and 600 e-bikes will be available on hourly rent basis at 617 dock stations in the city.According to the agreement, the firm will execute the project in multiple phases over the course of the next 18 months, to make 2,000 cycles available at 200 dock stations within the next six months. The firm will invest money to set up all requisite infrastructures and in return, it will get advertising rights from the UT at dock stations. The pedal-assisted bicycles or electric-bicycles (e-bikes) will be also made available under the project. E-bikes use rechargeable batteries and can reach speeds of 25 to 30 km per hour. The electric motor installed on the cycle is meant to add to human power generated through pedaling and not completely replace it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-bicycle-sharing-system-to-be-rolled-out-in-chandigarh-on-december-10/story-gYSVv5ZUQnf49f4I1dIwSL.html
02-12-2020||Patna||Former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi to file nomination for RS by-poll||Former deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi will file his nomination as a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate for the Rajya Sabha by-poll at the Commissioner office in Patna on Wednesday.On this occasion, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Sanjay Jaiswal, Deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi and other ministers will be present along with Sushil Modi. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, VIP president and minister Mukesh Sahani along with other MLAs will be present at the venue.The BJP said that all its ministers, MLAs, MLCs and party leaders will assemble in the party’s state office at 11:30 am and proceed to the Commissioner office at 12:15 pm along with Sushil Modi for the nomination process.Sushil Modi has been made the candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat that got vacated after the death of Lok Janshakti Party leader and former union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.The election will be held on December 14, if Mahagathbandhan led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) decides to contest the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/former-bihar-deputy-cm-sushil-modi-to-file-nomination-for-rs-by-poll/story-Kl3o70R0vzzeriRDlwDU8J.html
02-12-2020||City||Former councillor among 3 hurt in Sohana attack||Former Mohali councillor and two others were attacked by a group of men after a scuffle in Sohana village last night, police said on Tuesday. One person was arrested while at least 12 men have been booked under the attempt to murder charge. Those identified among the suspects are Jagtar Singh, Avtar Singh, Gurmeet Singh, and Harpreet Singh, all residents of Sukhgarh village here. They have been booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The victims are Surinder Singh Rajput, a former councillor of the ruling party, a shopkeeper, Jarnail Singh Rana, and his brother Sahib Singh Rana.Jarnail told the police that he runs a shop in Sohana and there is a vacant plot next to it. “I, along with Sahib Singh and Surinder Singh, was cleaning my place and preparing to dig earth to build a basement when the accused came there and started beating us up after a heated exchange,” he added. Family members of the victims rushed the trio to the civil hospital in Mohali’s Phase 6. Two undergoing treatment at civil hospitalThe former councillor has been discharged, while the other two victims are undergoing treatment, the police said.Investigating officer Bhagat Ram said the police were investigating the case. One of the suspects, Jagtar Singh, was arrested and a manhunt has been launched to nab the absconding accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-councillor-among-3-hurt-in-sohana-attack/story-dxgU2wL0GQzvniGpMwW5qJ.html
02-12-2020||City||Sanitation workers dump trash outside Zirakpur municipal council EO’s office||Contractual sanitation employees of Zirakpur municipal council on Tuesday threw garbage outside the office of its executive officer (EO) Sandeep Tiwari. They have also been joined by employees of Dera Bassi and Lalru civic bodies in their protest against the authorities. Municipal Council Sanitation Employees’ Union (Nagar Council Safai Karamchari Union) and Zirakpur Contractual Employees’ Union members are on strike for past several days to push for their pending demands. Union leaders Pardeep Kumar Sood and Ravinder Pal Singh said they will not lift garbage from any part of the city till their demands are met. They are seeking wages as per the new DC rates. “We want MC contractors to pay us wages as per 2020 DC rates as we are being paid as per 2017 DC rates which is unjust. The new rates have been recently declared by DC, which must be implemented. We will not return to work unless our demands are met,” they added. They claimed that as per the new DC rates, employees of Mohali municipal corporation are being paid Rs 9,500 per month, but their monthly wage is still Rs 7,500. They also alleged that they are not being given basic amenities which are provided to the employees in other councils. Sood said they are working for the past 15 years, but their services have not been regularised yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitation-workers-dump-trash-outside-zirakpur-municipal-council-eo-s-office/story-ZTURoKNIq1Fpzd5bFDja5M.html
02-12-2020||City||NC, Cong, PDP enemies of Gujjars, Bakerwals, says BJP’s Ravinder Raina||BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir unit president Ravinder Raina, on Tuesday, said that National Conference, Congress and PDP are “enemies of the Gujjars and Bakerwals”.Addressing an election rally at Jora Farm in RS Pura sector, Raina lashed out at the three parties for “doing criminal injustice against Gujjars and Bakerwals in Jammu and Kashmir”. “They have done grave injustice with the STs including Gujjars and Bakkarwals of the region,” he said.“These parties lacked political will and deliberately did injustice against the Gujjars and Bakerwals over the years. But after abrogation of Article 370, all communities are benefitted. Due to revocation of the draconian laws, the ignored communities are getting political reservation in the region,” he added.“Only BJP has fought for the rights of the said communities with the sole aim to serve the society,” he said and appealed to people to cast their votes in favour of BJP candidates in the ongoing DDC elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nc-cong-pdp-enemies-of-gujjars-bakerwals-says-bjp-s-ravinder-raina/story-W3rfX0SJerfd9hwUtMNYhK.html
02-12-2020||City||BSF team went 200m inside Pak territory to find mouth of tunnel||Indian security forces in a recent operation went almost 200 metres inside Pakistan’s side to unearth a tunnel which was used by terrorists to infiltrate inside Indian territory, a top government official said on Tuesday.BSF’s Jammu frontier inspector general NS Jamwal said, “Following detection of the tunnel, we entered around 150-200 feet inside it to see its dimensions, finish, mechanism and other evidences.”Of late, Pakistan has upped its ante using drones and digging trans-border tunnels to push arms, ammunition, drugs and terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir to fuel terrorism.“We recovered sand bags with Pakistani markings and a rope on its mouth. Later, we found some made-in-Pakistan biscuit wrappers inside,” said the IGP.He added that the make and design of the tunnel was similar to those detected in the past. “But in tunnels detected earlier, rainwater used to inundate them in monsoon. I think this tunnel was a fresh one, dug in dry season after monsoon,” he said.A man with an average height of five to six feet could have easily walked in with a bending posture inside the tunnel which was detected by the Border Security Force (BSF) on November 22 in Samba sector, said a top official.The tunnel, which was around 160m inside the Indian territory was detected near Regal post in Samba sector on November 22. It had originated from Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers and was strengthened by small wooden planks. It was dug 20-feet deep beneath the ground and had a diameter of three feet.The four Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists, who used the tunnel to infiltrate, were killed in an operation at Ban Toll Plaza near Nagrota, Jammu, on November 19.They were in constant touch with their handlers in Pakistan via digital mobile radio. “Kahan pahunche? kya soorat-e-haal hai? Koi mushkil toh nahi?” texts were sent to the terrorists by their handlers in Shakargarh area of Punjab’s Narowal district in Pakistan. The recovered digital mobile radio was manufactured by a Pakistani company ‘Micro Electronics’ and QMobile Smartphone. In addition, a wireless set and a GPS device were also recovered.The four Jaish terrorists had sneaked into India along with a huge consignment of arms and ammunition including six AK-56 rifles, five AK-47 rifles, three pistols, 16 AK magazines, a packet of RDX, 20 Chinese hand grenades, six UBGL grenades and 20 kgs of explosive.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-team-went-200m-inside-pak-territory-to-find-mouth-of-tunnel/story-0mbdm26wj4xDTCWvxnD9kJ.html
02-12-2020||Mumbai||Day before Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Mumbai, Uddhav Thackeray says “won’t let anyone forcibly take business away from Maharashtra”||Ahead of the visit of his counterpart form Uttar Pradesh (UP) Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Mumbai, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said that he would not allow anybody to “forcibly” take business from the state and the financial capital. Thackeray, who was speaking at an event by IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the state is not scared of competition but it should be a fair one.Adityanath is slated to visit Mumbai on Wednesday and is expected to meet people associated with the film industry and business leaders.“Some people are coming today. They will also meet you all and ask you to come there [to invest]. But they don’t know that the magnetic strength [of Maharashtra] is so powerful that instead of people going from here to there [UP], it may so happen that somebody from there comes here,” Thackeray said while referring to Adityanath indirectly.The Maharashtra CM said that their relations with the chamber have been through generations and they have collectively thought about the industrial progress and development of Mumbai and Maharashtra. He said, “Today we have the power to fulfil dreams for Mumbai and Maharashtra. Our relations are through generations and will not be broken.”“We are not jealous if someone progresses. We don’t have any problem if one competes. But if you are going to forcibly take anything away, then of course, I won’t let it happen and I think even you [industrialists] will not be willing to go,” he added, urging the chamber to become the brand ambassador of the state to attract investment into Maharashtra. He also promised complete support from his government.Thackeray said that Maharashtra has signed investment tie-ups worth Rs50,000 crore during the pandemic and will go on to fetch over Rs1 lakh-crore investment in the state. He said that unlike demonetisation where the money “disappeared”, the industrial activities will start chugging once again.In a day-long visit, Adityanath will go to Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) to ring the bell to list Lucknow Municipal Corporation bonds.Adityanath, who has already unveiled a plan to set up a film city in Noida, will meet prominent people from film industry in Mumbai and extend an invitation to come to his state for filmmaking. The UP CM is also scheduled to meet top business leaders and head honchos to invite them to invest in his state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/day-before-yogi-adityanath-s-visit-to-mumbai-uddhav-thackeray-says-won-t-let-anyone-forcibly-take-business-away-from-maharashtra/story-cmru0Qv3Jk7Hc5JVIkEoEK.html
02-12-2020||City||48.62% voting recorded in Phase 2 of DDC polls||In the second phase of the district development council (DDC) polls, 48.62% people exercised their franchise in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday.The voting percentage has dipped in Kashmir while it increased marginally in Jammu division as compared to Phase 1. While only one-third of the total electorate cast their votes in Kashmir, it was two-thirds in the Jammu division.State election commissioner KK Sharma said overall 48.62% electorate voted in the second phase in J&K. “The polling percentage was 33.34% in Kashmir and 65.54% in Jammu division,” he said. In the first phase on Saturday, 51.7% voting was recorded – 40.65% in Kashmir and 64.2% in Jammu.The voting was held in 43 seats across the UT to decide the fate of 321 candidates in fray in the second phase – 196 in Kashmir and 125 in Jammu. As many as 2,142 polling stations were established across the UT. The main competition is between People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Apni Party.The SEC said the polls were conducted peacefully across the region. “Overall, the situation in all 20 districts was fine. There was no untoward incident reported in Jammu or Kashmir. Only a single incident of an argument over validity of the identity proof of a person took place in Jammu,” he said.In Kashmir, the highest polling was recorded in Bandipora where 69.66% electorate voted, followed by Kupwara at 58.69%. Sharma said Pulwama recorded lowest of 8.67% polling in Kashmir– a terse higher than 6% of Phase 1.In Jammu, the highest voting was in Poonch at 75.07%, followed by Jammu at 69.97%. The lowest percentage in Kathua district at 60.1%. Of the 7.90 lakh voters eligible for voting in the second phase, 1,35,990 casted their vote in Kashmir and 2,41,411 in Jammu.In Kashmir Division, the polling percentage recorded in Budgam was 43.51%, Srinagar 33.78%, Kulgam 29.90%, Baramulla 28.95%, Shopian 17.28%, Anantnag 16.09%, and Pulwama 8.67%. Similarly, in Jammu division, poll percentage of 61.64% was recorded in Kishtwar, 64.80% in Doda, 66.23% in Ramban, 62.51% in Udhampur, 66.38% in Samba and 69.27 in Reasi% and 60.21% in Rajouri. The DDC elections are the first major electoral exercise taking place in Jammu and Kashmir after the revocation of Article 370 in August last year and the bifurcation of the former state into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The eight-phase election will end on December 19 and the counting will be held on December 22. The third phase of elections will be held on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/48-62-voting-recorded-in-phase-2-of-ddc-polls/story-IoznkOBoKMFNdgiXqz28uN.html
02-12-2020||City||Army to hold recruitment rally for 10 Jammu districts||The army will hold a recruitment rally for 10 districts in Jammu – Udhampur, Poonch, Rajouri, Doda, Kishtwar, Ramban, Reasi, Jammu, Samba and Kathua –next year.“The army recruitment rally will be held at Zorawar Stadium in Sunjuwan Military Station, Jammu, from February 10 to March 10, 2021,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand. Admit cards for the already registered candidates will be sent thorough the registered e-mail between January 26 and February 9, 2021.All candidates are advised to read the rally notification carefully and follow Covid-19 directions issued on www.joinindianarmy.nic.in for the recruitment rally.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, limited number of candidates will be called per day. The candidates are advised to report to the rally ground only on the date and time mentioned in the admit card and not to assemble before,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-to-hold-recruitment-rally-for-10-jammu-districts/story-EcwoYGMU0fgtlh29FW8ZtN.html
02-12-2020||City||DDC polls: Kupwara hamlets cast votes with hope of development, statehood restoration||Residents from Kupwara’s fringe villages on Tuesday braved the morning chill and lined up early outside a polling station on Chowkibal-Tanghdar road in Marsari to cast their votes for development and strengthening the leaders fighting for the restoration of Article 370 and J&K’s statehood.Government High School, Marsari, houses the single polling station for residents of Marsari and Rangwar — the last two villages before the serpentine roads lead to the mountains of Tangdhar.“We believe in democratic institutions but the government should respect what people want from the Centre. We want respect, jobs and development,” said former sarpanch of Marsari, adding, “Today we are voting for the future of Kashmir. Everything was taken away from us on August 5, 2019. Now, leaders have joined hands for the restoration of Article 370 and statehood. By voting for the joint leadership, we want to make them strong,” he said.Other villagers echoed that by revoking J&K’s special status, the Centre complicated the situation in the Valley. “Article 370 and statehood are our rights which we should get back,” said villager Arif Ahmad.The polling was held in Chowkibal, a remote area in Kupwara district, as part of the second phase of the district development council (DDC) elections across J&K.“We are facing a series of problems here and development has never reached our villages. We have cast votes in the hope that our elected representatives will try to solve these problems,” said the head of Rangwar village, Ghulam Nabi.Marsari and Rangwar villages have around 900 registered voters and by afternoon, half of them had exercised their franchise.“We are either working as labourers or porters. For us, life is miserable and whenever there is snowfall we have to live without electricity for weeks. This time our only hope is that our representative will be close to us,” said Yaqub Khan, an elderly villager.Rangwar is a picturesque village surrounded by forests currently covered in heavy snow. However, villagers say their miseries swell once winter sets in. “Our village receives four to five feet of snow in winter and there is dearth of everything here. Only a few people in the villages are employed in government services or the private sector. So, the youths here are sitting idle,” said Saleema Begum of Rangwar.Shaheen Ahmad Khan, a student of Class XII who had come to vote from Rangwar along with his family, said that all 13 candidates came to their village to seek support. “We want a good and educated person to get elected so that he/she could at least highlight the issues of the villages. People here are voting for different candidates.”After coming out of the polling station, Saleem Khan wished that his vote would bring about a change for the youth. “We have a lot of problems here, especially unemployment. I hope that the administration keeps its promise of giving jobs to people.”In the neighbouring Manzgam, the villagers said they will prefer a candidate who will be honest and work for people. “This time, 15 candidates are in the fray, and people are voting for those who will work for rural development,” said Saif-u-din Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-kupwara-hamlets-cast-votes-with-hope-of-development-statehood-restoration/story-7wKNycXA4ZrNRbH3XdMXKO.html
02-12-2020||City||Maharashtra farmers to hold mass protest in state on Thursday to show ‘solidarity’ with those protesting in Delhi||Farmers in every district of Maharashtra have decided to march to their respective tehsil offices on Thursday to show solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre’s farm bills. The decision was taken on Tuesday morning in a meeting of the Maharashtra cadre of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), the umbrella organisation of over 500 farmer organisations across the country. More than 80 organisations representing farmers, farm labourers, tribals and labour class organisations across the state will participate in the peaceful protest around 11am and submit letters to tehsildars and collectors across Maharashtra. In an online meeting with AIKS, an alliance of 48 organisations, trade unions of labourers and bank employees – Jan Andolananchi Sangharsha Samiti – participated to chalk out an action plan for Thursday’s protest organised on December 3. Ajit Navale, Maharashtra general secretary of AIKS, said, “On Tuesday morning, seven organisations representing farmers conducted a meeting and decided to hold the peaceful protest march on December 3. This meeting was followed by another online meeting, in which 80 organisations representing farmers, labourers and tribals of Maharashtra decided to join the protest march.” Farmers in the state had also participated in the nation-wide protest call by AIKS on November 25 and 26. Protestors had resorted to roadblocks and sit-in protests in 21 districts of the state, including Palghar, Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s minister of state for labour Bacchu Kadu tweeted on Tuesday, “If the central government does not initiate satisfactory dialogue with farmers protesting in Delhi by December 3, then the farmers of Maharashtra will organise a mass protest called ‘Chalo Delhi’ and travel to the national capital on two-wheelers and four-wheelers.” Vishwas Utagi, convener of Jan Andolananchi Sangharsha Samiti, said, “We are trying to build a support system for what is going on in Delhi. For the first time in Maharashtra, so many mass organisations have come together to build up mass pressure on the government. On December 3, members of Jan Andolananchi Sangharsha Samiti will submit letters to tehsildars in all 400 tehsils, and to collectors in all 36 districts in the state, in support of the farmers’ protests.” Presently, AIKS has asked farmers not to hold any sit-in protests in the state, due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-farmers-to-hold-mass-protest-in-state-on-thursday-to-show-solidarity-with-those-protesting-in-delhi/story-4kva32IpG50zUurbnv6FWP.html
02-12-2020||City||Online IIT placements: Fewer packages from foreign firms||Placements across Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) kicked off virtually on Tuesday. While the total number of international offers were lower than last year’s figures, the biggest domestic packages across IITs were higher than those offered in 2019. As per the placement report, for the first half of the day shared by IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), 18 companies offered jobs across sectors and the highest annual package (₹46.41 lakh) was offered by Qualcomm. Last year, the highest domestic annual package was ₹32.59 lakh and from Qualcomm. The highest international salary package (1.57 lakh euro or approximately ₹1.39 crore) was offered by proprietary trading firm Optiver. At IIT-Roorkee, the annual package for a domestic role saw a rise with ₹80 lakh being offered, which is more than last year’s offer of ₹62.2 lakh. “On day one of placements, a total of 25 companies offered over 272 domestic jobs and three international offers,” said a spokesperson for the institute. While last year, there were 10 international job offers in the first half of the first day, three international job offers were made in the corresponding time this year. In 2018, seven international job offers had been made in this time. “We were expecting lower international job offers this year [due to the pandemic],” said an IIT-B official, requesting anonymity. “Some recruiters, however, have assured a one-year stint in India followed by an international stint to a handful of students.” Microsoft, which has offered the highest international packages across IITs three years in a row, had only domestic roles to offer this year. At IIT-Madras, students received 123 job offers from 22 companies. “The total number of job offers on day one is higher than in any preceding year. Last year, 102 jobs were offered by 20 companies on day one. The highest number of jobs offers were made by Microsoft, Texas Instruments with 19 and 12 jobs respectively, followed by Bajaj Auto and ISRO with 10 jobs each,” said the institute on Tuesday. Pre-placement offers (PPO) were higher than last year across all IITs. By Tuesday, 153 PPOs were accepted by students of IIT-B. Students at IIT-Madras received 182 PPOs compared to last year’s 170. “We are still expecting more job offers for various profiles over the next few days,” said Prof Vinay Sharma, professor-in-charge, placement and internship, IIT-Roorkee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-iit-placements-fewer-packages-from-foreign-firms/story-2dAgDnsrjmxl7mBShZnpqI.html
02-12-2020||City||HP Cong donates medical equipment for Covid patient care||The Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Tuesday donated various medical equipment to help with Covid patient management in hospitals.HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, in the presence of senior Congress leaders, gave the medical equipment for patient care at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College and Hospital (RPGMCH), Tanda.The party donated five beds, 6 wheelchairs, 25 BP apparatus, 400 face shields, 25 nasal flow cannula, 25 catheter mounts, 25 closed-circuit catheters. The supply was received by RPGMCH principal Dr Bhanu Awasthi.Speaking on the occasion, Rathore said that Congress always acted for the welfare of the people of the state. Hundreds of party workers donated money to buy the medical equipment, he informed while appreciating the efforts of RPGMCH staff in the fight against Covid-19.Takes a jibe at state govt Meanwhile, the HPCC chief took a dig at the BJP-led state government for failing to curb the spread of Covid-19. He said that the increasing infections reflected the gross mismanagement by the state administration.The BJP regime claims to be a double-engine government, but it seems the two engines were moving in opposite directions, Rathore said adding that resentment was slowly building up against the government among the people of the state.The state Congress chief also flayed the Centre for failing to resolve the issues of protesting farmers.“The brutality on the protesting farmers has exposed the BJP-led government at Centre,” said Rathore adding that instead of working for farmers’ welfare, the Centre was more concerned about the corporate houses.He alleged that the central government was trying to suppress the farmers’ movement by unleashing unprecedented brutality on them. “Today, the country’s farmer is suffering. The government is trying to throttle their voices. Democracy is being murdered on the behest of the central regime,” he alleged.District Congress president Ajay Mahajan, former MP Chaudhary Chandra Kumar, AICC secretary and ex-minister Sudhir, MLAs Pawan Kajal and Rajinder Rana, HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania and Dharamshala mayor Devinder Jaggi were present on the occasion among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cong-donates-medical-equipment-for-covid-patient-care/story-HkzstyN24NfGHsaLaOybiK.html
02-12-2020||City||Hamirpur admn asks people to get enrolled as voters by Dec 15||The district administration here has urged the residents to get registered as voters by December 15 if they haven’t so far.In a meeting on Tuesday, Hamirpur additional district magistrate (ADM) Jitendra Sanjata informed that around 2,400 people have already got themselves enrolled in the past 15 days and said that the rest should too.The ADM said that the format of photo-electoral lists of the five constituencies of the district is available with the concerned SDM office, tehsil/sub-tehsil office, besides the designated officials appointed at all 531 polling stations. Any voter can inspect them and confirm their names online or through the mobile app, Sanjata said.He added that during the brief revision work, the names of newly eligible people are being included in the voter lists, while those who left the place due to any reason, dead people and ineligible persons are being removed from these lists. Apart from this, errors of voter lists are being corrected and applications for getting new photo identity cards are also being received.Sanjata said that by January 1, 2021, the youths who would have attained the age of 18 can also get registered for voting.The district supervisor also appealed to the representatives of political parties to cooperate in the revision work through booth level agents. He informed that the Election Commission has decided to specially mark and register disabled persons in the voter lists so that special arrangements can be made for them on the day of polling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hamirpur-admn-asks-people-to-get-enrolled-as-voters-by-dec-15/story-bK7JzPSCImudYTfaF8JUPK.html
02-12-2020||City||Nauni varsity foundation day: HP guv bats for technology transfer in horticulture||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Tuesday emphasized promoting technology transfer in horticulture and urged scientists to transform their research work keeping in view the climatic conditions of the state.He was presiding over the 36th foundation day function of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Solan, online from Raj Bhawan.Congratulating the varsity community on the occasion, the governor said that as the first horticulture and forestry university in Asia, the institute has played a leading role in education, research and extension education for more than three decades.As a result, new techniques have reached the fields of millions of farmers, said Dattatreya expressing delight over the Union education ministry adjudging the horticulture varsity among the top government universities in the country in the ‘Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements’ released earlier this year.This university has ranked 12th in the nationwide rankings of agricultural universities.The governor stressed the development of new varieties and agricultural techniques. He also urged to use scientific input in natural farming.Dattatreya said that the university scientists have received 22 projects worth ₹7.85 crore in the last one year to promote research activities through various financial institutions.The university has also been approved by the World Bank-funded National Agricultural Higher Project of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research worth ₹25 crore.He called upon all the university teachers to spread awareness about the new national education policy.He also exhorted the teachers and young scientists to prepare a roadmap for agriculture and horticulture development so that Himachal becomes a model state in the field of horticulture and forestry in the country.Take research to fields for desired results: CM In his address on the occasion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that scientists must take the research to the fields to achieve the desired results.“Production could increase only when we motivate the farmers and horticulturists to adopt the latest varieties of seeds and technologies,” he said.Thakur said that the state government was committed to ensure quality education to all sections of society and was working vigorously in this direction. He said that over the years, horticulture has emerged as a potential avocation in accelerating the growth of the rural economy.“Role of horticulture in nutritional security, poverty alleviation and employment generation programmes have increased manifold,” he said.He said horticultural crops account for about 33% of agricultural production and due to this the horticulture sector has witnessed a growth of 2.6% in the last decade and productivity has gone up by 4.8%.He said that Himachal Pradesh ranked 5th in the world in apple production and the gross value of fruits produced in the state during the year 2019-20 was estimated to be around ₹4,000 crore.The chief minister also batted for the new farm laws describing them as a step in strengthening the economy of farmers.Horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur said that Himachal was set to become the ‘fruit bowl’ of the country, thanks to the effective research to promote horticulture in the sub-tropical areas of the state.University registrar Prashant Sirkek presented the vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nauni-varsity-foundation-day-hp-guv-bats-for-technology-transfer-in-horticulture/story-niiItWRE3SZwa3yTqs2VNJ.html
02-12-2020||City||Viral audio clip: BJP demands Mumbai civic body panel chairman’s resignation||An audio clip, in which Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav is allegedly asking a civic contractor to withdraw the latter’s bid for works under the corporator’s fund in E-Ward (Byculla and Mazagaon), has gone viral. In the clip Jadhav is heard saying, “You know the system or not? You withdraw the work and I will tell them to not issue you a challan.” After getting shortlisted in the tendering process, every contractor is issued a challan as an acknowledgement of appointment. The bid in the audio clip refers to civic works such as toilet, footpath and pathway repairs along with drainage work etc. In the audio clip, the contractor, Surajpratap Singh Deora, is heard saying, “It will be difficult for me to withdraw the bid as it will have impact on my company. We will not bid for any works in the future.” To this, Jadhav replies, “You do not understand that you need to withdraw the bid. When will you or your representative come to the ward office? I’ll meet you there. Or where do you stay? I will come there and explain it to you.” When contacted, Jadhav said, “I accept that the voice in the audio is mine. But if you listen to the recording, there is nothing wrong in what I said. I got to know that the contractor has not done proper work in the past. I will ask administration to order an inquiry into the matter. This is all is being done for politics. I very well know who has done this and I’ll come out in open with proof in the next few days to expose everything.” Deora’s firm Yash Corporation won the contract. He said, “I am a contractor and I have nothing to with politics or BMC elections. There is an allegation that I offered a percentage to Mr Jadhav. But I demand that this allegation be proved. I have written to the BMC chief and Mumbai Police commissioner stating that I was asked to withdraw my bid and there is possibility of threat to my life.” Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded Jadhav’s resignation. BJP’s group leader in BMC and corporator, Prabhakar Shinde, said, “Jadhav has confessed that it was his voice. All this is a disgrace to the functioning of the corporation. Jadhav should accept moral responsibility and immediately resign as the chairman and a high-level inquiry should be initiated into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/viral-audio-clip-bjp-demands-mumbai-civic-body-panel-chairman-s-resignation/story-CNHB35ukbRVCMtWwQ43LyM.html
02-12-2020||City||Maharashtra appoints 4-member panel to initiate probe into Jalyukt Shivar works undertaken by Devendra Fadnavis govt||Six weeks after state cabinet decided to probe the alleged irregularities in Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan (JSA), a flagship water conservation project by the previous Devendra Fadnavis regime, the Maharashra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has appointed a four-member panel to conduct an open investigation. The committee has been given six months to review the cases mentioned in Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report, examine the complaints received by the government and decide if there is need of an open inquiry into those complaints. The panel will have to submit the progress report about the probe in the cases handed over to it every month. The departments concerned have been directed to commence inquiry recommended by the probe panel immediately. The cabinet in its meeting on October 14 had decided to conduct the probe into the alleged irregularities in the Rs9,634 crore scheme, which was implemented in 22,589 villages between December 2014 and March this year. The CAG found holes after inspecting 1,128 works allotted under the scheme failed to achieve its aim. The report was tabled in the state legislature on September 8. The current government, too, had received more than 600 complaints about the irregularities and corruption related to the scheme, following which the state decided to initiate the probe. According to the government resolution issued on Tuesday, the probe panel will be headed by retired additional chief secretary Bijay Kumar, and will comprise additional director general of anti-corruption bureau (ACB); chief engineer of water resources department Sanjay Belsare and director of soil conservation and watershed management. In its 3-point terms of reference (or scope of inquiry), the panel has been directed to examine 1,128 works examined by CAG in 120 villages in two districts and decide in how many of them an open probe is required and how many works can be handed over for administrative action or divisional inquiry. The panel has also been directed to examine 600 complaints received by the government and decide how many of them required an open probe and which of them need administrative action or divisional inquiry. It has also been told to look into other works undertaken under JSA and decide whether any of them require open, divisional inquiry or administrative action. The CAG report tabled in the state legislature on September 8 slammed the Fadnavis government for its failure in implementation of JSA, envisaged to make villages in Maharashtra drought-free. Besides the deficiencies in planning and lack of provision of adequate funds for maintenance of works, JSA failed to achieve water neutrality in drought-prone villages and increase the ground-water level as intended, CAG’s report stated. Despite spending ₹9,634 crore, drought-hit areas ended up deploying more tankers than in the past, the report said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has termed the probe an insult to the people’s movement under which the JSA was implemented. “The most inefficient MVA government has initiated another probe but only truth will come out of it. In the first place, CAG had examined only 1,128 of total 6.42 lakh works allotted under the drive. This means the remaining 99.83% works were not examined. The report has not found any scam or corruption, while on the contrary it has accepted the fact that many villages became tanker-free and it helped farmers to take second crop,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye. He added that when CAG suggested a course correction, the MVA government scrapped the entire scheme out of vendetta. Upadhye said the probe will find nothing, similar to the report by the committee constituted to find out the alternative land for the Metro car shed at Aarey Colony. The Congress has welcomed the probe and said that the BJP affiliated contractors benefited from the project. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that he had exposed the failure of the project way back in 2018. Sawant, citing a report by Groundwater Survey and Development Agency, had said that number of tankers increased in the villages where the project was implemented. The report had also stated that the groundwater level dipped after implementation of the project. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-appoints-4-member-panel-to-initiate-probe-into-jalyukt-shivar-works-undertaken-by-devendra-fadnavis-govt/story-SVBEmLYmU1J8Hmxujl9nJN.html
02-12-2020||City||Farmers of Hamirpur’s Chaleli village cash in on crop diversification||The farmers of Chaleli village in the district’s Bijheri developmental block have amplified their annual income by growing cash crops under the Himachal Pradesh Crop Diversification Incentive Project, being run with the help of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).Due to harsh weather conditions, lack of irrigation facilities and low yields, many such cultivators who had been growing wheat and maize growers for generations were on the verge of quitting farming. However, crop diversification brought hope for them.Under this project, about 9.58-hectare farming land was brought under irrigation at a cost of Rs 46 lakh in the village. Besides this, 35 farmers were provided power tillers, power weeders, garlic planters and other modern agricultural implements through JICA and trained by agricultural experts.Farmers including Raj Kumar, Saravan Kumar and Nikkaram, Sanjeev Kumar have set an example in vegetable production with the help of the JICA project. They are now planting cucumber, bitter gourd, okra, tomatoes and other vegetables along with traditional crops during the kharif season, while peas, radishes, potatoes, cabbage and other vegetables are sown during the rabi season.JICA project director Dr Vinod Kumar Sharma said that due to the diversification, the production of food crops has increased to 28 quintals per hectare and vegetable production to 190 quintals per hectare in the kharif season in Chaleli village.Similarly, for the rabi season, the yield of food grains is 26 quintals per hectare while the vegetable production is 160 quintals per hectare. Sharma said that the annual income per hectare of Chaleli farmers has increased from Rs 74,500 to over Rs 3 lakh, nearly a five-time rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-of-hamirpur-s-chaleli-village-cash-in-on-crop-diversification/story-XoTBXe7jHgZbsyfKmBLPML.html
02-12-2020||Mumbai||Dawood Ibrahim’s 3 properties in Maharashtra auctioned for ₹1.1 crore||Two plots and a defunct petrol pump in Ratnagiri district, which were the property of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, were sold through an auction organised by the competent authority under Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (Safema). The properties were bought by local Ratnagiri businessman Ravi Kate, for ₹1.10 crore, officials said.On Tuesday, the Centre auctioned three properties in Lote village that were owned by Ibrahim. Competent authority Hari Govind Singh supervised the e-auction, which was conducted by additional commissioner, income tax, RN D’souza. Section 68F of Safema empowers the authority to attach properties of family members and relatives of a fugitive offender.The properties include hissa number 13B admeasuring 30 gunthas and worth ₹28.6 lakh; hissa number 14B admeasuring 50 guntha and worth ₹47.6 lakh; and a structure whose depreciated value is ₹32.8 lakh. One of the plots has a defunct petrol pump, registered in the name of Dawood’s late sister, Haseena Parkar. The total reserve price for the three plots was ₹1.09 crore.Two bidders participated in the auction, but one eventually withdrew from the bidding process. Kate won the bid for ₹1.10 crore. Last month, on November 10, six properties belonging to Ibrahim’s family were auctioned. In April 2019, a flat in Nagpada, belonging to Parkar and admeasuring 600sqft, was auctioned for ₹1.80 crore. Prior to that, in 2018, Safema officials had auctioned Dawood’s property in Mumbai’s Pakmodia Street. The reserved price of the property was ₹79.43 lakh, and was bought by the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) for ₹3.51 crore. In November 2017, SBUT had made the highest bid for the three sealed properties that belonged to Ibrahim. Other properties owned by Ibrahim or his family include a restaurant sold for ₹4.53 crore; six flats sold for ₹3.53 crore; and a guest house that fetched the price of ₹3.52 crore.Two flats owned by Dawood’s aide Iqbal Mirchi in Santacruz were also up for sale last month, but remained unsold for the third consecutive time. Officials said bidders may have found the value set for this property too high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dawood-ibrahim-s-3-properties-in-maharashtra-auctioned-for-1-1-crore/story-y5dRiyBUUSIEOgzZwbTYgL.html
02-12-2020||City||Khanna LIP in-charge booked for abducting man||The Khanna police have booked the in-charge of Lok Insaaf Party’s local unit and his 12 accomplices for allegedly abducting and confining a 30-year-old man over a monetary dispute.The accused identified as Sarabjit Singh Kang runs a de-addiction centre, Vishwas Punarvas, in Khanna.The complainant, Simarjit Kaur, a resident of Shergill Nagar, Malerkotla Road, Khanna, said her husband, Rimpledeep Singh, 30, was a drug addict.In 2019, she had admitted him to the de-addiction centre run by Kang, who was a friend of her husband.Kang charged Rs 5,000 per month for her husband’s treatment for six months. But, even after he was cured in May this year, Kang forcibly retained him at the centre and asked for another Rs 30,000 for treatment. But, she brought her husband home 15 days ago.She alleged that on Monday night, the accused, along with his 12 unidentified accomplices, turned up at their house and took away her husband.Sub-Inspector Labh Singh, SHO, City 2 police station, Khanna, said a case under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against Kang and his 12 accomplices.Notably, Kang had staged protests seeking action against inspector Baljinder Singh, former SHO at of Khanna Sadar police station, who was accused of torturing a man and his son at the police station and making them strip.Kang, along with another LIP leader, Manwinder Singh Giaspura, had removed their clothes outside the office of the senior superintendent of police (SSP) in protest when the special investigation team (SIT) formed by DGP Dinkar Gupta had visited Khanna to investigate the matter on May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-lip-in-charge-booked-for-abducting-man/story-azPKyhxgiin2u7J6Q4lGhJ.html
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Drop in Covid-19 cases in Haryana after three-week spike||After three weeks of big surge in Covid-19 infections, Haryana saw a decline in virus cases last week with the state reporting about 2,200 less cases as compared to the week before.The drop in infections is significant in view of the ramped up sampling by health authorities. The health department had tested a record 2.81 lakh persons last week.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, said the downward trend is seen after spike during the festival season. “We are witnessing lesser number of sick patients now. So evidently there is a gradual decline as was witnessed in the last week of September. However, we have to remain guarded and not become complacent,” he said.According to health department statistics, the state reported 15,222 fresh infections last week (November 23-29) as compared to 17,426 reported a week before.Health officials said the infection rate had already started stabilising two weeks ago when the infection rate had slowed down. A slight increase of 356 infections was recorded from November 16 to 22 (17,426 cases as against 17,070 between November 9-15). This was in contrast to over 3,100 more cases reported in the weeks before.Significant increase in samplingThe health authorities created a record by testing 2,81,079 persons last week as compared to 1,79,255 a week before. The sampling, thus, increased by over a lakh last week. “More than 80% samples tested last week were reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests considered the gold standard test for Covid-19,” said additional chief secretary (ACS), health Rajeev Arora. As per the data, 77,948 more RT-PCR tests were conducted last week compared to the week before. The positivity rate from RT-PCR testing is 7.7% and 4.3% from the rapid antigen tests. Eight districts have critical positivity rate As per the statistics, eight of the 22 districts have critical positivity rate (more than 6%). They are Faridabad, Gurugram, Rewari, Hisar, Panchkula, Panipat, Ambala and Karnal. Sirsa and Mahendergarh, which showed critical positivity rate two weeks ago, have seen a drop in infections. Only two districts—Charkhi Dadri (1.6%) and Nuh (1.3%)— have desirable positivity rate of less than 2 %. The overall positivity rate of the state is 6.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drop-in-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-after-three-week-spike/story-uvsCbGWW1ZUkzmrerHeNUM.html
02-12-2020||City||Jalandhar MC renames BMC Chowk as Samvidhan Chowk||In a significant move to woo Dalit voters ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, the Jalandhar municipal corporation (MC) passed a resolution to rename BMC Chowk as Samvidhan Chowk and Rama Mandi Chowk as 108 Sant Ramanand Ji Chowk.While the name Samvidhan Chowk is being seen as tribute to BR Ambedkar, the Dalit icon and father of the Indian constitution, the latter is in memory of Ravidassia leader and Dera Sach Khand deputy head Ramanand Dass, who was shot dead in Austria in 2009. In the proposal, MC officials stated that BMC Chowk stands for British Motor Car Company, which has long been shifted from here. In view of this, and considering the fact that the Chowk is close proximity to several government offices, it should be rechristened the Samvidhan Chowk, the proposal stated.The Doaba region of Punjab, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts, is home to a major chunk of the state’s Scheduled Caste (SC) population. The civic body also passed a resolution to extend full support to farmers protesting the new farm laws, besides clearing around 70 agendas, including the hiring of contractual staff, repair of roads, sterilisation of animals.The House also proposed to charge ₹2, 000 from those applying for NOC to register their land. Mayor Jagdish Raja proposed construction of elevated road from PAP Chowk to Football Chowk to HMV Chowk for solving the traffic problem.Opposition leaders, meanwhile, created a ruckus alleging that some proposals were passed without consulting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-mc-renames-bmc-chowk-as-samvidhan-chowk/story-KrzQ838i0JvVfqRhG43ouO.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||With farmers blocking Singhu border, many truckers stranded on Kundli highway||It has been five days since Jaan Mohammad, 24, a truck driver, was stranded on the Kundli Highway near the Singhu border (connecting Haryana with Delhi) as thousands of farmers continued to camp on the road demanding the withdrawal of the Centre’s new farm laws.“I am the son of a farmer. I understand why farmers are protesting and I support them. But being stranded on the highway has become an ordeal for drivers like me,” he said, even as at least a dozen others gathered around him nodded in agreement.A resident of Dahej in Gujarat, Mohammad had travelled around 1,153km to his destination -- a plastic factory in the Kundli Industrial Area . He was scheduled to reach by November 27, but then the farmers’ protest started and the Singhu border got blocked; his truck now stands parked merely two kilometres from its destination, unable to move an inch forward for the past five days.Dozens of other drivers are similarly stranded on the Kundli Highway with no place to go as they wait for the road blockade to end. Since they cannot abandon their trucks laden with wares, the truckers are forced to live, eat, and sleep at the spot with the farmers. With nothing to do, groups of them could be spotted playing cards or watching protest videos on their phones on Tuesday.Sadashiv Pandey, 48, who was to deliver thread spools to the Kundli Industrial Area on Friday, said, “While the farmers have been kind enough to feed us langar (community kitchen), it is at a little distance from where we are and so we rely on food from nearby hotels. This is increasing our daily expenses,” he said. The protest area spreads to more than four to five kilometres on the Kundli highway at the SInghu border while the queue of stuck vehicles and trucks stretches far beyond that.Increasing daily expenses are not the only issue, say truckers. Karan Singh, 37, who was driving from Chandigarh to deliver chemicals at a factory in south-east Delhi’s Okhla area, said the transport and logistics business would be hit if these trucks aren’t able to make enough trips.“A lot of truck owners have to pay EMIs. The lockdown had hit their business hard and they are already cash-strapped. How will they pay their loans if the vehicle remains stationary for days and aren’t able to make trips? Although we are salaried employees, it will affect our earning as well. If the boss doesn’t have money, how will he pay us?” he said. “The government should listen to these farmers and solve their problems. Nobody would choose to live on the road unless they were forced to,” he said.Naveen Gupta, general secretary of the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) said the queue of trucks awaiting entry into Delhi at the Singhu border alone is as long as around 5 kilometres now. “Entry of trucks into Delhi has almost come to a complete halt because of the ongoing protest. Though we do not have an exact number of trucks stuck at the borders, but it is safe to say that more than 1,500 trucks are stuck. Per day, the losses being faced by truck owners is around Rs 2,500 per truck, including taxes, cost of the driver and the loss in the number of trips. The problem is that because of the delay the clients are also likely to deduct money from their total payment,” he said. SP Singh of the Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), an independent research body which tracks the road transport industry along 75 trunk routes across the country, however, said the impact has been minimal so far. “This is because most of the truckers are taking a detour to reach their destinations. Had there been any serious adverse impact on the trucking business so far, there would already have been an outcry by the transporters associations by now. However, if the agitation continues for longer, then fruits and vegetables will soon be costlier in Delhi-NCR,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-farmers-blocking-singhu-border-many-truckers-stranded-on-kundli-highway/story-rCZ4nU9xjCR70GZ4OqyJNP.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Protesting farmers occupy one more border point, supplies running short in Capital||The traffic police had to close the Delhi-Noida border at Chilla on Tuesday after more than 300 farmers blocked both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Link Road even as the ongoing agitation stayed peaceful at both Singhu border and UP Gate with the police ramping up security in view of the talks between the farmers and the government. The farmers are demanding the Centre to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. At Chilla border, the farmers used nearly 15 tractors to block both the carriageways and sat on the road, prompting the Delhi as well as Noida police to place barricades and deploy personnel in large number on both sides to prevent the farmers from entering Delhi. Since the protest began during the evening rush hour, it led to massive traffic jam on the key route connecting Uttar Pradesh with Delhi.Officials, however, said that the traffic in other parts of the city, including DND was normal. “The traffic at the other roads is being managed. We will keep updating the commuters about the situation at the Chilla border,” said Ganesh Saha, DCP Traffic, Noida. The Delhi traffic police also tweeted advisories, alerting commuters about the traffic snarls.This is the fourth border point that has been closed due to the farmers’ agitation. While vehicular traffic has been completely halted at Singhu and Tikri borders, traffic movement is being allowed towards Ghaziabad on one carriageway at Ghazipur-UP Gate.“Between 5pm and 5.30 pm, the protesting farmers assembled at the Chilla border and blocked the two carriageways using tractors. The border has been closed for vehicular traffic movement. We have deployed our personnel in adequate numbers. Also, talks with the farmers in coordination with Noida police are on,” said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of police (eastern range).Earlier in the day, a group of farmer leaders left Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan under heavy police escort to hold talks with the Centre. A senior police officer said while the farmers continued with their peaceful protest, number of paramilitary and Delhi police personnel deployed was adequately stepped up just as a precautionary measure. At UP Gate, the police added another layer of barricades to prevent the entry of farmers in Delhi after a group of protesters dismantle barricades by tugging them to a tractor. Heavy police and paramilitary were deployed at the border point, with senior police officers being present at the spot. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Bihar’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) president Pappu Yadav joined the protesters at UP Gate to extended their support. “Farmers are protesting not only at UP Gate but in every corner of the country. They are agitating today as they are feeling helpless. They have been forced to accept the (farm) laws that they do not want,” Chandrashekhar told reporters. “About 500-700 people had gathered there as Bhim Army supporters had also arrived. However, they returned after meeting farmers. The traffic diversions were already in place and there was no untoward incident. We already have police personnel deployed at the spot,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (City 2).Supplies hitDrop in arrivals of fruits and vegetables in Delhi’s agriculture markets have forced traders to cater only to local supplies for now.Several traders across wholesale mandis in Delhi told HT on Tuesday that they have stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states for now in the light of the shortage and that they were focussing on local supply which has kept wholesale and retail prices stable in the capital.However, they apprehended that another 4-5 days of short supply due to blockade could lead to shooting up of both wholesale and retail prices.In Azadpur mandi, which accounts for a large share of fruits and vegetable supplies across the city and several other states, 6,062 trucks had arrived on Tuesday, as against an average of 11,000 truck for this time of the year, said Adil Khan, chairperson of the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) in Azadpur, adding: “The central government must engage with farmers at the earliest and resolve the issue.”Green peas, tomatoes, potatoes and several varieties of apples and oranges have been in short supply for the past 3-4 days. “Right now, traders in Azadpur have temporarily stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states – from Madhya Pradesh to Karnataka. They are only focussing on local supplies and that is the reason why wholesale and retail prices have not witnessed steep increase in Delhi-NCR so far. However, they are running out of stock. If supply continues to be low, there will be a shortage in Delhi-NCR too and prices will go up,” said Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader based in Azadpur.Green peas from Punjab, the Himachal variety of oranges and apples from Jammu and Kashmir -- which largely arrive from the northern states through the border points that are blocked -- are some of the items that have witnessed the sharpest dip in arrivals, said Rajesh Yadav, a wholesale trader based in Delhi’s Ghazipur mandi.As on Tuesday, in the three agriculture markets, green peas were sold between Rs 30-40 per Kg and Jammu apples at around Rs 750 per crate, which the traders said were stable wholesale rates for this time of the year but things would have been different if they had been exporting to other states.AAP youth wing protestMeanwhile, the youth wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday staged a demonstration in Connaught Place in solidarity with the groups of farmers protesting against the three farm laws.While there were around 100 protesters who had gathered between blocks A and B of Connaught Place around noon, the police briefly detained 15 of them, including the party’s Punjab in charge Jarnail Singh. The others had dispersed when the police arrived, said the police.“We told the protesters to take the demonstration to the designated location in Burari, in the light of legal prohibitions against large gatherings applicable in the concerned area,” said deputy commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protesting-farmers-occupy-one-more-border-point-supplies-running-short-in-capital/story-nu0yrSYMN9Mlw5PSZSvfWK.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ children protest in the day, study at night||Eleven-year-old Gursimrat Kaur, a resident of Mangat village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and a Class 6 student, has her exams later this month. So, while packing essentials for the farmers protest march to Delhi in November, the young girl picked up all her books.“I study whenever I get time,” she said, now camped at Singhu border with her parents and living in a bus. “We had been protesting against the farm bills in Punjab as well. But that doesn’t mean we have to miss out on studies. Like all times, I will score an A+ this term as well.”Kaur, who works with her mother Sukhbir in the fields and identifies herself as a farmer, read the translated version of the three farm bills in Punjabi before coming to the protest and felt the new reform that did away with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets hurt her prospects. “We are all farmers and want to protect our livelihood and that is why we are here,” said Kaur.She gets lessons on WhatsApp. The tests are mostly conducted online.Sukhbir Kaur said the parents didn’t force the children to attend the protests but that younger people got wind of the protests and planning from social media. “They know what’s happening and want to protest on their own. We have been protesting ever since the laws were passed in our village and our daughter has always joined us.”Kaur is among many children who have accompanied their parents from different parts of Punjab to the borders of Delhi. They are spending their nights on highways, in tents and on tracker trolleys, supporting the stir against the three farm bills, but also finding time to revise their lessons, catch up on syllabus and coordinate with teachers on WhatsApp.Like Kaur, Harman Singh has been at Singhu border since Friday. His day begins with sloganeering with the farmers at 7am and ends with his poring on the screen of his smartphone, going through the assignments or notes sent throughout the day.“We can continue our studies and fight for our rights. It is not an either-or situation. I wake up early in the morning, join the protests during the day, and study for a couple of hours at night on our smartphone,” said the 14-year-old from Sangha village in Punjab’s Mansa district.“This is not just a fight for our elders. Our families will be affected by this and so all of us need to agitate while maintaining education as our priority,” said Singh, who has completed two chapters from his Class 9 Punjabi textbook and one from his Science textbook in the past five days.Singh, who is at Singhu with his relatives while his parents are in Hisar, said his classes had moved online earlier this year when the Covid-19 pandemic forced schools to shut down. “Since our learning is mostly happening online, we can be anywhere and continue our studies. Our teachers send study material on WhatsApp that we can revise at any time,” he said.Other children at the protest site also said that they could travel for the protests because there was no stipulation to attend physical classes. Punjab opened government schools for students of classes 9 to 12 last month, but attendance is voluntary and only to seek guidance from teachers.Mehek Preet Khatkar, a Class 7 student from Mangowal village in SBS Nagar district of Punjab, said she decided to join the protests because online classes were anyway not helpful and she wouldn’t be missing out on physical teaching. “Since the Covid-19 crisis struck, we only learnt through the online mode, which did not help us a lot. So, we won’t miss out on studies if we are here to protest. Also, what use will our marksheet be if we lose our livelihood?”Sucha Singh, one of the organisers of the protest and a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the children at the protest had grown up aware of their surroundings. “They have seen the hardships that their families face and understand what these farm bills would mean for them. The children want to come to protest because they know that their future will be in crisis if they are not here to protect their lands now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-children-protest-in-the-day-study-at-night/story-Hq07N4q3Fcnz9zBiHlLcgK.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||As farmers protest, Good Samaritans at borders open their hearts and homes||For years, Siddharth Rathee has run a local business in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh, but has turned a philanthropist for farmers in the past week. The 26-year-old has been marshalling funds from his father and uncle, both in the United States, and marshaled about two dozen friends with one purpose: feed the thousands of farmers camped on the outer fringes of the Capital for five days to push the Centre to scrap three farm laws. Rathee and his friends have even put up posters announcing their free services or ‘langar seva’ along a 15-km stretch of Bahadurgarh Road. The Hindi posters, stuck on metro pillars, walls and outside shops, promise “farmer brothers” any essential item they need -- from food to water and medicines. “They (farmers) have been feeding us all our lives and now it is our turn, “ said Rathee. “The posters will ensure that farmers anywhere along the stretch are able to reach us for help.” Rathee is not alone. Scores of local residents, organisations and establishments at Delhi’s three borders –Tikri, Singhu and Chilla – have coalesced into an unlikely army of volunteers to help farmers tide over hunger, disease and the chilly weather. They have organised community kitchens, opened their homes, drawn water from their local supply and offered their washrooms to the agitating farmers. Others travelled from Delhi and local markets to supply the protesters with fresh fruit and milk. When the supply of household items such as sugar depleted, many pitched into replenish stocks. Jagtar Singh is one of them. A businessman from Rohini in Delhi, Singh travelled to Singhu border on Monday with battery operated lights to help the farmers celebrate Gurpurab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. “My work doesn’t allow me to join their protest in person, but this is the least I can do for my farmer brothers,” he said. A pressing problem for the farmers – some of whom are old and ailing – is the chronic lack of toilets. To resolve this, Bharat Sharma, who lives near the Singhu border, opened his homes to farmers, used a motor pump to fill his overhead tank multiple times a day so that the farmers did not lack facilities or water. “If I were protesting for my rights, I would have wanted toilet facility,” Sharma said. Other residents in the locality offered to launder clothes, loan toothbrush and paste, shoes and shared their phone numbers in case of an emergency. Restrooms have also been thrown open by fuel stations and a private hospital. Jarnail Singh, Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Tilak Nagar, said the absence of toilets was felt by his party and they set up portable toilets at the Singhu border, as the site falls within the jurisdiction of the Delhi government. “We have also opened langars at the two borders. But our aim is to ensure that farmers keep receiving their supply of tea leaves, sugar and paper cups as these are fast depleting. Mosquito nets are another essential item urgently needed and we are trying to provide as many as possible,” Jarnail Singh said. Many gurdwaras are also running community kitchens. “We are capable of feeding even one lakh farmers for six whole months. For now, we are organising langars at all three border points,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. Farmers say they are overwhelmed by the response from local residents. “The people here have made us their family so much that we don’t miss our families back home. They have gone to the extent of offering to wash our clothes. One family said that we didn’t even have to bring our own soap while visiting their home for toilet,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer from Ropar .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-farmers-protest-good-samaritans-at-borders-open-their-hearts-and-homes/story-5D8VYSs3FgsXvC8kOwscwI.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC wants to know if any guidelines in place for disposal of testing kits||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought to know from the AAP government as to what guidelines or protocols were in place for the disposal of used Covid-19 testing kits and whether these rules were being followed by hospitals, clinics and doctors under its jurisdiction.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, to find out the guidelines or protocols in place, which authority issued them and if these were being implemented.“Come with instructions,” the bench said while hearing a plea by a lawyer who alleged improper disposal of used swabs from rapid antigen testing at the district magistrate’s (South East Delhi) office in Lajpat Nagar.The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to queries. The petitioner, Pankaj Mehta, said used swabs were “thrown out in public” and “tests were being carried out over a pile of used swabs for Covid-19” at the DM’s office.“Upon complaining about the risk of widespread infection and the irregularity behind disposing of the swabs in this manner, the doctor concerned at the counter said the swabs were of negative patients and thus it was safe to stand over them and get yourself tested,” Mehta said.Refuting the allegations, Ghose said he was informed that the swabs being referred to in the plea were unused or defective. He said he will nevertheless take instructions on the correct position and inform the court.During the hearing, the Delhi government counsels told the court that the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) had issued guidelines on the disposal of medical waste.Mehta, in his petition, said the Union Health Ministry came out with the Clinical Management Protocol notification on July 3, which laid emphasis on safe waste management and cleaning of the environment at health care facilities, but the Delhi government was allegedly not enforcing it.The matter would be now heard on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-wants-to-know-if-any-guidelines-in-place-for-disposal-of-testing-kits/story-D4Enj3zbMy5KVNHlvHzHXI.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt has notified one farm law, examining the other two||Even before the farmer’s protest began along the city’s borders, the Delhi government had already notified one of the three controversial central farm laws to implement it in the national capital.Senior officials said the Delhi government notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 on November 23. The state development department is currently examining the remaining two farm laws. The law allows intra-state and inter-state trade of farmers’ produce beyond the physical premises of agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) markets.A senior official in the development department said the sale of vegetables and fruits was deregulated in Delhi in 2014, enabling trading beyond APMC-managed mandis. The latest notified law only adds foodgrains and poultry to the list of produce that can be so traded, he said, requesting anonymity.The notification by the Delhi government drew flak from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which accused the Arvind Kejriwal-led government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of “doublespeak,” saying it “quietly notified” the “so-called anti-farm laws” for Delhi while supporting the farmers protesting against the laws at the city’s borders. “The notification exposes duplicacy of AAP and the Kejriwal government. They want to share the benefits of the new farm laws while misguiding the farmers,” said Manoj Tiwari, BJP MP and former Delhi unit president of the party. A senior official in the chief minister’s office said that every state government was bound to notify these laws as they are enforced by the central government. “The farm bills have already been passed in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and have also been signed by the President. These are now laws for the entire country. It is enshrined in the Constitution that no state has the power to independently implement or reject these laws. Even the resolution passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha cannot do anything about these laws. The only way these can be tweaked or revoked is if the Central government does it,” the official said on condition of anonymity. In its response to the BJP, the Delhi government said that the matter was “not an issue at all”.“Selling of fruits and vegetables was already deregulated in Delhi many years ago. With the latest notification now farmers will be able to do the same for grains as well. The mandis have not been dismantled and they are continuing. The demand of the protesting farmers is that they should get MSP (minimum support price) whether inside or outside mandi, which AAP supports,” the party said in a statement. It added that the BJP was clueless about how to handle the protests by farmers and was trying to divert attention of the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-has-notified-one-farm-law-examining-the-other-two/story-rUWEuPbcj0jK2Ft0fgXZyL.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||More than half of tests with RT-PCR, positivity rate 6.85%||More than 30,000 RT-PCR tests were conducted in Delhi on Monday, with share of the more accurate RT PCR and other molecular tests accounting for more than 50% of the total tests conducted for the second day in a row. On both occasions, fewer number of rapid antigen tests had been conducted because of a government holiday. On Monday, the city reported 4,006 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and added 86 new deaths to its tally. Despite the higher number of RT PCR test – which is more accurate and had a positivity rate of 30% as on November 7 — the positivity rate of Delhi went down further on Tuesday to 6.85%, which is the lowest since October 23. A positivity rate of 5% or less, if maintained over two weeks, shows that the spread of the infection is under control. Even as Delhi has managed to scale up the number of RT-PCR tests —from below 15,000 to the current 30,000 tests a day — Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that a proposal will be sent to the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research to allow city labs to conduct 10% fewer tests than their capacity to ensure reports are made available within 24 hours. To increase the number of more accurate RT-PCR tests, the Delhi government has pushed the labs to full capacity, resulting in delays in turn-around time, he said. “Delhi has been utilising the full capacity of both the government and private labs to conduct more RT PCR tests. However, there have been some delays in getting test reports. If a lab says their capacity is 10,000 tests a day and they are given as many samples, the reports get delayed. We will take the issue up with ICMR and the Centre to allow the labs to conduct 10% less tests than their capacity to ensure that the reports are available within 24 hours,” said Jain. He said that the government had been collecting up to 40,000 samples, but the labs weren’t able to give the reports within a day. He also said that the Centre needed to extend support to help Delhi in scaling up RT-PCR tests to 60,000 a day. In a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in mid-November, the government had decided to double Covid-19 testing to between 100,000 and 120,000 a day, with half of the tests being the more accurate molecular ones. “There is a need for additional support in terms of labs as promised by Central government to ensure that the reports are issued within 24 hours,” said Jain. The Union health ministry has said that it will increase the testing capacity under its labs by 10,000 and add another 1,000 in scientific institutes. Ten mobile labs were to be deployed in the city to scale up molecular testing further. Private labs in the city however said that they either had capacity to test more samples or they would be able to scale up on government assurance of receiving more samples. “We have the capacity in case there is a need to scale up testing further,” Dr Arvind Lal, chairman of Dr Lal Pathlabs said. Dr Deepak Sadwani from Prognosis Labs said, “When we had started we could process about 200 samples, now we do 2,000 samples a day. Yes, we have reached capacity with our current machines and manpower, but it can be scaled up further.” Delhi has reported 2,663 deaths in November alone, with 91 deaths being reported on an average each day in the last seven days and 115 deaths reported on an average the week before. The 10-day case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – stood at 1.93% on Tuesday. “We have to see the moving average and not take into consideration the daily statistics. At present, 1.61% is the death ratio. During winters, pollution levels in Delhi due to stubble burning in neighbouring states was the reason behind the declining health of citizens. Due to that very reason we saw an increase in hospital admissions. However, we anticipate that in 2-3 weeks, the situation will get better,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-than-half-of-covid-tests-in-delhi-with-rt-pcr/story-wWEXFlErNS5bvaV0L8h3XI.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Work delayed further, chaos at Ashram to persist for 3-4 months||The construction of the underpass at the Ashram intersection will miss its December deadline and require at least three to four months more, Public Works Department (PWD) officials involved in the project said, confirming a delay that will prolong the miseries of thousands of commuters who rely on the stretch and residents who live nearby.Ever since work began in December last year, the area has turned into a nightmare with the road reduced to widths barely wide enough for a bus, forcing people to navigate crumbling, cratered and often flooded roads amid plumes of dust, which also fills into nearby homes. The work has been on to create a 750-metre underpass on the Mathura Road, which allow traffic under the busy Ashram intersection with the Ring Road. “After initial hiccups, work resumed in May this year, but it was slow because of a shortage of labour since most migrated to their villages during Covid. Now the pace of construction has again slowed down due to pollution curbs and labour shortage since workers again went back home due to Diwali and for the harvest season,” said a PWD official, asking not to be named.“At present there are nearly 50-60 labourers at the site. Construction restrictions because of the pollution season have also slowed things down,” said this person. A senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official said that all construction agencies have been asked to follow required protocols for reducing dust pollution in their area. However, the pollution control agency had not put any restriction on construction work.Regular commuters of the stretch, however, said that more than the construction activity, it is the poor planning and management of the site that is creating an everyday problem. This stretch is an important link between central and south Delhi with the satellite towns of Noida and Faridabad. “I have been travelling regularly on this road for more than 10 years now and this has continued to be a commuter’s nightmare from day one. First it was the metro construction, then the closure of the Kalindi Kunj border because of the Shaheen Bagh protest and now this construction. This intersection is an arterial passage and mismanage this area is to bring the city to a standstill,” said Roshan Giri, who said that he had been stuck in the traffic jam on Mathura Road for around 25 minutes. The Delhi government did not respond despite repeated calls and texts.Commuters also said that even at peak rush hours in the morning and evening, no traffic police official was stationed to manage congestion. HT visited the spot on Friday, Monday and on Tuesday, at peak and non-peak rush hours, and did not spot any police official. The traffic police said they regularly deploy personnel as per the need and also issue advisories to commuters on their social media handles.The PWD said the underpass is being constructed through “cut and cover” method due to space crunch at the site and they have left maximum space on the surface for traffic movement so that there is minimum disruption. “The construction work of ramps of the underpass is nearing completion. After construction of ramps, we will begin the digging process underneath the Ring Road portion, which will take one-two months to complete because work is winters generally remains slow,” he said.The Delhi traffic police said that the department was conducting regular review meetings with the PWD to assess the any change in diversion plan. The department said that they have put out the required signage and have stationed traffic policemen to manage traffic here. “We are putting out regular advisories asking commuters to avoid the stretch, if possible, because of the construction situation there, but ultimately, it is an arterial road and we cannot stop traffic completely,” the traffic police response to HT’s query read. S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said that seeing traffic load on the Mathura Road and the Ring Road, the Ashram underpass is very much required project as it will improve connectivity between south and central Delhi.“When such important projects get delayed it not only result in traffic snarls but the cost of the project also escalated which may hamper the progress of the project. Authorities should have fast tracked the project to complete it on time so that the public doesn’t have to go though traffic logjams,” he said.The Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) — the apex body for approving infrastructure projects in the city — had approved the underpass in January 2016, which was to be completed by March 2018 but the project was delayed for want of financial approval. It was given financial nod by the expenditure finance committee (EFC) of the Delhi government in November 2018. On December 24, 2019, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had laid foundation stone of the project with a deadline to complete it by December 2020, which is set to be missed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-respite-from-traffic-jams-as-ashram-underpass-set-to-miss-deadline/story-FjDiQ4yGInYAyiI4S48X7N.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Max hospital conducts Delhi’s first lung transplant in Covid-19 patient||Doctors from a private hospital in the city conducted Delhi’s first lung transplant and that too in a patient who has recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The 31-year-old man had developed fibrosis, a condition where the lung tissues harden after healing from an injury making it difficult to breathe. The patient already had lung silicosis – a condition caused by inhaling silica dust – and the Covid-19 infection made the situation worse. Lung fibrosis is one of the known sequallae – a condition following a disease – of Covid-19. So far, there have been at least two instances of lung transplant in Covid-19 patients reported from India one in 48-year-old businessman from Gurugram who was operated upon in Chennai and a 32-year-old from Chandigarh who underwent the surgery in Hyderabad. A team of 15 doctors from Max hospital, Saket operated upon the recipient from Hardoi on November 28. The donor was a 49-year-old woman from Jaipur who had suffered fatal head injuries in a road traffic accident. The lungs were flown into Delhi airport from where a green corridor was created, making it possible for the lungs to cover 18.3 km journey in just 18 minutes. A lung remains viable outside the body only for 8 hours. “Among all the solid organ transplants, lungs are the most fragile organs. Since most donors are road traffic accident victims, the trauma triggers vomiting in some donors that can go to the lungs and damage them. Lungs being rich in lymphoid tissue are more prone to rejection as well,” said Dr Rahul Chandola, one of the doctors who performed the surgery. He is the associate director of adult cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery and a heart and lung transplant specialist at Max Smart Super Speciality hospital, Saket. Dr Gurpreet Singh, V P operations, Max Hospital, Saket Complex said, “It is indeed a matter of great pride for us to be conducting the first ever lung transplant in North India on a critically ill, Covid impacted patient. I would also like to commend the initiative taken by the donor family who decided to donate organs even in their time of loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/max-hospital-conducts-delhi-s-first-lung-transplant-in-covid-19-patient/story-GHdQ0V5n0TtdwPKmfD5EEL.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||On Day 1, only few comply with new govt work from home policy||The Delhi government’s recent decision to have only 50% employees physically present in offices, as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19, is turning out to be a case of “easier said than done”, with several departments yet to adopt the policy and others unsure as to how to proceed given that they are indirectly involved in Covid-19 activities. On Tuesday, the first day of the order being in force, only a few government departments could shift to the work from home (WFH) roster while the others continued to function as usual.Departments such as services, general administration and vigilance started the WFH roster from Monday with most employees deciding to report to work on alternate days. On Saturday, the Delhi government had issued the order to implement a work from home policy from the week starting December 1, for at least 50% of the total staff, excluding bureaucrats, in government offices and departments that are not on the front line of Covid-19 management. The decision was taken in light of the Covid-19 situation.The capital currently is going through a third surge of Covid-19. While the highest number of cases a day (8,593) was recorded on November 11, the highest deaths a day (131) was recorded on November 18. The case positivity rate had touched 15.26% on November 7.The government has maintained that both cases and positivity rate are gradually coming down.While the WFH policy is not applicable to departments such as health, district administrations, home guards, civil defence, prison staff and water department, senior officials said it will still hamper delivery of public services.“Services such as issuance of driving licences, income and caste, certificates or sub-registrar functions will continue as usual. But, because of the WFH policy, the waiting time is likely to increase. For example, the time to get a driving licence is already around one to two months and the wait may now be longer. Also, we are thinking of having staggered timings at road transport offices,” said a senior transport official, on condition of anonymity. Delhi government has around 150 departments and a working strength of around 250,000. The latest order also does not include Grade I officers – IAS officers, DANICS officers and those promoted to equivalent ranks. “Departments such as education, labour and food and civil supplies have a lot of employees indirectly engaged in Covid-19 activities. The education department has called for a meeting on Tuesday evening to discuss how WFH can be implemented,” said Umesh Batra, general secretary of the Delhi Government Employees’ Welfare Association (DGEWA).Delhi government had implemented a similar policy during the nationwide lockdown and most departments continued working with only 50% of staff physically present in office till June 30. When restrictions were scaled down from July, the order was relaxed in a phased manner.HT had earlier reported that a total of 2,487 employees of the Delhi government contracted Covid-19 between March and October 13, of whom 89 succumbed to the virus, reveals the reply to an RTI query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/for-delhi-govt-staff-work-from-home-is-easier-said-than-done/story-55hqa9hpGTJVu5ygeyi9rI.html
02-12-2020||Delhi||Panel endorses extension of bails to 3,499 prisoners||The high-powered committee, constituted to decongest Delhi prisons, has recommended the extension of interim bails granted to 3,499 under-trial prisoners (UTPs) while stating that it was hopeful that the situation of Covid-19 would improve soon.The committee, headed by justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi high court, said the sudden spurt of Covid-19 cases in Delhi shows that there is no certainty as to when the pandemic shall abate. It said if the interim bails of these 3,499 prisoners are not extended, then there is a risk that a “dangerous proposition” of them may end up bringing the infection into jails.The committee said the Covid-19 situation has worsened during November, as compared to October, and though there was a slight reduction in new cases since November 11, the number of daily active cases is still very high.“The committee is, therefore, of the considered opinion that no such chance/risk can be taken and thus resolved that interim bail granted to 3,499 UTPs needs to be further extended for a period of 45 days,” the minutes of the meeting held on November 28 said.The committee also said a judicial order would be required for extension of bail while directing the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to place the recommendations before the high court registrar.During the meeting, director general (Prisons) Sandeep Goel informed the committee that if the 3,499 UTPs and 1,183 convicts who have been granted “interim bail/emergency parole” are asked to surrender, then the total population of Delhi prisons is likely to reach 20,500, and it may become unmanageable owing to the present situation.He said it would be appropriate if “interim bail/emergency parole” granted to 3,499 UTPs and 1,183 convicts is extended for a further 45 days.The committee also extended the emergency parole of 1,183 convicts by six weeks, which was going to expire on or before January 9. Goel said there is one active Covid-19 case in the Mandoli jail -- a minor child of a woman inmate. He said she has been admitted in GTB Hospital along with her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/committee-recommends-extension-of-interim-bails-to-prisoners-in-view-of-covid-19/story-tn53f2mbMgk2s4OGnxOnVJ.html
