04-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC reserves judgement in ED’s plea for custody of alleged aide of Sena MLA||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday reserved its judgement on the application by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against a special court order which denied them further custody of Amit Chandole, the alleged close aide of Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, in connection with a money laundering case. ED submitted that they had interrogated Chandole for three days, but as he had allegedly diverted funds collected through money laundering overseas, the time was insufficient to ascertain where the funds were diverted. In view of this, the agency claimed that the special court’s refusal to extend his custody was erroneous and should be set aside. Chandole’s counsel opposed the application stating that as ED had failed to find any incriminating evidence against him, the special court’s decision was justified and hence the application should be dismissed. A single-judge bench of justice Prithviraj K Chavan, while hearing ED’s revision application which challenged the November 29 order of a special holiday sessions judge, was informed by additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh, representing ED, that the investigating agency had got a three-day custody of Chandole on November 27 and applied for an extension on November 29 which was rejected. Singh submitted that Chandole has an arrangement with Tops Group whereby whatever money was collected by them was shared and that Chandole had diverted his share overseas. He added that ED wanted extension of custody to know where the money was shifted. The case against Chandole was registered based on an October 15 complaint by Ramesh Iyer, a former employee of Tops Security Group. Iyer has alleged that Chandole was the beneficiary of a 2014 contract between Tops group and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The contract was for supply of security guards, and some part of the amount paid by MMRDA went to private accounts of Chandole. Singh further submitted that they had seized Chandole’s income tax returns and the agency needed to investigate the money laundering case. He further submitted that the central agency had to prove through a large number of bank records, computers, proceeds of crime, data and paperwork, including the contract between MMRDA about Chandole’s involvement in the case, and the same could not be interrogated within three days. However, advocate Rizwan Merchant, appearing for Chandole said ED was trying to get to Sarnaik through Chandole. Merchant submitted that the order passed by the session judge was a reasoned one as ED had failed to place any documentary evidence on record. After hearing the submissions, the court reserved its order and the same is expected to be passed in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reserves-judgement-in-ed-s-plea-for-custody-of-alleged-aide-of-sena-mla/story-57aERusKqG4yEYUQEmgrZI.html
04-12-2020||City||Decide in 2 weeks if you’ll permit man convicted for possessing child pornographic material to enter India: Bombay HC to Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the central government to decide in two weeks if it would allow an Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) based in the United States of America to visit, considering he had been denied entry into the country earlier on the grounds of being “morally depraved”, as he had been convicted in the US for the possession of child pornographic material. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Milind Jadhav has directed the immigration department to treat the petition filed by the man before HC requesting entry to the country, and his additional affidavits, as representation of the OCI. The bench has further directed the immigration authorities to pass a reasoned order, with reference to its relevant legal position: whether the request of the petitioner to enter India is again refused by the authority or not. The directive came on a petition filed by the man, a 57-year-old chartered accountant (CA) residing at Connecticut, who wants to meet his aged parents – 90-year-old father and 85-year-old mother – both of whom reside in Mumbai. He said he had lived in India since his birth and had moved to the US in the year 1990. Thereafter, he said he had visited India a number of times, but when he landed at the Mumbai international airport on September 1, 2018, the immigration officer on duty did not permit him to exit the immigration and enter India. He informed HC that he then made various efforts and took up the issue with Indian authorities through his lawyers to find out why he was not being allowed to enter India but did not get any response from the authorities concerned. The immigration officer had filed an affidavit in reply to the man’s petition, stating that the petitioner’s passport was cancelled by the US authorities because in 2013, he was convicted for the possession of child pornographic material. “As per the competent authority of the Government of India, foreigners who are morally depraved need to be blacklisted and prevented from entering India,” stated the officer’s affidavit. It added that the immigration officer had refused the entry of the petitioner to India on these grounds. However, the petitioner’s counsel, senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf, controverted the claims. He maintained that the 57-year-old CA holds a valid passport issued by the US Department of State. Dr Saraf asserted that merely because of the endorsement of his prior conviction on the passport, he cannot be prevented from entering India, especially when he has already undergone the five years’ probation. The senior advocate termed the refusal “arbitrary”, claiming that there were no rules or regulations in place which prevented such entry of an individual.In this backdrop, HC had on November 26 this year, directed the immigration officer to place on record the relevant statutory provisions, policy decision or memorandum, if any. However, no such decision was placed before the court on Thursday, prompting HC to direct the central authorities to treat the petition as representation of the petitioner and take a decision on it in accordance with prevailing rules and regulations. “We do not find a decision by the respondent authority with reference to any policy, rules or regulations, declaring that in such a situation a foreigner cannot be allowed to enter India,” said the bench, adding, “No decision has been taken by the authority in the case of the petitioner recording any reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decide-in-2-weeks-if-you-ll-permit-man-convicted-for-possessing-child-pornographic-material-to-enter-india-bombay-hc-to-centre/story-poJBkWIeAfbFAcurmA4wdL.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: No space for violation of building bye-laws||Do we want to live in a city of slums? One time regularisation of large scale building violations in rehabilitation colonies will be irrational, illogical and fraught with adverse implications, not only for the residents of these colonies but also for Chandigarh’s basic fabric and structure. Rehabilitation colonies are always planned based on minimum threshold of liveability and sustainability. Adding more area, more population and more activities will invariably lead to uncontrolled congestion, acute shortage of basic infrastructure, services and quality of life. Adding more space and activities beyond their capacity will turn these places into slums, defeating the very purpose for which they were planned and created. A detailed and objective evaluation will be required before any decision is taken. Considering the larger implications of regularising unauthorised construction, this will put in motion large scale similar constructions in other colonies and villages in UT, and destroy the very fabric of Chandigarh. If this is the intention of city fathers and part of their political agenda, the MC should be given all the power and unbridled authority to frame the policy, approve it and sincerely implement it to make Chandigarh a city of slums characterised by haphazard and large scale unauthorised and unplanned development. Jit Kumar Gupta, ChandigarhHefty penalty a mustThe MC should definitely not regularise large scale building violations in rehabilitation colonies. Doing so will encourage other people to do the same, who will know that all they have to do for approvals of housing units is pay a small penalty. The MC should ensure that such buildings are destroyed and the owners charged a hefty penalty. Ishita NaraOthers will be encouraged to break rulesMC must not allow large-scale building violations in rehabilitation colonies. Such a move gives tacit licence to others to break the rules in future. Regularisation processes will then become an unending ordeal for civic authorities. The department of urban planning of the Chandigarh administration should be given the authority to take cognisance of and deal with such problems. It is the only government agency qualified to ensure that Chandigarh is saved from cumulative urban blight. I suggest a unit in the state department be set up to study and document why such violations occur and work out ways of discouraging them while respecting people’s new requirements ushered in by socio-economic changes. A periodic examination of the building rules should be done as part of the planning principles and policy and necessary amendments warranted by development made beforehand. This is a sane way to conserve the original concept of the city beautiful based on Sun, Space, and Verdure – a farsighted idea that has made it a World City, not a merely world-class city. Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhOne-time settlement onlyTo rehabilitate residents of Chandigarh, particularly those belonging to the poor strata, Chandigarh administration, Chandigarh Housing Board, MC built dwelling units of several types. Out of these, normally several houses are of EWS or LIG houses just with one room accommodation with a little space in and outside of the room. In certain cases, only a single room is built without toilets as people are expected to use public toilets close by. With time, however, families grow and compel the allottees to add extensions to the housing units, which are treated as violations of the terms and conditions of the allotment. Though this could be risky when it comes to stability of the structure, poor families are forced to make the changes. MC authorities therefore need to take a compassionate decision to give them a chance to regularise the changes after paying a reasonable charge. However, this should be a one-time concession. Habitual offenders should not be allowed to make a mockery of the system. SK Khosla, ChandigarhFamilies compelled to make changesWhen the houses are allotted to the economically weaker sections either by the MC, estate office or the Chandigarh Housing Board, these houses are in a very shabby condition and are hardly liveable. Certain units don’t even have toilets and allottees are expected to use public conveniences. But gradually when families expand, the home owners renovate the units and then they are called encroachers. This is strange. The authorities concerned should compare the units and see which families actually desperately needed to make the changes and accordingly after ensuring the safety of the structures get these regularised. The homes of very poor families should definitely not be demolished. DS Chahal, ChandigarhDeal strictly with violationsOne time regularisation is a good move by the administration provided it doesn’t become a norm. Strict implementation of any rule is lacking in our system of governance and so those violating building norms need to be dealt with strictly. To set an example, let there be resumption of some plots/flats thereby ensuring that no one dares bend the rules. Chander VijSending a wrong messageRegularising violations will send the wrong message to the public that everyone is free to break the rules, which will pave the way for unlimited changes. However, given the risk to structures because of the violations, regular checks should be conducted to ensure people stick to the rules. Allottees should be made to pay hefty penalties for violations. Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliDon’t demolish buildingsDemolition of a building if it is structurally safe should not be ordered, but to prevent repeat violations the administration should ensure that the homeowners are made to pay steep fines so that they do not repeat such acts again. Avinash GoyalTime for a fresh startThe MC is right in its decision to grant one-time regularisation of large-scale building violations in rehabilitation colonies. The reason is that most of these violations were done years ago and in case the home owners are penalised they are likely to move court for relief. It will then take years for the issues to be resolved. In many cases the violations have taken place because of poor enforcement of the extant rules and regulations by the MC officials. We will also have an opportunity to start afresh the implementation of the current regulations governing the rehabilitation colonies once the legacy violations are taken care of. One essential rider before regularising the building violations is that there will be no further tolerance by the MC of any violations henceforth. Anil Kumar YadavDon’t set a bad precedentChandigarh is the first planned city of the country. Therefore, rehabilitation colonies have also been developed with structural designs aimed at creating uniformity in design. The residents in these colonies have resorted to major building / structural changes and encroachments .The MC’s plan to regularise the violations might give relief in existing cases but it should not set a precedent for cases in future. Any violations after regularisation must be penalised heavily and the structure demolished.SS Arora, MohaliPositive impactAs a goodwill measure the authorities should regularise all buildings which are structurally safe and fall under extended FAR (floor area ratio) as a one-time measure. Some building authorities are increasing FAR keeping in view space restrictions within highly populated colonies. Nominal changes for regularising the violations should be imposed in rehabilitation colonies to not impose an unnecessary burden on financially backward families. Col TBS Bedi (retd)Law equal for allThe administration makes bye-laws to regulate construction and design of buildings. If a building plan is not prepared by an architect factoring in free flow of air and light, location and terrain, it is not approved by the government. A regulatory mechanism is put in place after consideration of factors such as requirements of neighbours. Regulating such additions, alterations and demolitions in violation of approved plan will amount to the administration rewarding rule breakers and punishing the law abiding members of the civic society. There are times when such changes also adversely affect the residents of neighbouring buildings by obstructing free flow of air/light or endangering its stability. It will not be right for the MC to implement a one-time regularisation policy for large-scale building violations not only in rehabilitation colonies but elsewhere as well. This will encourage more violations. Hence, demolition of unauthorised additions and alterations and violations should be the policy with no exception. Earning revenues by one-time regularisation policy should not be the aim. The law should apply equally to all citizens of India without any discrimination/distinction and violators should not be shown any mercy.Col SK Aggarwal (retd), Panchkula Only need based regularisationsThe MC is to blame for the mess for not checking violations in the first place.But now regularisation can be done provided: 1. The violations are not encroachments on government land 2. The basic structure of the building is left intact and not weakened3. Do not cause any inconvenience to anyone in the neighbourhood 4. Are strictly and judiciously need based. MC should evolve a policy for allowing need based alterations in future. AK Sharma, ChandigarhEncouraging spread of slumsThe MC plans to fill its coffers by regularisation of violations in housing units in rehabilitation colonies. This is an invitation to disaster as the lives of people will be at risk if the buildings are structurally weak. The MC first wasted money by rehabilitating the Sector 25 Kumhar Colony in sector 52 by constructing tin sheds, and is now rehabilitating them again in Maloya and demolishing the tin colony. Chandigarh is now not as beautiful as it used to be as councillors/ministers have been responsible for the spread of slums because of greed for votes.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliNo compromise on safetyWhile there should not be much of an objection to minor or technical violations and irregularities, it needs to be ensured that structural safety, privacy and rights of others are not compromised in any way by the regularisation. Doing so indiscriminately will only encourage people to break the rules. Everyone needs to learn that harsh punishment and strict implementation of rules will force people to comply. The authorities often look away when norms are violated and take action much later. Why wasn’t action taken against the defaulting MC officials? Rules are flouted with impunity with political support. This has to stop.DS Banati, MohaliShort-circuiting governanceOn the face of it, the so called one-time regularisation policy for large scale building violations may seem to be a people friendly gesture, but in fact it tantamounts to incentivising breaking of rules besides compromising on building safety. All logic against allowing breach of rules will cut no ice with politicians who lord over the bureaucracy, the custodians of statute/rule books.Election time is the best period to pluck the fruits of short-circuiting governance. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaNo place for selfish acts A modern city such as Chandigarh should not be destroyed by regularising unplanned structures, something that the MC started doing the moment it came into existence. Cases of building violations are increasing with the support of politicians due to vote banks. Democracy does not give special power to anyone to spoil the beauty of a city because of their selfishness. Needs and baseless desires cannot be fulfilled. Violations should be stopped by the administration. Politicians should not be supported and helped by bureaucrats in such cases, which should be dealt with strictly. Elected MC members should understand their duties towards the beautiful city and try to ensure it stays this way. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliLitigation won’t helpDemocratically, all laws, especially those related to buildings, should cater for changes with the passage of time. Therefore, building laws made by the UT administration at the time of Le Corbusier need to be updated. Dealing with those violating building laws can lead to long drawn court cases, which are a waste of time and money. Chandigarh has now allowed open space utilisation rules and other structural changes. It will be thoughtful if one time regularisation policy is considered to rehabilitate the colonies. This will check the huge expense of filing cases in courts.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar, MohaliNo pressure on officialsAll violations should be penalised, even demolished. Enforcement agencies need to act strictly and UT adviser Manoj Parida should ensure that the officials do not face political pressures to bring the guilty to book. The enforcement wing should continue this activity with zeal, and ensure that Mohali and Chandigarh become smart cities and not encroached upon urban villages. I fail to understand why the MC is being lenient on violators. Allottees in lower income houses have added multiple floors, extended balconies and cantilevers for conversion to rooms, which causes stress on the structural stability of the original structures. The governments are trying to legalise encroachments on public land, only for vote-banks, showing total disregard for the laws that are in force today. There needs to be a zero tolerance policy to such acts. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-no-space-for-violation-of-building-bye-laws/story-xgbHdI2YevYH9oI15LGYOI.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 10 conservation reserves||The state board for wildlife (SBWL) on Friday cleared a proposal to declare 10 conservation reserves (CR) spreading over 1,000 sq km in Western Maharashtra and Vidarbha. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who chaired the meeting, also approved the declaration of 269 sq km area at Kanhargaon in Gondpipri tehsil, Chandrapur as a wildlife sanctuary. A committee was also set up to study the leopard deaths, leopard kills and proposes measures to reduce it in the state.Thackeray, who also unveiled Maharashtra Forest Manual, 2020, reiterated that the state government will conserve forest and it will not just remain lip service.“Forests are an important part of our lives. We cannot act only as per our convenience; we talk about global warming but hack trees on the other hand. This is not correct. The forest we have must be conserved and expanded. The wildlife in the forests follow the law of nature and they follow it. We, on the other hand, make laws and rules that are convenient to us, and even break them,” Thackeray said, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO). Aaditya Thackeray, state environment and tourism minister, who was present during the meeting, called the decisions taken in the meeting “historic”. He said, “In no other time has the environment and wildlife got so much importance that it always deserved. We are committed to being a green government and will ensure that sustainable development continues.”Among those approved in western Maharashtra were Chandgad CR (225.24 sq km), Ajra-Bhudargad (246.63 sq km), Gaganbawda (105.48 sq km), Panhalgad (72.9 sq km), Vishalgad (92.24 sq km), all in Kolhapur district.At Sindhudurg, the 56.92 sq km Dodamarg-Amboli CR which connects tiger breeding areas of Karnataka’s Bhimgad Sanctuary and Goa’s Mhadei Sanctuary was approved, and Jor-Jambhali CR (65.11 sq km) and bird haven of Mayani CR (8.67 sq km) at Satara, were approved.In Vidarbha, Munia (97.37 sq km) in Nagpur and Mahendri (67.48 sq km) in Amravati was approved as CR, but the board was yet to decide on Mogarkasa (37.7 sq km) in Nagpur.Aaditya in a tweet said that it was decided that there will be a “subgroup of the board to work on the upgrade of conservation reserves to sanctuaries with adequate dialogue with local populations across various places in the state.”The committee will study leopard-human conflicts and will look into rising leopard deaths and leopard kills. Between January and December, 172 leopards were killed, which is the highest in at least five years for a calendar year.(With inputs from Badri Chatterjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-10-conservation-reserves/story-buPIYNCN2C78RDEOkL1UeL.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED moves court seeking to declare Iqbal Mirchi’s family as fugitive economic offenders||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday informed that the central agency has moved an application before the designated court under the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act, 2018 to declare Junaid Memon, Asif Memon and Hajra Memon as fugitive economic offenders. Junaid and Asif are sons of Iqbal Mirchi, an aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, while Hajra is Mirchi’s wifeED officials told HT that the agency has also requested the court to issue order directing the authority concerned to confiscate the properties belonging to these three under FEO Act.Open ended non-bailable warrants have already been issued against all three on the basis of the prosecution complaint filed on December 9, 2019 by ED before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court.The anti-money laundering agency had initiated money laundering probe against Mirchi and his family on September 26, 2019.While probing the matter, ED has, in the past, provisionally attached assets linked to the Mirchi family to the tune of approximately ₹798 crore in India and abroad under the provisions of PMLA.ED officials have so far arrested five accused persons including Dewan Housing Finance Corporation’s (DHFL) Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and Humayun Merchant in the case.The probe has revealed that DHFL allegedly extended loans to Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd, which purportedly routed money to Mirchi who died in the United Kingdom in August 2013. DHFL came under ED’s scanner when the agency was examining properties linked to Mirchi in Worli. The three properties have already been attached by ED under PMLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ed-moves-court-seeking-to-declare-iqbal-mirchi-s-family-as-fugitive-economic-offenders/story-3YpEL75W4nTmdC2bOw39gN.html
04-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP demands no West Bengal government employee should be used in 2021 polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has urged the Election Commission of India to conduct the crucial 2021 West Bengal assembly polls with the help of central government employees only and not to involve any employee of the West Bengal government in the poll process. This came a day after a section of the state government employees expressed their allegiance towards the Trinamool Congress in a meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the state secretariat.“The BJP demands that in the interest of conducting free and fair polls, which is one of the prime objectives of the ECI, the entire poll process should be conducted by central government employees and not a single person from the state should be used,” the BJP wrote in its letter to the chief electoral officer (CEO) of West Bengal. A four-member BJP delegation led by Pratap Banerjee, vice president of the party’s state unit, met the CEO on Friday. Also read: BJP springs a surprise in Hyderabad civic polls, keeps TRS away from majority mark“We were shocked to learn that on December 3, a meeting was held in the state secretariat between chief minister Mamata Banerjee and members of the Paschim Banga Rajya Karmachari Federation (a federation of state government employees), in which the convener and members of the federation in a serial manner pledged their allegiance to Banerjee and TMC in the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha elections,” the letter, submitted to the state CEO, stated. The BJP also alleged that in the meeting one of the federation members went to the extent of asking the chief minister to give them guidelines on how they can work towards ensuring electoral victory for the TMC. The TMC, however, took a dig at the BJP. “There is no end to the demands of the BJP and they want everything. Someday they may demand that state elections be held with the help of Interpol,” said Tapas Roy, state minister and a TMC veteran. With an eye on the crucial 2021 Bengal assembly elections, the chief minister also announced 3 per cent dearness allowance for 10 lakh state government employees from January 1, 2021. This would cost the state exchequer Rs 2,200 crore.Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s head in West Bengal, has already said that there would be heavy deployment of central armed police forces during the elections and the state police will not be allowed to come near the polling booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-demands-no-west-bengal-government-employee-should-be-used-in-2021-polls/story-ln7Fck4tdouVERn94lm86M.html
04-12-2020||Bhopal||MP home minister volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trial, gets rejected||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra turned up at a private medical college on Friday to volunteer for a Covid-19 vaccine trial. However, after a counselling session by the medical college doctors, he was not found eligible for the vaccination, as per the minister, authorities of the medical college and the university which runs the medical college. The minister on Thursday expressed his willingness to volunteer for the vaccine trial amid reports in a section of media that response to the trial from people was not good and that in the first four days of the trial less than 50 people turned up for the same. The minister said on Thursday, “I am willing to volunteer for Covid-19 vaccine trial. I will go to the medical college on Friday. If people like us come forward for the trial it will inspire others to do so.”Dean of People’s Medical College, Bhopal, Col (retd) Anil Dixit said on Friday, “As per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) the person desiring to volunteer for Covid-19 vaccine trial should not have any of his family members infected with Covid-19. Since, as per the information from the minister, his wife and son were infected with the virus, vaccination of the minister is not possible under the eligibility criteria.”Also read: BJP springs a surprise in Hyderabad civic polls, keeps TRS away from majority mark बहुत इच्छा थी कि #Corona वैक्सीन के ट्रायल में वॉलंटियर बनूं और इसके माध्यम से समाज के लिए कुछ करूं। वैक्सीन ट्रायल के लिए ICMR के एलिजिबिलिटी क्राइटेरिया में फिट नहीं बैठ सका इसकी मन में बहुत पीड़ा है।#COVID19 #CoronavirusVaccine @drharshvardhan @BJP4India @BJP4MP pic.twitter.com/y8YIPUYb7nHome minister Narottam Mishra said, “I thought it was an opportunity for me to do something to serve the society but I was not found eligible after the counselling session. This is why I am pained. However, I also feel that the process of monitoring of the volunteers after the vaccination should be simplified as it involves regular monitoring for over a period one year. This may lead to apprehensions in the mind of people volunteering for the trial.”Vice-chancellor of People’s University, which runs People’s Medical College, Dr Rajesh Kapoor said, “The reason why a person who, or any member of his family, has been a Covid-19 patient is excluded from the list of volunteers for the trial is that there are chances of them having developed antibody against the virus after being infected with the disease. Hence, such a trial will not suggest a true result.”Dr Kapoor said, “The trial began four days back but I can’t comment on the level of response of people to the trial as we are not supposed to share the same with media as per the ICMR’s guidelines. However, the trial is being conducted as per the international norms and we are ensuring compliance of every aspect of the trial. We have a target of conducting the trial on 2,000 volunteers in a month or so but we don’t want to go for any publicity campaign either as this might result in a large number of people turning up for the trial and it will be difficult for us to manage the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-minister-volunteers-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial-gets-rejected/story-B53msJifvl3XiH6uEB4xcM.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore inaugurates remodelling work at Chandigarh’s Sector-39 waterworks||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday laid the foundation stone for augmentation of water storage capacity at Sector 39 waterworks, virtually from Punjab Raj Bhawan. While briefing about the project, MC commissioner (MCC) KK Yadav said that at present the available raw water storage capacity at the waterworks is 48 million gallons (MG), and the clear water capacity is 15 MG. This storage capacity is sufficient for the city’s half-day water requirement only. In case any of the four rising mains (pipes) from Kajauli get damaged or an electricity shutdown in Kajauli, it takes approximately one day to get the repairs done and results in a water crisis in the city. But with the proposal to create additional raw water storage capacity by remodelling/redesigning the existing seven storage tanks, their capacity will be increased, he added. The MCC said that the height of the raw water tanks will also be increased from 48 MG to 92 MG. He informed that the total cost of the project is Rs 39 crore, of which the Chandigarh administration has provided Rs 28 crore, and Chandigarh Smart City Limited has provided Rs 11 crore. The work will be completed in two years. Yadav said that after the completion of this project, the total water storage capacity at the waterworks will be 109 MG, which is sufficient to meet the city’s peak daily requirement. He said that the CREST has also proposed to install floating solar panels on the raw water tanks that will have a capacity of 12 megawatts. The governor said that the MC is providing the citizens of Chandigarh access to safe and clean water three times a day, through the project of enhancing the storage capacity of clear water tanks, provision of pumping machinery, the recycling pump house, and laying of required lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/badnore-inaugurates-remodelling-work-at-chandigarh-s-sector-39-waterworks/story-fi83Duj6IKcGcM374P3muI.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC warns it will stay EWS admissions in Chandigarh school||In a significant development, the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Chandigarh administration to clear its stand on reimbursements to private schools to admit students from economically weaker sections (EWS), saying it would stay EWS admissions for the next academic session in a Sector 27 school if the administration did not respond. The high court acted on the plea of Chandigarh’s Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, which runs Bhavan Vidyalaya in Sector 27. The school had approached the court in August alleging that UT had not paid reimbursements since 2012 and on October 26 the court had asked for the UT’s response within four weeks, which was not given. A stay on admissions are likely to have an impact on other schools too, which might move the court.According to data available with the UT education department, 56 schools had reserved 730 seats for the year 2019-2020 under the Right to Education Act for the EWS category. “The administration has not given reimbursements to private schools for the past nine years. It was given only for the entry level class,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent School Association (ISA). On Friday, the application was filed by Bhavan Vidyalaya, submitting that the UT administration had issued a notice for the next academic session without taking a decision on the reimbursements. The school pleaded that the administration be restrained from compelling it to admit students under the EWS category till the previous dues were reimbursed. Rs2.5 crore due to school, court toldA sum of around Rs 2.5 crore was due to the school since the year 2011-12, the court was told. Meanwhile, the administration’s counsel stated that a decision had already been taken as directed by the court and a detailed response would be submitted by the next date of hearing. He also claimed that the school was entitled to a reimbursement of Rs29 lakh and not Rs 2.5 crore, because it admitted a specific number of students under the land allotment scheme for schools under which it had undertaken to admit EWS students. Reimbursements would be paid only for 15% EWS students and not 25% as claimed, the counsel said.This claim was, however, countered by Manisha Gandhi, senior advocate and the school’s counsel. She said that the amount stated by UT took care of expenses incurred while admitting the students at the entry level. Every year, a certain number of students were admitted and promoted to the next class. Thus, the student strength kept increasing but the administration had not repaid the expenses incurred in this context, Gandhi told the court, adding that as of now the school has 212 EWS students and the intake initially was 23 students. To this, however, UT’s counsel had no answer. The court adjourned the matter for December 16, observing that if a satisfactory explanation for the figure of Rs 29 lakh was not forthcoming, EWS admissions for the coming academic session would be stayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-warns-it-will-stay-ews-admissions-in-chandigarh-school/story-dwUd7hf45tIEwqrpsKN18I.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC employees’ union holds protest over non-fulfilment of demands||The Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee organised a gate rally against the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday outside the MC Zone A office near Mata Rani Chowk over non-fulfilment of long pending demands. Major demands of the employees union include regularisation of sweepers and sewermen working on contractual basis for over two decades; promotion of sweepers, sewermen and sanitary supervisors; giving sweepers and sewermen the status of “safai sainik” and insurance for employees. They handed over a memorandum to mayor Balkar Sandhu who assured them that the civic body will look into their demands.Chairman of MC employees’ union, Ashwani Sahota, said, “The gate rally was organised due to the failure of MC to fulfil our demands. There are many employees who are working in MC for over two decades on contractual basis, but they haven’t been regularised. Mayor Balkar Sandhu has assured that a meeting will be conducted soon wherein he will discuss our demands.”Social distancing goes for a tossWhile MC employees are working to spread awareness among residents to follow Covid guidelines, social distancing went for a toss during the protest. Most of the protesters were not wearing masks and social distancing was not maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-employees-union-hold-gate-rally-over-long-pending-demands/story-rN5iNetgUwQf72j8kghoQL.html
04-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC to hit the roads against contentious farm laws; CM sends strong message to rebels||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee directed party leaders to hit the streets against the three contentious farm laws and the centre’s disinvestment and privatization policy next week. While party veterans, including MPs and MLAs, will hold rallies across Kolkata from December 8 to 10, sit-in demonstrations would be held in at least two places in central and north Kolkata. Banerjee held a virtual meeting with party leaders on Friday to take stock of the organizational preparedness ahead of the state assembly elections. “The chief minister has asked party leaders to organize rallies with booth level workers in both north Bengal and in the western districts while sending a strong message against rebels,” said a senior TMC leader who attended the meeting. Banerjee is expected to hold rallies in West Midnapore and West Burdwan on December 7 and 8, before coming back to Kolkata to attend the anti-farm bill, she would visit north Bengal around December 15 and 16. Also read: BJP springs a surprise in Hyderabad civic polls, keeps TRS away from majority markIn the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP made big inroads into West Bengal’s western and northern parts, two relatively under-developed areas of the state. Of the 18 Lok Sabha seats where the BJP was ahead or had already registered victories, as many as 13 were in the west and the north. TMC leaders present in the meeting said that Banerjee has asked party leaders to take strict actions against rebels. “Even though she didn’t name anybody but her message was loud and clear. She clearly stated that the party will not tolerate any rebels,” said a TMC leader. Over the past few weeks, a few TMC MPs and MLAs have expressed their dissatisfaction against the party’s top leadership. While Mihir Goswami, a TMC MLA from north Bengal, has already joined the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari, a state minister, has resigned from the cabinet widening his rift with the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-to-hit-the-roads-against-contentious-farm-laws-cm-sends-strong-message-to-rebels/story-tBSD213G9Wlt8YfGxva17O.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PSEB extends last date to deposit registration, continuation fees for Classes 10 and 12 to Dec 16||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has extended the last date to submit registration and continuation fees for students of Classes 10 and 12 to December 16. The letter has been issued by Janak Raj Mehrok, PSEB controller examination.The move has come as relief to many parents who have been unable to deposit fees due to financial constraints.The registration and continuation fee is Rs 900 for Class 10 and Rs 1,350 for Class 12. Earlier, the last date was December 1.School principals said they have informed parents to deposit the fee to class teachers. School heads have also conducted online meetings with parents and asked them to pay the fee, failing which their wards will not be allowed to take the final exam.The examination fee must be deposited through bank challan by December 16. After that, it can be paid by depositing late fee of Rs 500 till December 31.Jatinder Sharma, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Siyaar, said, “Over 50% parents have deposited registration fee so far. I held a meeting with class teachers of boards class and directed them to ask parents to deposit fee. If a parent can’t deposit the fee before the last date, we will pay it from the school funds.”School heads said that most parents are confused as they think that the state government has waived the fee. However, the school principals and teachers have told them that the government has just waived charges deposited in the treasury such as tuition fee, absentee fine and school leaving certificate.A parent, Sunil, said, “I have three children studying in government school, Giaspura. During the lockdown, I lost my job and we faced financial crisis at home and could afford just one meal a day. I got a job in July in a factory. My 15-year-old daughter is going to school to attend classes as we have only one phone at home. I am arranging funds to pay her school and registration fees. As the board extended the last date, I will now get more time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-pseb-extends-last-date-to-deposit-registration-continuation-fees-to-dec-16/story-7t77QiM1FTKkbwj1FExm1N.html
04-12-2020||City||Ludhiana DC launches voter awareness vans||Deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday, flagged off six special awareness vehicles to encourage youth, turning 18 years on January 1, 2021, or earlier to get themselves registered as voters.He said as per the directive of the Election Commission of India, the election department was carrying out a special drive for summary revision of photo electoral rolls till December 15.He said a two-day special camp is also being organised by booth-level officers (BLOs) at their respective polling booths in the district on December 5 and 6 from 10 am to 5 pm, where voters can file claims and objections.The DC said that voters could apply for inclusion in the electoral rolls by submitting Form 6 while Form 7 can be submitted for deletion of name from the rolls while Form 8 is for correction to particulars entered in the rolls. He said that for transportation of vote to some other constituency within the district, people can submit Form 8A.He said that these awareness vans will sensitise people regarding the importance of the vote to strengthen democracy. He also directed election officials to make whole-hearted efforts for ensuring that no eligible voter was left behind.Meanwhile, people can also submit applications for inclusion, objections to inclusion, and corrections in entries through voterportal.eci.gov.in or Voter Helpline mobile application. For any query, people can dial toll-free number 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-launches-voter-awareness-vans/story-Ri0zhVCqvD6QWFSrpfb2FM.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||Will move no-confidence motion against BJP-JJP govt in Haryana, says Hooda in Gurugram||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said that the Congress would move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government in Haryana. Slamming the government over its stance on the farmers’ protest, the Congress leader said that it had lost the support of people and the House, and demanded that a special session of the Vidhan Sabha be convened at the earliest. Speaking at a press conference in the city, Hooda said that some MLAs were playing a double role and making statements against the government and in support of the farmers’ movement, but continuing to support the government. “The no-confidence motion will make clear who stands where. We will get to know who is standing with the farmers and who is playing a double role. We request the governor to convene a special session soon,” said Hooda adding that while two independent MLAs had already withdrawn their support, 4-5 MLAs of JJP had been making contradictory statements. On being asked if independent MLAs, who had supported BJP earlier, were in touch with Congress, Hooda said that the no-confidence motion will make things clear. “Five to six MLAs have already made statements in the public. This is the reason why we are bringing the no-confidence motion.” He refused to share if BJP MLAs were also in touch with the party. Hooda also said that along with the no-confidence motion, the Congress would bring an amendment seeking punishment for anyone purchasing crops at a price lesser than the Minimum Support Price (MSP).Criticizing chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his remarks that the state’s farmers had not participated in the protests against the new agriculture laws, he said that the state government had made a big mistake by using lathi-charge and tear gas on farmers. “The Haryana government made a mistake by using water cannons and tear gas. How can anyone stop farmers from going to the national capital of the county? Their actions are condemnable,” said Hooda. He also raised objections to statements made by ministers from the government alluding to foreign funding of farmers and connections to Khalistan. Reacting to Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare Minister JP Dalal’s statement about foreign funding being provided to farmers, Hooda said that the minster should apologise and resign for insulting farmers. “This is an insult to the farmers as well as the country. This is the biggest farmer movement I have seen. Their demands are genuine. The government should listen to them and not aggravate matters further,” said Hooda. Responding to allegations that the Congress was misleading farmers and indulging in political opportunism, Hooda said that the party was simply extending support to the farmers. “Farmers’ protest is beyond caste, religion, region and politics. The agitation is being led by farmers alone; it represents the voice of a common farmer. Congress is only extending support to farmers,” said Hooda. BJP Haryana spokesperson Raman Malik accused the Congress of making efforts to destabilise a democratically elected government. “Haryana government has been elected democratically. It’s not a real-estate deal which can be easily broken or dropped by Mr Hooda. Haryana will defeat your agenda” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/will-move-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-jjp-govt-in-haryana-says-hooda-in-gurugram/story-381aOhFWC5XcDm9W78G0QP.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||State targets 6.7 million vaccinations in first year after Covid-19 vaccine roll-out||Over 6.7 million are to be vaccinated for Covid-19 in the first year once the vaccine is rolled out, according to the state health department data. This includes more than 200,000 health care workers and the process for the same has started across the state. In Gurugram, more than 23,000 private health care workers and 4, 575 government workers have submitted their details for the same.On December 2, a meeting was held at the state level on Covid-19 vaccine roll out and implementation. As per the official data, the 6.7 million targets includes almost 250,000 health care workers, 450,000 frontline workers and 5.8 million people above the age of 50 years and 220,000 people with comorbidities, aged below 50.Although the registration process has been ongoing for more than a month, it is in the last week that the process gained momentum. To speed up the process, the Gurugram health department has set a 24-hour deadline for over 176 private health care facilities that have failed to share the data. Of 728 private hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and diagnostic labs, at least 230 had submitted details till December 1. This mostly included big hospitals and labs. In the last three days, the number has increased to almost 550.The issue of delay in vaccine beneficiaries’ data was raised at a district level task force meeting under the Covid-19 vaccine programme on December 1. Private health care units were given till December 4 to furnish details of health care workers. “Almost 75% of the data has been fed in the government portal. For the remaining, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has been asked to ramp up the process of collecting details,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, who held a meeting with IMA representatives on Friday. Dr MP Singh, who was recently appointed as the district nodal immunisation officer, said, “A day has been given to private facilities and IMA to share details. More than 23,000 private health care workers are now registered. The data collection work has to be finished before the second task force meeting next week.”In October, the Union ministry of health and family welfare clarified that frontline health workers — doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitary staff, ASHA workers and surveillance officers — will be considered as the priority group to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an all-party meet on Friday, to discuss the vaccination strategy, said that eight potential vaccines, including three indigenous ones, are in different stages of trials. According to a statement issued by the central government, the Centre is working with states to identify the priority groups for vaccination that will include health workers, frontline workers and high-risk individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-targets-6-7-million-vaccinations-in-first-year-after-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out/story-rmBCruamWFseyCtNAEOzeL.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||16 protesters detained at Kherki Daula toll plaza||At least 16 protesters were detained by the police at Kherki Daula toll plaza on Friday while they were on their way to Delhi to join the ongoing farmers’ agitation. According to the police, farmers from Rewari, Mahendergarh, Pataudi and Manesar areas had gathered at the Kherki Daula toll plaza on Friday morning in their cars. Police said they had received prior information and they had deployed police teams at the toll.The police said the protestors had spread mats on the service lane and had started assembling, when the police teams reached and removed their arrangements. Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the protesters tried to block the national highway but the teams were already on alert and did not let them disrupt traffic. “Section 144 of the CrPC has already been invoked by the district administration to prevent assembly of protesters. We had detained them and they were let go after a few hours after the situation was under control. No traffic congestion was reported,” she said. Gehlot said some people had posted about their protest and road blockade plan on social media and were requesting more people to join. Umed Yadav, of National Morcha Party, said they were trying to protest in support of the ongoing farmers’ protest but the police did not allow them to exercise their democratic right. “We wanted to organise a peaceful protest and wanted more farmers to joins us,” he said. Thousands of farmers across the country have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws— The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — passed by Parliament during the monsoon session. The farmers fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and lead to the removal of the minimum support price they receive on important crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/16-protesters-detained-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza/story-7wCcQq0c7KtgIVORSzBzxK.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||Parents hesitant to fill school forms for Family ID scheme||The district administration has roped in private schools for circulation of forms for the government’s Family ID Card scheme, which is aimed at bringing welfare schemes, property deeds and driving licences under one umbrella. However, parents of schools students say they are apprehensive of sharing personal information like Aadhaar, PAN (Permanent Account Number), income status as well as caste through the schools.Parents said filling the Family Id Card form, initially rolled out in 2019, has been made mandatory by schools based on the directives issued by the Haryana government. The Parivar Pehchan Patra or Family ID Card scheme was introduced to create a database of the state population. The state administration had first collected the details of the government employees and then reached out to Below Poverty Line (BPL) population who are availing of benefits under government schemes.According to the data available with the district administration, at least 112, 236 households have been covered under the scheme. To increase the enrolment, the district administration has been holding camps in different government buildings. Departments like food supply and education have been included in the task of reaching out to people. Private schools have started circulating Family ID Card forms to parents over the last few days and asked them to submit the form directly in school or through mail. Prasanto K Roy, a city-based technology and public policy professional, whose ward is a class 9 student at a private school in Sohna, received the letter on December 2. The mail sent by the school states that the hard copy of the filled form has to be shared at the school reception or a scanned copy of the same emailed by December 10. “This data collection exercise is problematic on multiple fronts. A lot of data is being sought, above and beyond what is required to deliver education and related services,” said Roy. He said that the demand for Aadhaar number violates Supreme Court guidelines. “The government website says ‘data to be taken with consent’, but the state government is mandating that consent via schools. There are also reports of plans to cross-link this database with other databases. In the absence of a privacy law, I worry about the potential abuse of this data,” said Roy. Another parent, whose child is enrolled in a school located in Sector 49, requesting anonymity, said, “There is no official notification by the state government that makes submission of details like Aadhaar mandatory. Forcing parents to give their details is a violation of privacy. There aren’t enough details that could clarify our doubts.”The administration has received almost 25,00 filled forms through private schools, so far, said Mahinder Singh, city project officer for Family ID Card scheme. He, however, clarified, “Aadhaar, address and mobile number are mandatory columns to fill. People can leave PAN detail out.” According to him, nearly 80% of the data from government schools has already been submitted. Indu Boken, the district education officer, said, “In the initial days, some parents had concerns about sharing bank and PAN Card details. After discussions with the administration, filling up these two columns are now not mandatory. I have spoken to school association heads and assuaged their concerns.”KR Pratap Singh, president of the Haryana Progressive School Conference, a consortium of private schools, supported the state government’s move. “There is no harm in having the headcount of a family and sharing the Aadhaar number for a scheme that would lead to better planning of the future. As many as 85 schools under the consortium have already started circulating mails and Family ID forms. We have asked the school management to finish the task at the earliest.”However, in a letter, Pratap asked schools to let dissenting parents be and those who have reservations against specific columns can omit those.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/parents-hesitant-to-fill-school-forms-for-family-id-scheme/story-hZzLWcvB5sdfxTrFslqSvJ.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||Air remains toxic; may get worse, warn experts||Air quality in the city remained “very poor” for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, recording 318 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily AQI bulletin. Gurugram, however, remained the least polluted city in the National Capital Region thanks to the influence of easterly winds, which, experts and officials said, are dispersing pollutants to a degree.Delhi, Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad all recorded higher levels of air pollution on Friday. Delhi and Faridabad recorded “very poor” AQI, with readings of 382 and 383, respectively. However, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, lying further east, recorded severe air with AQI readings in excess of 400. Experts and officials said that “very poor” air is likely to persist in the region till at least December end, and cautioned that another severe smog episode is likely around December 7. Sachin Panwar, an independent city-based air quality scientist, said, “The current pollution levels will persist for the next few weeks, with periodic episodes of severe smog. There are no weather systems expected to pass over the region in the foreseeable future, and with temperatures continuing to drop, pollutants have begun to accumulate and air may enter the severe category in Gurugram too, if wind speeds slow down further.” Panwar pointed out that winds are currently blowing from the southeast of Delhi, and causing westward dispersal of pollutants. “Gurugram, lying south of Delhi, is positioned favourably. Wind speeds in the city were also higher than in Noida and Ghaziabad, where models showed stagnant airflow on Friday, leading to severe air in those cities.” Gurugram’s average level of ultrafine particulate matter (PM2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was recorded at 360 micrograms per cubic metres (ug/m3) on Friday.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in upper end of very poor category on 05.12.2020 and very poor category on 06.12.2020... The air quality is likely to improve from December 7 but remain largely in Very Poor category.” Wind speeds are expected to remain between 5 and 10kmph over the next three days.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said, “We are monitoring the situation. Grap rules are already in place. If air quality enters the severe category, we will abide by any orders that are issued, either by the CPCB or the new commission on air quality management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-remains-toxic-may-get-worse-warn-experts/story-ljr1w91xzU4gBcoabmm6YN.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG to clean up Ward 28 on Saturday||More than 800 workers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will carry out a sanitation drive in Ward 28 on Saturday, as per a release issued by the civic body on Friday. MCG’s Ward 28 includes sectors 38, 39, and Jharsa.As per MCG officials, the drive will commence at 8.30am from Sector 38 on Saturday and will continue till 5pm. MCG officials privy to the matter said that areas falling under sectors 38 and 39 have a high quantity of C&D waste, due to which Ward 28 was selected for the initiative.Workers will clear mixed waste, C&D waste, and also implement measures to curb pollution, such as cleaning high dust accumulation stretches and subsequently, sprinkling water on them. Further, trees and grass in the ward would also be pruned by horticulture wing officials while all illegal hoardings and posters will be removed and seized by civic body officials. MCG joint commissioner Pradeep Ahlawat said that the garbage and debris will be transported to designated spots. Further, all roads and stretches would be made dust-free. “Due to the heavy collection and clearance of waste, sizeable numbers of earthmovers and tractor-trolleys have been provided to the workers along with tree pruning machines. Unlike the usual practice of allocating resources for a citywide coverage, the rationale behind this drive is to thoroughly clean a specific ward in a single day’s operation before proceeding to a different area,” said Ahlawat. Officials said that depending on the drive’s success, it would be replicated in MCG’s 34 other wards.With more than 800 staff members from MCG’s sanitation branch, C&D waste branch and horticulture branch taking part in the drive, the civic body has directed all workers to maintain strict coronavirus protocols, such as the continuous wearing of masks and social distancing.It is the largest gathering the MCG has arranged since the national lockdown in March. MCG had initiated a similar initiative from February 25 to March 4 last year when the civic body ran a 168-hour continuous drive to clean 28 stretches, covering more than 120 kilometres of road length in the city. More than 2,500 MCG workers participated in the week-long drive on a rotational basis. In the drive, workers lifted garbage, sprinkled water on roads after removing dust, cleared posters, hoardings, encroachments, repaired footpaths, maintained green belts, and desilt drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-clean-up-ward-28-on-saturday/story-BLuouMvVYiqO2SVFmt1QHJ.html
04-12-2020||Patna||Reality check: 41% tap water supply projects in Bihar partially or fully non-functional||Nearly 41 per cent of the tap water supply projects, being executed under the chief minister’s flagship ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal’ scheme, were found partially or fully non-functional in a survey conducted on the instructions of the public health and engineering department (PHED) in different districts. The PHED officials swung into action for a reality check of the projects days after CM Nitish Kumar called upon the legislators in the assembly last month to bring to his notice about any kind of irregularities they found in the execution of the seven resolves programme, of which tap water supply scheme is also a part. He said that 89 per cent of the households had been connected with tap water supply project. As per the reports submitted by the district magistrates of 28 out of 38 districts, 186 of the 2,954 projects inspected were noticed incomplete, while 279 projects were found non-functional during the inspection. As many as 1,952 projects were running without any complaint, but 562 projects of different scales had minor issues and 189 had major problems. Also read: AT HTLS 2020, Nirmala Sitharaman says MSP for farm produce will continuePHED secretary Jitendra Srivastava, however, claimed that data was being misinterpreted as the officials reported on many incomplete projects that were not supposed to be inspected right now. “Only the complete projects were to be inspected. The survey report categorically said that as many as 2,604 projects out of the total compete 2,640 schemes were found functional,” said the secretary. He said that the DMs have been told to ensure complete rectification of minor and major problems in the scheme within a week and impose a suitable penalty on the responsible contractors. “Inspections are being carried out by independent bodies for realistic assessment of the projects. The DMs have been told to carry out project assessment in days to come,” said Srivastava. In Khagaria, 49 out of 231 projects inspected by the PHED - highest in any district - and were found to be incomplete. The maximum number of minor complaints (144) in the scheme was reported from Purnia, while Kisanganj has the maximum number of projects (82) affected by major complaints. The opposition parties, including the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), had raked up irregularities in the seven resolves schemes during the elections by dubbing it as the largest scam in the history of the state. The state government has allotted Rs 4,310 crore budget to the PHED to connect all houses across 56,079 wards with tap water supply by the end of this fiscal. Officials said that around 49,000 wards have been covered under the project and work on the rest was going on in full swing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/reality-check-41-tap-water-supply-projects-in-bihar-partially-or-fully-non-functional/story-burecB6w0hyqUnulDcdAPJ.html
04-12-2020||City||Anti-encroachment drive: Ludhiana MC razes 200 illegal structures in Gopal Nagar||In a major demolition drive conducted in Gopal Nagar (ward number 80), the municipal corporation (MC) on Friday razed over 200 encroachments situated at a 2 km-long stretch alongside Buddha Nullah.The encroachments mostly houses, slums, and animal sheds were demolished despite resistance by residents. A heavy police force was deployed at the spot along with the building branch officials of all the four MC zones.The authorities said that encroachments were done on-road portion and a chunk of land earmarked for a leisure valley in the area. The civic body will now take up road construction projects in the area.While many houses have completely been razed, only the illegal part of a large number of houses, animal sheds were demolished by the MC. Residents gathered in huge numbers to demolish the buildings suspecting that the MC might damage the entire building while razing the illegal portions.Owners of a few houses/godowns also sought time for making some alternate arrangements. The civic body officials said that another demolition drive will be conducted in the area if owners failed to raze encroachments on their own.Assistant town planner (ATP), MS Bedi said, “The encroachments have been razed and the MC will now commence the process to construct the road. Also, the encroachments have been removed from the area where LIT has to establish a leisure valley. No protests were witnessed at the spot and the drive was conducted peacefully in presence of the police force.” Municipal town planner (MTP) SS Bindra also visited the demolition site to take stock of the situation.Earlier on November 2, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu also visited the spot and directed the officials to remove encroachments from the road portion as well as from the land earmarked for establishing a leisure valley. Ashu stated that the project to establish a leisure valley will be completed in six months. Residents left without a roof in cold weatherLeft homeless in chilly weather, the residents cried foul stating that no action is being taken against wealthy house owners and school that is situated on the other side of the stream, which is also a part of encroachment.They said that no notices were served to them.A house owner Amit said, “We have been living in this area for over a decade and the MC has demolished our house even when it was not established on the road portion. My family including children and the elderly are now without a roof in these extreme weather conditions.”It is said that most of the area residents are labourers and are struggling to make ends meet during the pandemic. The demolition drive taken up by the civic body has added to their woes as even the sheds established for the livestock have been razed by the authorities.A month after the demarcation process was completed, the MC is yet to initiate action against over 950 permanent encroachments in the form of houses, commercial and industrial encroachments alongside Buddha Nullah. During a visit to the city on November 27, the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also directed the civic body to start demolishing illegal buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-encroachment-drive-ludhiana-mc-razes-200-illegal-structures-in-gopal-nagar/story-l8qGF48gxq8o9qxixk3ZYI.html
04-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Man, father wanted for ₹39.13 lakh theft lands in police net||The police on Friday arrested the accused who fled with ₹39.13 lakh belonging to his employer in Khanna. Those arrested have been identified as Nihal Vijan, his father Anil Vijan and brother-in-law Jatin Mehta.On November 26, Nihal Vijan had fled with the cash when his employer, who owns a shop, had sent him to deposit it in the bank.By the time cops raided his rented accommodation in Uchha Vehda area of Khanna, it had already been vacated. As per neighbours, the entire family had left in a Honda city car on Wednesday.According to police, the accused wanted to escape to Doha in Qatar with his family but was arrested by the police who have also recovered Rs 31.41 lakh, gold jewellery worth Rs 7 lakh, home appliances and furniture worth Rs 10 lakhs from their possession.The police said that the accused had purchased home appliances and furniture worth Rs 10 lakhs and wanted to sell it before fleeing. The Honda City car used in the crime is yet to be recovered.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said that he had formed a special investigation team (SIT) comprising SP (investigation) Manpreet Singh, deputy superintendent of police (investigation) Manmohan Sarna, DSP Rajanparminder Singh and inspector Vinod Kumar, incharge at Khanna CIA staff for the arrest of the accused.“During the investigation, the police came to know that Jatin Mehta is a mechanic in Doha, where he had met Khalid Aham of Hyderabad, who is an immigration consultant. The accused had hatched a conspiracy to flee to Doha after stealing the cash,” said the SSP.“After stealing the cash, the accused had fled to Hyderabad. However, the police came to know about their location and laid a trap in Hyderabad to arrest the accused who by the time had come back to Punjab,” he added.The SSP said that on Friday the police came to know that the accused were hiding near New Friends Colony and arrested them. The accused will be produced before the court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-father-wanted-for-39-13-lakh-theft-lands-in-police-net/story-V3zIZeORru2B498Hzpge2J.html
04-12-2020||City||Ludhiana MTP chargesheeted for failing to act against illegal constructions||The local bodies department’s principal secretary AK Sinha has issued a chargesheet against municipal town planner (MTP), Monica Anand, for allegedly failing to perform her duty to take action against illegal constructions, resulting in loss to the state exchequer.The chargesheet was issued on December 2 and the MTP has been given a time period of 21 days to submit her reply otherwise action will be initiated against her as per the Punjab Civil Services (punishment and appeal) Rules.Anand has been accused of allowing illegal constructions in Feroze Gandhi market, removing the seal from illegal buildings without getting permission from senior authorities, accepting part payment of change of land use (CLU) charges which are not allowed as per the rules, not responding to the show-cause notices issued by municipal commissioner regarding low recovery of dues, failure in the collection of regularisation fee and EDC charges from colonisers, producing file related to land given on lease to society cinema resulting in loss to MC, etc.MC official requesting anonymity said that a chargesheet was recommended against Anand earlier this year. Recently, an MC committee comprising of councillors also raised questions on civic body officials for allowing illegal construction in Feroze Gandhi market.Despite repeated attempts, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was not available for comment, while mayor Balkar Sandhu said that he has not yet received any official copy of the chargesheet issued against Anand.Chargesheet issued against superintending engineer, two othersThe local bodies department has also issued a chargesheet against MC superintending engineer Tirath Bansal, assistant engineer Ashwani Sikka and junior engineer Gurpreet Singh over inferior quality road construction work done in Sunil Nagar (ward number 94). The chargesheet was issued in the last week of November. The officials have been held guilty for not taking action against inferior quality work and presenting a “false” report regarding the strength of the road.The department stated that the MC officials had shown 100% strength of the road after the tests were conducted on the second and seventh days after the construction was completed. However, 100% strength cannot be achieved before 28 days of construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mtp-chargesheeted-for-failing-to-act-against-illegal-constructions/story-r78Q18DOYeq6I9RlzcmGEI.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat, says petition before SC||A public interest petition before the Supreme Court on Friday has sought the immediate removal or dispersal of farmers gathered at Delhi borders in order to ease the movement of traffic and prevent a possible spread of Covid-19 among protesters, as the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws entered its ninth day on Friday.The petition, filed by law student Rishabh Sharma, also cited the October 7 judgment of the Supreme Court, on the months-long protest at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh against the amended citizenship rules, in which the apex court had said that while the right to protest and dissent against governments is a fundamental right, it is not an absolute one and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely to stage protests. The court had also held that such protests ought to take place in designated areas and not on public roads.Sharma pointed out that despite farmers being allotted the Nirankari grounds in central Delhi’s Burari to peacefully protest, lakhs of farmers were still gathered at the borders of the capital city, blocking traffic along arterial roads connecting the city with the National Capital Region.“This protest is causing lot of trouble to the citizens of India,” the petition stated and demanded the opening of the borders and a direction to protesters to move to the designated place.Sharma also said such massive gatherings have the potential to become Covid-19 hot spots besides blocking essential medical and emergency services. “The protest is blocking the roads for all the emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied within the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus as the cases of coronavirus are increasing rapidly in Delhi,” stated the petition filed through advocate Om Prakash Parihar.The petition also expressed concern over the health of elderly farmers protesting at the border points. “The coronavirus is affecting mainly elderly people and the protest at Delhi border is mostly consisting of elderly men and women. The petitioner is seeking urgent direction to shift them (protesting farmers) to the place already allotted by the Delhi police in view of immediate threat of coronavirus infection and spread.”Security personnel continued to remain deployed at Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur border points. Several routes in and around the capital are closed on Friday and vehicles are re-routed wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-blocking-essential-services-increasing-covid-19-threat-says-petition-before-sc/story-bt3FwC8CwSVPvmxShQBAhP.html
04-12-2020||City||Delhi govt orders shifting of unused tents from Burari to Singhu border||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Friday directed the district administration to shift unused tents from the Burari ground to Singhu border, where a large group of farmers and their families from Punjab, Haryana and other states are protesting against three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September.The directions were issued after health minister Satyendar Jain visited the Singhu Border protest site on Friday afternoon to look into arrangements. “We want to ensure that at least the elderly people, women and children get the tents. We have to protect them in the winter and from Covid-19 too,” Jain said.HT had on Friday published a report flagging the lack of arrangements by the government at the Singhu border and underutilised amenities at Burari.By Friday afternoon, even as representatives of farmer groups engaged with the central government, the size of the crowd in Sindhu and several other city borders swelled with several protesting groups leaving the Burari ground – designated as a protest site by the central government last week.At the Singhu border, a large group of protesters are living in makeshift tents set up on roads and truck and tractor carriages, with numerous makeshift kitchens set up in the vicinity. Help from several student groups, charitable bodies and non-government organisations have been poured in over the past one week – providing arrangements ranging from toilets to medical centres. “The farmers are being deliberately harassed by the people in power… A bill which is meant for the farmers should be made after taking their consensus. Politicising the matter will not help,” Jain said at the Singhu border.Later, he requested revenue minister Kailash Gahlot to formally issue directions regarding the shifting of tents from one location to another.The tents set up by the government at Burari are fireproof and water-resistant, a government official said. Officials, however, did not give a count of such available tents, saying if there is a shortage, it will be covered by Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-orders-shifting-of-unused-tents-from-burari-to-singhu-border/story-l8Yt96129aGRHiOSe58JZP.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Minimum wages in Delhi to go up slightly||Delhi will witness a slight increase in the minimum wages for workers for the first time after the Covid-19 pandemic, with the government approving an increase in the dearness allowance . The increased minimum wages would apply retrospectively from October 1, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday.After the latest increase in the dearness allowance, minimum wages in Delhi will be Rs 15,492 per month for unskilled workers, Rs 17,096 for semi-skilled workers and Rs 18,797 for skilled workers, said a statement issued the office of Sisodia, who also holds the labour portfolio.Currently applicable minimum wages in Delhi are Rs 14,842 per month for unskilled workers, Rs 16,341 for semi-skilled-workers and Rs 17,991 for skilled workers.Technically, minimum wages were last revised in Delhi in March 2017, which was notified in October 2019 – after the Supreme Court’s nod – after a long legal tussle involving industry groups, labour unions and the city government.Other than such revisions, minimum wages are supposed to witness a variable increase biannually with the concerned state government doing a fresh assessment of the dearness allowance element in the wages after giving due consideration to factors such as average all-India consumer price index numbers.This year, dearness allowance points – which are factored in during the bi-annual assessment process – were frozen by the Central government for the period between January 1 and June 30, in the light of the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, thus affecting the bi-annual assessment process.“Dearness allowance for workers – especially those who are at the bottom of the social strata -- cannot remain frozen, especially at times of crisis caused by a pandemic. Accordingly, the new minimum wages, after including Dearness Allowance, will be applicable to unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled categories in all scheduled employments. These revised wages will be applicable from October 1, 2020,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/minimum-wages-in-delhi-to-go-up-slightly/story-JWSuEEWyMqFEqhhZJ81rzN.html
04-12-2020||City||Delhi riots: HC grants bail to man accused of arson||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has granted bail to a man, accused of rioting and arson during the communal riots in north east Delhi in February, saying that there is no CCTV footage or any electronic evidence that establishes the presence of the accused at the spot.Justice Suresh Kait granted bail to Irshad Ahmad at a bail bond of Rs 25,000.It said that even though in one photograph, the presence of the accused is shown at the house of the co-accused, however, it is not in dispute that charge sheet has already been filed and the accused has been released on bail in two other FIRs registered in connection to the riots in Dayalpur, in north east Delhi.Riots had broken out in February in several pockets of north east Delhi, in which 53 were killed and over 400 others were injured. “Keeping in view the aforesaid fact and the fact that presence of the petitioner is not established through CCTV footages/at the spot, however, without commenting on the merits of the prosecution case, I am of the view that the petitioner (Irshad Ahmad) deserves bail,” the court said in its order dated December 3.Opposing the bail plea, the police had contended that the eye witnesses constable Vikrant and Mohd. Zahid had named the accused in their statement that he was present at the time of looting the shop in question.The special public prosecutor for the police had also said that the mobile phone location of the accused stated that he was present at the spot while also adding that all the other co-accused in the present case are in judicial custody. He submitted that there are 100 persons seen in the CCTV footage, however, it is difficult to identify the petitioner in the said CCTV footage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-hc-grants-bail-to-man-accused-of-arson/story-7djhjGzPb4lzIsQk6fBX2I.html
04-12-2020||City||DDC polls: Nail-biting triangular contest in north Kashmir’s Sangrama||North Kashmir’s Wagoora and Sangrama, where polling was held under the third phase of the district development council (DDC) elections on Friday, has candidates from powerful political clans sitting on the edge of their seats.While the DDC seat in Wagoora is reserved for women, for which Safina Baig, wife of former PDP patron Muzaffar Hussain Baig, is contesting as an Independent against the joint candidate of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), Sangrama has a triangular contest in store with journalist-turned-politician Suhail Bukhari, a People’s Alliance candidate, up against Jammu Kashmir Apni Party candidate and former legislator Shoaib Lone and Irfan Hafeez, an Independent.Polling for both the seats was held amid tight security and more than 25 percent voters exercised their franchise.Muzaffar Baig had recently resigned from the PDP as its patron after wife Safina, who was the head of PDP’s women wing, was denied a ticket by the PAGD and instead the seat was given to an NC candidate. This led Safina to contest as an independent candidate in the DDC polls. Baigs, who have earlier enjoyed influence over two Baramulla and Sangrama seats, faced flak in the bastions after Muzaffar Baig nephew Javeed Baig left the PDP to join Apni Party. Another one of Muzaffar’s brothers also joined the Apni Party. Moreover, a day before polling, the former Baramulla MP’s son from his first wife, Zahid Baig, released a video criticising Safina on social media.“This election is an important one for the Baigs, especially Safina. If she manages to win the DDC seat, they (Baigs) can start afresh from this place,” said young businessman Fayaz Ahmad after casting his vote at a polling station set up inside Government School, Sultanpora.“Over 300 people have voted in the first four hours and more are coming in. It is going to be triangular contest between Safina, the Apni Party and the alliance candidates,” he said adding that it is high-stake battle for senior Baig (Muzaffar).At Kreeri, the native village of former minister and NC leader Basharat Bukhari, voters came in small groups at three polling stations. “This is a local election, but one of the most important one for Baig, Bukhari and Shoaib Lone,” said Kreeri BDC chairman Ghulam Mohiudin Sofi, while asking his supporters to vote on the symbol of a particular candidate.The Lones are contesting on both the seats with Nasreena for Wagoora and Shoaib for Sangrama. Shoaib had lost in the last two assembly elections by a thin margin, so victory is crucial for him this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-nail-biting-triangular-contest-in-north-kashmir-s-sangrama/story-7J1nBdomNHNIfWCnkunYWO.html
04-12-2020||City||Delhi riots: Kalita points fingers at police during hearing on bail plea||New Delhi: Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, who was arrested for her alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots, on Friday told a Delhi court during arguments on her bail plea that the police had carried out an “insidious” prosecution against her.Appearing for the JNU student, advocate Adit S Pujari referred to the seizure memo files submitted with the charge sheet and said the police allegedly “deliberately” submitted incomplete documents to falsely show that around 300 women, who came from Jahangirpuri to Jafrabad where protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were held, precipitated the violence.He told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that the prosecution’s case was that these women came allegedly armed with acid bottles and chilli powder and were instigated by Kalita and others to cause violence.He said the prosecution allegedly put selective messages from the WhatsApp chats of police officials to prove their purpose and chosen not to put on record messages where they are aware that another kind of protest or march was on by pro-CAA protestors.He said as per the documents in the charge sheet, police were strictly motioning the movement of the buses carrying these 300 women and if they had carried any weapon or committed violence, then the police could have tried to arrest them then and there.The matter would be now heard on Saturday.Meanwhile, a Delhi court on Friday granted bail to a man, arrested in a north-east Delhi riots case, for two weeks to perform important wedding rituals like “kanyadaan” of his niece.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted relief to Brijmohan Sharma on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 50,000 with one surety of like amount. Sharma was arrested in the case related to the alleged murder of a man by a riotous mob in New Usmanpur area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-kalita-points-fingers-at-police-during-hearing-on-bail-plea/story-Tr05TOW0X5TxrflsVzPIwJ.html
04-12-2020||City||One held with ₹58,000 during DDC polls in Jammu’s Domana||The police on Friday arrested a man with Rs 58,695 cash allegedly intended for distribution among voters in Domana area during the third phase of the district development council (DDC) elections.“An information was received at Domana police station through reliable sources that one Gaurav Sharma alias Goldie, 30, son of Kewal Krishan of Patniyal village, was carrying Rs 58,695 in his Bolero vehicle to distribute it among voters for a particular candidate,” said DSP Kosheen Koul.On this, a special police team reached the spot and arrested him, he added.The DSP claimed that the accused has not divulged the identity of the candidate for whom he was distributing the money among the voters.A case under Section 188 of the CrPC for violating the model code of conduct has been registered against the accused and an investigation has been initiated, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-held-with-58-000-during-ddc-polls-in-jammu-s-domana/story-LV5eSKk1eH0rdi9r7zRfhP.html
04-12-2020||City||J&K starts advance planning for Covid vaccine rollout||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday stepped into advance planning mode to ensure smooth delivery of Covid-19 vaccine which is set for rollout soon.In a marathon meeting with deputy commissioners (DCs) and chief medical officers (CMOs), chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam directed them to kick off preparatory planning for the rollout of the vaccination for a hassle-free and time-bound delivery across the union territory. All districts must undertake detailed micro-planning with regard to vaccination sites, cold chain storage points, and logistics requirements, the officials were instructed.The attendees were informed that currently, the database of prioritised groups of beneficiaries is being compiled with regard to healthcare workers, both in government and private establishments, and frontline workers, including armed forces, home guards, police, volunteers, municipal workers; who will be administered the vaccine in its initial stages. The next group that could be taken up for vaccination would comprise persons above the age of 50 years and persons with co-morbidities followed by the remaining population.They were apprised that to carry out a dedicated Covid vaccination drive, around 4,500 vaccinators are being identified across the UT with the capacity of administering 100 vaccines per site per day, cumulating to an impressive capacity to deliver 4.5 lakh shots a day.Regarding the human resource requirement at each vaccination site, the Chief Secretary asked the Health department and district administrations to depute 2 trained vaccinators, 1 data operator, 1 record keeper, and 3 volunteers per site to ensure a well-coordinated and accessible vaccination drive.The chief secretary directed the DCs to ensure submission of the micro-plans for vaccination sites, cold chain storage points, and logistical requirements by December 7. He said the information regarding the number of vaccination sites, beneficiaries per site/vaccines required, requirement of ancillary equipment such as vaccination boxes, syringes, ice packs, hub cutters, bio-waste disposable bags etc must be worked out in advance and made readily available with the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-starts-advance-planning-for-covid-vaccine-rollout/story-JyAWuRBuznfxU8MxYumMOO.html
04-12-2020||City||J&K recorded 12 Covid deaths, 544 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 12 more deaths and 544 fresh coronavirus infections on Friday, taking the total Covid count of UT to 1,12,256 and death toll to 1,730.Officials said that 256 people tested positive in Kashmir and 288 in Jammu. While four persons succumbed to the diseases in Kashmir, eight died in Jammu.They added that 1,05,537 people have recovered in the UT so far after 647 people recovered on Friday. There are 4,989 active cases in the UT. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 31.12 lakh. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 84 more people tested positive, followed by Pulwama at 23 cases.Till date, 7.98 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 21,561 in home quarantine, 4,989 in isolation, and 30,229 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.40 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-recorded-12-covid-deaths-544-fresh-cases/story-VNGl5j11RJc0ApohjsBY6I.html
04-12-2020||City||Mandi, Kullu & Lahaul-Spiti record highest Covid positivity rates in Himachal||SHIMLA/DHARAMSHALA With Himachal Pradesh struggling to contain the spread of Covid-19, Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti have emerged as the top three districts with high positivity rates in the state. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases per 100 tests. Mandi, which also ranks second in terms number of cases, has the highest positivity rate of 13.94%, followed by Kullu at 13.90%. The tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti, which saw a spurt in the cases after the opening of the Atal Tunnel, has the positivity rate of 13.75%. Shimla, which is the worst-hit district according to the number of cases reported, has a positivity rate of 12.5%. Also, Kumarsain-Kotgarh area of Shimla, which is known for its high-quality apple production, is one of the worst affected regions while Jubbal and Kotkhai have witnessed a surge in Covid cases due to marriages and social gatherings. Rohru and Rampur bazaar have already been declared as containment zones after a large number of shopkeepers tested positive for the virus. With 9.46% positivity rate, Solan ranks fifth on the list. Rest of the districts have positivity rates below 8% — three of these districts have under 5% positivity rate. Kangra has highest death rate Kangra, population-wise the biggest district, has the highest death rate of 2.46% in the state. As many as 139 people have succumbed to the infection here so far. Shimla, where 180 people have died, ranks second with a case fatality ratio of 2.24. Kullu is third on the list with a death rate of 1.99%. The district has recorded 75 fatalities till date. The state has an overall death rate of 1.61. 13 deaths, 803 fresh infections Meanwhile, Himachal on Friday recorded 803 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 43,500, while the death toll mounted to 698 with thirteen more patients succumbing to the virus. Of the new cases, 235 were reported in Shimla, 141 in Kangra, 110 in Mandi, 70 in Bilaspur, 55 in Kullu, 41 in Chamba, 37 in Solan, 27 in Hamirpur, 22 in Una, 13 in Sirmaur and eight in Lahaul-Spiti. There are 8,300 active cases in the state whereas 34,458 people have recovered. As many as 578 recoveries were recorded on Friday. The recovery rate is 79.2%. With its tally of Covid-19 cases having reached 8,027 Shimla remains the worst-hit district and is followed by Mandi where 7,025 people have been detected positive till date. Kangra ranks third with 5,778 infections while Solan has 5,240 cases, Kullu 3,799, Sirmaur 2,696, Bilaspur 2,248, Una 2,223, Hamirpur 2,211, Chamba 2,147, Lahul-Spiti 1,101 and Kinnaur 1,005. Spurt from within the state Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has said that people who have tested positive for Covid were mostly residents of Himachal, not outsiders, and this has happened due to marriage ceremonies. Therefore, there is an urgent need to remain cautious, he stated. He said the state government would consider implementing the high court directions to curb the virus spread. “The government has been working sincerely to contain the spread of coronavirus and the directions given by the HC will also be implemented,” he said. On panchayat elections, Thakur said that polls will be held in adherence to social distancing and all the SOPs, while victory celebrations will be banned. He said the state government was also not organising any big celebrations on completion of its three years in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mandi-kullu-lahaul-spiti-record-highest-covid-positivity-rates-in-himachal/story-3Xz4IPsCI5swOQMh9IKLlO.html
04-12-2020||City||Delhi’s AQI settles at far end of very poor due to change in wind pattern, may turn severe by Saturday||New Delhi: Delhi’s air quality plunged to the far end of the ‘very poor’ zone on Friday as the wind speed and pattern changed, resulting in the slow dispersion of pollutants. At least 17 of the 35 monitoring stations had turned deep red, reaching the ‘severe’ zone on Friday. The overall air quality index (AQI) is likely to deteriorate further over the next two days and may touch ‘severe’ by Saturday morning, government agencies have forecast. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 pm bulletin, the AQI was 382, higher than 341 on Thursday. It was 373 on Wednesday. Most of the monitoring stations that are in ‘severe’ category include hot spots such as Anand Vihar, ITO, Vivek Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela and Mundka, among others.On a scale of 0-500, an AQI value between 301-400 is considered ‘very poor’ while 401-500 is ‘severe’. According to weather scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with stubble burning incidents being negligible at present, local pollutants that have accumulated in the atmosphere have not been able to disperse because of unfavourable weather conditions.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the wind speed was just around 6-7 kmph during the day, which is not favourable for dispersal. “Besides, the wind direction changed to easterly from northwesterly. Whenever there is a change in wind direction, it impacts the air quality as winds turn calm for a while and do not allow dispersion. The night temperature is also below normal, which again is not favourable for dispersion. There was increased moisture because of easterly winds, which traps pollutants close to the ground, resulting in deterioration in air quality,” Srivastava said.He said the air quality may turn ‘severe’ over the weekend and any improvement is likely only after December 7 when northwesterly winds are likely to return. “From December 7-9, there may be an improvement in air quality as winds speed is expected to remain on the higher side,” he said.The Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for the city’s weather, recorded a minimum temperature of 8 degrees C, a notch below normal. The maximum settled at 28.8 degrees C, four notches above normal.The System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, said the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 level was just 1%. “The air quality is likely to deteriorate further over the next couple of days because of reduced ventilation and increase in moisture. However, it is likely to recover around December 6-7 with the return of good wind speed,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.According to experts, every year after peak pollution in November, which is mostly attributed to contribution from stubble burning, bad air episodes are seen towards December-end and early January. This is mainly because as compared to November, meteorological conditions are even more unfavourable during this time while the baseline pollution (local emission from Delhi and neighbouring regions) stays the same. This includes local waste burning, industrial fumes, vehicular emissions and dust suspension, among others.The CPCB on Friday wrote to the Delhi government, asking various civic agencies to act immediately on emission from open burning of waste; improper handling of construction waste; industrial emissions; dust from unpaved roads and open spaces, which have been reported by citizens on the Centre’s Sameer app.The letter said while stubble burning is almost over, the major sources of pollution are open dumping and burning of garbage, construction/demolition activity, unpaved roads and pits and re-suspension of road dust. “The areas of concern are hot spots, namely Narela, Anand Vihar, Mundka, Dwarka and Punjabi Bagh in Delhi and Faridabad, Jhajjar, Noida and Bhiwadi in NCR,” the letter said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said an aggressive strategy is required to curb local sources of pollution to prevent these peak pollution episodes. “We have been raising it time and again that surveillance on the ground and effective monitoring are required across Delhi-NCR to reduce local emissions. The agencies across NCR have to have a combined strategy and effort to bring any real change in minimising local emissions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-aqi-settles-at-far-end-of-very-poor-due-to-change-in-wind-pattern-may-turn-severe-by-saturday/story-jN3uIIL93OkQFSaABjl4ZN.html
04-12-2020||City||Woman murdered, dumped in a sack at a construction site in Delhi||New Delhi: Delhi police on Friday arrested a 27-year-old man for allegedly bludgeoning and strangulating a woman to death and then throwing her body at a construction site in Wazirabad in a sack late on Thursday night. The man was arrested minutes before he was preparing to flee Delhi.Police have identified the arrested man as Ashish Jha, 27, who is married and has a daughter. Jha works at a private parking and has rented out a portion of his house in Wazirabad. The woman who died was identified as a 20-year-old resident of Burari who was known to Jha and was unmarried, police said.Jha’s had taken the woman to his house on Thursday night when his wife was in her parent’s place. A senior police officer said Jha and the woman consumed alcohol but late in the night, an argument started between them. “As both were inebriated, the argument turned violent and Jha smashed the woman’s head on a wall multiple times. As she fell unconscious, he strangulated her to ensure she’s dead. The man waited for more than an hour, planning to dispose of the body. He stuffed her body in a sack and dumped it at the adjoining plot where construction is going on,” the officer said.On Friday morning, police got a call after locals and construction workers spotted the body. The woman was identified and a case of murder was registered. Her body was sent for a post mortem examination.“We zero in on the suspect, Ashish Jha, who lives close by. Initial probe revealed he is absconding. We managed to track his location at Aruna Asaf Ali Road and arrested him. During interrogation, the man admitted to having killed the woman,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said Ashish Jha was booked for murder. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-murdered-dumped-in-a-sack-at-a-construction-site-in-delhi/story-jvU0eHPdEm2YrR4itmXwHL.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||HC seeks Centre, Dedlhi govt response on outsourcing doorstep ration delivery||The Delhi high court on Friday sought response of the Centre, Delhi government and the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation (DSCSC) on a plea against implementation of the “Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana” under which packed rations would be delivered to the doorstep of eligible persons.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued a notice to the ministry of consumer affairs, Delhi government, and the DSCSC seeking their stand on the petition by an association representing fair price shop (FPS) dealers.The scheme was announced by the Delhi government on July 21 and under it, wheat, flour, rice and sugar were to be packed and delivered to the doorstep of eligible beneficiaries.The association, Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, has contended that the Delhi government scheme for doorstep delivery of rations bypasses the licensed FPS dealers without amending the necessary laws -- the National Food Security Act of 2013 and Delhi Specified Articles (regulation of distribution) Order of 1981.The association has sought quashing of tenders issued by DSCSC in October for selecting an agency for the transportation, processing, packaging and delivery of packed wheat and rice.The association has sought a direction restraining the Delhi government from implementing the scheme, claiming that it violates their fundamental rights under the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-centre-dedlhi-govt-response-on-outsourcing-doorstep-ration-delivery/story-XdsLEeWe3rZFgcy4efB5HK.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Govt intensifies awareness drive on hepatitis||With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic affecting over 586,000 persons and killing almost 9,500 people, the Delhi government in association with the autonomous Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) conducted a campaign on Friday to make people aware of blood-borne hepatitis on the 23rd Hepatitis Day. Hepatitis is an inflammatory condition of the liver, which if not treated can lead to cirrhosis or scarring, thereby reducing liver function. “We also need to ensure serious efforts are being taken to deal with hepatitis-like diseases. Hence, it would be useful to include it in the school curriculum to create health awareness from childhood, and pay special attention to our body and mind along with physical and economic matters,” said deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia, who was present at an event to mark the day at the Delhi secretariat. The event, held virtually, was attended by 700 students from 31 schools. The minister extended his compliments to ILBS director Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin and his team for their untiring efforts towards prevention, cure and creating mass awareness on viral hepatitis. “The health department and the team of ILBS have fought vigorously against hepatitis for 23 years. Phase-1 of HEPiSCHOOL programme in cooperation with the education department was launched last year to further spread awareness in schools, through various health talks. Due to this, many lives have been saved,” said Sisodia. At the event, Phase -2 of the HEPiSCHOOL programme was launched to further intensify awareness in schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-intensifies-awareness-drive-on-hepatitis/story-twS67uLnDXhhamU9Jf4YcM.html
04-12-2020||City||Farmers protest: Traffic jams on Delhi’s border points during rush hour||New Delhi: With main Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh borders remaining fully or partially closed, traffic movement remained affected in the city, mainly in eastern and outer districts. Vehicles moving towards Delhi from Haryana and UP were diverted to alternative routes, causing jams on the border points and on the nearby roads. However, the situation was relatively better on Friday as the motorists were aware about the closure of the borders and diversions.Like the last three days, when at least two more borders connecting Delhi to Noida and Ghaziabad, were partially closed, no new road was blocked on Friday. Gagan Chawla, 41, an IT professional who was travelled from Noida to Delhi and back, said due to closure of Chila border the available alternate routes witnessed heavy traffic. “I heard it was even worse on Thursday. However, while returning to Noida there isn’t much chaos,” he said.Vipul Garg, who was travelling from Ghaziabad to Delhi, said traffic on Friday was relatively better than Thursday. “Yesterday, I had to take alternative routes to reach Delhi via Apsara border but today, since I was aware I could easily avoid traffic jam,” said Garg, a businessman. While the commuters continued to face problems due to the traffic jam, the protesting farmers who had blocked the expressway carriageway in Ghazipur on Thursday morning said they have left space for ambulances and other emergency vehicles to pass. The closure of the border routes also slowed down the movement of the vehicles on Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road and other routes through which the motorists were entering Delhi from Ghaziabad.The Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road), which was closed completely for at least 22 hours between Tuesday and Wednesday, was partially opened on Thursday. Even on Friday, one carriageway connecting Noida from Delhi remained open while the opposite carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida was completely closed as the protesting farmers remained on that road along with their tractors and other vehicles. The police diverted the traffic on other routes such as DND, Kalindi Kunj, Dallupura, Khoda, New Ashok Nagar, and Kondli border borders. Although heavy traffic was witnessed in the morning and evening hours of Friday on those routes as well, the situation was slightly better than what it was on Thursday.The other border points closed by the police are mostly located around Singhu and Tikri borders. Many of these routes were used by farmers in the last three days to enter Delhi despite strong barricades at the two main borders.The border points fully closed since Wednesday were the Jharoda, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli. Badusarai border remained open only for light motor vehicles such as cars and two wheelers, while Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic.Delhi police also issued traffic advisory in advance and even took to social media to continously update commuters about live traffic situations. Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi police, said in an advisory, the Chilla border on Noida Link Road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. “People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND, Mittal said.He added, due to the on going farmers’ protest, Ghazipur Border on NH 24 and NH 9 are also closed for traffic from UP to Delhi. “People are advised to avoid NH 24 and use Apsara/Bhopura/DND flyover to enter Delhi,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-traffic-jams-on-delhi-s-border-points-during-rush-hour/story-nZGRvcR0yR6BV6GqiqPCSM.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Beyond their call of duty: Doctors who are tending to protesting farmers||A group of four doctors — all private practitioners — have set up a medical camp at the Singhu Border, where thousands of farmers have gathered since Friday to protest against the new farm laws passed by the Central government. The group said at least 1,000 farmers visit them daily, majority of them with complaints of hypertension or asthma due to continuous sloganeering and active participation in the protest. While cough and cold, diarrhoea or digestive issues have been the most reported ailments, at least two farmers have had to be referred to Civil Hospital in Sonepat with more serious complications — one of them having suffered a mild cardiac arrest.The medical camp is self-funded by a group of doctors from Delhi and Haryana, all of them MBBS, including one surgeon. Sukhwinder Singh, an MBBS from a government medical college in Rajasthan, who is one of the medical practitioners at the camp, said they at present have four doctors, who are running the camp with the help of around six paramedical staff, who have chipped in since Sunday — two days after the farmers started camping at Singhu border. “I belong to Sirsa in Haryana. My grandfather is also a farmer and he inspired me to pitch in and we together formed a group and came to Singhu border with whatever basic equipment and medicines we could gather. We are all private practitioners and have no affiliation with any hospital or organisation,” Singh said.He added that in the past three days (since Sunday) they’ve attended to at least 1,000 farmers daily — most of who suffered from complaints of high blood pressure, irregular breathing, hypertension, digestive problems or basic cough and cold. “The number of patients is high because we advertised about our camp in the area by distributing pamphlets and posters. So even local residents are visiting us for medical advice, the doctor said.“At least 30% of all our cases were those of hypertension and irregular blood pressure. This was mainly because the majority of participants are elderly farmers and continuous sloganeering leaves them exhausted. The first day, we also had patients who suffered lacerations due to clashes that broke out here. We advised them medication and asked them to come for follow ups,” he said.Other doctors who are running the medical camp are Ramanjeet Singh, CS Warring (a surgeon) and Parmeshwar Siddhu.Sixty-two-year-old Kulwant Singh, from Moga in Punjab, who saw a doctor at the camp on Tuesday, said since Friday, after the police fired tear gas shells, he is having irritation in his eyes and problems in breathing. “They checked my oxygen levels and blood pressure. They’ve advised me medication and have asked me to come back. It’s a free of cost service and very helpful for elderly farmers like us,” Singh said.Another farmer, Parmjeet Singh, 55, from Amritsar, said many of them have forgotten their medicines back home before joining the protests. “Many suffer from diabetes or other ailments for which they need regular medication. The camp has provided us with our routine medical care free of charge, “ he said.The doctors said keeping in mind the high number of patients approaching them, they are now planning to expand the camp and call on more doctors to pitch in.COVID CONCERNThe doctors running the camp said that they are also mindful of Covid-19 patients as the protesters were not adhering completely to social distancing norms. One advice that they have been doling out to their patients is always wearing a face mask. “We also check them for Covid-19 symptoms. We are in touch with hospitals and if required any patient who show symptoms of Covid will be sent there,” the doctors said.Teams from Red Cross Society and National Health Mission are also present at Singhu border. An emergency medical technician, from the national health mission, Sonepat, that falls under the Union ministry of health, said they have made arrangements of ambulances at the spot. “On Friday, we had to rush a 47-year-old to Sonepat Civil Hospital. It was a case of a mild heart attack. He is okay now. Most of the passengers I have ferried had complained of vomiting, fever, cold or breathlessness. Teams from Red Cross Society are also keeping an eye on the crowds here,” the technician said, wishing not to be named. Harjit Singh Bhatti, former president of AIIMS residents doctor association, said a team of five has also set up a medical camp at the Tikri border protest site, with the help of doctors from AIIMS, Safdarjung, and Hindu Rao hospital. He also has set up a camp at Singhu border.“Many protesters ask for painkillers. Since a large number of protesters are elderly, there is a chance that they are diabetic or have hypertension, which can lead to cardiac events due to severe fluctuation of their blood pressure. Due to stress and other factors, they can’t take medicines on time which can become a cause of worry. Most of these farmers sleep in the open at night leading to high-grade fever as well,” he said.With pressing cold wave conditions setting in on the national capital, the farmers, on their part, have also taken several measures to protect themselves against the harsh winter.Hundreds of tractor trollies and SUVs stationed on the Kundli highway are lined with multiple tarpaulin sheets to fend off the chilly winds. The insides of these vehicles are lined with hay and blankets to keep the protesters warm during cold Delhi nights. The minimum temperature on Tuesday stood at 8.1 degree Celsius -- two notches below normal.While a section of elderly protesters sleep inside these vehicles, they are not enough to accommodate all protesters leaving many with no option but to camp out on the roads in the open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/beyond-their-call-of-duty-doctors-who-are-tending-to-protesting-farmers/story-Rd9o9B26KiMmwyHKKQCUUI.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Local traders unite to have their bite of e-commerce biz||The eight-month Covid lockdown restrictions have been a boom time for e-commerce companies with traditional traders seeing a worse-than-expected slide in business. Now traditional traders have teamed up to developed their own e-commerce local application and reach out to consumers.Sachin Nivangune, president, Pune district retail traders’ association, said, “We are developing e-commerce websites as well as applications to reach out to consumers and deliver products at their doorsteps, besides providing attractive discounts. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) is helping us to develop an application.”Devendra Sarda, chief executive officer of online supermarket store Picodel said, “We cater to a wide range of products, including grocery, fruits, vegetables, sweets, chicken, cosmetics and medicines and deliver to customers’ doorsteps through 200 shops. At present, we are starting our service at Kharadi and Magarpatta areas on an experimental basis. Our order delivery time is within one and a half hours. We have decided to compete them major e-commerce firms by going online.” Vijay Narela, trader and managing director of Bhartiya-Dukan (B-Dukan) application developed to bring traders under one roof, said, “E-commerce companies have badly affected our business. We are developing an app that will provide customers cash back, discounts and other offers like other e-commerce companies.” Consumer database CAIT, a leading advocate for small traders and business in country, has appealed to traders and their organisations to collect information from their respective areas, create database and connect to promote their businesses. The database should also cover various organisations, social, cultural and religious bodies, clubs, schools, colleges, hospitals, hotels, temples and nursing homes. The information will help traders reach out to their neighbourhood as per their needs and demands.Seminar on e-commerceRajendra Batiya, executive chairman, Maharashtra wing of CAIT said, “We are collecting information on different types of organisations so that we can connect with them. In the coming days, we will provide training to traders on how to run e-commerce business. We will also organise a statewide seminar on e-commerce challenge and solutions.”“Connecting traders with consumers in a cohesive manner and giving the latter a right to choose a product coupled with reasonable price and efficient delivery system will benefit the stakeholders,” said Batiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/local-traders-unite-to-have-their-bite-of-e-commerce-biz/story-z2Riw9PnfMEpTHX8CFMSmK.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Multi-layered plastics form 44% of total plastic waste in city: Swach audit||City-based Swach, an organisation involved in waste management, participated in a global audit of plastic waste. As per the brand audit conducted this year in October, multi-layered plastics used in food packaging was the most common type of plastic forming 44 per cent of the total plastic waste in the city.The audit was a part of a global initiative by Break Free From Plastic to identify producers of plastic waste and the report was released in an online webinar on Thursday. Von Hernandez, global coordinator, Break Free From Plastic movement, said that big brands are major producers of plastic waste and they should be held responsible.“Big brands which contribute to plastic waste should be held responsible from extraction to disposal of this waste. We, through brand audits, take into account the actual waste which is generated. Since 2018, the waste generation has only increased and this trend is worrying,” said Hernandez.Echoing similar views, Emma Priestland, global corporate campaigns, Break Free from Plastic movement, said that unlike the bid companies, the small start-ups and businesses in various countries have shown a positive side to plastic generation and disposal. “Though plastic waste is on the rise, many small businesses and start-ups have come up with innovative ways to run an eco-friendly and sustainable business which does not harm the environment,” said Priestland.She further added that waste pickers play a very crucial role in brand audits to understand the waste generated.Lubna Anantakrishnan, project manager, Swach, said that they studied waste across 1,000 households in Aundh. “We sorted through the waste on the first day. We observed a mixture of dry and wet waste. Secondly, the milk packets that were thrown away were not cleaned and dried before disposing off. This causes problems in recycling the waste. In multi-layered packaging there was food contamination. We also could not brand audit sanitary waste and diapers as their brand names were not visible,” said Anantakrishnan.Speaking during the webinar, Lakshmi Narayanan, founder member of Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat, Pune’s trade union of waste pickers, said that waste pickers already fulfil the producer’s responsibilities under Extended Producers Responsibility (EPR) . “We urge brands not to divert highly recyclable materials like PET away from waste pickers, but instead to design inclusive EPR initiatives which compensate waste pickers and scrap traders for their contribution to effective recycling,” said Narayanan.Kedar Sohoni, founder-director at Green Communities, said, “The key responsibilities lie with the producers to check plastic waste. All the laws related to extended products responsibility is about this. If the brands were doing a good job in disposing the waste, there would be no such audit required. The brands use 30 to 35 per cent of the MRP (Maximum retail price) for just logistics whereas they simply shrug off their responsibility to dispose off the plastic which is causing pollution.”Waste generated in Pune*Dry waste: 25% of total waste*Plastic waste: 25% of dry waste or 6% of total waste*Non-recyclable plastic waste: 39% of plastic waste*Recyclable plastic waste: 61% of plastic wastePune’s brand audit data revealed*At least 44% plastic waste comprises multi-layered plastics which is used in food packaging*27% of the plastic waste was low-density polyethylene (LDPE)*76% of all plastic waste was food packaging*Plastic type==Total count==Percentage of total waste*PET==495=14%*HDPE==109==3%*LDPE==927==27%*PP==335==10%*PS==40==1%*O==1,523==44%*Total==3,429==100%Source: Pune’s plastic brand audit, SwachCaption: Swach workers sort plastic waste as a part of the brand audit conducted in October this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/multi-layered-plastics-form-44-of-total-plastic-waste-in-city-swach-audit/story-NfJ9p2YxNhIno50Ckleu2O.html
04-12-2020||City||Himachal CM unveils, lays foundation for projects worth ₹22 crore in Kangra||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of developmental projects worth ₹22 crore in Shahpur assembly segment of Kangra district through video conferencing from Shimla.These included unveiling of a ₹2.09-crore Kalyan Bhawan at Rait, foundation stone laying of ₹4.83-crore upgradation of Chambi-Banala-Sakoh link road, opening works worth ₹10.03 crore for improvement of distribution system of various water supply schemes, providing Har Ghar Nal Se Jal scheme under the Jal Jeevan mission in Shahpur tehsil and water supply improvement works worth ₹5.07 crore in Shahpur.Speaking on the occasion, Thakur said that the state government has decided to virtually inaugurate and lay foundation stones of various projects in Himachal to achieve uninterrupted pace of development. He said that the government would go for online functions to discourage large social gatherings to check the spread of coronavirus.Stating that his government was going to complete three years of its tenure on December 27, Thakur said this period had ensured balanced and equitable development of all areas of Himachal and every section of society. He said though the Covid-19 pandemic adversely affected the administration, it was able to take measures to ensure that development didn’t get hampered.Thakur said that the state government has also decided to strictly enforce the limit up to fifty persons in social, cultural and political functions. He said that any violation in this respect would be dealt with strictly. “Due to the sharp spike in the number of corona cases, the state government decided to cancel the winter session of Vidhan Sabha at Dharamshala. However, it was unfortunate that the opposition leaders were trying to politicise the issue,” he said.He reminded these leaders that the Congress government in 2014 had adjourned a 16-day assembly session after five days.Meanwhile, the CM thanked the people of Shahpur segment for distributing around 50,000 masks to the needy and contributing about Rs 14 lakh towards the CM Covid fund and PM Care fund. He said that this amount would go a long way in providing relief to the ones in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-unveils-lays-foundation-for-projects-worth-22-crore-in-kangra/story-bxDG2AX5TrQAGJl9wzJILN.html
04-12-2020||City||Kullu man held for murder after wife succumbs to injuries||The Kullu police have arrested a man for allegedly murdering his wife in the district’s Sainj area on Friday.The accused has been identified as Khem Raj while his deceased wife is Khemdasi.In his police complaint, the deceased’s father, Jeevan Das, said Khemdasi was married to the accused for 13 years and the couple bore three children. However, Khem Raj used to beat his wife frequently, Das alleged.On Thursday, Das received a phone call from the accused saying that his daughter had got injured after tripping in the garden on Wednesday night. She was rushed to the Regional Hospital, Kullu, where she succumbed to her injuries.When Das reached the hospital, he saw a deep wound on his daughter’s head besides visible injury marks on her arms, waist and legs. Suspecting that Khem Raj had physically hurt his daughter, Das filed a murder case against the accused.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said the accused was arrested based on Das’s complaint and that investigation in the case was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-man-held-for-murder-after-wife-succumbs-to-injuries/story-V4qHyWSlNEr0zOPjrZt4uM.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Four repeat offenders arrested in Pune, ₹19.65 lakh valuables recovered||Four men have been arrested and valuables worth Rs 19,65,000 were recovered by the the Pimpri- Chinchwad crime branch officials on Thursday, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner, Pimpri- Chinchwad police. The four have been identified as Chandrakant alias SM Anant Mane (27) and Raju Shambhu Devnath Raju Bangali (20), both residents of Vetal nagar in Chinchwad; Ram alias Ramjane Lakshman Ksshirsagar (26), a resident of Wagholi in Kalamb taluka of Osmanabad; and Amol alias Bhelya Arun Male alias Ghuge (27), a resident of Chinchwade nagar in Chinchwad. “These four accused are repeat offenders of house theft and there are respective 45, 18, 6 and 9 cases - collectively 76 cases - against them in Pimpri- Chinchwad, Pune city and Pune rural,” read a statement from the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch. Of the nine cases that were detected by the recovery, one case is registered at Vishrambaug police station, two are registered in Chinchwad and Dehuroad each, and four are registered at Nigdi police station. With 381 grammes of gold jewellery, and 1kg silver jewellery, along with other household belongings were among the recovered items, according to the police. Mali, who is a rickshaw driver, used to canvas locations to find buildings that did not have CCTV coverage. Mane and Bangali used to go inside these buildings, look for locked doors, and break them using a metal cutter or hammer, according to police. Meanwhile, Mali and Kshirsagar would wait outside the building and keep a lookout, the police added. The gang had sold 109 grammes of gold jewellery worth Rs 5,50,000, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-repeat-offenders-arrested-in-pune-19-65-lakh-valuables-recovered/story-hkvUcCaNlUARrXL8OzCBjL.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Former MLA’s initiative, citizen participation protects 85-acre urban reserve forest land in Pune||The conservation of an 85-acre urban reserve forest land in Tilekarnagar, survey number 47 in Kondhwa budruk is a result of citizen participation led by former Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) Yogesh Tilekar. The transformation of one of the largest forest strips has been named after Dr Shree Nanasaheb Dharmadhikari and serves as home to several rare species of birds, flora, fauna and a large number of peacocks. Currently, Tilekar has converted a five-acre area into a Smruti Van (memory garden) in the names of the deceased persons whose family members visit the spot and plant trees in the memory of their near and dear ones. The Smruti Van has been named after Pundalik Dada Tilekar where more than 1,000 trees have been planted. Also, gym equipment and animal mannequins have been placed to attract children and forest lovers to the area. A sum of Rs 7 crore has been spent for preservation and development of the urban forest. At his instructions, the entire 85 acres of forest land has been fenced by utilising the MLA development fund. Yogesh Tilekar said, “The idea came to my mind when I got to know that such a large portion of forest land was lying desolate with nobody paying attention towards its upkeep. I decided to take it up as a national cause and through citizens participation prepared a detailed report for phase-wise development for the garden. We have spent around Rs 7 crore during the first phase and require another Rs 10 to Rs 12 crore for the development of the entire forest garden.” The funds were made available by the then forest minister Sudheer Mungantiwar and the project was inaugurated by home minister Ranjeet Deshmukh. Tilekar has big plans for the conversion of major garden space into Ayurveda forest and starting tourist-centric projects like ropeways and rock-climbing which would add to revenue generation for further protection of the reserve forest. Regarding security and further upkeep of the forest, Tilekar said, “The forest department must deploy guards and take an active interest in the protection of the national heritage. Also, citizens must be alert and ensure that vandalism and anti-forest activities must be reported to the authorities. Our aim is to make it a national success on lines with the Taljai forest garden project.” Sanmeet Patil, a resident said “We thank the former MLA for taking an active interest in developing the forest. The current elected representatives are not paying any attention to the garden. We need more security, CCTV surveillance and strong security at the exit and entry gates and continuous patrolling in the forest area as it is surrounded by concrete jungle from all the sides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/former-mla-s-initiative-citizen-participation-protects-85-acre-urban-reserve-forest-land-in-pune/story-haMBURxDdywaWvveslXTrK.html
04-12-2020||Pune||40-year-old held for murder of sibling in Pune||A 40-year-old man was arrested for the murder of his younger sibling in Nigdi on Wednesday night. The arrested man was identified as Somnath Suresh Naikwadi, (40), while the deceased man was identified as Vishwanath Suresh Naikawade, (35), both residents of Nigdi. The deceased had physically assaulted the accused under the influence of alcohol and that had led to a violent physical fight. During the fight, the elder one picked up a stone and rammed it on his head and face around 10pm on Wednesday, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the mother of the two men - Sakhubai Suresh Naikwadi (65). The 35-year-old was found dead on the streets near Kachghar chowk in Nigdi late on Wednesday night. The man was found to have bludgeoned using a stone. The police found the CCTV footage of the killer after checking the camera feed from a street near the place where the body was found, according to a statement issued by Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The police formed two teams to identify and nab the man seen in the CCTV footage, according to the police. He was arrested from Balajinagar in Chinchwad where he had fled after killing his brother. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/40-year-old-held-for-murder-of-sibling-in-nigdi/story-tO1oDD2ew6gQr6FdL6IONJ.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Extended rainfall, lockdown affect strawberry production in Mahabaleshwar||Strawberry production in Mahabaleshwar, a popular hill station in Maharashtra, which accounts for almost 80 per cent of the total strawberry produced in India, has been affected due to extended rainfall and lockdown restrictions.The extended monsoon which led to heavy rainfall during September and early October has adversely affected the fruit quality as well as output, said producers from Mahabaleshwar. As a result, the prices have gone up by almost 100 per cent as compared to the same duration last year.This year, the selling price is Rs 300 per kilogram in Pune and Mumbai, while the normal rates during this season are between Rs 150 to Rs 200 per kg based on the quality of the fruit.Balasaheb Bhilare, head, Strawberry Growers Association of Maharashtra, said, “Due to lockdown induced restrictions, strawberries were cultivated late this year as plant exports from foreign countries such as Spain, Italy and America were delayed. Farmers usually plant the crop in September. However, plants came late and were sowed in October. After that, a retreating monsoon affected the plants as a result of which the overall cycle changed and fruit came in December in the market. Therefore, the prices are high.”At least 80 per cent of strawberry produced in India comes from the Mahabaleshwar (Maharashtra) while rest comes from Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan.According to Bhilare, farmers this year cultivated only 60 per cent of strawberries. “Out of total 4,000 acre of farming land, due to the uncertainty of the market, bad weather and fear of losses, farmers cultivated strawberries on 2,500 acre of land. Therefore, production is also less,” he said.In Mahabaleshwar, Panchgani and Wai belt of Satara district, around 4,000 farmers produce strawberries.Arvind More, retailers and wholesaler of fruits, Market Yard, said, “The rate is higher as compared to last year. Normally, fruits come in the Diwali season. The strawberries came late in the market and are limited in quantity. Due to which, the rate is high. Despite that, people are buying it.”Prakash Dhamdhere, fruit retailer, Lake Town city, Bibvewadi, said, “The rate of one kilogram of strawberry is Rs 200 to 250 of second-grade quality whereas good quality strawberry is Rs 350 to Rs 400 per kg.”Ramchandra Sable, former head of department of agriculture meteorology of MPKV Rahuri and associate dean and principal Agriculture College Pune, said, “The sort of untimely rains, higher humidity, temperature and cloudy weather have affected the plants and damaged the crop. Such weather affects the quality of high-value crops such as tomatoes, grapes, strawberries.”Uncertainty over strawberry festivalThere is uncertainty over the strawberry festival which is usually held during the Easter weekend (March-April) due to the pandemic. “Due to the possibility of the second wave of Covid-19, there is uncertainty about the festival, ‘’said Balasaheb Bhilare, head, Strawberry Growers Association of Maharashtra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/extended-rainfall-lockdown-affect-strawberry-production-in-mahabaleshwar/story-PN00VGk1p5Dn0wdV9y6boL.html
04-12-2020||Pune||PFI members in Pune protest against ED searches||The members of the Popular Front of India (PFI), a federation of three Muslim organisations, staged protests near the Pune district collector’s office on Thursday evening against the searches carried out by Enforcement Directorate (ED) at 26 locations of their offices in the country. In Maharashtra, ED searches were carried out in Aurangabad. Around 70-80 members of the group raised slogans like “Inquilab Zindabad” in front of the collector’s office and made remarks against the ED for allegedly playing into the hands of the government. “Since 2014, they have used every kind of weapon against us. But what they have done is help us clean the clerical waste that was lying under a pile of dust in our offices. They have dragged us in various cases for no reason but we have gone up until the Supreme Court and High Court to have our people released from jails. We are small but we are effective and we are mentally prepared for whoever comes for us - ED, NIA, ATS or the local police,” said Mohammad Hanif Khan, a Pune unit member of PFI. The Pune district president of PFI, Razi Khan, said, “During our protest against the Hathras case, they spread rumours that PFI has received Rs 50 crore funding from Mauritius. If that was the case, why would we come on the vehicles that we have? All members would have bought luxury cars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pfi-members-in-pune-protest-against-ed-searches/story-16rTGsN0Yy2H5ZRILSGP2O.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Unions, social organisations in Pune extend support to farmers’ protest||Various farmer unions and social organisations, on Thursday, came out to support farmers who are protesting in Delhi and condemned the central government over farm laws.Swabhiman Shetkari Sangthana which is led by former MP Raju Shetti organised the statewide protest. The protesters sang ‘bhajans’ in front of the district collector office and continued the protest throughout the night on Thursday.Jan Andolan Sangharsh Samiti, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, workers union and women organisations formed a human chain at Mahatma Phule Mandai to support the farmers.Subhash Ware, social activist, said, “We support the farmers as they fight for their rights. We also condemn the Centre for ill-treating the farmers.”Shetti-led union members decided to hold agitation at district collector’s office. Shetti himself is participating at Kolhapur. “Farmers from Maharashtra support the ongoing agitation in Delhi. We will organise protests at the local level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unions-social-organisations-in-pune-extend-support-to-farmers-protest/story-Bu0CteAt8vMQv4046kGJWO.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 793 fresh Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Pune district reported 793 fresh Covid -19 positive cases and 13 deaths in 24 hours on Thursday, according to the state health department. The district has reported 355,698 total cases out of which 328,315 have recovered and 7,507 were reported dead due to the virus infection, while 19,841 are active cases.Pune city, meanwhile, has reported 360 new positive cases and eight deaths and Pimpri-Chinchwad has reported 157 positive cases and zero deaths. Pune rural has reported 276 positive cases and five deaths. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We had successfully brought down the death ratio in the region and Pune district. Pune district’s death ratio is 2.42 per cent and the rate of recovery of patients is 94.26 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-793-fresh-covid-19-cases-13-deaths/story-ZDEwcX0vJD1LmdI6lnY8HJ.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Social worker Baba Sewa Singh returns Padma Shri in protest against Centre’s farm laws||Upset with the Centre’s three new farm laws and its attitude towards the concerns of farmers, social worker and religious leader Baba Sewa Singh on Friday returned the Padma Shri awarded to him in 2010 for his contribution to environment conservation. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Baba Sewa Singh, 60, said, “I am returning the Padma Shri to express my anguish over farmers being forced to launch a struggle. When farmers of the country are fighting a battle for survival, the government’s attitude is worrisome. These awards are conferred for the wellbeing of society. When people are being made to spend day and night on the roads in the severe chill and the nation is ignoring them, holding such a national honour makes no sense.” Also read: Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest ‘betrayal of farmers’In the letter in Punjabi, the environmentalist said, “This is the battle of common citizens of India and only common citizens are India. So, I give back this award in protest and hope you will take necessary steps for the security of farmers.” Known as Green Baba, he heads the Kar Sewa organisation, headquartered at Khadoor Sahib in Tarn Taran. Besides working environment conservation, Baba Sewa Singh runs educational institutes and a hockey academy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-worker-baba-sewa-singh-returns-padma-shri-in-protest-against-centre-s-farm-laws/story-nJIIaHozxsJPXtDNlUSHOI.html
04-12-2020||Jaipur||Former Rajasthan chief secretary DB Gupta appointed Chief Information Commissioner||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Friday appointed former chief secretary DB Gupta as the Chief Information Commissioner (CIC). The post had been lying vacant since April 2019 after Suresh Choudhary completed his tenure on December 2018, thereafter the additional charge was given to the information commissioner. The governor also appointed a former professor at Haridev Joshi University of Journalism and Mass Communication, Narayan Bareth; and Sheetal Dhankar as the information commissioners at Rajasthan State Information Commission. Also read: India begins talks with Luxembourg firm on cold chain for Covid vaccineSheetal, a graduate in humanities, is the daughter of former RTDC chairperson Randeep Dhankar who is known to be close to CM Ashok Gehlot. Sheetal is actively involved with social campaigns related to the weaker section of the society. A senior government official on anonymity said the appointment of Gupta and Bareth are on expected lines and were making rounds for long. In November first week, the state the government had assured the Rajasthan High Court, Jodhpur, of appointing the CIC before November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/former-rajasthan-chief-secretary-db-gupta-appointed-chief-information-commissioner/story-r82KO4c8iacxeh0LZeArmI.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Maha health dept appoints district, taluka-level committees for Covid-19 vaccine distribution||To streamline the process of Covid-19 vaccine distribution, Maharashtra health department has appointed district and taluka level committees. These committees will overlook preparatory activities like the assessment of cold chain, preparation of database and its implementation, an official said. The state health department has issued directives, which chalk out the preparatory phase and the implementation phase while will be carried out in the coming one year in a structured manner. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, said that the Maharashtra government has chalked out three stages of the vaccine distribution prioritising those at front-line dealing with Covid-19. “The first stage includes people engaged in emergency services. Second, people with co-morbidities and municipal workers and third is the rest of the population who are 60 years or more in age. We have to get the data by December 10. We have to take in all the details for those who will be vaccinated from different institutes,” he said.Pune district administration had earlier estimated 1.10 lakh medical staff to be administered the vaccine in the first phase. Prasad, however, maintained that data collection has been completed for the first phase. “The total number is not yet final for the first phase. There are still estimates. We are also trying to filter the data as there were many cases where hospital owners have mentioned the names of their family members who cannot be included. And we are following the government guidelines. We are currently in the first phase. The second phase will start soon when the Centre gives a nod,” said Prasad. As per the general resolution (GR) issued by the government of Maharashtra, the district task force will ensure verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination at the vaccination site by the district task force. The district task force, as per the GR will ensure during the implementation there is robust communication planning at all levels to address rumour-mongering. The task force will also track blocks and urban areas for adherence to timelines for various activities required for the introduction of the vaccine. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer said, “We have identified 96 primary health care centres in the district and around 1,500 private hospitals who are enlisted for the first round of vaccination. We are following all the guidelines from the government.”“There is a meeting in the coming week where we will decide on the strategy for effective implementation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maha-health-dept-appoints-district-taluka-level-committees-for-covid-19-vaccine-distribution/story-vOgeeAZNg2iWaCiTETr4tJ.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Hawala money worth Rs 3.5 crore from illegal sale of tobacco products seized in Pune||The Pune police conducted day-long raids at five shops located in two buildings in Faraskhana and Vishrambaug areas of Pune on Wednesday and seized around Rs 3.5 crore hawala cash gained from illegal sale of tobacco and related products. Four shops were located in one building and one in another building, according to the police. The police have seized Rs 3, 47, 37,920 in cash, nine mobile phones, two DVR, two machines used for counting of money from five places. “So far there have been nine arrests and further investigation is going on,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The raid was led by Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1, Pune and conducted by senior police inspector Rajnish Nirmal of Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch. The officials, who were not allowed access to their phones to prevent leaks, were searching the spaces from 7am until 10pm on Wednesday. On November 16, based on information received by the newly appointed senior police inspector Nirmal, raids were conducted on a shop in Kharadi near old Sai Baba Temple, according to a statement issued by the city police. The shop, identified as Mataji general stores, was allegedly into smuggling by evading payment of custom duty even when the sale of tobacco and related products is not allowed in the light of Covid-19 pandemic. Five men were arrested and the seizure includes Rs 1, 31,340 cash, tobacco and products worth Rs 3, 92,512, two cars, and one two-wheeler. While investigating the involvement of these five men, the police found that the person facilitating the transport of products without paying customs duty. The man was identified as Navnath Nadev Kalbhor who led the police to the hawala payment method used by the arrested men. Prima facie, the police suspect the nine arrested to be involved only in the money transfer part and not the sale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hawala-money-worth-rs-3-5-crore-from-illegal-sale-of-tobacco-products-seized/story-3npdFOK2JLrbA7oLwvMldM.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Pawar says MVA changing state’s political picture after legislative council victories||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s win in Nagpur division in the legislative council elections indicates that the political picture in Maharashtra is seeing a gradual change.Pawar tweeted, “Mahavikas Aghadi has (also) won in Pune division by a big margin. This means the picture in the state is changing. This is reflected in today’s results (loosely translated from Marathi).”Pawar’s comments came after MVA candidates Arun Lad and Abhishek Wanjari’s wins in Nagpur and Pune division’s graduate constituency seats.The MVA is on its way to winning four out of six legislative council seats. The MVA has won Aurangabad, Nagpur and two seats from Pune. BJP has only won one seat in Dhule-Nandurbar and in Amravati independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik is expected to support the ruling MVA.NCP’s Arun Lad’s win in Nagpur came as a surprise for the MVA as it was a BJP stronghold since the party’s inception. Union minister Nitin Gadkari and former CM Devendra Fadnavis’ father late Gangadharrao Fadnavis have contested and won from this seat previously.Pawar praising the alliance-performance in Nagpur division said, “We have not had much success in the last several decades, mainly in the Nagpur division. Mr. Nitin Gadkari and Shri. Devendra Fadnavis had held this position for many years. But even in Nagpur, the Mahavikas Aghadi has achieved great success.”MVA had earlier said that the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena will contest every poll together including the local body polls. Congress leader and former chief minister Ashok Chavan said that the MVA represents the ‘Maharashtra Express’ and people have more faith in the alliance than it has on BJP.Chavan said, “BJP has been decimated in 24 districts in the state during the council elections which were fought directly. This is the ‘Maharashtra Express’ of MVA.”Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis said that the BJP may have underestimated the strength of three parties it was contesting polls against.This is the list of winners of the legislative council elections - Pune graduate constituency - Arun Lad (NCP)Nagpur graduate constituency - Abhijit Wanjari (Congress)Aurangabad - Satish Chavan (NCP)Dhule-Nandurbar - Amrish Patel (BJP)In Amravati teacher’s constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik and in Pune teacher’s constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar (Congress) are leading by huge margins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pawar-says-mva-changing-state-s-political-picture-after-legislative-council-victories/story-pmEz8PZJIAg6AzsqyWiSRP.html
04-12-2020||Patna||Bihar taps private sector to add Covid vaccinators||The Bihar government has reached out to private diagnostic laboratories and medical colleges for identifying all health workers in an effort to shore up the number of vaccinators to administer Covid-19 vaccine, when it is rolled out by the Centre.Bihar hopes to rope in doctors, interns, nurses and final year nursing students, paramedical staff, including operation theatre technicians, ECG technicians and other health workers directly engaged in patient management for the Covid-19 vaccination drive.The state health society, Bihar, which is the regional implementing agency for the National Health Mission programme, recently sent out links through e-mail to private laboratories and medical colleges, seeking details of staff including information if they can be a potential vaccinator, said a senior government officer, requesting anonymity. The other information sought on each health worker includes their category classification, mobile number, gender, date of birth and photo identity card.Bihar has around 15,000 vaccinators, with auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs) comprising more than 50% of them.“All the 20,000 plus auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs) are vaccinators. Leaving out those drafted for emergency duty and work in operation theatres, most ANMs are involved in routine or universal immunisation programme against 12 diseases,” the official quoted above added. Also Read: Centre has no Covid-19 vaccine roadmap for poor, says Congress after all-party meet“We are tapping private institutions to increase our capacity of vaccinators so that there is no delay on our part in administering the Covid-19 vaccine as soon as it is available,” the officer said. As per the coverage evaluation survey of 2009, 89.8% of vaccination in India is provided through the public sector including 53% from outreach sessions held at Anganwadi centres, while private sector’s contribution is a meagre 8.7%.Also Read: Bihar man lynched after shooting cousin dead over Rs 20,000 loan“The state health society sent us a link a couple of days back, asking us to furnish details of our health staff, including their identity proof, mobile number, short address and information if they can be a potential vaccinator. We are complying with the government order,” said Dr Sandeep Sen of the Sen Diagnostics, a private NABL-accredited laboratory in Patna. “We sent the list of our employees, including the clerical staff, to the government last month,” said Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, principal of the Madhubani Medical College, one of the six private medical colleges in Bihar.11 medical colleges are run by the public sector in Bihar.Manoj Kumar, executive director, state health society, Bihar, did not respond to phone calls or text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-taps-private-sector-to-add-covid-vaccinators/story-zbGsOrIDTLTuP63L2IWTPL.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses PIL opposing Versova-Lokhandwala link roads||The Bombay high court on Friday dismissed a public interest litigation opposing three roads and bridges linking Versova with Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni also imposed a cost of Rs2 lakh on the petitioners -- 13 local residents from Versova -- after noticing that through the PIL, they had pursued their private interests, and not any genuine public cause.The petitioners, all members of Jai Bharat Co-operative Housing Society in Versova, had moved the court, complaining that the roads and bridges being constructed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) will be passing through thriving mangrove areas and the plan for the proposed link roads did not comply with principles of sustainable development.Their PIL stated that they had also filed complaints with the authorities that the proposed plan did not seem to relieve the traffic scenario in the area in any manner. On the contrary, they complained, this plan would increase bottlenecks and traffic in the area, and also expressed apprehension that the proposed constructions would increase the difficulties for the local population because the construction is sought to be done in a totally unplanned manner.Acting on the PIL, on April 25, 2019, another bench of HC had restrained MMRDA from cutting mangroves for the construction of the link roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-pil-opposing-versova-lokhandwala-link-roads/story-hknIyna96tSKV1BylpUeuL.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||In a first, organiser booked for violating Covid protocol at wedding in Himachal’s Manali||In a first, the Himachal Pradesh Police have arrested a wedding organiser for violating Covid-19 guidelines at a marriage ceremony in Old Manali. The organiser, Haridas Thakur, was booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 (punishment for obstruction without reasonable cause) of the Disaster Management Act for not taking the pandemic seriously and putting the lives of people at risk while organising a wedding on December 1. Though the accused has granted bail, the case against him will proceed in court. No fine has been imposed on him.Also read: ‘No hugs, group photos’: Bhopal draws up ground rules for weddingsKullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said when a team of the Manali police station reached the wedding for inspection, they found everything in order as guests were wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and the cooks had also been tested for Covid-19. But soon after the police left, its informers, who stayed on to keep an eye on the gathering, reported that the hosts and guests threw caution to the wind but the organiser did not stop them. Urging people to avoid unnecessary gatherings, he urged residents to inform the police on 8219681600 and share pictures or videos of any Covid-19 violation. Himachal Pradesh saw a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in November. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the main reason was people not following Covid-19 protocol during social functions. So far, more than 680 people have died of Covid-19 in the state, while more than 42,000 have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-a-first-organiser-booked-for-violating-covid-protocol-at-wedding-in-himachal-s-manali/story-P71J7p2LLrMHOD1uYXCcfL.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Heroin worth Rs 3cr smuggled from Tanzania recovered from artificial hair packets||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) Mumbai zone officials have seized one kg of Heroin which was smuggled into the country through a courier parcel. The consignment had come to India from Dar Es Salam, Tanzania. The contraband was concealed in packets of artificial hair used for makeup.According to DRI, the agency had recently received reliable information about plans to smuggle narcotics from Dar Es Salam to Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra through a parcel.Acting on the tip off, officials located the parcel in Mumbai on Wednesday and found a brown coloured powder inside the packets of artificial hair. “The powder was identified as Heroin after it was tested using the field test kit. On further examination of all the parcels, around 1,007 grams of Heroin was recovered and seized under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act,” said a DRI official.The seized consignment is estimated to be worth Rs 3 crore in the international market, the officer added. The agency is looking for more suspects linked to the smuggled parcel.Also Read: Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik gets bail in drugs caseThis is the fifth seizure of narcotic drugs (Cocaine and Heroin) in last 3 weeks by DRI Mumbai. The agency claimed that they had given successive jolts to the international drug cartels, looking to expand tentacles in India. The cartels are always devising innovative means of concealment of narcotics and its smuggling. These seizures also show there is a high demand for these dangerous drugs in Mumbai, the agency stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heroin-worth-rs-3cr-smuggled-from-tanzania-recovered-from-artificial-hair-packets/story-7jsUZdhD78yefHM9uJLlCJ.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Friday records lowest minimum temperature of the season so far||Mumbai recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season so far on Friday. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature at 19 degrees Celsius, over a degree lower than the normal.The Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 22.5 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal.Prior to Friday, Mumbai had recorded 19.2 degrees Celsius on November 10 and 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7 but the minimum temperature remained above the 20 degrees Celsius mark for the rest of the month. It increased to 25 degrees Celsius on November 8 and November 19, recording the highest minimum temperature for the season. On December 1, Mumbai recorded the night temperature at 24.4 degrees Celsius, which was the second highest December minimum temperature in 11 years.The weather bureau said cool winds from easterly to northeasterly direction allowed the night temperature to dip. “Minimum temperatures across the entire Maharashtra witnessed a decline on Friday. While Mumbai recorded a pleasant morning with the season’s lowest temperature with a few locations in the city recording temperatures below 20 degrees Celsius due to a cool breeze, some interior areas in the state recorded the minimum temperature as low as 10 degrees Celsius,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Friday, the lowest minimum temperature within Mumbai was recorded in Powai and Kandivali at 18.32 and 18.33 degrees Celsius respectively while the warmest location was Worli with the minimum at 26 degrees Celsius, displaying an 8 degree Celsius variation across the city.With a drop in temperatures, the pollutant-measuring indicator -- air quality index (AQI) -- remained in the moderate category on Friday. The AQI was 176 (for PM2.5 pollutant) with Mazgaon (290), Malad (262), Chembur (256), and Bandra Kurla Complex (242), all recording poor air quality. Worli was the only location in Mumbai that recorded satisfactory AQI of 98.An AQI of 169 (moderate) has been predicted for Saturday.Meanwhile, minimum temperatures across the state saw Gondia record the lowest temperature of 10.6 degrees Celsius on Friday followed by Parbhani at 11.1 degrees Celsius and Pune at 11.9 degrees Celsius. Thane recorded the highest minimum temperature of 24 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-friday-records-lowest-minimum-temperature-of-the-season-so-far/story-Zk9I3IWoUClaWKXcocfymJ.html
04-12-2020||Patna||Bihar man lynched after shooting cousin dead over Rs 20,000 loan||A man was lynched after he shot his cousin dead at Padasar village under Karakat police station area in Bihar’s Rohtas district on Thursday night.Both the deceased were residents of the same village. A dispute for payment of Rs 20,000 had triggered the incident, police said on Friday.35-years-old Lallu Yadav had borrowed Rs 20,000 from his cousin Suman Yadav but failed to return it within the agreed timeframe leading to recurring insults by Suman in public for several days.At about 7:30pm on Thursday, an inebriated Lallu shot Suman in the head resulting in his death on the spot.After hearing the gunshot, Suman’s family members and villagers caught and thrashed Lallu before shooting him in the chest from the same pistol, leading to his instant death.Also Read: NDA’s common minimum programme: Focus on 7 resolves, job generationKarakat police rushed to the village in the night to control the situation after the news of double murders led to escalation of tension between two groups. Police team was still camping at the village to stop the situation from turning worse.Two cases of murder, one against deceased Lallu Yadav and another against around 20-25 unidentified persons, had been registered and the police was trying to identify the assailants involved in lynching. The bodies have been sent to Sasaram for post-mortem, said Karakat SHO, Satyendra Paswan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-man-lynched-after-shooting-cousin-dead-over-rs-20-000-loan/story-j9p1PPS8lvsibRVtiszb9H.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Disregarding binding precedents no contempt, says Bombay HC, exonerates magistrate||The Bombay high court on Thursday exonerated a judicial magistrate from contempt of court over his purported wilful disregard of precedents of superior courts while deciding cases before him. It said though there is negligence, it cannot be termed as “wilful breach or wilful disobedience” to proceed against the magistrate for contempt.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and VG Bisht disposed of the contempt petition filed by Yogesh Athavale, an advocate from Ratnagiri district, hoping magistrate Vikram Jadhav will deal with judicial work before him with greater care, caution, and circumspection.Athawale had moved the high court for initiating action for contempt of court against Jadhav alleging the magistrate was wilfully disregarding binding precedents of superior courts. Athawale cited four specific instances. His counsel, Murlidhar Patil, submitted that the instances pointed to that the magistrate’s habit of overlooking and disregarding binding precedents on flimsy grounds without properly going through the text of those binding precedents. He said it not only amounted to misconduct in the discharge of duties but was also contemptuous.Advocate SR Nargolkar, who represented the high court administration, submitted the magistrate was summoned by the guardian judge of the district for counselling and he has been suitably counselled. In such circumstances, Nargolkar said the contempt petition was liable to be disposed of, as nothing remained in the proceeding to be done further.The high court accepted that in at least two of the four orders passed by the magistrate, the precedents were not even mentioned. In the third, the magistrate merely mentioned the superior court judgments cited by Athawale but did not deal with it whereas, in the fourth, he erred on the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/disregarding-binding-precedents-no-contempt-says-bombay-hc-exonerates-magistrate/story-JINpN6oaZHpiRBG3rTGW1H.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST to introduce 26 electric buses today||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) will be introducing 26 electric buses in the city on Friday. This is the first phase of its plan to ply 340 electric buses in Mumbai by 2022. The buses will be flagged off by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday afternoon. The buses will include midi (smaller) and the conventional ones. The midi buses have a seating capacity of 31 and standing capacity for 12 while the conventional electric buses have a seating capacity of nearly 60 passengers and standing capacity for 20. Each of the buses can travel up to 200 kilometres (km) in a single charge. The buses have been procured under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicles (FAME)-II scheme of the Central government, which promotes the use of electric vehicles in the country to curb pollution.The buses will be operated on all the routes, particularly on feeder and long-distance ones. BEST drivers were trained to operate these buses. The first set of six electric buses was rolled out by BEST in 2017. The undertaking presently operates 38 electric buses on different routes in the city. BEST, which runs bus service in Mumbai, is the second largest mass transport system after suburban railways in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-best-to-introduce-26-electric-buses-today/story-D7KCDPL2S7bR7W8jdoU0yH.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||CPCB issues notice to Delhi government for immediate action against local pollution||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has issued a notice to Delhi government to take immediate action on emissions from open burning of waste; improper handling of construction waste; industrial emissions; dust from unpaved roads and open spaces which have been reported by citizens on Centre’s Sameer mobile application.The notice issued under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act 1986 said out of 3,094 complaints lodged on Sameer app between October 7 and November 18, only 34% of the complaints have been redressed so far and out of 784 complaints lodged on social media during the same period, only 24% have been redressed so far.Under Section 5 of the Act, which gives CPCB powers to issue directions in writing to any person, officer or any authority who shall be bound to comply with such directions, the Board has issued three directions to Delhi government. It has said that Delhi government should ensure immediate action for complete redressal of complaints on Sameer app and social media; closely monitor actions taken on polluting events; ensure regular surveillance and strict action against illegal industrial activities including tyre burning and dumping of construction waste.“Delhi’s pollution levels are still high. Stubble burning has stopped but pollution levels are in very poor category. CPCB’s 50 teams are monitoring polluting activities in Delhi and NCR and have been informing various agencies but agencies haven’t acted on all complaints. Delhi government agencies should get their act together,” said Prakash Javadekar, Union environment minister on Friday.HT has reached out to Delhi government for a response on CPCB’s notice. This copy will be updated with their response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cpcb-issues-notice-to-delhi-government-for-immediate-action-against-local-pollution/story-dyJ5iKeViydC07EMoibnyH.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Traffic snarls continue on Delhi borders as farmers’ protests enter Day 8||Commuters to and from Delhi continued to suffer as multiple borders connecting the national capital to surrounding states remained sealed on Friday as farmers carried on with their protests against the three agricultural reforms introduced by the central government for more than a week now.Delhi Traffic Police, through a series of tweets on Friday morning, updated that the Tikri border along with Jharoda, Chilla, Gazipur and several multiple border points were closed for traffic movement. It added that National Highway NH-44 was closed from both sides. They also urged residents to opt for alternative routes via the National Highway (NH)-8/Bhopra/Apsara border/Peripheral expressway.“Singhu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Pl take alternate routes via NH8/Bhopra /Apsara border /Peripheral expressway,” it said.Meanwhile, Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles (LMVs) like cars and two-wheelers, while Jhatikara border is open only for the two-wheeler traffic.It has been eight days since farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. Thursday’s meeting at Vigyan Bhawan between the Union ministers and the representative of farmers’ groups which went on for over seven hours seemed to move a little ahead. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind. Another round of talks will be held on Saturday. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 were introduced by Parliament in September.While the Centre continues to maintain that these laws would eliminate middlemen and enable farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, farmers fear they would be denied the right to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce and big corporations would exercise control over them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-snarls-continue-on-delhi-borders-as-farmers-protests-enter-day-8/story-9TFyixFvySbtW34JF6iTLO.html
04-12-2020||Lucknow||Iranian leader’s envoy meets maulana Kalbe Sadiq’s family||Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei’s representative maulana Mahdi Mahdavipour visited Shia cleric maulana Kalbe Sadiq’s home to pay tribute to the Islamic scholar, who breathed his last on November 25. Najmul Hasan Rizvi, son in law of maulana Kalbe Sadiq, while confirming the visit of Maulana Mahdi, said that it was a personal visit by Mahdi, who was there to offer condolences on Sadiq’s death.“Ayatollah Khamenei sahib had a very good understanding with my father-in-law. It’s out of that understanding that he had sent his representative maulana Mahdi to meet the family members out of courtesy,” said Rizvi.Also Read: Samajwadi Party’s Kisan Yatras from December 7 to protest ‘anti-farmer’ policies He said maulana Mahdi had also visited the family on the day of the funeral of maulana Kalbe Sadiq. Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, 83, breathed his last on November 24 at Era Medical College in Lucknow. He was suffering from colorectal cancer, pneumonia and other ailments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/iranian-leader-s-envoy-meets-maulana-kalbe-sadiq-s-family/story-xoL1f1hLc34qV9dEPJnmnO.html
04-12-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party’s Kisan Yatras from December 7 to protest ‘anti-farmer’ policies||The Samajwadi Party (SP) will launch state-wide Kisan Yatras or Farmers’ marches beginning December 7 to protest against alleged anti-farmer policies of the Central government.The farmers’ protest march was announced by SP national president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday, said a press statement issued by SP’s state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Akhilesh said the Kisan Yatras will be taken out by party workers and leaders across the state on foot, bicycles and motorcycles etc.“The rallies will be against BJP’s anti-farmer policy and will be taken out in each and every district,” the statement quoted Akhilesh as saying.The rallies would make people aware of the issues that farmers were facing, it added. As per the statement, Akhilesh also said that the farmers were currently distressed. Also Read: Shivpal Yadav calls Akhilesh’s 1 seat offer a joke, seeks socialist front against BJPThe agitation has been announced at a time when the Central government is locked into talks with farmers unions, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, over the three farm laws passed by the Parliament earlier this year.Farmers allege that these laws will take away their income security and make them vulnerable to corporates. However, the Centre maintains that the laws are reformative in nature and meant to free the farmers from the shackles of the old Mandi-Agent system, giving them greater freedom and opportunity to increase their incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-s-kisan-yatras-from-december-7-to-protest-anti-farmer-policies/story-J8PJVdxMWUhhE1vWj4ObTN.html
04-12-2020||City||DDC polls: 8.33% votes polled till 9am across J&K in the third phase||A voter turnout of 8.33% was recorded in the third phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu & Kashmir until 9am on Friday. The state election commissioner’s office said Kupwara recorded 3.41%, Bandipora 9.03%, Baramulla 1.78%, Ganderbal 1.33%, Budgam 8.14%, Pulwama 1.75%, Shopian 2.74%, Kulgam 10.02% and Anantnag 0.45% turnout till 09:00 am.In the Jammu division, Kishtwar recorded voting percentage of 11.76%, Doda 9%, Ramban 8.76%, Reasi 14.70%, Kathua 11.73%, Samba 17.50%, Jammu 15.22%, Rajouri 15.21% and Poonch 12.15% till 09:00 am.The Kashmir division recorded an overall polling percentage of 2.91% while the Jammu division 13.59% up to 09:00 am. In the third phase, voting is being held in 33 constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-8-33-votes-polled-till-9am-across-j-k-in-the-third-phase/story-HxOZA5PpQOXcFXcacLKosK.html
04-12-2020||Dehradun||Top former Uttarakhand officials join AAP as party eyes 2022 assembly polls||Former Uttarakhand state election commissioner Suvardhan Shah and former inspector general (IG) Uttarakhand police, Anantram Chauhan, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in presence of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and AAP’s Uttarakhand in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya on Thursday. “I met Kejriwal and joined AAP today. I retired as state election commissioner in 2018. In November 2019, I joined the BJP. But on Wednesday, I resigned from BJP to join AAP,” said Suvardhan Shah, an IAS officer of 1997 batch. On why he left BJP, Shah said he will make everything clear in the coming days. Anantram Chauhan said he retired as IG (CID) in 2018. “I joined AAP as it has done tremendous work in Delhi and I want similar development to happen in my state. Their policies have greatly impressed me. So I want to contribute to AAP in my state given my vast experience of serving in different parts of the state,” he said Chauhan said he had served as the superintendent of police (SP) in Chamoli and Uttarkashi districts and as senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Nainital district. “In 2014, I was promoted as DIG Kumaon and in 2018 as IG (CID)”, he added. Also Read: Uttarakhand CM sets deadline for Mahakumbh preparations amid credit war over Ganga statusSpeaking on the occasion, Dinesh Mohaniya said both the senior retired officers had served in plain and hilly areas of the state and were well-versed with the issues faced by the people. “Their presence in AAP will greatly benefit the party given their vast experience. Both of them have joined AAP as they were impressed by the policies and the vision of AAP. In the coming days, more such people will join AAP, to further strengthen the party in Uttarakhand,” he said. SS Kaler, president of AAP’s Uttarakhand unit said they are very happy with such senior retired officers joining the party.“It will strengthen our party and help us to further understand the issues faced by the people in the state,” Kaler said. Kaler said AAP wants to give people of the Himalayan state a better alternative to BJP and Congress. “Everyone knows how successful our Delhi model of governance has been. We want to replicate the same here,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/top-former-uttarakhand-officials-join-aap-as-party-eyes-2022-assembly-polls/story-li5WOggEmvkD3Qoo0kWy0K.html
04-12-2020||Pune||Maharashtra’s ruling alliance wins BJP dominated Pune Graduates’ constituency||Maha Vikas Aghadi candidate Arun Lad has won the Pune Graduates Constituency polls, wresting the seat away from the BJP by defeating the saffron party’s candidate, Sangram Deshmukh. Lad got 1.22 lakh votes against Deshmukh’s 73, 321 votes. BJP’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil and Union minister Prakash Javadekar have represented this constituency in the past with Patil representing the constituency twice.Former Janata Dal Secular MLA Sharad Patil and MNS candidate Rupali Patil Thombre were also contesting this seat, which is traditionally dominated by the BJP. Also Read: Maharashtra CM congratulates Gobal Teacher Prize 2020 winner Ranjitsinh DisaleThe constituency is made up of voters from Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts. On Thursday, elections were held for the Pune Division Graduates’ constituency, Nagpur Division Graduates’ constituency, Aurangabad Division Graduates’ constituency, Amravati Division Teachers’ constituency, Pune Division Teachers’ constituency and Dhule-Nandurbar Local bodies’ constituency. Even in Pune Teachers’ constituency, the ruling alliance candidate is leading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-s-ruling-alliance-wins-bjp-dominated-pune-graduates-constituency/story-RgNuGA2egzoPUTx8AMCVvK.html
04-12-2020||Noida||Centre of excellence to be set up in Noida, will create jobs||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to set up a ‘centre of excellence’ in Noida for products based on Li-ion cells or lithium-ion batteries. The state is one of the leading manufacturers and exporters of electronics and IT in the country.The centre will encourage around 100 MSMEs and will help create 5,000-7,000 job opportunities. It will also help in creating an ecosystem for designing and creating a hub for power banks and Indian mobile handsets in the state, the government claimed.These include battery monitoring system for electric vehicles, solar system battery pack, GPS navigation system , ticket vending machines for trains, buses, power banks, Bluetooth speakers, chargers, wireless chargers, smart lighting systems, radio, UPS system, routers and sound meters (for money transfer with a particular sound) among others.“The centre will provide crucial technical input to start-ups and MSMEs for production of mass market electronics accessories up to the prototype stage,” said Dinesh Sharma, deputy chief minister and minister of IT and electronics, in a statement issued on Thursday.“The state government will be able to nominate diploma holders, ITI pass outs, BSc and MSc in electronics as ‘certification engineers’, thereby creating employment opportunities,” Sharma added.Also Read: Court stays UP govt’s move to recover damages from anti-CAA protestors“Due to the availability of a well-established necessary ecosystem in Noida, the Indian Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) proposed the establishment of product-based Li-ion cells centre of excellence in Noida,” said Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary, IT and electronics.“It has been approved in principle and work to establish the centre will start soon after the approval from the Union government,” Kumar added.“The government will set up three centres of excellence in collaboration with the Union ministry of electronics and information technology, and industrial association,” Kumar informed.The state government will bear 25% of the cost while the union government and industrial associations will bear the remaining 75 % of the total cost of the project.It is estimated that the Union government and the state governments will contribute Rs 9.04 crore and Rs 3.01 crore respectively, whereas, the contribution of ICEA would be Rs 5.36 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/centre-of-excellence-to-be-set-up-in-noida-will-create-jobs/story-ZS0U3flWCmQijB8d6yKPKL.html
04-12-2020||Lucknow||Shivpal Yadav calls Akhilesh’s 1 seat offer a joke, seeks socialist front against BJP||Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav has called the Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s offer of leaving ‘one seat’ for his uncle’s party in 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, ‘a joke’.He said his party was looking for a handful of winnable seats for the PSP-L to enter into any prospective alliance with SP.Shivpal said he would launch his party’s poll campaign with a rally in Meerut on December 21 and from December 24 onwards the party would launch a state-wide village-level contact programme over farmers’ issues.The day before Diwali, Akhilesh Yadav had said at a press conference in Saifai, Etawah that his party would make an ‘adjustment’ and leave Shivpal’s Jaswant Nagar seat. He said he would also make Shivpal Yadav a cabinet minister when the SP returned to power in the state. Shivpal is the sitting Jaswant Nagar MLA.In response, Shivpal dismissed the offer.“The one-seat offer is a joke. So far as the idea of being (made) a cabinet minister (is concerned), I have been a cabinet minister several times. So, it’s not a big deal. What we are looking for is a handful of winnable seats.”He reiterated that all socialist parties must come on a single platform if they wished to defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Through various ways and over a hundred times, I have said that various socialist forces must unite, giving respectable place to each one of them. So far, as the Samajwadi Party (SP) is concerned, it has not given any positive indications to the overtures and I could not have any dialogue with the SP leadership. It is unfortunate that despite the best of intentions, things are not moving forward.”Also Read: UP sees marginal rise in revenue collections in November, misses targetHe said his party would not merge with any party and he would start a movement to strengthen it.After the Meerut rally, the party would launch a march on December 24, aimed at reaching every village and the campaign would go on for six months. He said he was also getting a ‘rath’ (motorised chariot) readied for his campaign.Shivpal and nephew Akhilesh fell out politically following a protracted Yadav family feud over the control of the party when Akhilesh was UP chief minister. Akhilesh, in January 2017, became party’s national president, and Shivpal was ousted from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/shivpal-yadav-calls-akhilesh-s-1-seat-offer-a-joke-seeks-socialist-front-against-bjp/story-VaJKa3U3Vq8JgFZPBlc2BM.html
04-12-2020||Lucknow||UP sees marginal rise in revenue collections in November, misses target||The Uttar Pradesh government may have hit a speed-breaker on the road to economic recovery with its total revenue collection going up by only Rs 345.97 crore in November 2020-2021 vis-à-vis the collections in the same month in 2019-2020. Although, the increase in revenue collections continued for the fifth consecutive month in the state, the comparatively lower increase in collections during the festival season have raised some questions. “Uttar Pradesh collected total revenue of Rs 10,903.87 crore in November 2020-2021 against Rs 10,557 crore collected in the same month in 2019-2020. This indicates an increase of Rs 345.97 crore in November 2020,” said minister for revenue Suresh Khanna while speaking to media persons here. The revenue collection is far below the target of Rs 13,825.24 crore.Uttar Pradesh’s total revenue collection had gone up by Rs 1,828.44 crore in October 2020 vis-à-vis total collections made in the same month in 2019. The excise department witnessed an increase of Rs 190.93 crore with its collections going up from Rs 2,273.85 crore in November 2019 to Rs 2,464.78 crore in November 2020, meeting 83% of its target. The stamps and registration department exceeded its target, collecting Rs 1,628 crore in November 2020 (103.8% of the target) against Rs 1,421.37 crore in the same month last year.“An increase in collections by the stamps and registration department indicates that people have sufficient funds to invest in property,” said Khanna.A close scrutiny of revenue recovery in November 2020, however, indicates that low increase in revenue collections was apparently because of lesser GST collections during the festival season. “The GST collections remained about Rs 3,712.69 crore in November 2020 against Rs 4,170.71 crore in the same month in 2019. The VAT collections, however, went up by about Rs 381.59 crore,” he said. Additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal attributed the low GST collections to late filing. Diwali was celebrated in October in 2019 and so the same was reflected in November 2019. Diwali has been celebrated in November in 2020 and so the GST collections made during the festival will be reflected next month,” said Mittal. “It’s good that the state government’s total revenue collections have increased. There are, however, certain issues like the dip in GST in November 2020, which is surprising. Low GST collections in November either indicate lesser spending on Diwali or late filing of GST returns by traders. Hopefully, this will be made up in the subsequent months,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, department of economics, Lucknow University.Also Read: FIR against 14 under new law on conversionOther heads witnessing low revenue collections include transport department --Rs 697.71 crore against Rs 735.83 crore in 2019-2020. The state’s non-tax revenue that also comes from mining of minor minerals has, however, gone up from Rs 190.19 crore in November 2019 to Rs 253.15 crore in the same month this year. The government spends a sum of Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore every month to pay salaries and pension to its employees. It will have to borrow funds to allocate money for development works and meet its committed expenditure if the total revenue collections continue to remain low in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-sees-marginal-rise-in-revenue-collections-in-november-misses-target/story-9gEPukMjY05oC4gEeDszcJ.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI continues to stay in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on Friday morning. At 7am, the air quality index (AQI) was 335, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The average AQI on Thursday was 341. However, government agencies have forecast a deterioration in air quality from December 4 onwards, as wind speed is going to reduce and turn calm around December 6-7, and may plunge further. At the same time, a change is likely in wind pattern from north-westerly to easterly, which may bring moisture allowing accumulation of pollutants close to the ground. Also, shallow fog in the morning is expected on December 4-5. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and that above 400 is considered severe. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the air is likely to remain in the very poor zone on Friday, but from Saturday, wind speed will slow down and there will be further deterioration of air quality. IMD scientists warned that on December 6 and December 7, the AQI might even slip to the severe zone. “Our forecast says that on December 6 and December 7, the air quality will be at its worst and is even likely to slip into the latter end of very poor or severe,” a senior IMD scientist said. He added that the change in wind direction is due to a western disturbance that will affect Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh from the night of December 3, which will also have an impact on Delhi. “Whenever there is a change in wind pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants close to the ground,” he said. On Thursday, the minimum temperature settled at 8.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. The maximum was 27.2, two notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-continues-to-stay-in-very-poor-category/story-xuUQpaupPsgw4eLBJGGlQM.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Govt Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, director-principal BS Chavan passes away at 59||Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, director-principal BS Chavan passed away on Friday morning. He was 59. Dr Chavan, a noted psychiatrist, was diagnosed with advanced stage of cancer of the large intestine in 2019 and was undergoing treatment at GMCH-32. “He was on ventilator since last Saturday. His oxygen saturation levels dipped around 2am and despite our best efforts, he passed away peacefully at 2.30am,” the hospital spokesman, Anil Moudgil, said. The last rites were conducted at the cremation ground at Sector 25, where senior officials of the Chandigarh Administration, doctors from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the Union Territory health department and GMCH, Sector 32, paid their tributes to Dr Chavan . LED FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19 FROM THE FRONTPGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “Despite his health problems, Dr Chavan led the battle against Covid-19 from the front.” Dr Chavan also headed the Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disability (GRIID), Sector 31, and Mental Health Institute, Sector 32. He was also serving as head of the psychiatry department for the past 24 years. Before joining GMCH in 1996, Dr Chavan worked at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, as senior faculty for eight years. He studied MD, psychiatry, from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, in 1987 and later received the World Health Organisation Fellowship in community psychiatry from Australia in 1998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-medical-college-and-hospital-chandigarh-director-principal-bs-chavan-passes-away-at-58/story-HFsXmV8fTcLONclLOTNThJ.html
04-12-2020||Bhopal||MP home minister ready to volunteer for Covid vaccine trial||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday said he is ready to volunteer for the Covid-19 vaccine trial and he will also speak to the doctors regarding the process. “I am ready to volunteer for the Covid-19 vaccine trial. I will speak to the doctors. If people like us come forward then other people will also volunteer,” said Mishra. Speaking about the ongoing farmers’ protest, Mishra said that the leaders who are trying to instigate the farmers will not be successful in doing so.“Talks are being held with the farmers peacefully. We will find a way to their issues,” he added. The farmers are protesting in border areas of Delhi against three farm laws enacted by the government recently. The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-home-minister-ready-to-volunteer-for-covid-vaccine-trial/story-FDnIyrxksdArPkOxZBmIuI.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||No need for me to tap phones of my colleagues: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is firm, said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday while adding that there is no need for him to ‘tap’ the phones of his colleagues. “I trust all my ministers, there is no need for me to tap the phones of my colleagues. All are doing really good work. This Government is firm,” said Thackeray while addressing an event in Mumbai to mark the first anniversary of MVA.“This government has the support of people. They have accepted us as we are doing good work,” he added. His statement came after Union minister Raosaheb Danve recently expressed confidence that the BJP will again come to power in Maharashtra in the next two to three months.On the other hand, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had also said that he is not waiting for the “unnatural” alliance to fall but “historically, such governments never lasted four-five years”.Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Chief, Sharad Pawar targeted the central government and blamed it for the ongoing farmer protest.The NCP chief said, “Even popular Canadian leaders understand the plight our farmers face with the passage of these bills. Ever since the central government has taken the charge, they have added to the problems in this country. Be it farmers’ issue or managing the Covid-19 crisis, this government has failed in many aspects.”On the first anniversary of MVA, he said, “MVA has performed well despite facing so many natural calamities.”Talking about his government in the state, he said, “In our state government, everyone has worked hard towards the betterment of the state.”The MVA government of the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and Congress in Maharashtra, completed one year on November 28. It came to power after all of an 80-hour government of the BJP after the 2019 polls. BJP formed an 80-hour government after the 2019 Maharashtra polls with the support of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar. On the wee hours of November 23, 2019, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar were sworn-in as the chief minister and deputy chief minister respectively at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai.However, the government lasted for only 80 hours with Pawar tendering his resignation as the deputy CM, paving the way for the Shiv Sena-led MVA to assume office on November 28.Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray took oath as the Chief Minister of the MVA government and Pawar became his deputy.The BJP had won the maximum 105 seats in the Maharashtra Assembly polls held last year, followed by Shiv Sena, which bagged 56 seats. The NCP had won 54 seats and the Congress 44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-need-for-me-to-tap-phones-of-my-colleagues-uddhav-thackeray/story-DoqmZ5GQFdzrTXshrGp8RM.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula, Ambala MCs to go to polls on December 27||Polling for seven municipal bodies in Haryana will be held on December 27 and the results will be declared on December 30.The poll notification will be issued on December 4 and nomination papers can be filed from December 11 to 16. State election commissioner, Haryana, Dalip Singh, said the general elections for the seats of mayor and members of all wards of MCs of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat and president and members of municipal council, Rewari; municipal committee, Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Ukalana (Hisar) will be held on December 27.Besides this, bypolls for ward number 7 of municipal committee, Indri (Karnal), ward number 13 of Bhuna (Fatehabad), ward number 12 of Rajaund (Kaithal), ward number 14 of municipal council, Fatehabad and ward number 29 of municipal council, Sirsa have also been notified.The election commissioner said the model code of conduct in respect of these municipal bodies has come into force from December 3.He said the returning officers would publish a notice for inviting nominations on December 4. The nomination papers will be presented and posted from December 11 to 16 between 11am to 3pm (except December 13).Scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on December 17. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is December 18.The symbols will be allotted to the contesting candidates on December 18 after 3pm. Polling will be held on December 27 from 8am to 5.30pm.The election commissioner said the last one hour (from 4.30 to 5.30 pm) has been fixed for Covid-19 patients and those having Covid-19 symptoms to cast their vote. As per him, the post of mayor in the Ambala MC has been reserved for a woman. Besides , the post of president of Sampla municipal committee has been reserved for a woman belonging to Scheduled Castes and the post of president in Rewari municipal council has also been reserved for any candidate belonging to Backward Classes.He said the post of mayor in Panchkula and Sonepat MC will remain unreserved and so will be the posts of president in municipal committees of Dharuhera (Rewari) and Ukalana (Hisar).He added that the seats of mayor in corporations and president in councils and committees will now be filled up through direct elections. Earlier, these seats were being filled up from amongst the elected members of the municipality concerned. However, the seats of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor of the corporations and vice-president of the councils and committees will be filled up as per previous practice that is through indirect election from amongst the elected members of the municipality concerned.Congress to contest municipal polls on symbolHaryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Thursday said her party will contest the upcoming municipal polls on the party symbol. In a statement, Selja said decision to contest municipal polls on party symbol was taken after holding consultations with AICC incharge for Haryana, Vivek Bansal, and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-ambala-mcs-to-go-to-polls-on-december-27/story-TpH18gzztIXvYJ5ljVTmJO.html
04-12-2020||City||Support pours in from all fronts for farmers protesting in Delhi||School-going children, college students, elderly and various representatives of khaps are throwing weight behind the farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws at Tikri border.Jamidar Chattar Sabha, an organisation of youths from Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and other states, have been catching eye at the farmers’ protest as over of its 150 volunteers, mostly students, have been providing free langar, tea, and other necessary items for the last eight days. Meet Mann, who heads the group, said they have joined the farmers’ agitation as they “felt the pain of the crop grower”. “We have arranged everything for farmers. In the daytime, we provide them langar, milk, tea, kheer and other eatables. Our volunteers have been bringing dairy products and vegetables from nearby villages,” he added.Raju Mann, a farm leader, said the khaps and students have lent their support to the farmers and they are turning up in large numbers.Two brothers, Sukhvinder Singh, a student of Class 8, and Kirpal Singh, a student of Class 10, who had shifted to Bahadurgarh from Amritsar 10 years ago, have been taking part in the protest. “Every morning, my father drops us at the dharna site before going to his tailor shop. For the first time, we have joined a protest,” Sukhvinder said.Banging a dafli and singing songs about farmers’ plight , Anju, a student of Maharshi Dayanand University , said her family cultivates on three acres of land and she joined the protest as she had an emotional connect with farmers.“Hundreds of varsity students from Haryana, Punjab and Delhi have been sitting with farmers in protest and singing songs in Hindi, Punjabi and Haryanvi. We will leave the Tikri border once the demands are met,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/support-pours-in-from-all-fronts-for-protesting-farmers/story-5stOTnYoWygHb8QJHysCqJ.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||BMC aims to vaccinate 1 crore Mumbaiites within a month||Expecting a rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine early next year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in its blueprint of immunisation process aims to vaccinate around 1 crore Mumbaiites within a month in the first phase. The civic body estimates that Mumbai is home to 2 crore people in 2020. “So far, the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given the nod to vaccinate around 1.25 lakh health workers from public and private sectors. Along with this, with the approval of ICMR, we may include police, employees of solid waste management and citizens above 50 years in the first phase. But we are yet to get an official approval from ICMR,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. The Union health ministry has instructed all states to keep a blueprint of their first vaccination process ready. The civic body has been holding regular meetings with senior health officers, including deans of medical colleges. As per the initial planning of the blueprint, other than medical colleges, the civic body will start vaccination points at peripheral hospitals (except maternity hospitals). Also, two vaccination centres will be located in every civic ward. “We are trying to create as many vaccination centres as possible to fasten the process. We have also created a blueprint on the training process of the vaccine providers. We also have to procure cold chain boxes (vaccine carriers that help maintain the temperature, until it is delivered to the centre) from the government for transportation of vaccines,” he said. The King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital in Parel and BYL Nair hospital in Mumbai Central are conducting second and third phase of clinical trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine. While Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, known as Sion Hospital, and the government-run JJ hospital will soon commence clinical trials of the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine – Covaxin. Currently, BMC has identified a 5,000-sqft floor space in a five-storey civic body building in Kanjurmarg for a cold storage facility. The temperature of the cold storage facility will be structured based on the vaccine type. “Two vaccines are undergoing clinical trials in the city. One needs a cooling temperature between -2 and - 8 degrees. So, the first three-storey will be designed specifically for the vaccine. While the second vaccine needs another set of temperatures. Once the second vaccine gets approval, we will customise the other two floors as per its required temperature,” said a health officer from BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-aims-to-vaccinate-1-crore-mumbaiites-within-a-month/story-pBRqMy3lwZMxm32ARgoqIP.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Trade and labour groups join farmers’ stir in Maharashtra||eeshanpriya@htlive.comFarmers in Maharashtra, under the umbrella of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), marched to the tehsildar and collectors’ offices on Thursday and submitted petitions in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre’s new farm laws. The protests were carried out across 400 tehsils and 36 districts in the state. Ajit Navale, Maharashtra general secretary of AIKS said, “Protests at every tehsil and district collectors’ offices across Maharashtra started on Thursday morning.” Forty-eight more groups, comprising labourers, tribals, bank employees and social organisations under the banner of Jan Andolananchi Sangharsha Samiti, joined the farmers on Thursday’s protest. Vishwas Utagi, convener of Jan Andolananchi Sangharsha Samiti, said, “The peaceful protests were carried out successfully across the state. We will also meet senior Congress leaders within the next few days, demanding that the Maharashtra government strengthen labour laws in the state, and enact a legislation in the upcoming Assembly session of December to protect the interests of farmers. Agriculture is a state subject and the central government is trying to encroach upon it. We want to create a strong lobby by joining hands with political parties to protect the rights of our state.” The Congress party also carried out protests throughout the state in solidarity with the farmers protesting in the national capital. Local leaders from each district handed over memorandums to the officials from the collectors and tehsildars’ offices. The party has been calling for the abolition of the farm laws, which were passed in the Parliament in September. In Mumbai, a protest was held at Bharatmata Cinema in Parel by the Trade Unions’ Joint Action Committee which consisted of the state units of Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC ), Bharatiya Kamgar Sena Mahasangh, New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI), Trade Union Centre of India (TUCI), state government employees and also the Shramik Ekta Mahasangh (Pune) which has been operating throughout Maharashtra for over 30 years. Meanwhile, the state unit of Congress during a meeting passed a resolution at Vidhan Bhavan to support the farmers protesting in Delhi for more than a week. The meeting was attended by party legislators, senior leaders from the state and officer-bearers from the All-India Congress Committee. “The Modi government has passed three laws using its thumping majority in the Parliament. We will stand firm behind the farmers during their protest on the borders of the Delhi,” the resolution stated. “The central government should make changes to the laws to weed out the doubts in the minds of the farmers. If the Modi government is terming the laws to be in the interest of farmers, why is it not being amended as demanded by the farmers,” said Maharashtra Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trade-and-labour-groups-join-farmers-stir-in-maharashtra/story-77UyPIVokA49jdFbCLSGuM.html
04-12-2020||City||Maharashtra was never afraid and never will be, says CM Thackeray; attacks Centre during govt’s first anniversary event||At an event organised to celebrate the first anniversary of his government, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said that Maharashtra has “never been afraid and it never will be”. The statement came at a time when a central investigating agency is probing a ruling-party legislator. Thackeray added that the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is ready to “dismantle and defeat” political challenges in the future. Thackeray, along with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and state Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat unveiled ‘Unstoppable Maharashtra’, a booklet, partially coloured in saffron, which listed out the government’s decisions pertaining to agriculture, education, health, law and order, industries, environment, tourism, food and civil supplies in its first year in power. The leaders also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) indirectly in their respective addresses. The MVA government completed a year in power on November 28. Speaking at the event held at the Sahyadri state guest house in Malabar Hill on Thursday, Thackeray said, “The cover of the booklet says ‘Maharashtra has never stopped and never will be stopped’. Similarly, Maharashtra has never been afraid and never will be afraid. We will surely combat the natural calamities, but if somebody tries to draw a political crisis onto us, then Maharashtra will dismantle and defeat it… The government is on firm feet and it will take steps further to solve the issues of people.” Speaking at the event, Pawar said that the MVA government has taken decisions for the people and farmers, and thus it will have the support of the citizens and will continue to remain in power for years to come. “The farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting for the past eight to 10 days. It is because those who are in power do not understand the problems of the farmers. But the farmers in Maharashtra did not come on the streets in the past one year, and that is an achievement of this government,” Pawar said. Without naming the BJP, Thackeray’s deputy targeted the Opposition in the state and said that several attempts were made to topple the government, but they remained unsuccessful. He said that the state government has no threat till the three leaders – Sonia Gandhi, Pawar and Thackeray – continue on their resolve to run the MVA alliance. “The Opposition gave a lot of dates…. It said the government will collapse in two months, then in six months. Today, media persons asked me what is the future of this government. I told them, Sonia Gandhi, Pawar saheb and Uddhavji Thackeray have firmly decided to run the MVA…. [and] till [they are together] then there is no threat to the government,” said Ajit Pawar. He added that the government firmly stands by the Common Minimum Programme. In an apparent reply to his nephew, Sharad Pawar, who spoke after Ajit, said, “The people of the state do not forget the government that works for them. Though the CM speaks less, he is clever and has successfully run a three-party government. I am confident that this government will continue to work for the people for five years but we have to run the government for the next 25 years.” The CM too was confident that the people of the state back his government. He also slammed the Opposition for “practising politics” during a pandemic and calamities. “Natural calamities are not in our hands. But when politics is practised during natural calamities, it is quite anguishing… This government has not come together for politics. In the beginning, we were called a three-wheeler [auto rickshaw] government, but they never realised there is a fourth wheel, which is the people’s faith [in the government],” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-was-never-afraid-and-never-will-be-says-cm-thackeray-attacks-centre-during-govt-s-first-anniversary-event/story-rlhQvDreA5RVufxFwasqmL.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Advocate files petition seeking suspension of Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter account||An advocate has filed a petition in the Bombay high court (HC) against actor Kangana Ranaut and sought suspension of her Twitter account, like that of her sister Rangoli Chandel, on the grounds that Ranaut used the account to spread hatred and disharmony in the country through derogatory tweets. The petition has included Twitter Inc. as a party and sought directions to the social messaging service provider to suspend Ranaut’s account and implement its community guidelines diligently and bar people inciting hatred among masses. The petition filed by advocate Kashif Ali Khan Deshmukh, while referring to the malicious tweets by Chandel in April, stated that after the account was suspended, Ranaut came out in support of her sister through a video wherein she reiterated what Chandel had tweeted. Chandel had suggested genocide of persons belonging to a minority community through her tweet. The petition states that a complaint was lodged with Amboli police about the video, but no action was initiated against the actor. The petition further adds that in later months, the actor maligned public servants and also tried to disrupt the harmony between the Hindu and Muslim communities through controversial tweets pertaining to Bollywood. The petition also refers to a tweet wherein the actor maligned a lower court. Apart from approaching the police to lodge complaints against the animosity filled tweets, the petitioner stated that he wrote to the grievance officer of Twitter Inc. which has its office in Bandra-Kurla Complex to suspend the Twitter account. However, as no action was initiated, he approached the HC and make Twitter Inc. a party by invoking article 226 and section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. According to Deshmukh, the petition has prayed for suspension of Ranaut’s Twitter account and sought directions to Twitter to implement its community guidelines for users stringently. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/advocate-files-petition-seeking-suspension-of-kangana-ranaut-s-twitter-account/story-vRyoCI8zSyKsf2OIGbCkmJ.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra zilla parishad educator first in India to win $1-million teacher prize||It is a proud moment for the zilla parishad schools in Maharashtra, as one of their educators, 31-year-old Ranjitsinh Disale, has become the first teacher from India to win the prestigious $1-million Global Teacher Prize for innovation in teaching. The award is bestowed by London-based Varkey Foundation and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco). The winners were announced by actor-writer Stephen Fry in an online ceremony from the Natural History Museum, London, on Thursday.Disale, a teacher at the zilla parishad school in Solapur’s Paritewadi, was among the 12,000 educators from 140 countries, who had been nominated for the prize. The prize was set up to recognise one exceptional teacher making an outstanding contribution to the profession as well as to shine a spotlight on the important role teachers play in society. Disale will donate 50% of his prize money to the other finalists who were nominated for the award, so that children across the globe get quality education. “In his winning speech, Mr Disale made the extraordinary announcement that he will share half the prize money with his fellow Top 10 finalists, resulting in the other nine finalists receiving just over US $55,000 each. This is the first time in the Global Teacher Prize’s six-year history that the overall winner has shared the prize money with the other finalists,” stated the official release issued by Varkey Foundation on Thursday. The foundation, which has promoted the prize since 2014, said Disale has “transformed the life chances of girls” at the zilla parishad primary school. Disale’s journey of adopting technology in education started in 2009, when he entered the zilla parishad school which had very few students enrolled. Dropouts owing to child marriages, poor learning outcomes and child labour were common. However, he did not give up and decided to bring about a change. Gradually, he realised that students had to be brought to school by making learning more interesting and teaching beyond textbooks. He then decided to use technology to better the learning experience for his students, but the school only had one laptop. While trying to look for solutions online, he found a very easy option – (quick response) QR codes. In the years to come, he created QR codes and pasted them on the existing textbooks. These codes could be scanned with the help of mobile phones and additional resources on the topics would pop up. In 2015, the Maharashtra government had adopted Disale’s idea and made QR codes available in Balbharti textbooks. Subsequently in 2018, the then Union Human Resource Development minister Prakash Javadekar had announced that all National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) textbooks will have embedded QR codes. “I am happy that my work towards achieving bettering learning outcomes with the help of innovative methods such as QR codes in textbooks has been recognised by the stalwarts in education across the globe,” said an elated Disale. From 2017, Disale has been working on a unique project. With an intention of nurturing friendship between students in India and Pakistan, he has been conducting online video sessions with students from both countries. Disale also wants to ensure that each year, at least 5,000 students from the war-afflicted countries of the world are recruited into a ‘Peace Army’. “I would like to use the prize money for my project and to support innovation of teachers,” he said. Meanwhile, the award ceremony also included a special recognition for one teacher – a Covid hero – who has gone above and beyond to keep young people learning during the Covid-19 pandemic. The $ 45,000 Covid Hero Award, supported by CVC Capital Partners, was given to UK Maths teacher Jamie Frost, whose free DrFrostMaths became a lifeline for students shut out of classrooms all around the world. Prime Minister Boris Johnson hailed the “creativity and ingenuity” of the winners and added: “Although I’m speaking to you in difficult and sometimes heart-breaking circumstances, it’s right that we take time to recognise the enormous contribution and sacrifice of the world’s teachers during this pandemic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-zilla-parishad-educator-first-in-india-to-win-1-million-teacher-prize/story-X4tF9IzmEVNZFarOq9CW7I.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra proposes declaration of 11 conservation reserves to protect 1,076 sq km forest area||The Maharashtra forest department has proposed the declaration of 11 conservation reserves (CR) in western Maharashtra and Vidarbha. It has also requested allocation of Rs 20 crore annually for the conservation and management of CRs. The State Board of Wildlife (SWL), chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, will decide on these proposals n Friday. Among the 11 proposed CRs, eight are in western Maharashtra (five in Kolhapur, one in Sindhudurg and two at Satara) while two are in Nagpur and one is in Amravati. The total protected area is 1,076.19 sq. km, which is equivalent to 10 times the area of Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park (103 sq. km). Among new proposals, the department has proposed the Chandgad CR at Kolhapur across 225.24 sq.km with 23 villages connecting the Tillari CR with Bhimgad Sanctuary in Karnataka. At Sindhudurg, 56.92 sq.km with 13 villages has been proposed as the Dodamarg-Amboli CR, which connects Tillari with tiger breeding areas of Karnataka’s Bhimgad Sanctuary and Goa’s Mhadei Sanctuary. Another area in Kolhapur, where the iconic melanistic leopard was photographed, Ajra-Bhudargad has been proposed as a CR across 246.63 sq.km encompassing 37 villages. “The idea is to have forest connectivity along this Western Ghats landscape allowing tiger and other wildlife dispersal without the threat of development,” said Kakodkar. Other comparatively smaller CRs include Gaganbawda (105.48 sq. km), Panhalgad (72.9 sq. km), Vishalgad (92.24 sq. km), all at Kolhapur, Jor-Jambhali CR (65.11 sq. km) in Satara connecting with Mahabaleshwar-Panchgani areas, and the bird haven of Mayani CR (8.67 sq. km) at Satara.Three CRs in Vidarbha include Mogarkasa (37.7 sq. km) and Munia (97.37 sq. km) in Nagpur, and Mahendri (67.48 sq. km) in Amravati.“We are going one step further from them just having reserved forest status. The idea is to protect them under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, by declaring them as CRs. Any development projects proposed within these CRs will need clearance under the Forest Conservation Act, 190, the SBWL and the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). To that extent, there will be control on developmental projects in these areas,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra.CRs are protected areas that act like buffer zones and migration corridors between national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, reserved and protected forests. Unlike sanctuaries and national parks, CRs don’t have their own buffer zones. Any developmental or agricultural activity within a CR must have the approval of state and Central wildlife boards.In addition to six national parks and 49 wildlife sanctuaries, Maharashtra has seven CRs. On June 23, the state had declared a 29.53 sq. km area as the Tillari CR, covering 10 villages in Sindhudurg district, making it the first in the Konkan belt. “The idea is to have forest connectivity along the Western Ghats, allowing tiger and other wildlife dispersal without the threat of development,” said Kakodkar. “A minimum of Rs.25 lakh is to be allotted to every CR or more based on the CR’s area or requirement.”Experts have questioned the state’s intention of declaring areas CRs rather than sanctuaries or national parks. “The department feels they can avoid headaches by issuing CR notification. Officers do not want to get involved in the tedious legal processes under WPA, and hear villagers’ problems. By doing so they deprive villagers of their rights and resettlement and ex-gratia packages from the state,,” said Kishor Rithe, a non-government member of the SBWL. However, Kakodkar said declaring an area a CR is a preliminary step. “It does not make sense to notify only the reserved forest as sanctuaries unless non-forest areas are also taken up and there, the settlement procedure has to be followed, which takes much longer to provide protection,” he said. Kakodkar also said the forest department has prepared an action plan regarding rising leopard deaths and kills, which will be discussed at today’s SWBL meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-proposes-declaration-of-11-conservation-reserves-to-protect-1-076-sq-km-forest-area/story-vkvDjXPpot74hOAPmqKnXK.html
04-12-2020||City||Winter session of Maharashtra legislature to be held on December 14, 15||Amid fears of a possible spike in the Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government has curtailed its winter session to two days from the usual duration of two weeks. The session will be held on December 14 and 15 and the government is also likely to conduct the budget session in February. Traditionally winter session of the state legislature is held in Nagpur every year. However, this year it will be held in Mumbai. In the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting attended by legislative Council chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar, Assembly speaker Nana Patole, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar, leaders of the Opposition in Assembly and Council Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, the leaders decide to postpone the winter session, slated to begin on December 7, by a week. “Besides the supplementary demands, the two-day session will have condolence motion and debate on supplementary budget. Though the Opposition insisted to hold the session for two weeks, we [the government] decided to curtail it short in the wake of the pandemic,” said parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab. As for the monsoon session held on September 7 and 8, the entry to legislature for the winter session, too, will be restricted and it is mandatory to undergo reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. Fadnavis has slammed the state government for curtailing the duration of the session. “There are many issues, including the Maratha reservation, farmers’ distress, and also the strictures against the state government by various courts that need to be discussed. The state government is trying to run away from debating on these issues by reducing the duration of the session,” he said. Meanwhile, Patole said the budget session will be held in Nagpur. “It has been in-principle decided that the budget session will be held in the second capital of the state as per the Nagpur Pact,” he said. The pact was signed when the Vidarbha region was included in Maharashtra at the time of the formation of the state. According to it, it is mandatory to hold one session of the legislature in a year at Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/winter-session-of-maharashtra-legislature-to-be-held-on-december-14-15/story-dyziOV9OTAYfX552MRKgpJ.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Congress set to pick Mumbai unit chief by December-end||The city unit of Congress is likely to get a new chief by the end of this month, with former state ministers Suresh Shetty and Arif Naseem Khan, and senior leaders Bhai Jagtap, Charan Singh Sapra and Amarjeet Singh Manhas being the frontrunners. The party’s Mumbai unit is currently headed by Eknath Gaikwad, who has been the acting president after Milind Deora quit more than a year ago.The Congress is looking at finalising a candidate soon as the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls are less than two years away. HK Patil, the party’s Maharashtra in-charge, confirmed on Thursday that the Mumbai Congress chief will be appointed by December-end and all necessary decisions related to the civic polls will be taken in January, putting the party in election mode. Patil has been meeting key leaders and office bearers from the Mumbai Congress over the past two months to take their views before an appointment is made. “It can’t be denied that two presidents resigning in a span of just a few months last year was unfortunate. We are in the process of appointing a new chief for the city unit and the name will be announced by the month-end. Instead of representing any cast, community or religion, the new chief will be a Congress face. We will also take necessary steps to strengthen the city unit by January as part of the preparations for BMC elections,” Patil told a select group of mediapersons at the party’s Colaba office on Thursday. Patil also met state ministers from the Congress and the party’s legislators on Thursday. He said ministers have been told to increase their visibility and work more aggressively in the interest of common people. “It is true that compared to the other two ruling parties [Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party], Congress ministers need to be more visible and aggressive. They have been asked to undertake welfare schemes, improve governance and deliver effectively,” he said. Patil also met a group of scheduled caste (SC) party leaders on Wednesday. The leaders have demanded a separate law for the full utilisation of the budgetary outlay meant for SCs. He also asked the state leadership to ensure that the appointments on statutory boards and corporations governed by the state government be made at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-set-to-pick-mumbai-unit-chief-by-december-end/story-pP2P70vUk74IBSbKIWeuoL.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Neurological surgeries at Chandigarh’s PGIMER dip by 46% due to Covid||The number of neurological surgeries conducted at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) during the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic saw a dip of 46%, a study has revealed.All non-trauma patients admitted to the department of neurosurgery between April 1 and August 15 this year were evaluated and compared with those treated between January 1 and March 22 (pre-Covid period).A total of 1,769 patients (961 males and 808 females) with a mean age of 37.7 years were evaluated in the study. Surgery was performed on 933 patients during the pre-Covid period at an average of 337.2 patients per month, while 829 patients underwent surgery during the Covid-19 period averaging at 184.2 per month.During the Covid-19 phase, the neurosurgery department operated at 54.6% of the pre-Covid capacity (a drop of 45.4% cases), the study of one of the largest neurosurgical tertiary care departments, catering to an average of 115 in-patient cases at a time, stated.Acute cases dominateThe study concluded that the restrictions imposed by Covid-19 had resulted in a significant change in the pattern of neurosurgical procedures, with acute cases dominating over chronic benign disorders.The percentage of patients treated for a ruptured aneurysm or an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) rose nearly 1.7 times during the Covid-19 period (18%) compared to the percentage during the pre-Covid period (10.6%). Similarly, there was an increased percentage of surgeries performed for hydrocephalus, stroke, and cerebellar tumours during the Covid-19 period. There were reductions in the percentages of patients who were surgically treated for glioma, spinal disorders, meningioma, sellar-suprasellar tumours, and cerebral metastasis.The percentage of patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage, stroke, hydrocephalus, and cerebellar tumours have increased during the pandemic. Some of these illnesses, including subarachnoid haemorrhage and stroke, are also correlated with a sedentary lifestyle, dietary factors, and high-stress levels expected in the pandemic, the study stated.Prevalence among patientsAmong the Covid-19 asymptomatic patients who were admitted for surgery, four were found to be positive in the first Covid-19 test in the emergency wing area, and an additional five patients were found to be positive in the second test.Till August 15, Covid-19 had been detected 3.7 times more often in asymptomatic neurosurgical inpatients than in the local community even with a single test, while with double testing displayed an incremental value by disclosing Covid-19 overall in 1 in 100 inpatients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/neurological-surgeries-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer-dip-by-46-due-to-covid/story-vcVl8h6V3Wcxx1Vz0IvzDN.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||MCOCA invoked against 10 persons for slashing man with sword in Mumbai||The Trombay police have invoked charges under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against 10 people for allegedly slashing a man to death with a sword in broad daylight on Tuesday. According to police, the victim tried stopping them from running illicit drug peddling business. The complainant Hasinabano Shaikh, 44, had approached the police accusing 10 of their neighbours for killing her nephew Abdul Rehman Shaikh, 29, and assaulting her son, police said. The officers said that the victim had approached them last month to file a first information report (FIR) against the accused Rashid Rehmat Shaikh and nine other including two women of their family for running a drug peddling business from a shop in their neighbourhood.“Abdul wanted the accused to close the shop and sell it to someone else so that they could run a legitimate business there,” said Hasinabano. After learning about the FIR, Rashid and his brothers Jahid Ali, Javed Abdul Karim, Mohammed Salim and Faujulla Shaikh and others confronted Abdul in the market on Tuesday. The men then assaulted him and his cousin. The family of 10 members then slashed the victim with a sword. Siddheshwar Gove, senior police inspector of Trombay police station said that eight of the accused have been arrested. However, two of the accused are still absconding. “We have initiated MCOCA proceedings against the accused as there are more than 38 cases of threatening, assault, criminal intimidation and spreading terror in the locality and murder,” said Gove. Gove added that they have started a special drive to identify such local gangs and begin MCOCA proceedings against them, “We have identified 13 others and are in process to book them under MCOCA,” said Gove.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mcoca-invoked-against-10-persons-for-slashing-man-with-sword-in-mumbai/story-T25SMhEyP96EFmRpVm5yoI.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Allow partial reopening of schools, CISCE urges Maharashtra government||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) which runs ICSE schools in the country has requested the state governments to allow the partial reopening of its affiliated schools from January at least for students of Classes 10 and 12. The board has assured of following all the norms concerning safety.In a circular issued on Thursday, the board stated that it has requested states to allow schools to reopen partially from January 4. “With students physically attending schools, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work and doubt clearing sessions. This will be extremely beneficial to students who will now get the time to interact directly with the teachers,” stated the circular issued by Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the board. The CISCE has also asked the election commission for the schedule of state-level elections to be able to plan Class 10 and 12 board exams better.According to the circular, if allowed to reopen, schools will have to follow directives issued by the respective state governments regarding Covid-19 and will have to adhere to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) designed by states in this regard. Schools in the city said that the board’s move will help students from the higher standards. “Students want to come to school especially for solving doubts and it is important to give them that option. Especially students with learning difficulties are having a tough time in the online-only format and we hope that such students are allowed to come to school in small groups for a few physical sessions,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal of the Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle. Officials from the Maharashtra state education department did not respond to calls and messages. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad also remained unavailable for comment. Even as the state government allowed schools to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) declared that schools in the city shall remain closed for students till December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-partial-reopening-of-schools-cisce-urges-maharashtra-government/story-xzoMXnxDiJRbIe8vNHTP0M.html
04-12-2020||City||Blow to BJP, MVA candidates leading in polls for 4 Council seats in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the ruling parties Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, had an edge over the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as alliance’s candidates were leading after a second round of votes counting in the graduates’ constituencies of Aurangbad, Pune and Nagpur and the teachers’ constituency of Pune. An independent candidate was leading in the teachers’ constituency of Amravati. The counting of votes for the five seats to Council is underway.The BJP was on the verge of defeat in Nagpur graduates’ constituency, which it had retained since its inception and was represented by Union minister Nitin Gadkari and the late Gangadharrao Fadnavis, father of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. In Nagpur graduates’ constituency, Abhijit Wanjari of the Congress was leading by more than 10,000 votes against his nearest rival, Sandip Joshi of BJP during the second round of votes counting. Interestingly, Joshi is a close aide of Devendra Fadnavis, who was camping in Nagpur for a week to campaign for the prestige seat. In the Pune graduates’ constituency, NCP candidate Arun Lad was leading by more than 10,000 votes against BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh. And in the Pune teachers’ constituency, Congress’s Anant Asgaonkar was leading against BJP’s Dattatrey Sawant, who is also a sitting member in the Council. NCP’s Satish Chavan was leading Shirish Boralkar of BJP in the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency after the second round of votes counting.In the Amravati teachers’ constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik of Washim was ahead of his nearest rivals, Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena and Dr Nitin Dhande of BJP by a margin of around 4,500 votes. Sarnaik is likely to wrest the seat from Sena.Besides Nagpur, with candidates trailing in both the constituencies of Pune, where BJP had built its base over the past few years, the poll results assumed bad new for the party.Meanwhile, BJP’s Amrish Patel won the bypolls from Dhule-Nandurbar local bodies’ constituency by defeating MVA’s Abhijit Patil by 234 votes. Patel polled 332 votes, while Patil got 98 votes. Congress leaders expressed surprise over the defeat as MVA has 213 members in local bodies, while BJP’s strength is 199. Patel had switched sides and joined BJP after quitting Congress ahead of the Assembly polls last year.After forming the government in state last year, MVA was fighting the council elections together for the first time, and although the BJP was confident of its victory in three seats in Pune and Nagpur, the results seem to be a boost for the three parties in the ruling alliance.Discontent in Congress over nominations Discontent over party nominations to the legislative Council seats from the Governor quota emerged during Congress’s legislative meeting. Energy minister and party’s national SC/ST cell chief Nitin Raut expressed his concerns over the nomination of Aniruddha Wankar, a noted lyricist and writer from Vidarbha.Raut said the party should have preferred one of its own workers instead of Wankar, who had fought against the party in the Assembly elections last year, representing Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi.Raut and other leaders had also raised objections to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) nominee Yashwant Bhinge, a dhangar leader who polled sizable votes on a VBA ticket in the Lok Sabha polls from Nanded. It is believed that Cong’s Ashok Chavan had to face defeat because of Bhinge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blow-to-bjp-mva-candidates-leading-in-polls-for-4-council-seats-in-maharashtra/story-FfVISXdKFycJPacVaZ3JEM.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Machhiwara market committee accountant held on graft charges||A flying squad of the Mohali vigilance bureau, arrested the Machhiwara market committee accountant on graft charges on Thursday and recovered ₹30,000 cash that he had accepted from a contractor to pass his bills. One Gurmel Singh has been arrested. The vigilance bureau has also booked a junior engineer Manohar Lal who has not yet been arrested.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, vigilance bureau) Ajay Kumar said a contractor, Jagdev Singh, had filed a complaint against Gurmel and Manohar. Jagdev said he had a contract for installing electricity fittings in the Machhiwara grain market. However, the accused were seeking a ₹85,000 bribe from him to clear the bills.Upon receiving the complaint, the vigilance team laid a trap. After the accused accepted ₹30,000 as the first instalment of the bribe they conducted a raid and arrested him red handed.The sleuths of the vigilance bureau had installed a farmer union flag on their vehicle to conceal the operation.Manohar has been also booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/machhiwara-market-committee-accountant-held-on-graft-charges/story-hZ5TghRbHNnP1IZfe0U6JM.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Teachers organisation demands postponement of first-year Mumbai university exams||The Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) on Wednesday once again approached the vice-chancellor of the University of Mumbai (MU) seeking postponement of first-year degree college exams. In their letter, degree college teachers have which suggested that first-year exams be postponed to end of January 2021, and demanded that the university release an official circular at the earliest.This letter comes less than two weeks after the organisation, in their previous letter, highlighted that most colleges have not managed to teach the mandatory 90 days before exams due to delay in admissions to first-year courses, thereby making it impossible to hold exams in December.Through this letter, BUCTU members have expressed their shock at how the university has slowly started informing colleges about change in the exam schedule. “While some cluster colleges have been informed to start first year exams in the first and second week of January 2021, many colleges in Konkan have not received any intimation from the university. This casual manner of sharing crucial information is unacceptable,” said BUCTU.As per MU’s November 18 circular, affiliated colleges are supposed to hold online exams for the current batches of undergraduate courses by December 2020 while postgraduate exams should be conducted in January 2020. “Due to the Covid-19 situation, admissions to first-year courses were delayed by a couple of months this year, and regular classes for these batches started only in October. Many colleges have not yet managed to conduct practical classes as yet, so any form of examination in the month of December will be unfair to the students,” added the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-organisation-demands-postponement-of-first-year-mumbai-university-exams/story-Flsymx5Bsor5ULoxeSjeMN.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 dead, 82 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Two died while 82 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Thursday. The virus has so far claimed 909 lives in the district and infected 23,161 people. As many as 918 people are still battling the disease and 246 have been sent for home quarantine in the last 24 hours.The deceased include a 56-year-old male from Balloke village and 47-year-old woman from Sherpur Kalan.Capt Sandhu tests +vePolitical adviser to Punjab chief minister Captain Sandeep Sandhu has also tested positive for Covid. Sharing the information through his social media account, he said that he contracted the virus on November 27, and is currently admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-dead-82-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana/story-l9I2kiHye6mfjfYgRtEvHN.html
04-12-2020||City||Ambala MC polls: Former Congressmen to debut own parties||The announcement of the poll schedule for the Ambala municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday has now officially kicked-off the election process here in the city that is waiting for its corporation since 2018 after the session of the last House ended in June same year.The election is likely to be multi-cornered as besides BJP-JJP and Congress, two new parties led by two former ministers—Venod Sharma’s Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJP) and Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front (HDF)—have also announced to debut on all the seats. Both Sharma and Singh were previously with Congress.Congress to contest on party symbolCongress that was in majority in the last House on Thursday decided to contest on the party symbol. In an official communication, Congress state president Kumari Selja said that the party had come to that decision after discussions with state in-charge Vivek Bansal, leader of opposition BS Hooda and other senior leaders.Speaking to the Hindustan Times, Selja said, “I will chair a meeting of the consultative panel in Chandigarh on Friday and soon we will invite names of those interested to contest for wards and the mayor seat.”The party had won from nine of 11 wards in the last term, with its own mayor Ramesh Mal, who switched over to the BJP before 2019 assembly elections.BJP names Karnal mayor co-incharge The ruling BJP’s state president OP Dhankar on Thursday appointed Karnal mayor Renu Bala Gupta as the co-incharge for the polls. On Wednesday, Ambala in-charge and former state chief Subhash Barala chaired his first meeting of party workers.He had told the HT that there could be a coalition between BJP and JJP and that he had received six applications for the mayor seat (reserved for women).BJP has been pitching on the development works undertaken by two-time MLA Aseem Goel, who has been inaugurating projects in a row from last two months.HJP, HDF new contendersFour-time MLA Nirmal Singh’s HDF was the first party to declare its mayor candidate, Amisha Chawla, a month before the dates were declared. However, just before that, its senior leader Himmat Singh parted ways, accusing Nirmal of ditching his confidantes in the panchayat’s cooperative societies.Front’s leader Chitra Sarwara said the party will declare a few names for the wards on Friday.Former union minister Venod Sharma had last month declared that his HJP will fight the elections. One of the senior-most leaders in the region, he is said to be in talks with Nirmal for a possible coalition. “There are always possibilities in politics. I had met Nirmal at a marriage function and it was all personal. We’ll be soon out with our possible candidates,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-polls-former-congressmen-to-debut-own-parties/story-3kPRsTrw1fYRlJeVRT2aOJ.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Despite irregularities, Mumbai civic body shielding private operator of Mulund Covid-19 centre, BJP MLA alleges||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Mihir Kotecha on Thursday alleged that despite several irregularities by private operator handling the Richardson and Cruddas Covid-19 centre at Mulund highlighted by the centre’s dean, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officers are shielding the private operator and risking lives of common citizens.Kotecha who is MLA from Mulund said the Dean Dr Pradeep Angre had submitted a report on October 19, pointing out over 16 violations and had written to his seniors asking to discontinue the operator, despite this, the BMC has not acted against him (the operator).As per the report submitted by Angre, he had highlighted that the operator - Asha Trust - has violated several rules, including not following discharge policy, improper usage of medicines and injections of remdesiver etc. The report also highlighted that the medical staff was not available 24x7 at the Covid-19 centre and oxygen beds were allotted to those who did not need it.The report said that the operator did not follow the terms mentioned in the tender documents.Kotecha said, “The report was submitted 45 days ago and the same operator continues to still manage the Covid-19 centre. This is playing with the lives of citizens.”Kotecha added, “I have written to BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, and if no action is taken, I shall approach the Bombay High Court against the civic body.”Angre said, “I had submitted my report to my seniors and cognizance has been taken on the same. Further action is in progress.”However, a BMC official on conditions of anonymity said, “It was decided that the operator be given a chance for improvement. Hence, we gave him additional time. But on grounds that no improvement is observed, the BMC might terminate the contract in the coming days.”Dr Satish Kamat of Asha Trust said, “I do not know about any report about my services. There are no irregularities and we are managing the Covid-19 centre at Mulund in the best possible manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-irregularities-mumbai-civic-body-shielding-private-operator-of-mulund-covid-19-centre-bjp-mla-alleges/story-Rjc0q1ZNzfZiKEZe6E5zrL.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||PNB fraud case: UBI seeks release of $8 million from Nirav Modi’s escrow account||The Union Bank of India (UBI) has approached the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court for release of around eight million dollars balance in an escrow account held with Nirav Modi. The bank said that the account was opened for remitting/depositing receivable amount from a solar windmill project at Karjat, Ahmednagar. As per the charge sheet filed by Enforcement Directorate (ED), Modi owes around ₹250 crores to UBI. Nirav had owned a power plant near Khandala in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra which was opened under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM), the plant is a photovoltaic (PV) project with a power capacity of 5MW. The account and the project were attached by ED during the investigation of money laundering case in 2018. The properties are said to be purchased through the funds received from the banks through credit facilities from various banks. The agency has claimed that it was part of proceeds of crime. Nirav, who has been facing an extradition proceeding in London, has been declared as a fugitive economic offender by the special court in Mumbai. He is a prime accused in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case, was the second person to have been declared a fugitive economic offender (FEO) under the new Act (FEO Act). The ED has listed properties valued at ₹1,396.07 crore, which it claimed were purchased or owned using proceeds of crime, for confiscation. What is an escrow account?Escrow account is an account where funds are held in trust, whilst two or more parties complete a transaction. The money is released to the creditor after the completion of the terms of the agreement. Further, the creditor has a lien over the account. It is claimed that UBI had financed the windmill project of Nirav Modi and held an escrow account with the bank which has eight-million-dollar balance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pnb-fraud-case-ubi-seeks-release-of-8-million-from-nirav-modi-s-escrow-account/story-dXh95MLoheyihceEFLGKJN.html
04-12-2020||City||Panchkula MC elections on December 27||By the beginning of 2021, Panchkula will have its own mayor after a three-year gap, as the elections of the municipal corporation (MC) are set to take place on December 27. The date was announced on Thursday by the state election commission.The results will be announced on December 30. The last MC polls were held in 2013 when Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia became the first mayor of Panchkula.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) will fight together, whereas Congress has announced to fight the elections on symbol.Apart from these, the members of resident welfare associations, who have been “disappointed” with the political leaders, have decided to contest for the post of councillor at least from five of the 20 wards.Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said: “The BJP and JJP as an alliance will fight these elections together from all the 20 wards. The candidate name from each ward will be finalised by December 10.”The nominations have to be filed between December 11 and 16, and that’s why most of the parties will have finalised the names by then.BJP holds meetingThe BJP held a meeting with its workers on Thursday, which was attended by Captain Abhimanyu as well, who has been made the in-charge for Panchkula MC polls.“Ten senior leaders of BJP have been assigned the task to go to 20 wards and hold meetings. They will get feedback from each ward and if a person is interested to contest elections, they can give names,” said Ajay Sharma, BJP district president.Jalmegha Dahiya, member of the selection committee of Congress, said that a meeting will be held in a day or two when the names of the candidates will be finalised. “We have received many requests and will contest from all wards,” she said.Kumari Shelja announced that the party will fight on symbol and the decision was taken after a meeting with senior members of Congress.Five members of resident welfare associations of Panchkula have also come forward to fight the elections. “We are tired of these leaders and their political games. In the last seven to eight years, Panchkula has gone 40 years back. There has hardly been any development. When the mayor was there, there used to be infighting. And for the last two years, there is no mayor,” said SK Nayar, president, Citizen Welfare Association.Corporation formed in 2010The Panchkula MC was formed in March 2010 by merging the then municipal council with municipal committees of Kalka and Pinjore along with 42 villages. Though the move was opposed in court, the first mayor, Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, was elected in June 2013 after a Supreme Court decision.However, in January 2018, the matter of bifurcation of the corporation reached the Punjab and Haryana high court. “As the matter was sub-judice, the elections were delayed. It was in July that the matter was sorted,” said Ajay Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mc-elections-on-december-27/story-BBVEZAParIC4tSKGb8TptK.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Despite upto 60% drop in prices, Ludhiana cinemas report low occupancy||A month after multiplexes across the district raised their curtains, theatres continue to wear a forlorn look amid the coronavirus pandemic. Despite cinemas slashing ticket prices by 60%, rolling out offers on tickets and making calls to customers to apprise them of the said offers, the occupancy remains low at around 35-40%.The staff says that though all standard operating procedures are being followed, the footfall in theatres is at an all-time low due to no major new releases and fear of contracting the virus, which has left the establishments struggling to stay afloat.Almost all multiplexes in the city are showing three movies — Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari, Peninsula and Chaar Sahibzaade -2 : Rise of Banda Singh Bahadur. Only two to three viewings are slotted per day. With the martyrdom day of the sons of the 10th Sikh guru approaching, multiplex owners are hoping that the footfall will increase.A ticket counter employee at PVR Cinemas, Flamez Mall, Malhar road, who requested anonymity, said,”The ticket prices have been reduced drastically to attract more customers. During weekdays, the ticket price for a show before noon is just ₹59. Multiple schemes have been launched such as free vouchers on purchasing eatables at multiplexes. However, the occupancy remains low.”Wave cinemas, Westend Mall, has slashed ticket rates by a whopping 60% as the tickets that were earlier available for ₹200, now merely cost ₹80. “With a second wave of Covid sweeping through the district, people are afraid to venture out to watch a movie,” says an employee.PVR cinemas, Silver Arc Mallis is not faring any better despite slashing prices upto ₹60. Staff says only 40% occupancy has been witnessed over the last month as most people are unaware that cinemas are open.The managements, however, expect the situation to improve in the coming days as the footfall is consistently increasing after cinemas were initially allowed to open in November 1.PVR Cinemas regional manager (marketing) Rohit Sharma said, “The sector is recovering and the response will improve with new releases in the offing.”However, SRS Cinemas, Omaxe Mall, Ferozepur Road and Solitaire Cinemas at JMD Govardhan City Centre (near Jagraon bridge) are yet to raise their shutters.Many cinephiles say they would be willing to return to the multiplexes once some interesting movies release. A Shastri Nagar resident Gurpreet Kaur said, “I was planning to catch a movie with my husband this week, but no new movie has been released. Besides, our parents are advising us against visiting theatres amid the spurt in Covid cases.” No more night shows amid curfewAfter imposition of night curfew in the state till December 15, multiplexes are rescheduled shows so that visitors get free by 9 to 9:30pm. No show is being scheduled after 6:45pm.The staff said the imposition of night curfews was a pity as the night shows were very popular among theatre-goers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-upto-60-drop-in-prices-ludhiana-cinemas-report-low-occupancy/story-zODzBAuBJ6ESl5JqkOH67L.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Arnab Goswami seeks stay on probe into suicide abetment case||Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV and R Bharat news channels, has filed an application in his pending petition before the Bombay high court (HC) urging the court to stay any further investigation into Anvay Naik suicide abetment case registered against him at Alibag in Raigad district. Goswami has also sought an interim order to restrain Alibag police from filing a charge sheet in the case and to transfer the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or some other independent agency beyond the purview of Maharashtra government. In support of his claim for stay on further investigation and filing of the charge sheet, he has relied on the observations made by the Supreme Court while granting him interim bail. In its detailed order, SC has said that “a prima facie evaluation of the FIR does not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code.” Goswami taken a strong exception to the statement made by Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on November 28 that a “strong charge sheet” will “soon” be filed against the editor. “The said statement of the Maharashtra home minister is an open disregard and an unapologetic contravention of the judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” states Goswami’s application. “This shocking premeditated political declaration by Mr Anil Deshmukh came at a news conference 12 hours after the Hon’ble Supreme Court delivered the said judgement dated 27th November 2020. The said statement and the corresponding investigation at the behest of the home department, state of Maharashtra, not only establishes the malicious and malafide intent guiding the overall investigation in the present case but also exposes the complete subversion of the Supreme Court order dated 27th November 2020,” it adds. “It is thus clear that the entire investigation in the case is being puppeteered by a political machinery and is tainted and prescripted by the executive powers at play of the respondents (state authorities),” it adds and presses on the need for an independent probe into the case. Goswami has termed the investigation into the FIR as “illegal and dehors the law” for, according to him, investigation into the case was closed and an A-Summary report was accepted by the chief judicial magistrate at Alibaug on April 16, 2019, but the reinvestigation started without a judicial order. “Thus, for a matter which is concluded with the filing of an A-summary report, which is valid till date, filing of a charge sheet would be completely illegal and bad in law,” he has said and urged the court to restrain Alibag police from carrying any further investigation and filing charge sheet. Architect and interior designer Anvay Naik, 53, died by suicide at his residence at Kaavir village in Alibag tehsil on May 5, 2018. His mother, Kumud, too, was found dead at their home at the time. His wife Akshata had lodged a complaint with the police alleging that her husband was forced to take the drastic step as he was under tremendous mental stress because of non-payment of dues collectively amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and two others. Naik was the managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, which rendered services for Republic TV. Along with Republic, Naik had dues from two other companies namely Smartworks and IcastX/Skimedia. On the basis of Akshata’s complaint, Alibag police had on May 5, 2018 registered an offence booking Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Nitish Sarda of Smartworks for abetting suicides of her husband and mother-in-law. In his suicide note, Naik had alleged that Goswami owed him ₹83 lakh, Sarda ₹55 lakh and Shaikh ₹4 crore. On April 16, 2019, the then investigating officer of the case submitted an A-summary report and sought closure of the case for want of prosecutable evidence against any of the three accused. The jurisdictional magistrate had accepted the report on the same day. After his arrest on November 4, Goswami has filed the petition for his immediate release and also for quashing of the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-arnab-goswami-seeks-stay-on-probe-into-suicide-abetment-case/story-LR7wqQ1Mkcwb82mYJkxPiO.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 5,182 new Covid cases, sees over 100 deaths for second day in a row||Maharashtra on Thursday added 5,182 fresh Covid-19 cases to take the state’s tally to 1,837,358. For the second day straight, the state recorded more than 100 fatalities, with 115 deaths pushing the toll to 47,472. Between November 21 and December 1, the state reported fewer than 100 deaths.Active cases in the state now stood at 85,535. Of the 115 deaths reported on Thursday, 46 occurred within the past 48 hours, 22 were in the past week, and the remaining 47 were before one week, the state health department said.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 878 infections to take its tally to 283,696. It reported 18 fatalities on Thursday to take the toll to 10,931. The active cases in Mumbai stood at 14,076.As Maharashtra is anticipating a potential surge in the number of Covid-19 cases towards this month-end or in January 2021, the weekly positivity rate of Covid-19 infections in 13 districts, including Mumbai suburban district, Nashik, Pune district is higher than the state’s average of 7.57%. The cumulative positivity rate of 14 districts, however, is higher than the state’s average of 16.75%, according to the latest data of the health department. Positivity rate is a crucial indicator along with the doubling rate, case fatality rate (CFR), to show the spread of the infection.According to the data, the state’s weekly positivity rate, as of December 1, was 7.57%, while Nashik district topped with 17.79%. This means for every 100 samples tested in Nashik district, nearly 18 people tested positive for the coronavirus. Nashik was followed by Gondia (13.53%), Ratnagiri had 12.92%, Pune had 10.21%, Thane had 9.33%, Mumbai suburban had 9.02%, etc.Among the districts with positivity rate lower than the state’s average was Kolhapur with 0.62%, Dhule with 0.79%, and Jalgaon with 1.56%. The island city of Mumbai had a weekly positivity rate of 6.73%.Mumbai’s overall positivity rate was 15.32%, according to the data of the state health department.Maharashtra, which has the second-highest CFR in the country, has 17 districts in the state that have higher CFR than the state’s average of 2.58%.Mumbai tops the list with highest CFR with 3.83%, followed by Akola at 3.68%, and Parbhani at 3.57%. Interestingly, Pune district that has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state (355,698), has a CFR of 2.11%. Thane district, which is the third-most affected district in the state at 242,509 cases, has a CFR of 2.21%.Pune district, meanwhile, reported 793 fresh cases, with 360 from Pune city, 276 in rural Pune, and 157 in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Thursday. Pune city and rural areas of Pune reported eight and five fatalities, respectively. Nashik city reported 206 new cases, while its rural areas saw 166 and Malegaon reported eight new cases. Nagpur city reported 333 new cases and six deaths, while its rural areas saw 102 new cases and two deaths.The state also reported 8,066 discharges, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,703,274. The recovery rate in the state improved to 92.7%.So far, the state has tested 11,059,305 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 16.61%. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 69,809 samples and clocked a positivity rate of 7.42%. Currently, 548,137 people are in home quarantine and 5,939 people are in institutional quarantine, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-5-182-new-covid-cases-sees-over-100-deaths-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-nTD1tS3kX1Rjre5LjcrnRJ.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhwinder Singh Bindra initiates first phase of Punjab’s youth contact programme||Initiating the first phase of the state’s youth contact programme from Mohali, Punjab youth development board chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra met members of Youth Clubs, Red Ribbon Clubs, and NSS units of the district.Bindra apprised the clubs of various schemes related to youth being run by the state government. He said that the youth development board has initiated a drive to interact with all the youth clubs and NSS programme officers across the state to know their problems and to answer their queries for the all-round development of the youth.During the meeting, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra informed that to encourage the youth to join such clubs and NSS activities, the board is planning to distribute sports kits to the clubs and bestow appreciation certificates upon best volunteers.Beginning from SAS Nagar, the drive will cover Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, and Amritsar in the first phase of the programme.Kamaljeet Singh Sidhu, deputy director, youth services department, and Rupinder Kaur, assistant director, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-youth-development-board-chairman-initiates-first-phase-of-youth-contact-programme/story-DdpZDztJtbIItg6TClHd1M.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Auto driver, accomplice held for raping mentally-ill woman in Ludhiana||Nine days after a 30-year-old mentally ill woman was allegedly raped by an auto-rickshaw driver and his accomplice, the police arrested the two accused on Thursday. The accused are Rishi Raj, 37, of Bhagat Singh Colony, an auto-rickshaw driver and Gurmeet Singh, 35, of Sherpur, a mechanic. On November 23, the victim, who was returning to her maternal home from a shrine lost her way and was waylaid by the accused who took her to a rented accommodation in Sherpur and sexually assaulted her,” said joint commissioner of police (JCP, city) Bhagirath Singh Meena. The victim’s brother had lodged a complaint against the auto-rickshaw driver at the Division Number 4 Police Station on November 27. The police formed six teams under additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek and assistant commissioner of police (ACP, central) Waryam Singh to search for the driver. The teams scanned at least 300 CCTV cameras installed over 48 square kilometers in five days to identify the accused.Women police personnel, in particular, played a crucial role in solving the case. Meena said ferreting out the rickshaw driver was no mean feat: “Tracing a three-wheeler in the city that has at least 30,000 autos on the road was like looking for a needle in a haystack. However, we conducted a thorough investigation. We started scanning CCTVs on all major roads and crossroads. The suspects were arrested from a rented accommodation in Railway Colony of Sherpur,” said Meena said. “Raj confessed that he had found the victim on the roadside near Transport Nagar. He made the woman sit in his three-wheeler and took her to the rented accommodation of his friend Gurmeet Singh of Sherpur after roaming around the city for an hour. The men raped the victim and dropped her off near the Jalandhar Bypass the next morning,”police said.Raj said he thought he would not be identified as he had bought a second-hand rickshaw and had not transferred the ownership to his name. However, upon learning that an investigation had been initiated, the accused hid in a rented accommodation to evade arrest. The accused were remanded to three days in police custody. Victim had suffered domestic violence The complainant had told the police that his sister was a domestic abuse victim, which had led to the manifestation of a mental disorder. She had undergone treatment for it and after regaining fitness returned to her husband’s house in October, 2018. However, he sent her back after a year and she resumed psychiatric treatment.“On November 23, my sister lost her way while returning home from a shrine. The next day, we got a phone call saying she was in Ganna village, Phillaur, 20km away from Ludhiana. On November 27, she told us what had happened,” the victim’s brother told the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/auto-driver-accomplice-held-for-raping-mentally-ill-woman-in-ludhiana/story-dtoHl14iZ5hfiGKCVrumWK.html
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana teen duped of ₹45,000 cash in bank||Two fraudsters pretending to be bank customers duped a teenager who had gone to deposit cash of ₹45,000 on Wednesday. The 17-year-old victim’s father Pramod Kumar of Sarup Nagar, who owns a meat shop, had sent his son to the bank to deposit ₹45,000. However, when the Class-10 student was standing in queue to deposit the cash, two men sought his help in filling the deposit form. They then claimed that they were in a rush and requested him to deposit ₹20,000 cash in their account. The accused ostensibly handed the teen the cash that was wrapped in cloth and told him it was ₹65,000. They told him to deposit ₹20,000 in their account and the rest in his account. The victim handed them his ₹45,000 and after they left realised that the cloth contained bits of paper. The victim immediately cold his father who informed the police. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The police have been scanning CCTVs to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-teen-duped-of-45-000-cash-in-bank/story-HAp01qqfXv7AFGFf0ss8eJ.html
04-12-2020||Mumbai||2008 Malegaon blast case: Special court may resume trial from Friday||The special court assigned to hear the 2008 Malegaon blast case is likely to begin hearing the trial on day-to-day basis from Friday.The special court had earlier this week asked all the accused to remain present before the court. The court was scheduled to resume the trial on Thursday. However, only three accused — Sameer Kulkarni, Ajay Rahirkar and Lt Col Prasad Purohit — appeared before the court.The remaining accused — Pragya Singh Thakur, Ramesh Upadhayay, Sudhakar Diwedi and Sudhakar Chaturvedi — could not appear before the court. Their lawyers filed application seeking exemption for them from appearing before the court for the hearing citing pandemic situation. The court allowed the plea, but asked them to appear before the court on December 19.Meanwhile, the court has asked all the lawyers to cooperate to resume the trial. The prosecution had brought a punch witness who was partly examined before the lockdown to record his evidence. The witness is a punch (independent) witness for the spot where blast took place.The court has asked the lawyer to resume recording of the evidence from Friday and cross examine the witness.As per the prosecution case, at around 9.30pm on September 29, 2008, a bomb planted on a motorcycle went off at Malegaon, killing six people and injuring 101 others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2008-malegaon-blast-case-special-court-may-resume-trial-from-friday/story-ffxSSoWihXF4uzaYhmmxjO.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: On road but right at home inside their trucks, tractors||A set of wooden planks have been tied together to form a two floor structure inside a large truck parked at the farmers’ protest site at Delhi’s Singhu Border. At night, at least 40 people sleep on the two decks and half a dozen under the vehicle. Some distance away, three sofas made of hay and placed strategically outside a truck are occupied by farmers discussing the ongoing situation. “We were being criticised for burning hay and causing pollution. So, I purchased a machine to turn them into sofa sets,” said Navtesh Singh, a farmer from Moga in Punjab. Most of these trucks are equipped with large batteries and charging points to keep the mobile phones of farmers active. Solar-powered lights are put out on the roads for charging. By evening, they’ll be ready to light up an entire truck. These are only some of the arrangements the protesting farmers have made to turn their trucks, tractors and trolleys into “homes”.“The trucks are our bedrooms. The road outside is our kitchen. We have also managed to set up temporary washrooms. The only facility we lack is air-conditioning,” said Navtesh.The farmers have insisted that they are in for a long haul and have food stocks to last them months. While their food stocks and kitchen are there for everyone to see, a lot more preparations are visible when you peep a little deeper. At both, Singhu and Tikri borders, there are tractors with two trolleys attached to them. Usually, one of these trolleys serve as a bedroom and the other as a storeroom for groceries. And every now and then, there are trolleys stuffed with wood and even cow dung cakes. “If we exhaust our cooking gas, the wood and cow dung cakes will come into use,” said Jasveer Singh, a farmer from Sangrur protesting at Singhu Border. The tractors and trucks have been specially designed by the farmers to ensure they provide as much comfort as is possible on the road. Two farmer friends, Ramandeep Singh and Gurpreet Singh covered dozens of trucks in and around their village in Patiala with tarpaulin sheets to ensure they were water and wind-resistant. Some vehicles were also covered with iron mesh for “extra safety”.“The floors of the trucks are first covered by hay. Then mattresses and bedsheets are laid atop them to ensure warmth. We have brought ample blankets and quilts to ensure no one is cold,” said Ramandeep.Since bathing and washing clothes is being done in the open, the farmers have fixed strings on their trucks or between two vehicles to serve as clothes hangers. The same mechanism of using two vehicles has also been used to set up tents outside by many farmers. Some have gone as far as having a separate section for storing footwear, stools for sitting and almost all trucks have wooden or metallic staircases for the elderly to hop into the vehicles with ease. Exclusive cabins have been made for women which have curtains hanging from strings to ensure privacy. “The hay below and mattresses above them in the truck ensures the sleep is as comfortable as in our bedrooms,” said Amarjeet Kaur, a 52-year-old farmer. While the farmers have brought in portable and battery-operated speakers to listen to music and hookahs to keep them busy, their day begins with Punjabi newspapers. “These newspapers land in our trucks by 7am every day,” said Ajeet Singh, a farmer from Moga who is protesting at Tikri Border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-protesters-their-trucks-tractors-are-their-new-homes/story-rQGv5EZ0XMsvfMvKCcKqcM.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Security deployment increased as number of protesters swell at Delhi borders||The number of protesters at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana swelled up on Thursday as hundreds of other farmers and support groups joined the agitation against the farm laws even as their representatives held talks with the central government, prompting the police to almost double the deployment of security personnel.Around 10 am on Thursday, nearly 500 farmers, mostly from Uddam Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, sat on one carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut expressway towards Ghaziabad, forcing the police to close one side for vehicular traffic and divert vehicles to alternative routes. The farmers had food, held meetings and protests, and delivered speeches through loudspeakers on the carriageway throughout the day. UP police officials were seen requesting the protesters to shift to the NH-9 (formerly NH-24) service road where other farmers have been stationed since last Friday. Multiple negotiations failed and the protesters did not move from the carriageway, following which UP Police increased their deployment and stationed personnel armed with anti-riot gear.Brijender Singh, a farmer from Udham Singh Nagar, said, “Our leaders had been sitting in Burari to cooperate with the government but they weren’t called for talks on Thursday. This indicates the government isn’t taking us seriously. To make our presence visible, we have blocked the highway.”Nirdesh Singh, a female leader who had come from Moradabad with a group of 70-80 farmers, including 30-35 women, said they have come to express their solidarity and will stay here till their demands are met.Around 4 pm, another group of at least 500 farmers joined the agitation from Hapur and Bulandshahar in UP. The group carrying sticks and mounted on vehicles fitted with loudspeakers went past the barricades on the elevated Delhi-Meerut expressway but had to return as the carriageway was barricaded by Delhi Police.Around 4.30 pm, the group marched to the service lane, dismantled barricades placed by Delhi Police and tried to cross over. As armed paramilitary personnel and policemen took positions to stop them, farmer leaders intervened and calmed down the groups. The barricades were rearranged by the police and the farmers retreated.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said the situation remained peaceful but as the number of protesters increased, they had to almost double the number of security personnel. Singh said till Wednesday, only the service lane was blocked but on Thursday the protesters took over one carriageway on the elevated expressway. “This required more barricading and additional forces were called to ensure adequate arrangements,” he said.The Uttar Pradesh police also stepped up their arrangements at the Ghazipur border. Drones were used for surveillance as the gathering continued to swell and fire tenders were stationed.The farmers’ gathering at the Chilla border with Noida also doubled since Wednesday but was peaceful. One carriageway from Noida to Delhi remained blocked.At the Singhu border, which was relaxed for the last three-four days, police and paramilitary personnel geared up to handle any eventuality. Many of them were seen putting on anti-riot gear and taking positions near the two protest sites.While Gaurav Sharma, DCP (outer-north), said deployment remained as before, another senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified said additional companies of paramilitary personnel were reaching Delhi in the next couple of days in view of the swelling crowd and to prevent any possible deterioration of the situation in case the talks did not end up well.“Between Mukarba Chowk and Singhu Border, we have set up three points, which are blocked with mud-laden trucks to ensure there are multiple layers of barricades in case the protesters try to force their way into Delhi,” the officer said.Sharma said the three layers were set up due to inputs that farmers could use alternative routes to get to NH-44 to enter the city. “We’ll remove them soon,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-deployment-increased-as-number-of-protesters-swell-at-delhi-borders/story-P6AZFzop3sWTdFwmkAxpyO.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Despite huge crowd at protest sites, no Covid-19 testing||It has been a week since farmers from across the country launched their protests against the Centre’s farm bills along Delhi’s borders, but none of these protest sites had a single Covid-19 testing camp as on Thursday.The lone Covid-19 testing camp that was set up by the Delhi government at the Burari site on Saturday was also wrapped up in a day, farmers protesting at the site said. The sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, on the other hand, haven’t seen any Covid-19 testing camps or medical vans for swab collection from day one.Officials of the north district administration said the temporary camp at Burari’s designated protest site at the Sant Nirankari Samagam Ground had a medical team equipped with rapid antigen kits on Saturday.“But the antigen kits were not replenished at the site the next day. The facility was a voluntary one and found very few takers. Only around 40 tests were conducted on Day One at the Burari site using the antigen kits, but no farmer was found to be positive,” said a senior official of the north district administration, which is overseeing all the arrangements at Burari.While the Delhi government has built a mega tent covering around 4 lakh square feet of the ground with the capacity of sheltering over 50,000 protesters, only around 200 farmers were seen using the shelter on Thursday. The city administration has provided toilet and water facilities as well. Binder Singh, one of the many leaders of the ongoing protests and who was present at the Burari site, said that they have been demanding that the city administration administers Covid-19 tests for the agitators.“A wrong perception is being built that farmers do not want to get tested. But, what does one do when there is no access to Covid tests at all,” he said.At the protest site along the Singhu border, at least 4-5 health camps set up by private organisations — including those by NGOs, doctors’ association, religious committees and sometimes even political parties — could be spotted. But none of them had Covid-19 testing facility in them.“We are getting 2-3 farmers almost every day who have flu-like symptoms. Still, all we can do is suggest that they get tested for Covid at a government facility or at a private laboratory. But, most of them never leave the site. We can only hope that no one turns out to be a super spreader and that too will remain unknown because there is absolutely no Covid-19 testing happening here,” said Dr Harjit Singh Bhatti of the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, which has set up a health kiosk at Singhu border.He said the health camps set up privately at the protest sites cannot offer Covid-19 testing because of the national guidelines. “One has to be formally registered with the ICMR and the city administration to offer Covid-19 testing. We have been urging the government to set up Covid-19 testing camps at Singhu border and Ghazipur, but nothing has happened yet,” Bhatti said.When asked, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said he had discussed the matter with the district administration (north) and asked them to make the necessary arrangements.“The directions, including setting up of tents at Singhu border, were issued two days ago. We shall follow-up if it has not been done yet,” he said.At the protest sites, however, there are scores of farmers who are not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour - be it wearing masks, maintaining social distancing or frequently sanitising their hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/despite-huge-crowd-at-protest-sites-no-covid-testing/story-nolpodX8pM2fkxJu6c3ptJ.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Traffic crawls as farmers block highway in Ghaziabad||The traffic chaos in Delhi, triggered by the continuing border blockade by farmers protesting the new farm laws, worsened on Thursday with more farmers joining the agitation and blocking off another key highway -- the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. One carriageway of the elevated Delhi-Meerut Expressway (NH-24), which connects Delhi to Ghaziabad, was also closed around 10am Thursday, after nearly 600 farmers belonging to Uttarakhand and parts of Uttar Pradesh sat on the road, blocking the vehicles coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi. Since the blockade was sudden, and during the office hours, commuters going towards Delhi from Vasundhara, Vaishali, Indirapuram, Raj Nagar, and Ghaziabad had a harrowing time and were stuck in huge snarls even on the alternative routes suggested to them by the UP Police. The alternative border points -- Maharajpur, Kaushambi, and Surya Nagar -- are narrow as compared to the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, and there was bumper-to-bumper traffic at all those points throughout the day. Naresh Sharma, a resident of Vaishali driving to Delhi’s Nehru Place, said, “Usually it takes me 15-20 minutes to reach Sarai Kale Khan using the expressway. But today, it looks like it will take me more than an hour to reach there. I am stuck at Maharajpur border for nearly 25 minutes because of the slow moving traffic.”Vijay Joshi, a businessman who was also travelling to Delhi from Ghaziabad, said there was no prior information about the closure of the expressway and not enought police personnel were on roads to guide motorists. Farmers who had blocked the expressway carriageway said they had left “a 14 feet space” for ambulances and other emergency vehicles. “Our protest is not aimed at causing inconvenience to the public. We were sitting on the NH-24 service lane since Friday. But since the government is not listening to our demands, we had no choice but to extend our agitation to the expressway and block one carriageway. Our entire effort is to mount pressure on the government,” said Sardar Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer from Uttarakhand. The resulting chaos also slowed down vehicles on Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road and other routes. The Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road), which was closed for nearly 22 hours between Tuesday and Wednesday, remained partially opened Thursday. One carriageway (from Delhi to Noida) remained open, while the opposite carriageway (from Noida to Delhi) was blocked by farmers. To ensure motorists entering Delhi from Noida do not face inconvenience due to the closure of the arterial road, the police diverted traffic on to the DND Flyway, the Dallupura border, the New Ashok Nagar border, and the Kondli border. Although heavy traffic was witnessed in the morning and evening hours on those routes, the situation was slightly better than what it was on Wednesday. Commuters said the Delhi traffic police’s Twitter handle was much helpful to make sense of all the disruptons and diversions. Since morning, police kept putting out alerts about closures and also listed alternative routes for travelling between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh cities.As far as the traffic situation at Singhu and Tikri borders were concerned, both remained shut on Thursday as well. The police closed several border roads and limited vehicular movement on a few others that anyway only see sparse traffic. The border points fully closed since Wednesday are Jharoda, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari and Sabori. Until Wednesday, traffic on Jharoda border was being regulated and only the vehicles leaving Delhi were being allowed. But Santosh Meena, DCP (Dwarka), said that since the Rohtak Road -- which is just a few hundred metres from the border point -- has movement of farmers, it was decided to close this border point. “It would take people only a few minutes to breach this border had we not closed it,” Meena said. The Jhatikara border allowed only motorcyclists to ply; the DCP said there was information about farmers proceeding towards that side. The other border points closed by the police are mostly located around Singhu and Tikri borders. Many of them were used by farmers in the past three days to enter Delhi despite strong barricades at the two main points. The protesting farmers have threatened to block more borders if their demands were not met by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-disruptions-and-diversions-this-time-the-delhi-meerut-expressway/story-r0Qwqdrt2DqOMM8cQRGHFK.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers say hopeful of resolution but won’t settle for amendments||Asserting that they will not settle for anything but complete revocation of new laws that seek to open up farm trade, protesting farmers on Thursday said that they were hopeful of a resolution after talks with the Centre. Kulwant Singh Sandhu, 65, general secretary of Janmuri Kisan Sabha, who attended the meeting said, “Our movement has made a huge difference in the way the government used to treat us earlier. The government wants amendments in the three new laws, but we want complete repeal. The government has also offered us a few more things, including power subsidy, but our demand is different. We will hold a meeting with our fellow farmers on Friday before the next round of talks scheduled on Saturday.” Harjinder Singh Tanda of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “Thursday’s talks made little progress. We are hopeful. In the next meeting, we will now put more pressure on the government to revoke the new farm laws.”At Singhu border, as their leaders left for the meeting with the Centre at Vigyan Bhavan, farmers were seen sitting in groups and discussing about the outcome of the meeting and the future course for their agitation. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to protest against the three contentious laws. Several farmers said that they will try to move towards the Parliament in case their talks fail to reach a conclusion on Saturday. Karanweer Singh, a farmer from Kurushetra, who is protesting at Singhu border, said, “We will intensify the movement after December 5, and try to march towards the Parliament to make our voice heard. Thousands more from Punjab and Haryana are coming to support us.”Balwinder Singh Rana, president of Majja Kisan Sangarsh Committee, Punjab, said the government should consider their demand for conducting a special session of the Parliament to revoke the three laws. “We are not sitting on the roads leaving our homes for some amendments. We will not end the protest before the government revokes these new laws. Thursday’s meeting has inspired some hope, as the government had shown interest in solving the issue,” he said.Earlier in the day, farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border said the protests will only go up after Saturday, if the issue remains unresolved. “More farmers will join us if required. We will not give up unless the demands are met. Our further course of action will be decided soon after holding a meeting with other leaders,” said Natasha Tikait, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union. At Singhu border, groups of farmers from neighbouring Sonipat and Faridabad also visited the protest site to extend their solidarity. The youngsters were seen drawing graffiti on the walls with messages in support of the ongoing agitation.Bhim Army chief Chandrashekar Azad also visited the Singhu border on Thursday. “The government has so far tried to mislead the farmers. But now, the government knows that the farmers have decided to fight their own battles and that’s why it has initiated a dialogue. I have come here on my birthday today to extend my solidarity with my farmer brothers,” he said. Azad had also visited the protest site at Ghazipur border on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-say-hopeful-of-resolution-but-won-t-settle-for-amendments/story-xLqmnE0RmobQqZrDDfrnBN.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||From cleanest to worst, study shows how pollution in Delhi rose in a few months||The PM 2.5 levels this winter spiked by about 8-11 times from August (the cleanest month on record) to November across Delhi and its neighbouring towns, as per a fresh analysis of winter pollution levels by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) released on Thursday.According to the analysis, the relatively clean air gains made during the Covid-19 induced lockdown and a good monsoon were lost to opening up of the economy coinciding with poor weather, contributing to high winter pollution levels this year. Even though the overall average levels of PM 2.5 (the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air) for 11 months this year was considerably lower than the previous year, it went up to make the air from very poor to severe during October-November, it said. The analysis shows that from the cleanest August (the cleanest month since air quality records started to be maintained in May 2015), the PM2.5 levels rose dramatically to one of the dirtiest Novembers in recent years. “The rise varied from 9.5 times in Delhi to 11 times in Ghaziabad; followed by Noida (9.2 times), Gurugram (6.4 times) and Faridabad (6.2 times). This shows that the transient change of the lockdown phases could not be sustained without the systemic changes needed to control pollution from vehicles, industry, power plants, and waste,” the analysis read.This August recorded four good air days and the lowest AQI (41) since 2015, owing to widespread rainfall and good wind speed in Delhi. Another finding of the analysis shows a higher share of PM 2.5 (tinier, ultrafine particles that can penetrate deep into the lungs) in the overall PM 10 (coarser dust particles) concentrations this year.“The share of the ultrafine particles in PM 10 levels determines the toxicity of the air. With the onset of winter, the percentage share of PM2.5 in the overall PM10 rose to over 70% during the smog episodes in early November, and remained high at 50-60% most of November. Its share was highest on Diwali, reaching over 80% at many locations,” it said.The CSE analysis also showed that the pollution levels were more fluid this year compared to the trends in previous years. This year, local pollution across the monitoring centres in Delhi shows wider variations. This is in contrast to the range noted last year, CSE said. For instance, even on the peak smog day in November this year, the PM2.5 levels in several stations varied from a lower bound 108 μg/m3 at NSIT, to 699μg/m3 at Mundka. But last year the variation was noted at a higher range —between 351μg/m3 at Shadipur to 725μg/m3 at Alipur— while the overall level stayed above 374μg/m3. “In fact, the standard deviation among the 36 stations of Delhi this November on an average is 60% higher compared to last year,” it said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE said that this winter, there is a change in the pollution pattern that shows in lesser number of smog episodes compared to last year, wider variation in location-wise concentration compared to last year with higher contribution from stubble burning, among other factors. There are also days when pollution levels dropped to moderate levels even without rains but better wind conditions.“This pattern points to the fact that the reforms and action in key sectors of pollution will have to be scaled up across the region to further bend the annual air pollution curve,” she said.The analysis shows that the share of stubble fires from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana in Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels were higher compared to the previous years. It shows that the smoke from crop stubble fires started impacting Delhi more discerningly from October 10 onwards this year, which was a week earlier than last year when it started on October 16.“There were seven days this year when the contribution of smoke in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration exceeded 30% in contrast to three days in 2019 and 2018. There were six days when the contribution was between 20-30%, up from four days in 2019, and 16 days of 10-20% contribution, which was also an increase from 15 days in 2019. There were 23 days with less than 10% contribution, down from 30 days in 2019,” the analysis read.It added, “This year Diwali pollution was also compounded by the heightened contribution (32%) of smoke from crop stubble fire.”Roychowdhury further said that while it needs to be seen how the pollution levels will play out during the rest of the winter, it is clear that the region cannot afford to lose gains it has made so far. “At the same time, we also need to raise the level of ambition to drive action across all key sectors. Enforce power plant standards, eliminate coal from the industry, scale up public transport and vehicle restraint measures and manage waste to have a zero waste and zero landfill strategy,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-cleanest-to-worst-study-shows-how-pollution-in-delhi-rose-in-a-few-months/story-5RtpkCUwuieyx1dJGrTOLN.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||SC seeks Facebook India chief’s response on Delhi assembly panel’s plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the response of Facebook India chief Ajit Mohan on an application moved by Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee, through its chairman Raghav Chadha, seeking to be made a party to the proceedings of a case filed by Mohan before the apex court.On September 23, Mohan had filed a plea challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the committee seeking his presence before the panel, which is probing the Delhi riots and the role of the social media company in alleged hate speech.A three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked Mohan’s lawyer senior advocate Harish Salve to file a response within three weeks and posted the matter for further hearing to the third week of January.The apex court, in September, had ordered that no coercive action should be taken against Mohan in connection with the summons issued by the committee. Subsequently, the panel decided not to hold any meeting till the issue was resolved by the top court.Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, representing the committee, told the court that it was a necessary party to the proceedings as it had issued the summons to Mohan. “Since it is the action of the committee that is the subject matter of this writ petition, it is submitted that the applicant is a proper and necessary party to fully explain the circumstances under which the alleged cause of action took place and the impugned summons were issued,” the committee said.The committee had received the mandate to suggest measures to eliminate factors and situations having a potential to disturb communal harmony in the capital and to establish harmony among different religious or linguistic groups.Mohan had challenged before the top court the scope of such an inquiry and stated that “the very constitution of the committee of peace and harmony was unconstitutional”. The committee countered this by saying, “Since consideration of the aforesaid issues (resulting from riots) arose within the geographical area of the (Delhi) assembly, it was necessary to examine them and seek inputs, help, advice and submissions which would enrich and fulfil the purposes for which the committee was constituted.”Responding to the development, Salve said the committee’s application made for interesting reading. “The panel says it has an independent existence and is a juridical entity. It needs to be seen where it (panel) fits,” Salve said, while requesting time to file a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-seeks-facebook-india-chief-s-response-on-delhi-assembly-panel-s-plea/story-zahqfXerLAMVirSr5IvwmM.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Mohalla clinics short of hands as staffers test Covid-19 positive||Around 20 mohalla clinics in the national capital are functioning only intermittently owing to a short age of hands -- staff have either tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or are unwilling to work at the clinics when the cases are surging -- officials of the health department said.In November, when Delhi battled a severe rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, about four to five staffers of mohalla clinics had tested positive for Covid-19. The numbers are the same at any given time, officials said.Health experts said last month, when intensive care units in hospitals were filled to capacity with Covid-19 patients, these clinics had turned out to be a major boon in delivering health services.According to health officials, there are around 15 to 20 clinics — the official did not specify where these clinics are located — that have not been functioning for the past couple of months. A few of the doctors and nurses at these clinics had contracted Covid-19, while the other staffers are unwilling to join back duty given the surge in cases. Each clinic has three to four staff members — a doctor, a nurse, a pharmacist and a helper and treats about 100-200 patients a day.The doctors and staff at the mohalla clinics are paid on a per patient basis. Each mohalla clinic sees about 100 to 120 patients a day.“We have a running list of doctors who have already been selected for postings at mohalla clinics and are reaching out to them to join the clinics where there are staffing issues,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.Two mohalla clinic doctors – a husband and wife -- were a part of the first cluster of cases reported from Delhi in March. A 38-year-old woman from Dilshad Garden had visited one of the doctors when she experienced symptoms after returning from Dubai. She had passed on the infection to her mother, two daughters, brother, and a friend.Another 65-year-old doctor from mohalla clinic in Najafgarh had contracted the infection and died in JuneThe officials are also looking at conducting fresh interviews to expand the list. Currently, there are over 465 such clinics in Delhi, with the government planning to expand the numbers to 1,000 -- one clinic in every 1km radius. During the lockdown, only about 360 of these clinics were functional. More clinics were opened up and operationalized as the restrictions were removed.“Having mohalla clinics at a time like this is beneficial as they ensure that people at least get primary care, which hospitals are currently unable to provide given the influx of patients. In many hospitals, routine clinics have been stopped or curtailed and mohalla clinics can help take on that load. Also, people are wary of bigger hospitals as there is a higher chance of contracting the disease from these big facilities,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.The Delhi government has also removed the restriction of doctors or other staff members over the age of 60 years from working in clinics. “Initially, we had asked senior doctors to not work in mohalla clinics as there was a risk of exposure to patients who might have Covid-19. However, with the pandemic persisting for so long, many senior doctors are insisting on getting back to work,” the official said.“We cannot stop them from reporting to duty as there is already a community spread and people are contracting the infection even without stepping out of homes. But all mohalla clinic staff have been asked to ensure social distancing and to wear masks during duty hours to protect themselves against the infection,” the official said. The government is also planning to induct the senior doctors in their online consultation app, as per the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mohalla-clinics-short-of-hands-as-staffers-test-positive-or-stay-away-over-covid-fears/story-Nf3vdoIuUfMX0eoRtRP2dP.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid positivity rate dips below 5%, first time since October 6||Delhi on Thursday conducted over 75,000 tests for Covid-19, and reported 3,734 new cases of the virus. This brought the daily positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – to below 5% for the first time since October 6, when a positivity rate of 4.9% had been recorded. The city on Thursday also reported 82 more deaths, taking the total toll of the infection to 9,424, as per Thursday’s bulletin. Delhi’s positivity rate stood at 4.96% on Thursday, which is the lowest in 204 days — when the same positivity rate was reported on May 13. Experts state that the spread of the infection has been controlled when a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained for at least two weeks. Since the government started sharing daily testing data, Delhi has never seen a positivity rate of less than 5% for a period of two weeks. The positivity rate had remained between 5% and 6% for 17 days consecutively from September-end to mid-October. The numbers had started going up again leading to the “third wave” of cases in November. At its peak, the positivity rate in Delhi stood at 15.3% on November 15 during the current surge in cases. The highest ever positivity rate was almost 37% recorded on June 13, during the first surge of cases in the city. “Positivity declined to 5% today from 15.26% on Nov 7. Highest total tests 78949 and highest RTPCR test 36370 ever with lowest RTPCR positivity of 8.99%. Steadily corona cases and positivity coming down. Hope this will continue. Please observe all precautions,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had tweeted on Wednesday. Experts believe that the surge in cases seen in November was due to the festive season and the number of cases and positivity rate are likely to continue declining. “People were out, markets were flooded, and precautions were not being followed during the festive season due to which there had been an increase in the number of cases. Now, even though there is traffic on the road, get togethers are not happening and hence the transmission has gone down. And, now with so many people having been exposed to the infection, it is likely that Delhi will not have huge surge in cases. There would be fewer cases in those who have still not been exposed to the infection,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-covid-positivity-rate-dips-below-5-first-time-since-october-6/story-Bnuk9YPDApuD5mcASa05kJ.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||No night curfew in city, Delhi govt informs high court||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that it would not impose a night curfew in the capital city -- as a whole or in parts -- and said it arrived at the decision after surveying the present Covid-19 situation. The court, on its part, asked the government to ramp up testing and contact tracing of Covid-19 patients.On the last date of hearing (November 26), the court had asked the government to review whether it wanted to impose a night curfew. The Delhi government counsel had replied that his government is actively considering such a measure.On Thursday, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sandeep Sethi and additional standing counsel of the Delhi government advocate Satyakam told a bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad that after assessing the situation, the government said such a curfew was not called for. “The Delhi government has taken a considered view, after assessing the situation of Delhi, not to impose night curfew in Delhi or some parts of Delhi as of now,” the government said in a status report. A status quo will be maintained till December 31 or further with regard to restricted/permitted activities, the government said.The court was hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking an increase in the Covid-19 testing and speedier results. In response to another query, posed by the court on November 26, the government said the money collected as fines for not maintaining social distancing or not wearing masks will be deposited with the treasury, and that will not be directly used for any specific expenditure (Covid related) by the local administration or the government.“All Covid-19 related expenditures are being met by departments concerned out of the allocated funds,” the status report said.The government on Thursday said it has collected ₹17.93 crore in fines (till November 30) with the Delhi Police’s collection reaching ₹27 crores (till November 30).The court was told that the government, on November 28, had restricted 50% of the staff (below grade 1) for non-essential services, at government departments, corporations, public sector undertakings and local bodies from being physically present in offices. .“Private establishments have also been advised to stagger the office timings and to reduce the number of employees attending office,” the counsel said. The court sought to know whether the order was actually being implemented. “It is unclear from the status report as to how much impact this order would actually have on a real time basis as it does not cover central government employees and is only recommendatory in nature qua private establishments,” it said.The bench said testing and tracing are the only ways to contain the virus while observing that the number has come down of late. “So please focus on those aspects,” it added.The court also said the government has to ensure that people who are in home isolation stay indoors. It also said that the turnaround time for test reports is still 48 hours and patients are not receiving messages on their phones even after the court’s directions. The court asked the government to file a status report with updated information and posted the next hearing to December 14..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-night-curfew-in-city-delhi-govt-informs-high-court/story-V52rwFW3WimbvRHFyAmpmI.html
04-12-2020||Gurugram||Exam council asks states to allow schools to reopen ahead of boards||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which conducts the ICSE and ISC examinations, on Thursday said that it had requested chief ministers to allow its affiliated schools to reopen partially from January, specifically for students of classes 10 and 12 who will be appearing for these exams. Gerry Arathoon, chief executive of CISCE, said that most schools affiliated to it had continued teaching students in an online, offline or blended manner. “For the final run-up to the examinations, CISCE has requested the chief ministers of all state governments and UTs to allow schools to reopen partially, specifically for the students of classes 10 and 12 from January 4, 2021. With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilised for practical work, project work, SUPW work and for doubt clearing lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” said Arathoon in a statement released on Thursday. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19 and partially reopened in some states from October 15 for academic guidance lessons. In Haryana, the state government had initiated regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. However, schools were closed once again as Covid-19 cases among school students started to spike, after the resumption of physical classroom sessions from November 2. Arathoon said that if allowed to reopen, schools will be asked to follow the directives of the state government regarding Covid-19 and to conform to the safety guidelines and the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the health department to prevent the spread of coronavirus. District education officer Indu Boken said that both private and government schools in the state were closed at least till December 10 and further orders from the government were awaited. “Schools will remain closed till December 10. We will wait for the government to issue further directions on reopening,” said Boken. ICSE schools in the city said that practical work was a crucial component of the course and needed to be completed in schools. Schools said that they would seek the consent of parents if and when the state government gives a go-ahead. Sudha Goyal, principal of Scottish High International School, which offers ICSE among other curricula, said that while the school had been conducting practical sessions via zoom, students had not performed the experiments on their own till now due to Covid-19 concerns and school closure. “So far, our lab assistants or teachers have been visiting the school and conducting the experiments. The activity is streamed through Zoom for students at home. On their own, students are yet to conduct practical activities. For students in board classes, practical activities are crucial,” said Goyal. Before the Haryana government ordered the closure of schools in November, only a few students with appointments and parental consent had been visiting the school for doubt-clearing sessions. She said that if the government were to allow students to visit school, the school will be able to conduct practical sessions for students in class 10 and 12 with physical distancing norms in place. “The school is being sanitized on a daily basis. It’s a very safe space. Whenever the government reopens schools, we will reach out to parents and seek consent. If the parents don’t allow children, we will not force them,” said Goyal. An official from The Shri Ram School, another ICSE school in the city, said that the school would await directions from the state government before taking any call regarding the conduct of practical sessions in schools. “We will abide by the instructions of the government. Currently, schools have been asked to remain shut till December 10. If and when they allow, we will assess the situation before making any decision,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cisce-for-reopening-of-schools-in-january/story-p1LFi3kTXYFTNDAcgNv2wM.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 shadow over Delhi municipal budgets||Besides a massive financial crunch, the municipal corporations of Delhi are also facing an unprecedented administrative crisis this year because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The commissioners of all three corporations have been infected by the viral disease and officials are worried that their deputies will have to present the budget proposals for 2021-2022.The budget is important for the civic bodies this year as all of them are going through a crippling financial crisis so much so that North Delhi Municipal Corporation and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) have not been able to pay salaries to their staff for several months, triggering protests. In order to boost revenues, the municipalities may introduce new taxes such as betterment tax, professional tax, education cess along with proposals of hiking the property taxes. Officials in North DMC and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said most likely additional commissioners will present the budget this year. The commissioner of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) Dilraj Kaur was also infected but officials are hoping that she gets well and join office in a couple of days to present the annual budget.The budget for SDMC and North DMC are to be presented on December 7 and December 8 respectively while EDMC budget will be tabled on December 9.According to civic officials, SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti, who also holds the additional charge of the north corporation, is infected with Covid-19 and is unlikely to present the budget in any of the two civic bodies this time. The north civic body is yet to get a new commissioner after Varsha Joshi was transferred in May this year. “The SDMC commissioner is handling the additional charge of the north corporation, and late last month he had tested Covid-19 positive. It will take some time for him to join the office so he is unlikely to present budget proposals in north and south civic bodies. This is an unprecedented situation that due to Covid this year’s budget will be presented by additional commissioners. This will be happening for the first time in recent past,” a senior official of the north corporation, who wished not to be named, said.EDMC officials said, “The EDMC commissioner had turned Covid-19 positive early last month. Though the commissioner is still recovering, she might join just before the budget day. In her absence, the additional commissioner will have to present the budget proposals,” a senior EDMC official said.According to civic officials, due to senior officers down with Covid-19, there were difficulties in preparing the budget. “Budget preparation begins two-three months in advance. Since the top officials were down with Covid-19, either meetings were delayed or conducted through video conferencing, which took time. Still, there are a few proposals on which commissioner’s nod is required. We are relying on virtual meetings,” said officials from east and north corporations.Senior civic officials said the budget for municipalities is prepared by the finance department and then approved by the commissioner, who presents it in the House. The proposals then are tabled for discussion among the elected representatives. Leader of the elected House, leader of the opposition and the mayor of the civic body present their views on the budget tabled by the commissioner and also have the power to make amends.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor SDMC, said, “It is unfortunate that the commissioner is unwell and is unlikely to present the budget this year. I pray for his speedy recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-shadow-over-delhi-municipal-budgets/story-Ds6CEM6CTcrQKm0a83U24L.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP lock horns over milk booth, fruit shops at public parks||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday protested against a proposal of the south Delhi municipal corporation (SDMC) that aimed at allowing milk booths and fruit shops at several parks across the city.While the AAP is at the helm of the government in Delhi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rules the three municipal corporations.“The BJP-ruled SDMC has come up with a plan to open milk and fruit shops at the parks of Delhi. The AAP believes that the intention behind this is to loot people through land grabbing and, therefore, we oppose this proposal. Delhi has enough milk booths and vegetable or fruit shops across the city. The BJP-ruled MCD has realised that their time is getting over, therefore, they are trying to allot land to their supporters. The BJP-ruled MCD does not pay a penny for the maintenance of these parks,” said AAP’s spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.The BJP denied the allegations and hit back saying the AAP was making “frivolous” claims.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Saurabh Bhardwaj’s allegations on the proposal of small stalls in SDMC parks is frivolous. The proposal is related to small stalls in parks that will be operated only during park opening hours in mornings and evenings. It is a preliminary proposal which needs to be further deliberated on before a final decision is taken. At this stage, the proposal does not cover all parks but just one sample park in each of Delhi’s 272 municipal wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-bjp-lock-horns-over-milk-booth-fruit-shops-at-public-parks/story-NHP5DTZVrloAZjSlcm8kgN.html
04-12-2020||Delhi||N-E Delhi riots: HC orders shifting Tanha to Lajpat Nagar guest house for exams||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed Tihar jail authorities to “forthwith” take Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha — arrested in connection to the conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots — to a guest house in Lajpat Nagar in order to enable him to study and appear for his BA (Persian) examinations that begin from Friday.Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri also asked the jail superintendent to permit the accused to take study material with him and provide him with other teaching material, if required. The court asked the authorities to take Tanha to the guest house as suggested by the police and agreed to by his counsel.The court said it would be the responsibility of the jail superintendent that from the guest house, the accused is taken to the examination centre at JMI university at 8:30am on December 4, 5 and 7 and brought back.Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was arrested in connection with the violence in Jamia area during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year.The court also allowed Tanha to make a phone call to his counsel for 10 minutes once a day during his stay at the guest house.Earlier, on November 26, a city court had granted him three-day custody parole to appear in compartment/ supplementary exams of BA Persian (Hons). However, not satisfied with this on the grounds that his entire day will be wasted and he will not be able to study, Tanha, through his counsel Showhanya Shankaran, moved the high court seeking interim bail.On Wednesday, ASG Raju had opposed the interim bail plea stating that no such relief ought to be granted to Tanha and suggested that he can be permitted to stay in a guest house, under judicial custody till his exams get over on December 7.The state, also represented through advocate Amit Mahajan, suggested four places which will be guarded by security officials and the petitioner’s counsel accepted the guest house at Lajpat Nagar.Tanha’s counsel told the court that they are ready to give an undertaking to surrender immediately after the exams and that he would not seek the benefit of full court’s Covid-19 orders in which interim bails were granted to prisoners and regularly extended.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February killing 53 people and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/n-e-delhi-riots-hc-orders-shifting-tanha-to-lajpat-nagar-guest-house-for-exams/story-vGutbvoQhVCkDGdBxOfyII.html
04-12-2020||City||Mohali murder: Police identify three suspects||Probing into the murder of a 35-year-old man, who was stabbed to death, following a scuffle at the Phase 6 market on November 29, police have identified three prime suspects.According to police, the victim, Kuljinder Singh Dhillon, a resident of Balongi, ran an illegal liquor business in Sector 56, Chandigarh. The suspects used to purchase liquor from him. On November 29, the suspects came on three bikes with the intention of robbing Dhillon. When one of them tried to stab him in the shoulder during a scuffle, the knife accidentally hit his stomach. After the attack, Dhillon was rushed to the civil hospital by an auto driver. Later, a case of murder was registered on the statement of the victim’s wife, Nisha, at the Phase 1 police station. DSP (city 1) Gursher Singh Sandhu said, “We have identified the suspects involved in the murder and their names will be revealed soon.” Efforts are on to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phase-6-murder-police-identify-three-suspects/story-fikEPBmcZxGRr1msOpHu9K.html
