06-12-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA approves cost hike for two packages of Mumbai Metro-7, but says overall cost won’t be hit||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has approved cost variation amounting to around ₹200 crore for two packages along the upcoming Metro-7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) corridor in its recent executive committee meeting. The MMRDA, however, stated that the variation will not affect the overall cost of the project expected to be operational by May 2021. According to the minutes of the meeting accessed by HT, package two of the corridor was awarded at ₹360 crore earlier and 90% of the work has been completed. This package stretches from New Ashok Nagar to Mahindra and Mahindra. However, owing to the extra work undertaken, MMRDA has approved a cost variation of 32% or ₹116.12 crore. The minutes reveal how the extra work was undertaken before the Maharashtra state assembly elections in 2019. For instance, the agency had built a metro car unit exhibition centre at the MMRDA grounds in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) for ₹11.75 crore, with a train prototype that was unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi then. It also stated that MMRDA has approved a cost variation for package 3 by ₹79.79 crore. This package stretches from Mahindra and Mahindra to Dahisar East. Overall, 81% of the civil construction work along the corridor has been completed. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said the variation will not impact the projected cost of the metro line, which is ₹6,208 crore.Rajeev said, “It is a huge project with several components like land acquisition, system works, civil construction. So we will save costs in one of these components, which will compensate for the variation. There is no escalation in the overall project cost.”The commissioner also said that MMRDA is expecting the first prototype of the metro trains to be in Mumbai by the end of December, following which trial runs will be undertaken in January 2021. “Once the train arrives, we will have to undertake system integration works. We expect to start trial runs in January, which will go on for three months, post which, we will commence operations by the end of 2021.”Currently, Mumbai has only one operational metro line, the Mumbai Metro-1 (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar), which was inaugurated in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-approves-cost-hike-for-two-packages-of-mumbai-metro-7-but-says-overall-cost-won-t-be-hit/story-lByBKUwtFs0VVvRfw2gK4O.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants temporary bail to UPSC aspirant, asks his mother to surrender for road rage||While observing that road rage incidents against traffic personnel was on the rise, the Bombay high court (HC) granted temporary bail to a man aspiring to join the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF). The man, along with his mother, was booked for assaulting and causing hurt to traffic police personnel who intercepted their car, which entered closed/barricaded road, resulting in a traffic jam and inconvenience to the public. The court granted relief to the man to appear for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams scheduled on December 20 but asked his mother to surrender to the police within a week. On November 25, a single-judge bench of justice CV Bhadang, while hearing the bail application of the mother and son duo booked for deterring and assaulting a public servant from discharging their duty, was informed by advocate AM Sarogi that the incident had occurred in Pandharpur on October 22. He further submitted that as the sessions court had refused bail to the duo on the grounds that assaulting a public servant was a serious offence, they had approached the HC. According to the complaint filed by a woman constable attached to Pandharpur city police station on October 22, the duo was driving their vehicle on the road leading to tehsil office. As some repair work was undertaken on the road, it had been partially closed and barricaded. At around 12.45pm the woman constable (complainant) stopped the car and asked them to turn back as the road was closed on their route. However, they refused and an altercation ensued. It was also alleged that the barricade was removed as a result of which there was a traffic jam and caused inconvenience to the general public. Thereafter, the mother and son were taken to the police station where the mother disclosed that she was a retired police officer and understood the law. When the police personnel insisted on getting their details, the mother assaulted the woman constable, following which a case was registered. The man and his mother were charged under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from the duty), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 341 (wrongfully restraining a person from moving to a place or direction), 506 (criminal intimidation), 268 (public nuisance) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) among others. Sarogi informed the court that the man was 22-years old and would be appearing for UPSC exam on December 20 for recruitment into CAPF. Sarogi added that as the career of the man would be spoiled if he was kept behind bars, he should be granted temporary bail. Assistant public prosecutor YM Nakhwa, however, opposed the application and said the offence was serious and the co-accused mother was still at large. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “It is a matter of common experience that the incidents of road rage are on rise and of late, such incidents are not only restricted to private individuals using the road but even traffic personnel, who are assigned with the duty of regulating the traffic, are at a receiving end.” After granting temporary bail to the man on submitting a personal bond worth ₹15,000 and other conditions the judge ruled, “Looking at the nature of the role attributed to the applicant, as against the co-accused mother, and that the applicant has expressed remorse and regrets in the matter and in view of the circumstance that the applicant is required to appear for UPSC examination, I find that the applicant can be released on a temporary bail in order to enable him to prepare and appear UPSC examination, subject to conditions.” The court then directed the mother to surrender before the Pandharpur city police station within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-temporary-bail-to-upsc-aspirant-asks-his-mother-to-surrender-for-road-rage/story-t7v60dL8W2hXrz3Cc4eiVJ.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Operation All Out: Mumbai Police conduct raids, checks to crackdown on criminal activity||In light of anti-social elements returning to a life of crime as the government lifts restrictions in the city, the Mumbai Police, in a proactive drive against criminals, drugs and illicit activities, organised a city-wide Operation All Out on December 4 between 11pm and 2am. Surprise raids and extensive combing operations were carried out across the city, resulting in arrests of dozens of absconding offenders and law violators.During the special drive, 362 criminals who are on police records for serious crimes were checked; 22 externee (tadipar) criminals found living in the area from where they were externed were arrested.“Simultaneous combing operations were carried out at 189 locations, including some densely populated slum pockets where notorious criminals usually take shelter. The intense combing operations led to the arrest of 48 absconding and wanted criminals,” a senior police officer said.Operation All Out was supervised by commissioner of police Parambir Singh and was led by Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order), additional commissioners of police of all five regions, 13 deputy commissioners of police and assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) of over 40 divisions. Senior inspectors of all 95 police stations across Mumbai remained present in their respective jurisdictions and oversaw the execution of the operation. While speaking to HT, Singh said, “Operation All Out was organised to carry out a sudden crackdown on anti-social elements in the city. The surprise checks carried out on a massive scale will send a strong message across and prevent many future crimes.”During the operation, 851 hotels, lodges and musafirkhanas were checked and those found violating rules and regulations were penalised accordingly.Citywide nakabandis were also organised at 861 locations, and 7,562 vehicles were checked. Action was taken against those who found in violation of motor vehicle rules.After easing of lockdown restrictions, police reported a rise in drug-related crimes in the city. An organized and effective crackdown was needed and thus, the massive operation was launched against elements involved in the drug business,” said Patil.Under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 53 cases were registered during the crackdown, including 44 for consumption and possession of drugs such as MDMA and ganja.Foot patrolling was organised at 428 important locations including all crime probe spots, and 95 raids were conducted against illicit activities. During this, one illegal firearm and 11 sharp weapons (knife, swords, etc) were seized. Police executed 167 non-bailable warrants.“The special drive will act as a deterrent to keep criminals in check and will prevent future crimes. Visibility of maximum policemen out on the streets for action against anti-social elements also boosts the confidence of citizens in the police,” said Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police, north region.Another officer said that generally operations on such a high scale are only done before Ganeshotsav, Independence Day or Republic Day or if there is terror alert. “Such a crackdown will now be done regularly as this strengthens and enhances police control on anti-social elements and puts a check on crime,” said Chaitanya Siriprolu, Mumbai Police spokesperson and DCP (operation).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/operation-all-out-mumbai-police-conduct-raids-checks-to-crackdown-on-criminal-activity/story-VLzVgxcwLX0IJ3BlXeUU0J.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena to support farmers’ stir over laws||In a significant step by political parties that are in Opposition on national level, a delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday met Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray over various contentious issues, including the “interference of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre into the rights of the state governments”. The SAD and the Shiv Sena have decided to join hands to support the ongoing farmers’ protests on the borders of New Delhi for the past 10 days, demanding the abolition of the newly introduced farm laws. National Opposition parties, including various regional outfits, have also given a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8.Leaders from key political parties that form the national Opposition are expected to meet in Delhi in the next couple of weeks to discuss the course of action.“We have held meetings with a few regional parties and are meeting leaders from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, All India Trinamool Congress with the common intention of opposing the Centre’s intervention in the states’ rights. The Centre has been suppressing the rights of the states in state subjects, including law and order, agriculture, finances. In the garb of cybercrime, the Centre is intervening in law and order. By passing the farm laws, it intends to overtake the state’s powers of agriculture marketing. The goods and services tax (GST) regime has already shrunk the state’s resources. We want to collectively oppose this attempt,” by SAD vice-president and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, who led the delegation to Thackeray’s official bungalow, Varsha, said. The SAD leader also said the delegation could not meet Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai due to time constraint. “We have already met him in Delhi and will have another meeting in the national capital in the next two weeks. SAD is taking the lead to give a combative Opposition to the ruling BJP. The decision about the leadership of the front will be taken collectively,” he said. In a statement issued by his office, Thackeray said, “The SAD delegation discussed their stand on the ongoing protest. The farmers are the backbone of the country and we should give supreme priority to their issues and demands.” The SAD had quit the BJP-led NDA in September to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, saying they were “anti-farmer”. The Shiv Sena snapped ties with the BJP last year after it formed the government in Maharashtra with the NCP and Congress. The two saffron parties fell apart over the issue of sharing the chief ministership after the Assembly polls last October. Pawar has recently spoken about the need for a combative front against the BJP. In an interview to Marathi newspaper Lokmat’s YouTube channel, Pawar said there are many parties that do not stand with the BJP’s policies that are not in the interest of the nation and are openly speaking against them. “West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been taking the BJP head on consistently. In such a scenario , other parties like the Congress and Left should come forward, keep the differences aside and join hands with leaders like Mamata. It could not happen because of the Covid-19 pandemic over the past few months, but I think it can happen during the forthcoming Parliament session (in February),” he said. Thackeray, during his virtual meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi and few other non-BJP-ruled CMs in August, had pressed for the need to come together to fight against the Centre to safeguard the federal structure. He had also said that they should not allow anybody to take away the rights of the states given to them by the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-to-support-farmers-stir-over-laws/story-zzUTHSa177F4n7iav8vAIO.html
06-12-2020||City||Ludhiana: Abandoned by mother, toddler reunited with father||A two-year-old girl, who was allegedly abandoned by her mother outside Sheetla Mata Mandir near the municipal corporation’s Zone-A office on Friday, was reunited with her father. Some passersby had noticed the girl crying and shivering in the cold and informed the police. Immediately after getting information, police launched a search operation for the toddler’s parents. They asked a Good Samaritan, who had children of her age, to take her in till the parents were located.Meanwhile, a Nepalese man approached the police stating that his two-year-old daughter had been abandoned by his wife near the temple.After verifying that he was indeed her father, police handed her over to him. He told the police that he has two daughters. Six months ago, following a dispute, his wife had left home. She had taken the younger daughter with her, while the elder daughter stayed with him.On Friday, his wife allegedly called him and asked him to transfer ₹500 to her through phone. She also told him that she was coming home but did not turn up. When he called her later, she told him that the toddler had gone missing. Division Number 1 station house officer, sub-Inspector Harjit Singh said the child was handed over to the man only after thorough verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-abandoned-by-mother-toddler-reunited-with-father/story-z1bKFmt75D8b2zQW7PqfrL.html
06-12-2020||City||Couple crushed to death under truck on Sutlej River bridge||A speeding truck crushed a bike-borne couple to death on the bridge over Sutlej River near Ladhowal toll plaza on Sunday afternoon.The victims, identified as Surinder Singh, 40, of Kutbewal Gujjran village and Surjit Kaur, 38, were on their way to a relative’s place in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshehr) when the mishap took place.As per information, the couple had just crossed the toll barrier and reached the bridge, when the truck hit their bike. After the collision, both victims fell down on the road, but instead of stopping, the truck driver accelerated the vehicle in a bid to escape and ran over the couple, killing them on the spot. The driver, who was later identified as Naveen Kumar, 25, of Uttar Pradesh, was nabbed by passersby and handed over to the police.Ladhowal station house officer, sub-inspector Baljit Singh said the truck was on the way to Jalandhar for loading material. The vehicle has been confiscated. Police will be conducting a medical test of the driver to know if he was under the influence of drugs at the time of the incident. The case against him has been registered under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Following the mishap, traffic in the area remained hit for at least an hour.Victims’ 3 minor sons orphaned within a span of minutesWhen Surinder Singh, who works as labourer, and his wife Surjit Kaur had left home on Sunday afternoon, they had told their eldest son, 17, to take care of the two younger children until they returned from their relatives’ house the next day. But little did 17-year-old Gurdeep Singh know that fate would leave him in charge of his siblings for longer than he had expected.Orphaned with a span of minutes, Gurdeep was seen trying to console his two younger siblings, Simarjit Singh, 16 and Jaskaran Singh, 14, after they got the news of their parents’ death. Gurdeep, who has just finished Class-12, and was looking to apply at colleges, says he doesn’t know what fate holds next. “I have to take care of my younger siblings and their studies,” he says. While Simarjit is a student of Class 11, Jaskaran is in Class 10. The children said they had lost their grandfather only a year ago.Ajmer Singh, a relative, said that Surinder and Surjit had planned to stay at his house for a night. Though the couple had planned to leave home early in the morning, they had to alter their plans due to the fog. “Minutes after they left the house, we got the news about the mishap. We tried to hide it from the children, but they found out from the neighbours. We will take care of the children now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-crushed-to-death-under-truck-on-sutlej-river-bridge/story-rhzeJJYgaxTEy9u8k7DJHJ.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||At 310, Gurugram reports fewest Covid-19 cases in 37 days||The district on Sunday reported 310 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest daily tally in at least 37 days. With a total of 4,510 new samples tested, the daily test positivity rate for Gurugram stood at 6.8%, up from 4.5% the previous day. However, the district also tested significantly fewer samples on Sunday, at 4,510, as against 8,625 samples tested a day prior.Sunday also marked the second consecutive day that the city reported fewer than 400 new cases, after consistently reporting over 400 daily infections since mid-October. With the growth rate of new cases slowing down, the number of daily recoveries has begun to overtake new daily infections.While 310 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Gurugram on Sunday, the number of recoveries stood at 713. The previous day too, the district reported 395 new cases of Covid-19, whereas the daily recoveries stood at 981.“This trend indicates some relief in the coming days, and over the next two weeks, our daily new cases should not increase very significantly. We are also expecting a positive outcome for the death rate. We reported three deaths on Sunday, which is also the lowest in a week,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.The district has, so far, reported 317 Covid-related deaths, of which 246 deaths were attributed to comorbidities.The district’s total Covid tally now stands at 51,250 cases, up from 49,592 cases a week ago. Of these, 3,386 are classified as active cases, down from 6,265 active patients a week ago. While 441 people were hospitalised for Covid-19 a week ago, the current number of patients in tertiary care stands at 247 people, while another 15 cases are under observation at district Covid care centres. The number of positive cases under home isolation currently stands at 3,124, which is also down from a total of 5,809 a week ago.Hospital bed occupancy in the district is also at its lowest in at least two weeks, with only 62 of 253 available ventilators currently in use, while 145 out of 367 ICU beds are currently taken up. In terms of general hospital beds with oxygen facility, 480 are currently in use, against the allocated strength of 2,632 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-310-gurugram-reports-fewest-covid-19-cases-in-37-days/story-necoGNFL9TAZodp4IsyZ1O.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||Serial killer sexually assaulted as a child, may have triggered spree: Police||The 22-year-old alleged serial killer, who was arrested in Gurugram three days ago, is a victim of child molestation. He was sexually assaulted by a male relative when he was six years old, the police said, adding that this may have triggered the killing spree in which at least 10 persons were killed in Gurugram, Delhi, and Bihar.The police said that he only targeted men and had no interest in women. He used to carry a set of knives to stab his targets and only targeted people from the lower middle class, who were in distress or expressed frustrations.The police said that it has been challenging to track and arrest Mohammad Razi (22), as all these three murder cases he was involved in were blind cases. There was no personal or professional enmity and there was no CCTV footage to help them identify the suspect.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that as Razi was smart enough to evade being identified but circumstantial evidence and secret informers helped them nab him.On November 26, Razi was searching for a target when he saw a man sitting near the sewer pipe in Sector 47 ground, near the state vigilance office. Razi sat near the man and started interacting with him.“He introduced himself as a needy person who had come all the way from Bihar in search of work and did a storytelling session, saying he was thrown out of the house due to financial issues and now, he is left with no money to make ends meet. He was carrying a whisky bottle, which he offered to the victim and after they consumed almost half the bottle, he started abusing him and stabbed him at least six times. He chopped his neck, packed the head in a paper and later in polythene, and walked to Kanhai village, which is four kilometres from the spot,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime).The victim was identified as Rakesh Kumar of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. His identity was established from an Aadhaar card found near the body.Razi told the police he went to the residence of one Mohsin Khan, a construction contractor who had hired him for an ongoing project near Sohna Road. “He was fired from the job as he was found stealing construction material and iron rods from the site. He was carrying a grudge against Khan and planned to frame him. He went to Khan’s room but found his room locked. So, he left the head in front of his house to mislead the police and returned to Sector 47,” said Sangwan.Razi kept a close watch on police movement in Sector 47, when they were searching for the head in nearby bushes and “enjoyed every moment”, according to the police.He washed his knife and wiped his hands with a towel that he carried in his bag, along with a set of clothes. He kept changing locations and was confident that he would not be caught as he was not using a mobile phone.During questioning, Razi revealed that he has worked in Nepal, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gurugram and Uttar Pradesh, and wanted to travel across the country to kill people in all cities, the police said. “He wanted to become famous and wanted to be known as the most dangerous serial killer, and his target was 100 murders. He kept his lucky knife always with him and said he would take the decision of killing only after three drinks,” said Sangwan.Rao said he has worked in Kalanki, six kilometres from Kathmandu in Nepal, where he was working on an underpass project between 2018 and 2020, before he returned to his village. He is the eldest of five siblings in his family and has two younger brothers and sisters, each.“We are investigating to get more details of other cases with his involvement. A team will be sent to his home town and we are coordinating with our counterparts to know of similar cases reported in their areas,” he said.Razi was sent to 14 days in judicial custody after his remand ended on Saturday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/serial-killer-sexually-assaulted-as-a-child-may-have-triggered-spree-police/story-T6dF5zATEm2BPNfIbDLvXI.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad Police introduces family officers to reach out to public||In order to bridge the gap between the police and the public, the Faridabad Police has introduced “family police officers” to interact with residents. This community outreach programme launched by OP Singh, commissioner of police, Faridabad, last week, aims not only to enhance the visibility of the police force but also bring them closer to the public, said officials. As a part of this programme, the police will deploy beat officers for families in residential areas with whom they will interact regularly. These officers will act as facilitators for the people for all police-related services and will also act as strategic consultants on personal safety issues, said the police. Singh said that these officers will serve as a bridge between the police and the public. Most of families in India have their own doctors, shopkeepers, charter accountants, grocers and so on. “They enjoy a certain level of trust and comfort with families. Likewise, these beat officers will provide support to families by acting as facilitators for police services and as consultants on personal safety matters,” he said. According to police, there are 24 police stations, 30 police posts in Faridabad with a total strength of 4,200 officers. Each residential area will have nearly 22 beat officers, including constables, head constables, sub-inspectors and others. The teams would patrol their jurisdiction and be in touch with residents, students, shopkeepers and senior citizens of their respective beat areas. “We will draw upon the strength of all the 24 police stations and 30 police posts in the district. Beat officers will work on three shifts and remain accessible to residents round the clock. The idea is to take policing out of police stations and make it accessible to residents,” Singh said, adding that 1,500 police personnel have already started patrolling the streets. Singh also said they are utilising the skills of the new recruits as they are well-educated. There are 687 beat officers deployed across the city who are regularly in touch with the families. Until third week of November, 687 beat officers visited 68,735 families, home-delivered 3,209 copies of challans and FIRs to the complainants, helped 4,297 people with different kinds of police verifications and solved 15,938 issues of residents. They have also held 6,022 street meetings, which were attended by 1,18,220 people. During these meetings, the police urged people to maintain caution in the cyber space, be aware of cyber frauds, fact-check rumours and take pride in being a lawful citizen. Functions of the family police officer The police officers introduce themselves to families and ask them to contact them for any safety-related issues or documentation-related services they need from their police stations. They utilise these interactive opportunities to make families aware about Covid-appropriate behaviour, cyber security, and ask them to keep a watch on suspicious elements and activities in the neighbourhood. “We must have a holistic approach towards safety. It is as much about the protectors as it is about those who are being protected. The two sides need to work in tandem to achieve the optimum level of safety,” said commissioner Singh. Besides comforting families with their visits, calls, help and accessibility, they also liaise with residents’ welfare associations for necessary safety measures, such as installing CCTV cameras, hiring security guards and resolving petty disputes locally. They also keep a check on the activities of previous offenders released on bail and nuisance creators living in or frequenting their beat areas. According to the police, this initiative has given the new recruits an opportunity to be recognised for their good work. As beat officers, they are also learning valuable skills, such as dealing with the public, communication and problem-solving abilities and internalising traits like empathy, accountability and efficiency .Singh said no extra manpower or budgetary allocation was used for this initiative. “In government, you stand a greater chance of success if you can somehow make do with the available budget and manpower. You need to focus on the task, follow-up diligently, get regular feedback and make realtime course correction if necessary,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-police-introduces-family-officers-to-reach-out-to-public/story-RvspS3y1SQ5dKuOpHCw12J.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||MCG sets October 15 deadline to register for Streets for People Challenge||Under the Central government’s Streets for People Challenge, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has invited professionals and students in the fields of architecture, urban design, and planning to submit innovative designs for re-engineering two stretches in the city.The MCG has shortlisted a 600-metre stretch within Sadar Bazaar, between Jama Masjid and Post office, and a road within the market’s 50-metre radius that leads to two schools, Vedik High School and Senior Secondary Girls Government School on Jacobpura Road, for the competition, registrations of which closes on December 15.The designs should have the capability to be carried out in quick time, require minimal capital expenditure, while keeping parameters, such as the fair distribution of space, safety, comfort, and addressing of localised needs in mind, as per the criteria set.According to MCG officials, the initiative is being supervised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs in cities across the country. MCG officials said that they are also looking at the competition as an opportunity to create a database of professionals and students, who can help them in redesigning other stretches across the city in the future.“Streets for People Challenge is an initiative to make the roads walking friendly. The purpose of this challenge is to make the use of roads as public spaces that are safe and inclusive. As a part of this challenge, the MCG has invited innovative design ideas from citizens. Under this, in the first phase, a stretch in Sadar Bazar and two schools in its nearby area have been selected for the pilot project,” said Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG.Kaur said that the winning entries in the competition will be awarded cash prizes and certificates by the MCG and will also have an opportunity to discuss, develop and implement their ideas with the officials.Participants can register themselves at https://tinyurl.com/S4PGurugram. They further said that the cash prizes — Rs 15,000, Rs 10,000 and Rs 7,000 for the first to third places, respectively — would be awarded for the two stretches separately.MCG officials said that there is no restriction on the total number of participants in a team. However, at least one person needs to be a resident of Gurugram. They further said that the participants would be judged on the originality of their design plan, ability to address localised issues, inclusivity and the ease of implementation, among other categories.For the redesigning of stretches near the two schools, MCG officials said that they are specifically looking for designs that will create safe access to them and act as a design benchmark, which be replicated near other schools in the city. They are looking for participants to design stretches keeping public and non-motorised transport modes in mind, so as to include necessary speed calming measures, proper illumination, signage, and demarcated areas, such as vending zones.The design should demarcate adequate space for footpaths, crossings, ramps, seating areas and green belts. It also has to factor and identify the primary users of the stretch, their pattern of movement, and ways they can be safeguarded, keeping in mind ways to utilise recycled products and increasing environmental sustainability.Following the closure of registration, the last date of submitting designs is January 3, 2021, and the results would be announced five days later, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-sets-october-15-deadline-to-register-for-streets-for-people-challenge/story-7WDiFYFMkEX2i0tGBrAl6N.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||Haryana agriculture minister asks farmers to include SYL Canal issue among their demands||Raking up the issue of Satluj-Yamuna Link(SYL) Canal, JP Dalal, Haryana’s agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister, on Sunday appealed to individuals and organisations supporting or participating in the ongoing farmers’ agitation to include the construction of the canal among their list of demands. He said that irrigation water was the biggest issue confronting the farmers. Dalal asked farmer leaders to include this demand during their negotiation with Central government representatives. “SYL canal should be constructed for the farmers of Haryana since irrigation is a pressing problem. The issue has been pending since the past 40 years. We won the case in the Supreme Court too. I appeal to different farm leaders and their supporters across party lines to ensure that the provision for the construction of SYL canal is also inserted in the charter of demands,” said Dalal. Punjab and Haryana have been locked in a dispute over the sharing of the Ravi-Beas waters for decades. While Haryana wants its share, as was decided when the state was carved out of Punjab, along with Himachal Pradesh 50 years ago, successive Punjab governments have refused to share water. The 212km-long SYL canal was to carry Haryana’s share of water to its dry and arid southern part. While 121km of the canal was supposed to run through Punjab, the remaining 91km was meant to irrigate Haryana. While the latter completed the work in June 1980, Punjab is yet to complete its share of the canal. Dalal said that while the farmers’ agitation had started from the neighbouring state of Punjab, many people from Haryana have also extended support to the protests. “Nowadays, some khap leaders, former chief ministers and independent MLAs from our state have extended support. Every individual’s sentiments are attached to farmers. I am also with the farmers. However, for farmers in Haryana, the biggest issue is water for irrigation. Every other issue is secondary. Farmers need water for irrigation first and foremost,” said Dalal. He said that the situation of farmers in some districts in South Haryana was dire with the water table going down and the underground water resources getting depleted. “In some village in Loharu, where I come from, even drinking water level has been depleted. Farmers don’t get water for irrigation. How will there be any crops without water?” asked Dalal. Outlining the various measures undertaken by the state government for the welfare of farmers, Dalal said that opponents were incorrectly propagating that the government was going to end the mandi system. “Everyone is doing politics at their end. We, however, are the sons of farmers and will continue to take decisions in the interest of farmers,” said Dalal. In response to a question about former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda seeking his resignation over his comments alluding to foreign funding of the agitation, Dalal said that people could seek his resignation if it would benefit the interests of farmers. “You can seek my resignation if you want. I will prioritise the interests of farmers of Haryana first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-agriculture-minister-asks-farmers-to-include-syl-canal-issue-among-their-demands/story-XEFFquJ4oRTFwTCUr7lm8N.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||Three booked for looting ₹80,000 from a scrap dealer’s shop||The police on Saturday booked three unidentified people for posing as policemen, threatening a 27-year-old scrap dealer and snatching ₹80,000 from his shop before fleeing the spot. According to the police, the victim, Amarjit Singh, a resident of Bhora Kalan village in Pataudi who runs a scrap shop in Bilapur, was woken up around 3am on Saturday by three men. They introduced themselves as policemen from crime investigation unit. The men told him that a person named Sumit had given a tip-off that he had kept drugs and weapons in his shop and that they wanted to search the premises. “I told them I don’t know any Sumit but they started throwing away things. They threw my mattress on which I was sleeping and started checking the bags and trunks. They opened the locker, which had ₹70,000, and picked my brother’s wallet which had nearly ₹10,000 cash in it,” he said. After spending nearly five minutes, they collected money and asked him to reach the police station, before fleeing from the spot, said the police. Singh said before he could ask them for more information, they fled from the spot. Later, he informed the police control room. Subhash Boken, Gurugram police spokesperson, said that a team from Bilaspur police station reached the spot and checked CCTV footage from the area. “Three men in a white Swift car had come and robbed the scrap dealer. They told victim that they were from crime unit but they in fact did not belong to the police. The car used in the crime had fake registration number. We suspect the men to be local goons,” he said. The police has taken the CCTV footage recording and probe has been launched, said the police. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 379 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered at Bilaspur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-booked-for-looting-80-000-from-a-scrap-dealer-s-shop/story-Fcg78Wcw8381l4oNmOMiIN.html
06-12-2020||Gurugram||Citizens wage virtual battle to seek resolution of issues at Bandwari landfill||Citizens, activists and green campaigners took to social media in a “tweet storm” on Sunday, voicing their opposition to environmental law violations at the Bandhwari landfill site in Gurugram.The virtual protest was organised by members of the city-based Aravalli Bachao volunteer group, in collaboration with the India chapter of Fridays for Future, an international climate strike movement started by Swedish climate campaigner Greta Thunberg.Using tags #AravalliBachao and #RemoveBandhwariLandfill, residents of Gurugram and Delhi-NCR voiced a series of demands to the state government and district authorities on Sunday.Residents sought action against urban local bodies in Gurugram and Faridabad, which, activists allege, have continued to allow unscientific dumping of solid municipal waste at the landfill site despite adverse consequences for health and ecology.Citizens also demanded that the contract signed between the MCG and Ecogreen Energy, for integrated waste management in the city, be cancelled in lieu of repeated violations of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, by the latter. These violations, they pointed out, have also been upheld by the National Green Tribunal, which had fined Ecogreen Energy Rs 25 lakh in August 2018. A few months later, the MCG had fined Ecogreen Energy Rs 6.4 crore for violations of its contract.According to a December 2018 order of the MCG, 43 notices were served to the company between November 2017 and September 2018 by zonal officers regarding poor waste collection. An audit by MCG also revealed that only 35% of the company’s door-to-door collection targets were being met. “As a result, we have levied this fine,” Ravinder Yadav, nodal officer, MCG, had said at that time.More recently, on November 18, the MCG House passed a resolution to rescind the contract with Ecogreen Energy, with mayor Madhu Azad saying that the company had failed to establish decentralised waste management in the city, or set up the proposed waste-to-energy plant. At the time, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had confirmed to the press that the MCG House’s letter would be forwarded to the Haryana government for action. Additionally, citizens have also asked that environmental clearance (EC) for a proposed waste-to-energy plant at the landfill site, which was granted by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s (MoEFCC) expert appraisal committee in November 2019 be revoked.“We ask the ministry of environment to withdraw the environment clearance given for the waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari on the basis of the faulty EIA (environmental impact assessment) submitted by the municipal corporation,” said Neelam Ahluwalia, founder of the Aravali Bachao group.In a written statement circulated to reporters, representatives of the Aravalli Bachao group stated, “Thirty-plus lakh tonnes of legacy waste at Bandhwari must be treated according to bioremediation method followed in Indore. Indore has successfully recovered a dump site where 15 lakh tonnes of legacy waste was biomined, segregated and processed. The same needs to be done at Bandhwari. The National Green Tribunal has also been repeatedly asking for this to be done.”Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “We are aware of these concerns. Work on a solution for Bandhwari is underway, in keeping with the instructions of the National Green Tribunal. We are also preparing to prosecute Ecogreen, as well as government agencies responsible, in the environmental court in Faridabad quite soon.”Hindustan Times earlier reported, in December 2019, that the MCG withheld crucial information from the Centre while seeking the aforementioned environmental clearances. However, the NGT, in February this year, upheld the Centre’s move to clear the project, paving the way for a waste-to-energy plant in the area, which experts maintain is part of a sensitive wildlife corridor between Asola Bhatti in Delhi and Sariska in Rajasthan.Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri and municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh did not respond to requests for comment on Sunday. Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, also did not respond to requests for comment on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/citizens-wage-virtual-battle-to-seek-resolution-of-issues-at-bandwari-landfill/story-n4PfERIu2JNUUPJcf2irdJ.html
06-12-2020||Kolkata||Saradha chit fund owner’s letter from jail accuses Bengal politicians of accepting crores||A letter, purportedly written by Sudipta Sen, owner of the blacklisted Saradha chit fund company, alleging that crores of rupees were given by him to leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), CPI(M) and Congress has evoked mixed reactions in Bengal politics. Sen is lodged in a correctional home (jail) in Kolkata and waiting for trial. The letter says that Sen is pained to see that those who took the money are “now joining the BJP.” The amounts mentioned range from Rs 2 crore to Rs 9 crore per head. According to the letter, Sen wants the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the matter. The most significant part of the two-page letter is that the only TMC leader named in it has recently become a cause for concern for the ruling party. HT is not disclosing his name as he could not be contacted for reaction. The other four leaders said they would file a defamation suit against Sen for making fake allegations with the sole intention of maligning their image. Also read: Satellite imagery shows China setting up border villages between India, BhutanThe letter, dated December 1 and addressed to the Prime Minister and the chief minister, was mysteriously leaked to the media on Saturday along with a forwarding letter purportedly sent by an official of the Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home, where Sen is lodged, to the state correctional department. The hand-written letter, the veracity of which could not be verified by HT and on which no government official has commented, says that five well-known politicians were among many from the four parties who took crores of rupees from Sen. The letter is written on a printed form marked Prisoner’s Petition (Permitted under Jail code Rule 615)Sen, a prime accused in the scam, was arrested by the state police in 2013. The Enforcement Directorate is also conducting a parallel probe into the operations of the Saradha Group of which Sen was the director. “I don’t know what Sudipta Sen has written and why he has done so. A man who is about to face trial does not have the right to bring allegations against other people while he is in jail,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said at a rally in Midnapore on Sunday.Columnist and political commentator Suvashis Maitra said, “It would not be proper to comment on the content of the letter. What intrigues me is how it got leaked. A lot of letters are being leaked these days.” Sen wrote a similar open letter in 2013. It was a seven-page handwritten note in which he said that he was used as a pawn by politicians and influential people who wanted his money and resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/saradha-chit-fund-owner-s-letter-from-jail-accuses-bengal-politicians-of-accepting-crores/story-1lwZaAs0iNxZHdM4tKD3IJ.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Three persons killed in two accidents in Greater Noida||Noida: Three persons died in two separate accidents in Greater Noida on Saturday night. In the first incident, two persons died after their Maruti Suzuki Alto car allegedly collided with a stationary truck on the Yamuna Expressway near ATS Society, at a spot located under the jurisdiction of Rabupura police station, on Sunday at 1am. The victims were identified as Yogesh Sharma, 32, and his friend Kanhaiya Pathak, 22, who were travelling from Mathura to Noida. Dinesh Kumar Yadav, station house officer, Rabupura, said that a truck driver had parked his vehicle on the road side as its tyre had got punctured. “The car occupants could not spot the truck and met with the accident. The victims were critically injured and trapped inside the damaged car. Some passerby informed the police and a team reached the spot. They were rushed to Yathartha Hospital where doctors declared them brought dead,” he said. The bodies were sent for a post-mortem and medical reports are awaited. Police said the victims’ families have not filed any complaint in this regard. The truck driver managed to escape, the police added. In the second incident, a 28-year-old man died after he was hit by a speeding vehicle while crossing the road between Pari Chowk and Zero Point, on Saturday night. The victim has been identified as Dharam Sharma, from Bulandshahr district. He lived in a rented accommodation in Greater Noida. The Noida police, in a press note, said that a team from the 112 emergency services, and a team from the Knowledge Park police station, reached the spot upon receiving a call from a passerby, but the victim had died. Police are scanning CCTV footage of nearby areas to identify the vehicle used in the accident. The victim’s family members have been informed about the accident, said the press note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-persons-killed-in-two-accidents-in-greater-noida/story-bMc7smMjcnRyFZ30RUZzAM.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Noida: 19-year-old man abducted by ‘escort’ gang, FIR filed||Noida: A 19-year-old man has allegedly been abducted by an “escort” gang from Phase II in Noida. The victim’s family has filed a police complaint alleging the gang was demanding ₹50,000. The victim, Ajay, from Badaun, used to live at his cousin Omendra Pal’s place in Kakrala village in Noida Phase II. Omendra said that Ajay had shifted to Noida last year in search of a job. “He was involved in some odd jobs for a few months. On October 25, he went missing from home. We launched a search and also informed our relatives but could not find him. Two days later, we filed a missing complaint at the Phase II police station,” he said.He said that the police scanned Ajay’s mobile phone’s call details and found that he had allegedly spoken to one Pintu Saini, a resident of Rajasthan, in the past few days. “I contacted Pintu. He said that Ajay has joined a male escort service. I asked him to facilitate a phone call with Ajay but he refused. The suspect demanded ₹50,000 for the safe release of my brother,” Omendra alleged. He claimed that he has phone call recordings of this conversation with Pintu. The family suspects the victim is at risk and demanded the police swiftly recover him.Anita Chauhan, SHO, Phase II police station, said that based on the complaint a case was registered against the suspect under Section 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) of IPC on December 5 after primary investigation. “We sent a team to Rajasthan which questioned Pintu. During interrogation, we found that he had sent some photos of random girls to Ajay’s mobile phone and extracted money on the pretext of facilitating his friendship with the girls. But we did not find Ajay at his place,” she said. She said that the victim’s family revealed that Ajay had allegedly sold his mobile phone to someone a few days before he went missing. “We have put his mobile number on surveillance. However, his SIM card has not been in use since then,” she said. Chauhan said the police teams are investigating the matter from all angles and trying to locate the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-19-year-old-man-abducted-by-escort-gang-fir-filed/story-96lvvFPEhvV5nZbKN9MmqK.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Noida authority allots plots for 3 new police stations, police dept not happy with locations||NOIDA: The Noida authority has allotted land for three new police stations, which are to be constructed to improve policing in the city. The new police stations will come up in sectors 94A, 115 and 126, authority officials said.However, the Gautam Budh Nagar police are not happy with locations of the land for two police stations. According to the authority officials, the authority faces paucity of land and it has decided to change the nature of the green land in Sector 94A into institutional use to ready land for police stations. “We have approved a proposal to change the green belt land use into institutional usage so that we can provide the land for the police stations,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. In August 2018, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced construction of nine new police stations in GB Nagar district -- three in Noida and six in Greater Noida. Last month, the Yamuna Expressway authority had identified land for six police stations in Greater Noida. The Noida authority has allotted one acre land each for new police stations. According to the officials, the authority has allotted a plot between cremation ground and cow shelter in Sector 94A, one plot meant for some facility purpose in Sector 115 and third one in Sector 126 for the construction of police stations. The GB Nagar police said that the plots should have been allotted in the residential areas. “We suggested that the location for the police station just next to the cremation ground will not be appropriate and it will be better suited in any residential area. Also, the Sector 94A plot is on one end of the city. And the plot in Sector 126 should have been in or near any residential area so that the police help could be provided promptly,” said Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, GB Nagar. The authority officials said that they have provided the best available plots to the police department. “We have allotted the best available plots for the new police stations. And now we will send a report to the UP government for the required approvals in this regard,” said Maheshwari. At present, there are 22 police stations in GB Nagar. As per official data, the district has 3,869 police personnel — 42 inspectors, 459 sub-inspectors, 972 head constables and 2,396 constables. The police officials said with the new commissionerate system, an additional 1,600 personnel will be posted in GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-allots-plots-for-3-new-police-stations-police-dept-not-happy-with-locations/story-zZ7T456QhwuKN8bK6B6HkN.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Noida air quality ‘severe’ for third day in row||Noida: The air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad continued to be under ‘severe’ category for the third consecutive day on Sunday. However, Greater Noida’s air saw some improvement and turned ‘very poor’ against ‘severe’ category for the past two days. Weather analysts expect air quality of Noida to enter into the upper range of ‘very poor’ on Monday. According to the air quality index (AQI) of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Sunday, out of 117 cities across the nation, only five cities -- Noida, Ghaziabad, Baghpat, Bulandshahr (all in UP) and Rohtak in Haryana -- remained under ‘severe’ category. Also, Ghaziabad continued being the most polluted city of country with an AQI of 428 against 434 a day earlier, even as the Centre’s pollution monitoring agency SAFAR stated that the intrusion of smoke from stubble burning in the region was negligible on Sunday. Though Noida’s air quality improved slightly on Sunday, it remained in the ‘severe’ zone, with the AQI value of 402 against 414 a day earlier. However, Greater Noida’s air quality improved from ‘severe’ to ‘very-poor’ with Sunday seeing an AQI of 396 (‘very-poor’) against 408 a day earlier. AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed was slightly better on Sunday and will continue being good over the next two days with the directions now changing. “The wind speed reached 8kmph on Sunday against 4-5kmph a day earlier. The wind speed is likely to increase over the next two days and may reach 12-15kmph. The directions have changed to north-westerly by Sunday evening, but it will have better speed thus better ventilation,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The fine particles or PM2.5 pollutants also remained four to five times the safe standards. PM2.5 for past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 259.43 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 279.54 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 255.12 µg/m³ against 269.54 a day earlier, while for Ghaziabad it was 309.43 µg/m³ against 312.8 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to SAFAR, AQI is likely to recover slightly on Monday. “Stubble fires count from SAFAR multi-satellite products is around 167 and the PM2.5 % share is negligible. Surface winds are forecasted to increase and air quality is likely to improve marginally by tomorrow but within the Very Poor category owing to slightly better ventilation condition. AQI is likely to further improve on 8th and 9th December due to better ventilation,” said the SAFAR statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-air-quality-severe-for-third-day-in-row/story-d7bDGe13P3zSGe6XKO8G7K.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Out of 84 Covid-19 deaths in GB Nagar, 49 reported from Bisrakh block||NOIDA: Bisrakh block in Gautam Budh Nagar has registered the maximum share of deaths due to Covid-19 in the district so far. According to a Covid-19 death analysis done by the district health department, out of 84 patients who died of Covid-19, 49 were from Bisrakh that consists of areas from both Noida and Greater Noida. The other three blocks in the district -- Dadri, Dankaur and Jewar -- reported 15, 12 and two deaths, respectively. The remaining six deaths were reported from some non-notified areas, health officials said.According to the analysis, out of 84 patients who died due to the infection, as many as 50 patients (nearly 60%) fell in the age group of over 60 years. “None of the patients, between the age group of 0 to 20 years, succumbed to the viral infection. Among those 50 patients above 60 years of age, as many as 39 were having co-morbidities. Of 84 Covid-19 deaths, 23 infected patients were found without any co-morbidity,” the analysis said. Giving the details of co-morbidity status of the Covid-19 death cases, GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, said that so far 61 patients with co-morbidity have lost their lives due to Covid-19. “Among the Covid-19 victims, as many as 32 patients had hypertension, while diabetes and cardiac problems were found in 29 and 15 patients, respectively. Among others, co-morbidities like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, malignancy, bronchitis and asthma were also found during the death audit,” he said. The CMO further said that male patients accounted for 76% of the total deaths in the district. “So far, only 20 female patients in the district have lost their lives due to Covid-19. Also, only 19 out of 84 deaths were from the rural areas. This indicates that the rate of infection is exceptionally high in the urban areas,” he said. Ohri also said that among 13 Covid-dedicated facilities, from where deaths have been reported, while Sharda hospital reported 29 deaths, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) reported 27 deaths. “As many as five deaths were reported from Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut, while three private hospitals have reported four deaths each,” he said.When contacted, Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of Sharda University Medical College, said that the recent trend of Covid-19 cases in the district clearly indicates that people have become more aware about maintaining their safety and sanitization. “The panicking phase is over now. Even our doctors and paramedics are no more afraid of the treatment of infected patients, realizing that it’s not an incorrigible disease. If the people remains conscious in following the standard protocol, the spread of the virus will certainly be checked soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/out-of-84-covid-19-deaths-in-gb-nagar-49-reported-from-bisrakh-block/story-R7mhTCBUaOw86hho6oQjNL.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Farmers protest bare- chested, try to enter Delhi from Noida||Noida: A group of farmers on Sunday protested bare chested, braving the cold conditions, in Noida and tried to march to Delhi via Kalindi Kunj from Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal, as part of the ongoing protests at the national Capital’s borders against three newly passed farm bills. They were, however, stopped at some distance from the border by the police who had placed several layers of barricades. The farmers then tried to take the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway but were stopped and returned to the Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal, where they are continuing their protest. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) members had held a mahapanchayat Sunday afternoon before deciding to march to Delhi. The farmers said they have extended support for the nationwide strike called for on December 8.BKU Lok Shakti national president Thakur Swaraj Singh Bhati said that there was heavy deployment of armed police personnel on the route. “We had informed the police in advance about our march to Delhi. We had planned to take the Kalindi Kunj route but they had placed mobile metal barriers at different places as well layers of personnel. The farmers protested bare chest to demonstrate their plight. But the police did not allow us to advance. We tried to march towards the DND Flyway and faced similar barriers and a battery of police personnel, armed with batons. They said that there is no permission to march to Delhi,” he said. The farmers wanted to enter Delhi and protest at Jantar Mantar, Ramlila Maidan or Kisan Ghat, Bhati added. Dr SK Giri, general secretary and a spokesperson of BKU Lok Shakti, also protested bare-chested against the bills. He said that India is an agrarian country as around 90 crore people are engaged in farming. “The new farm policies will facilitate big corporate who would buy produce from farmers and store them in their big cold storages. They will then sell them at high prices, which will lead to inflation. The country is undergoing a serious financial crisis. The government must listen to the farmers’ genuine demands and withdraw the farm bills,” Giri said. He added that if their demands are not met soon, the farmers will bring in some buffaloes in a day or two and play a flute in front of the bovines as a symbolic protest to the “deaf” government. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the police pacified the protesters and they later returned to Dalit Prerna Sthal. He said that the protest remained peaceful and no unwanted incident was reported. Meanwhile, traffic coming from Greater Noida to Noida remained affected on Film City road for about one hour (2-3pm) due to the protest. Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that the protest was restricted between gate numbers 4 and 5. “We facilitated the traffic in one lane, and for some time, halted the traffic completely. We had also placed barricades at the Noida side of the Kalindi Kunj bridge. However, the protest could not reach Kalindi Kunj as they were stopped near the Film City flyover,” he said. The roads at Chilla Border continue to remain closed as BKU-Bhanu members have camped there in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-protest-bare-chested-try-to-enter-delhi-from-noida/story-1LDzNhZN5NBJRC5MzdetuK.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Complaint filed against actor Yograj Singh for hurting religious sentiments||Visha Hindu Parishad, Ludhiana, filed a complaint against actor Yograj Singh on Sunday for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the women of a particular community. The complaint has been lodged after a video recording of the actor went viral on social networking sites.The complainant, Pali Sehajpal, said that while addressing protesting farmers at the Delhi border, Yograj targeted the women of a particular religion, and tried to communalise the agitation.He added that they have filed a complaint with Ludhiana police and demanded an FIR against the actor for hurting religious sentiments.Ashok Thapar, president of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust, said, they will meet the Ludhiana police commissioner with another complaint to get an FIR lodged against the actor. Police chief Rakesh Agrawal said appropriate action will be taken after investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/complaint-filed-against-actor-yograj-singh-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/story-lkeWzTCTedEjbG2aXmmXGN.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Farmers use traffic signal’s power to charge mobile phones as they make UP Gate their ‘home’||Farmer Jaspal Singh arrived at the UP Gate protest site from Bijnor airing his grievances against the Centre’s recently enacted farm laws. By Sunday afternoon, however, he had another problem: his mobile phone was soon running out of charge.Someone directed him to the nearest traffic signal below the UP Gate flyover, which had been switched off ever since the police blocked the road in view of the protest. There, they had improvised a few plug points from the signal’s power controller. They now had round-the-clock power enough to charge mobile phones. While initially these protesters found it difficult to charge their phones, over the last week they have found different ways to charge them.A voluntary organisation on Saturday evening also placed another mobile phone charging system drawing electricity from the traffic controller. “This charges faster than our electricity switch board. It also has different plug-ins for different types of mobile phones,” Singh said. Also powering the phones are tractors. “New models of tractors come with mobile phone charging points, while the batteries of older models have to be connected a DC to AC converter,” said Satbit Jangethi from Jangethi village in Meerut. “Many youngsters who came to UP Gate area have charging units in their cars.” The UP Gate protest was on its ninth day on Sunday. Farmers call it the “Kisan Kranti Dwar” after the many protests that had been held there. In 2018, they had clashed with police as they marched to the Capital over loan waivers, power supply and unpaid dues, among others. For added measure, they also called in painters who painted the flyover pillars with the “new name”.“We have also put-up banners with pictures of our founder leader Baba Mahendra Singh Tikait. The UP Gate area seems like home,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). To keep the farmers hooked to the agitation, a group of youngsters arrived on Sunday and setup a temporary library from which they offered books to protesting farmers to read and return free of cost. “We have brought books with about 100 different titles and these include books about farm laws, Munshi Premchand and Bhagat Singh among others. Anyone willing to read is given a chair where he can sit comfortably and read at length. The books are low priced and if anyone wants to purchase, we are offering books at nominal price of ₹5 to ₹10,” said Runi (single name), a youngster from Baraut in Baghpat who setup the temporary library below the UP Gate flyover on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-use-traffic-signal-s-power-to-charge-mobile-phones-as-they-make-up-gate-their-home/story-rQUmTkb3pbDIcKQwbTyxLM.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Govt schools told to use sports fund to boost infrastructure||Deputy director of physical education, Sunil Kumar, has directed heads of government schools to utilise sports funds collected from students in 2019-20 to boost sports infrastructure. Earlier, the heads of high and senior secondary schools, used to deposit 85% sports fund to the district education office (secondary) who used it to organise district-level games. However, no events were held this year amid the Covid pandemic.The move by the authorities will help many government schools to purchase sports items and set up facilities for various games. As per school authorities, Rs 180 from students of Classes 9 and 10, and Rs 240 from Classes 11 and 12 (Rs 20 per month), is collected annually as sports fund. However, private schools have been directed to submit the 85% sports fund to the district education office (secondary) for 2019-20.There are over 1000 private schools in the district and heads of the institutions are unhappy with these instructions. The principals said that due to Covid outbreak in March, and subsequent lockdown, several students have dropped out, and due to financial crisis, parents have been unable to pay the school fees. J P Bhatt, spokesperson of joint action front, associated schools, Punjab, said, “The department should have directed private and government schools in the same way. Due to the pandemic, many parents have refused to deposit the fee, as they have lost their jobs and faced financial loss in business. Schools are facing problems staying afloat.” President of PSEB affiliated schools, Punjab, Rajinder Sharma, said, “In this time of crisis, the authorities should have directed private school authorities to keep the sports fund . Due to lockdown and coronavirus outspread, schools got closed in March, and parents have not submitted the fee. Many students have also stopped attending online classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-govt-schools-told-to-use-sports-fund-to-boost/story-dM0WVICFbRz3OlhjXWa10M.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Donations keep UP Gate kitchen fire burning for all||From a stove below the UP Gate flyover comes out piping hot pakodis made of potatoes and cauliflower. Waiting patiently in line are dozens of farmers with plate in hand for the Sunday breakfast.Alu-poori, kheer, vegetarian biryani and other meals are freely available round-the-clock to protesters and visitors. Villages in western UP keep supply flowing to the makeshift kitchen replete with tables for cutting vegetables and buckets of water for washing. “Our ‘pakodis’ have become famous during these past 10 days.” said Deepak Malik, a farmer from Modinagar while stoking the wood fired stove. “We have about 41 35-litre cans of edible oil. Kheer is prepared from milk sent by nearby villagers. We have exhausted about 70 gunny bags of potatoes and nearly 100 gunny bags of fresh cauliflower.” He said that at least one tractor-trolley arrives from Modinagar with fresh supplies and a similar supply chain is maintained for other kitchens around UP Gate that have come up since the protest began last Saturday. “We even get LPG cylinders for our kitchens to run 24x7. There is no dearth of food here and it is coming in from other districts as well. We serve about 700 to 800 people daily. Many villages have setup kitchens and contracted food preparations to Halwais back home. They send freshly cooked food to the protest site through tractor-trolleys and pickup-vans,” said Sudesh Chaudhary, a farmer from Razpur in Ghaziabad district. But how do farmers manage to get their supply going when many industries claim their businesses were suffering because of the protest and transporters refusing to ply troubled section.“Transportation is not an issue. A tractor-trolley with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) flag moves uninterrupted at toll plazas and highways,” said Shankar Singh Yadav, a farmer and district president of the BKU from Sambhal which is about 150km from the UP Gate protest site. “In our villages, we collect donations as money or food items like cans of oil, bags of rice, pulses and other items, for the protest.”“We have two tractor-trolleys coming in from Sambhal and likely to reach here by Sunday evening. Such protests are like a mela (fair) and tyohaar (festival) for farmers and we enjoy every bit of it despite the odds,” he said while adding that well-off farmers and villages falling under the sugarcane belt of western UP contribute more on daily basis. Mohammad Ikram, a small farmer from Badarkha village in Garhmukteshwar, said that their group has also brought in tractor-trolleys along with “Karigars” (caterers), utensils and food items. “We offer food to everyone coming to the site. When donations from our village finishes, we go for another round of collection. So, food supply is never an issue with farmers. When we feed entire country, we can also sustain ourselves and our protest,” Ikram said, also a BKU member. At the other protest site over the UP Gate flyover on NH 9, members of the Sikh community have also chipped in langars. “We can sustain ourselves for months. So the government should remember that the protests will continue and take call on our demands,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/donations-keep-up-gate-kitchen-fire-burning-for-all/story-TQi2l6lspnjB8pjGo6eS8O.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mattewara industrial park: NGOs accuse Punjab govt of hiding project details||Alleging that the state government is deliberately hiding details regarding the proposed industrial park near Mattewara forest, members of different NGOs have sought extension in the period to submit objections/suggestions regarding land use amendments for the project. On November 21, the department of town and country planning had sought objections in 30 days, stating that the layout plan has been uploaded on its website, and will also be put on display at the GLADA office. The objections have to be submitted with the office of chief town planner, Punjab. However, in a complaint forwarded to the CTP, NGOs including Naroa Punjab Manch, RBS Roots, Vigilant Citizens Forum, Ecosikh and Ludhiana Cares Ladies Society said that the department has failed to do so. The members said that a period of 30 days should be given to the residents to file objections after the layout plan has been uploaded.Amandeep Singh Bains from RBS Roots, said, “The government is trying to get away with this formality of inviting objections and is trying to fool residents. We have been looking for the layout plan, but no department is providing any information in this regard. We will not allow the government to set up an industrial park in the Mattewara area and destroy its ecosystem and wildlife. The government has already failed to deal with Buddha Nullah pollution, which is polluting the Sutlej river. Now, another industrial park is being set up on the banks of the river, which is not acceptable. We will also file a complaint with the chief minister’s office in this regard.”The NGOs rued that the government is hiding details regarding the project and no information is being shared even under RTI Act. The NGOs have been opposing the proposed project from day one.Jaskirat Singh from Naroa Punjab Manch said,”We had also visited the GLADA office and have been checking their website repeatedly. Some of the members had also sought information under RTI, but no information has been provided. We will not allow the government to fool the public, and if required, we will also move National Green Tribunal (NGT) .” Despite several attempts, GLADA chief administrator PS Gill was not available for comments District town planner Harpreet Kaur said that as per the advertisement through which objections have been invited, a sketch or layout plan does not have to be displayed .The state government has proposed to establish an industrial park on around 960 acres of government and panchayat land in Haidar Nagar, Sekhowal, Salempur, Sailkiana and Machian Kalan among other villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mattewara-industrial-park-ngos-accuse-punjab-govt-of-hiding-project-details/story-VUkF012Klx4XovlV3lzf7I.html
06-12-2020||Noida||Protesting farmers at UP Gate mull strategy for Bharat bandh call||Ghaziabad: Even as leaders of farmers’ organisations have given a call for a bharat bandh (nationwide strike) on December 8, ahead of another round of talks with the Centre scheduled for December 9, leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) camping at UP Gate are yet to figure out the course of action for the day. Their leaders said that it is for the first time that the BKU will be a part of the pan India strike.Farmers have been protesting at UP Gate since November 28 and cordoned off the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway on National Highway 9 on December 3. Since then, BKU leaders such as Rakesh Tikait have been attending discussions with the government, along with other farmer leaders. As the December 5 talks failed to yield a breakthrough, the farmers are now focussing on the nationwide strike but are yet to figure out a strategy for the same. “It is for the first time that we will be part of a bharat bandh. However, we are in a fix as we don’t want the people to suffer. Our protests in the past have included dharnas (sit-ins) on roads or marches, or our members and supporters going in for mass arrests. But this will be the first time that we will be a part of bharat bandh and it is a call given by the association of farmers,” said Pandit Raj Pal Sharma, national general secretary of the BKU. The union leaders added that they are not in favour of blocking roads or disrupting rail and road traffic, as generally happens during a bandh call given by political parties. “Instead, we will make appeals to different organisations to support farmers, who are called ‘ann daata’ (food provider). We will tell people to support us and try to repay us. Our bandh call will not be like those by political parties,” said Rajbir Singh Jadaun, state president of the BKU. Others said that BKU supporters, during the bandh, will not go to markets and forcibly down the shutters of shops or close down markets. “Our people will do whatever little they can do. We are keeping in mind that people should not suffer. The common people are supporting us and we do not wish to lose their support by troubling them. We are also keeping eyes on outsiders at our protest site so that they do not create any mischief,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU. Some of the BKU leaders said on condition of anonymity that they were not in favour of blocking the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway at NH-9 at UP-Gate, but other farmers’ groups decided to go ahead with the decision. They added that they will not resort to blocking the other operational side – Delhi to Ghaziabad – of the highway.Tikait said that they will figure out measures which are to be taken up during the strike.“The farmers’ associations will decide upon the course of action. We are holding ground and will continue our protest till the farm bills are rolled back. Our demands such as a new law for minimum support price and resolution of our other issues, like hefty electricity charges and pending sugarcane payments, also need resolution,” he added. When contacted, officials of the district administration said that they are aware of the impending nationwide strike and have made arrangements for the day. “Our arrangements are already in place for the bharat bandh call and we are in touch with protesting farmers. We will ensure that there is no disruption and protests are held peacefully,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/protesting-farmers-at-up-gate-mull-strategy-for-bharat-bandh-call/story-zaPWTpQUzRr1zopXUTEf0H.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Tied at playoff, Kochhar and Lahiri’s duel moves to Monday||Like the previous two editions of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational presented by TAKE Sports, the third edition too witnessed a high voltage play off. The duel between Former Asia number one Anirban Lahiri and local favourite Karandeep Kochhar was extended to Monday, a first in PGTI history, due to fading light. So, the third extra hole of the playoff resumes tomorrow morning. After Kochhar and Lahiri ended the regulation 72 holes with matching totals of 11-under-277, the game was pushed into the playoff with both tied after the second hole when fading light led to the postponement.Kochhar, who began the week with a four-over-76, made a grand comeback with four-under-68 while Lahiri stayed the course with a three-under-69.At the end of regulation play, Kochhar incurred a one-stroke penalty for accidentally causing the ball to move on the 17th hole. There some confusion over a penalty as the chief referee gave a decision in favour of Kochhar, which was later reversed. Kochhar even registered a verbal protest on the issue. The Chandigarh lad, playing on his home course, thus joined seven-time international winner Lahiri in a playoff to decide the winner.In regulation play, Kochhar, the winner of PGTI’s last event at the same venue in November, was on the button with his short game as he collected birdies with 10 to 20 feet conversions on the fourth, eighth and 11th. Kochhar also chipped in for birdie on the 15th and landed his bunker shots within six and four feet for birdies on the second and 16th hole. On the 17th, his ball landed in the right rough before he accidentally caused it to move, thus resulting in a double bogey.Lahiri on the other hand was not having it easy on the front-nine as he dropped two bogeys in exchange for a birdie. But Lahiri’s round was back on track with tap-in birdies on the 13th and 16th and a 15-feet birdie conversion on the 15th. The two-time winner on the European Tour then picked up another birdie on the 17th thanks to a good drive.Lahiri, who started the day tied third, two off the lead, sank a tricky 12-footer to birdie at the first playoff hole even as Kochhar fired a magnificent approach for a tap-in birdie there.With both players in a deadlock and light fading, the match was then extended.“My chipping, putting and wedge play was top-class today. It was great to fight my way back into the tournament after a poor start in round one. I feel I got better each day. I was obviously disappointed about the one-shot penalty I had to incur. But I’ve put it behind me and am looking forward to finishing it well tomorrow,” said Kochhar. “I just had no momentum going on the front-nine today. I was trying to be patient and finally hit my stride from the 13th but was still unable to apply pressure on Karandeep. I’m happy to see how Karandeep has recovered so well after his slow start in the tournament. I’m now looking forward to the contest with him tomorrow,” said Lahiri. Gurugram golfer Manu Gandas produced the day’s best score of 66 to take joint third place with Patna’s Aman Raj (70) at 10-under-278.Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma, the leader in the second and third rounds, ended the week tied fifth at eight-under-280 after his last round of 74. Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (72) also claimed tied fifth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tied-at-playoff-kochhar-and-lahiri-s-duel-moves-to-monday/story-rUaG0JjAq5TonfaEzcc29I.html
06-12-2020||City||Wife, three kids of Bihar man killed in accident get ₹12.75 lakh as relief||The wife and three children of a Bihar man, who died in a road accident in December 2018, have been awarded Rs 12.75 lakh as compensation by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Panchkula.Asha Devi, 40, the widow of Upendra Paswan, who hails from Seerhaul village, Samastipur district, Bihar, had stated in her petition that her husband died after being hit by a car near JMD Agro Foods, Panchkula, on December 8, 2018.As part of compensation, she had sought Rs 55 lakh, along with interest @18% per annum from the date of accident.The petition was filed against car owner Raj Singh, of Panipat, car driver Krishan Kumar, of Kurukshetra district, and the insurer, IFFCO Tokio General Insurance Company Limited.Disposing of the plea, the tribunal directed the insurance company to pay Rs 12.75 lakh to the family. Of this, 55% amount will go to the wife of the deceased and remaining 45% to the three children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-three-kids-of-bihar-man-killed-in-accident-get-12-75-lakh-as-relief/story-ZhBNlU7BbO0hAAKakGI9XN.html
06-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Will implement new citizenship law in Bengal’: BJP’s Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will start campaigning from January for implementation of the new citizenship law in poll-bound West Bengal, the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy announced at a public meeting in Kolkata on Sunday afternoon. The issue is bound to increase political tension in the state as chief minister Mamata Banerjee is opposed to the law and has declared that she will never enforce it. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is also leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, said, “What stopped the BJP from enforcing the law earlier? Since it is ready to go ahead now it should start with Assam.”The Citizenship (Amendment) Act offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014. Opponents of the law, among whom Banerjee is a prominent face, insist that it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country.Accusing Banerjee of appeasing Muslims, Vijayvargiya said at a BJP programme at Mayo Road in Kolkata that his party will hit the streets next month to campaign for the implementation of the law. Also read: BJP-ally RLP supports Bharat Bandh call, threatens to exit coalition“The chief minister calls the Prime Minister outsider. She calls the Union home minister outsider. But to her, the Rohingya refugees, who are spreading terror, and the infiltrators from Bangladesh are not outsiders. Are you (Mamata Banerjee) their aunt?” said Vijayvargiya. “Mamata Ji is opposed to giving citizenship to Hindus who came to India as refugees. Why should we allow that? Do Hindu refugees not have the right to live as citizens with equal status?” he said. Mukul Roy made it clear that the issue would be raised by the BJP during campaign for the crucial assembly elections due in six months. “We will go to the people. Citizenship is an important issue. The TMC cannot read the writing on the wall. That is immaturity in politics. We will win the election with more than 200 (of 294) seats. If we cannot win more than 200 seats all this hard work will mean nothing,” said Roy.The TMC leadership said it will resist all attempts by the BJP to enforce the law in the state. “Mamata Banerjee made her stand clear long ago. We are opposed to the law and we will resist the BJP,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. CPI(M) lawmaker and leader of the Left parties in the state assembly Sujan Chakraborty said, “We are aware of the BJP’s plans but I will not react right now.”The CPI(M)’s central and state leadership are opposed to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/will-implement-new-citizenship-law-in-bengal-bjp-s-vijayvargiya-mukul-roy/story-jGJ78XKz3Zo5sO4cA5iKxJ.html
06-12-2020||City||Real estate firm director arrested from Mumbai in cheating case||New Delhi: Police on Sunday said they had arrested a woman director of a real estate company for allegedly duping more than 100 investors to the tune of over R20 crore in the name of providing them residential flats in Raj Nagar Extension in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. The woman is the wife of a retired officer of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who is also a director of the company. Police said the man is absconding and is an accused in many cheating cases.Joint commissioner of police (economic offences wing) OP Mishra said several complaints were received by the economic offences wing (EOW) and other police stations in Delhi. The complainants had alleged that they had booked residential flats in the housing project proposed in Raj Nagar Extension by the company. The homebuyers invested money in the project but the firm never delivered the flats and stopped construction without giving any reason, said Mishra.“Later, the investors learnt that the alleged persons had never taken permission for the construction of the housing project from Ghaziabad authority. Subsequently, the authority cancelled the lease of the project. The alleged persons diverted and misappropriated the funds. They shut their offices and went into hiding. Accordingly, many cases were registered and investigated by the EOW,” said Mishra.The investigating team collected intelligence about the absconding suspects. Investigators learnt that the hideout of one of the suspects was in Mumbai. They carried out searches in Mumbai and finally arrested the woman director from Andheri West in Mumbai last week. She was brought to Delhi and her two days police custody was secured from a city court.“Two other directors of the company were arrested earlier from Delhi-NCR while the woman’s husband is yet to be caught,” added the joint CP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/real-estate-firm-director-arrested-from-mumbai-in-cheating-case/story-bMwF0e0CItf6EC2Udx9N7H.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Four Delhi borders closed down as protests against farm laws continue||As farmers continued their sit-in demonstrations against central farm laws, the Delhi Traffic Police has closed four borders including Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh.In a series of tweets, Traffic Police issued an advisory on Sunday, informing commuters about diverted routes. “Traffic Alert: Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, NH8/Bhopra /Apsara borders /Peripheral expressway,” Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet.“Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH 44,” it added.Thousands of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws, passed in the Monsoon Session of Parliament in September.The farmers’ agitation in Delhi entered the eleventh day today, with a large number of farmers gathered in and around the national capital to protest against the three farm laws.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-delhi-borders-closed-down-as-protests-against-farm-laws-continue/story-rShecYRGLkubsxvZ1WOskK.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||14 of Delhi’s 22 main drains emptying untreated sewage into the Yamuna, finds CPCB||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) study has found that 14 of the national capital’s 22 major drains are discharging untreated sewage into the Yamuna. Of the remaining drains, five are being tapped for sewage treatment completely, while two were tapped to overflow into Yamuna. One drain (drain no 14) had no flow at all, the study found. Due to the discharge of partially treated/untreated sewage and industrial effluents containing phosphorus, foaming has been observed in parts of the river Yamuna, CPCB said in its report.In the past, CPCB had observed that froth formation and increase in ammonia levels in the Yamuna is because of discharge of untreated sewage, non-operation of existing sewage treatment plants, and improper functioning of effluent treatment plants(ETPs) installed by the industries and the common effluent treatment plants(CETPs) located on the banks of the Yamuna. The pollution control board has now directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to submit a timebound action plan to ensure compliance of norms by STPs and ETPs and ordered that no untreated sewage should be discharged into drains.The CPCB has also directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to take action against non-complying CETPs.In a letter to the DPCC, the CPCB said the state pollution control board has submitted a status report on India e-track portal, mentioning that there were 10 CETPs in Delhi, which are not complying with the prescribed standards as on October 31.A similar letter was also sent to the DJB, where the CPCB said 22 drains were discharging into river Yamuna on a monthly basis. It said the DJB needs to ensure that no untreated domestic wastewater is discharged into any of the 22 stormwater drains or any other water drain.The DPCC and DJB refused to comment on the matter.“This shows a lack of will power to ensure environment protection. The CPCB’s is not a new finding. We have known all these for years. These drains may also end up contaminating areas en route as well on the fringes of the river,” said Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor, department of geology, Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/14-of-delhi-s-22-main-drains-emptying-untreated-sewage-into-the-yamuna-finds-cpcb/story-xRpN3zsPBoY1xIVVZblvxJ.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||SAD (Dhindsa) opts out of Mohali MC poll fray, to support AAP, independents||The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections scheduled for February next year but announced its support for the Aam Aadmi Party candidates and independents on Sunday.“We have decided not to contest the elections and will be supporting good candidates from AAP and independents to give a tough fight to other parties,” said Shiromani Akali Dal ( Dhindsa) leader Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu. The elections, dates of which have not been announced as yet, will be held in 50 wards with an estimated 2.36 lakh voter base. A four cornered battle will now be fought between the AAP, Shiromani Akali Dal ( Badal), Congress and BJP.Warning that the polls this time will not be a cakewalk for other parties, AAP president and member of Parliament (MP) Bhagwant Mann said, “We will be contesting elections in all wards on the party symbol. At present, we are supporting the farmers’ agitation and after that our focus will be on the civic body elections in the state.”Claiming that the Congress was ready for the elections, local MLA and cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “The people of Mohali have seen development in the past few years and we are hopeful of winning the elections with a clean majority.”The last five-year term of the civic body ended on April 26 this year. In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors including 10 from the Azad group, 14 from Congress and two independent councillors elected Kulwant Singh (then an independent) as mayor, but later in August 2017, he joined SAD.Among the voters, around 25,000 belong to the scheduled caste (SC) category. Five seats have been reserved for SC candidates. There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are reserved for women and 20 for men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-dhindsa-opts-out-of-mohali-mc-poll-fray-to-support-aap-independents/story-tHzuAnplzDJTWNSXyY8QQL.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Defence scientist’s house burgled in Chandigarh’s Sector 42||The house of a scientist working with the Defence Research and Development Organisation was burgled while he was out of town. The complainant, Vijay Kumar Bharti, claimed jewellery, two cameras, mobile phone and Rs 15,000 in cash were stolen from his house in Sector 42.Bharti told the police that he had left for Bihar on November 7. When he returned on December 4, he found the lock broken and his house ransacked. He claimed that two gold rings, four pairs of gold earrings, one gold locket, six gold nose rings, one silver glass, one silver anklet, eight gold coins, two cameras, a mobile phone, 15 saris and Rs 15,000 in cash were missing.A case under Sections 380 (theft) and 454 (lurking house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/defence-scientist-s-house-burgled-in-chandigarh-s-sector-42/story-zo6Zm16d0SmXDYdHrrDMjL.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Infant’s kidneys a gift of life to teenaged boy at PGIMER||Before she passed, a month old infant gave the gift of life – her kidneys – to a teenage boy battling end stage kidney disease at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) following a delicate and complicated medical procedure.Born on October 28, the infant had brain anomalies that made survival difficult. She was brought to PGIMER on November 25, where she suffered a cardiac arrest on Saturday. “The brave heart parents of a little angel Ababat Kaur Sandhu, who lived for only 39 days, immortalised her with their magnanimous decision of organ donation that kindled ‘hope for life’ for one renal failure terminally ill patient here at PGIMER today,” read a release issued by the institute.As the baby’s parents, Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Supreet Kaur from Amritsar did not want their daughter’s death to go in vain, doctors quickly performed the rare and intricate operation to remove the infant’s kidneys after she suffered the cardiac arrest and use them to save another life, the release added.Giving details, Prof Ashish Sharma, head, department of renal transplant surgery, PGIMER, shared, “Retrieving organs from children for transplant is rare, it is even more uncommon from such young babies with congenital anomalies.”On the challenges, Dr Sharma said, “the donor was not even 40 days old so retrieval was also not a routine procedure and demanded extreme deftness and skill to accomplish it successfully. Then, the best matched recipient was an adult so both the kidneys were transplanted onto one recipient considering the age factor.” The infant’s father, Sukhbir Singh Sandhu , an agriculture development officer in Punjab, said, “It’s something no family should have to go through. We said ‘yes’ to organ donation because somewhere in our hearts we felt that our daughter’s short mortal journey had a ‘purpose’. She came to this world, only to give life to someone else in so much pain.”“We have done it so that our daughter relives through others. We hope our child’s story will inspire families who find themselves in the same position,” said Supreet Kaur, a science teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infant-s-kidneys-a-gift-of-life-to-teenaged-boy-at-pgimer/story-XkTybrznCVjxNL4ayXHPlJ.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 4,757 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths||The state on Sunday reported fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for a second straight day with 4,757 infections pushing the tally to 1,852,266. The toll went up to 47,734 with the addition of 40 deaths.On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 786 infections, taking the tally to 286,053, while 13 more deaths took the toll to 10,896 (after reconciliation of figures). Following Mumbai, Pune reported 622 cases (248 in rural parts, 263 in city and 111 in Pimpri-Chinchwad) and three deaths. Nagpur clocked 490 cases and five deaths, while Nashik reported 395 cases and one death. The state’s cumulative case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.58%. According to a recent presentation made to the state cabinet by the public health department, Maharashtra’s growth rate (the pace at which cases are increasing) and the CFR have seen a significant drop. According to data accessed by HT, the state had registered a CFR of around 4.38% on April 30, following which it was 3.10% on August 31 and was 2.58%, as of December 1. However, it continued to be higher than the national average of 1.45%. According to a daily report by the state’s medical education and drugs department of December 6, Maharashtra is preceded only by Punjab, which has a CFR of 3.16%. Gujarat, which had a higher CFR of around 2.42% in early October, saw it drop to 1.87% as of December 6. The growth rate has also come down from 7.28% on April 30 to 0.31%, as of December 1. The doubling rate has also increased from 5.4 days on March 31 to 36.31 days on August 31 and then to 225 days as of December 1. The recovery rate has also gone up from 12.91% on March 31 to 72% on August 31 and 92.49% as of December 1. While the state was wary of a spike in cases post-Diwali, the trends have made state officials hopeful of not experiencing a rise, however, they have a word of caution as they expect a gradual rise from December-end. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, on Sunday said, “In many European countries, cases stabilised for around two-and-a-half months, post which, they saw a surge. If we go by that logic, cases started declining in Maharashtra from October and we might see a surge in January. However, it is right that recent trends do not pose a risk of a second wave, but we cannot be complacent and lower our guard.” Of the 35 districts, the positivity rate in 14 districts is higher than the state average of 16%. Districts like Palghar, Raigad and Nashik have registered a positivity rate of more than 25%, data revealed. Maharashtra has till date tested 11,273,704 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-4-757-new-covid-19-cases-40-deaths/story-VVUZ58OFeCQaQRiSuQovtN.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Health centre foundation stone laid in Kurara village||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday laid the foundation stone of a health and wellness centre at Kurara village here, which will be built at a cost of Rs 45.6 lakh. Speaking at the venue, Sidhu said the centre will have a community health officer (CHO) and other health and Asha workers to provide basic health services to the villagers. They will get 27 types of medicines free of cost, six diagnostic tests and tele-consultation facilities. Health services for pregnant women and care during and after delivery will also be offered.Sidhu also applauded the health department team and Asha workers at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, saying the entire state was indebted to them.  The minister also visited the Government Senior Secondary Smart School at Gigamajra and inspected the building, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs50 lakh. He handing over a cheque of Rs 5 Lakh to the principal, Harinder Kaur, in the presence of the village panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/health-centre-foundation-stone-laid-in-kurara-village/story-fwXswb3aKrcx1GYkqQcoqM.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Three months on, only 11 south Delhi restaurants apply for al fresco dining licences||It has been nearly three months since the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) approved a policy allowing al fresco dining at restaurants, and the response to scheme has been lukewarm with only 11 restaurant owners applying for licences. Traders attributed the low response to dull business due to pandemic. However, municipal officials are hopeful that more restaurateurs will come forward for licences.According to civic authorities, 11 restaurant owners have sought the SDMC’s consent for open-air dining, which would be granted soon. “Of these 11 applications, three have been granted permission to serve food in the open area which includes terrace, balcony and lawn abutting the licensed eating house. The food must be cooked in closed kitchens and only serving of food would be allowed in the open air. Liquor will only be allowed at licensed terraces/lawns and the restaurant owners will have to install view cutters and high parapet grilles to ensure that there is no inconvenience to other passersby,” a senior official of the civic body said, requesting anonymity.He, however, added that the low response might have been due to the coronavirus pandemic and the situation would improve in a few months. According to traders’ estimates, there are nearly 2,000 restaurants and eateries in south Delhi of which over 100 have open spaces that can be used for al fresco dining.To avail of the benefit of the policy, traders will have to pay a licence fee to the civic body -- ₹100 per square foot for normal restaurants and ₹200 per square foot for star-rated (4 stars and above) restaurants and hotels. This fee will be renewed every year.A restauranteur and a managing committee member of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), Sandeep Goyle said the industry is going through a phase of turmoil due to the pandemic and, ,hence the low response to the open-air dining policy. He said another reason is the fee structure. “They are charging a fee for the entire year, which sums up in lakhs for many restaurants. But seeing less the crowd is these days, we have appealed to the civic body to charge the licence fee to a pro rata basis which means that the civic body should take the fee for the remaining four months of the financial year (December-March) instead of the entire year. If this is adopted, then the number of applications will certainly go up,” he said.Joy Singh, the owner of Raasta Bar and Restaurant in Hauz Khas Village, is one of the 11 applicants. He said his licence is yet to come but he has begun preparations to create the infrastructure required for open-air food serving. “Even after you get the permission, you have to spend money in creating required infrastructure such as the installation of high parapet walls and other measures. Not everyone wishes to bear these extra expenses during the pandemic when the business is dull. We are hopeful that business would pick up towards Christmas and New Year,” Singh said.Anuj Pawra, the owner of Moonshine cafe and bar in Hauz Khas Village, said that he has applied for the licence late last month and i awaiting approval. “I am looking forward to starting the services from December 15. I’m hopeful of a good response as the threat of virus spread is low in open spaces,” Pawra said.He said lack of awareness is also another reason for fewer applicants. “Many restaurant owners still don’t know that the SDMC has allowed al fresco dining. They should create awareness and make the process hassle-free,” Pawra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-months-on-only-11-south-delhi-restaurants-apply-for-al-fresco-dining-licences/story-h9f1y2YK52cckSIejtlbjN.html
06-12-2020||City||Kejriwal to highlight efforts to strengthen business environment at global summit||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal would address a global summit on Wednesday, in which he would highlight efforts by the Delhi government to strengthen the business environment for start-up ventures in the city and innovations such as the entrepreneurship curriculum in government schools, said a statement issued by his office on Sunday.Kejriwal is scheduled to participate in the event through video conference. The event will be attended by several leading entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, motivational speakers, Nobel laureates, industrialists and policy experts from around the world, the statement said.“Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be speaking at The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Global Summit on December 9. He will be sharing Delhi’s efforts in building a comprehensive framework and turning it into a global start-up destination. CM Arvind Kejriwal is the only Chief Minister from India who will speak in this summit alongside several industry stalwarts, world leaders and Nobel laureates. From Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum in schools to a progressive start-up policy, the Delhi government has been in the forefront in making Delhi a global destination for start-ups,” it said.It further said, “CM Arvind Kejriwal is expected to talk about various steps being taken to turn Delhi into a global start-up destination ranging from launching a progressive start-up policy, providing access to affordable infrastructure for the hi-tech and service industry and providing high-quality skilled manpower through a focus on skilling and building an entrepreneurship mindset right from school education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-to-highlight-efforts-to-strengthen-business-environment-at-global-summit/story-J3c6IHGglS5IgZj301KT3O.html
06-12-2020||Lucknow||6 FIRs in 5 districts, 29 booked under UP’s anti-conversion law||Within a week of the promulgation of the new law against forced and dishonest conversions in Uttar Pradesh, six FIRs have been registered under it in five districts, police officials said on Sunday. The law was promulgated through an ordinance on November 28.Ten people, out of the 29 people booked under this new law, have been arrested in two of the cases registered in Sitapur and Bareilly districts since Wednesday, the officials said.A senior police official said seven people have been arrested in the FIR registered with Tambaur police station of Sitapur district while one arrest was made in the first FIR registered at Devraniya police station of Bareilly district.Meanwhile, Moradabad police on Friday arrested a Muslim man and his brother under the new law when he visited the registrar’s office to record his marriage to a Hindu woman. According to an agency report, Moradabad’s Kanth station house officer Ajay Gautam said the two men were arrested based on a complaint by the woman’s parents.“In the Sitapur case, the FIR of the elopement of a 19-year-old girl was registered on November 26 and the provisions of new ordinance were added to it later. The girl’s father stated in the FIR that his daughter was kidnapped by a Muslim youth to compel her for marriage. He later stated that the girl was kidnapped to force her to convert her religion,” he said.Also read: ‘Will Centre entirely fund vaccines?’ Amarinder Singh writes to PMAnother official at DGP headquarters said the first two cases under this law were registered in Bareilly on November 28 and 29.Additional director general (ADG), Bareilly zone, Avinash Chandra had earlier confirmed that the first FIR was registered at Devraniya police station of Bareilly.In the first FIR, one Tikaram Rathore of Sharifnagar village had accused Owaish Ahmad for mounting pressure on his daughter to convert her religion. The accused was booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 504 for insulting person and 506 for criminal intimidation as well as section 3/5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. Ahmad was arrested on Wednesday.The second FIR was registered at Izzat Nagar police station of Bareilly in which one Tahir Hussain and his brothers Sageer and Munna were accused of forceful religious conversion. The complaint was lodged by a woman who married Tahir around a year ago.Another FIR under the new law was registered against 14 people in Mau district after a woman eloped with a Muslim man, who is already married. The FIR was registered against one Shabab Khan and 13 others under IPC sections 366, 506 and 3/5 of new law at Chiraiyakot police station on Tuesday.Yet another FIR was lodged at Mansoorpur police station of Muzaffarnagar district on Thursday wherein two Muslim men were booked for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. They were booked under the new law as well as under sections 504 (criminal intimidation), 506 and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.The new ordinance aims to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage.” Violations of the law have been made cognizable and non-bailable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/6-firs-in-5-districts-29-booked-under-up-s-anti-conversion-law/story-P6chEgYyTPYFpRz2XBhNaJ.html
06-12-2020||City||Two youth held for rape as 16-year-old girl delivers stillborn in Mohali||Two youths have been arrested for raping a 16-year-old girl after she delivered a stillborn baby at the Mohali civil hospital on Sunday.The accused, identified as Parvesh Kumar, alias Nanhe, 22, and Pankaj Kumar, 19, are natives of Badaun village, Uttar Pradesh, and currently live in Kharar.“They had been repeatedly raping the minor girl for the past year. They would assault the girl while her parents were away at work,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi.The crime came to light when the girl complained of stomachache and her mother took her to the civil hospital in Phase 6. There, doctors discovered she was nine months pregnant and suffering labour pain. A Caesarean section was performed, but the baby was stillborn. After police were informed, the girl told them that Parvesh and Pankaj had been raping her for the past one year.“On her statement, the accused were arrested from Kharar, while they were preparing to leave for their native place in Uttar Pradesh,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh. The duo was produced in a court and sent to three-day police remand. A case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-youth-held-for-rape-as-16-year-old-girl-delivers-stillborn-in-mohali/story-ZDYctFrVWX05FhN9pdeIWJ.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Power privatisation should not come as a shock||The Punjab and Haryana high court early this week stayed the Chandigarh administration’s move to privatise the power department while acting on the plea of the UT Powermen Union, a worker’s collective that challenged the move. The administration is going for 100% privatisation of distribution and supply functions of the electricity wing of the UT’s engineering department. It took the decision on May 12 after directions from the Centre. An empowered committee has been constituted to oversee and implement the process. The administration has assured the Centre that the process will be completed by the end of this year. As many as 17 firms, including Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited and Sterlite Power, have expressed interest after the administration on November 9 invited bids for privatisation, which primarily involves the distribution of electricity supply. Authorities say private ownership will improve the efficiency of the power distribution system in the city which has a relatively low demand of around 400MW. The argument against privatisation, however, is that the current system is economically efficient with transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15% fixed by the power ministry. Consumers also fear that private players taking over would mean hefty electricity bills. The power department at present serves 2.3 lakh consumers in the city. As of now, the administration will be filing a review petition against the high court order. “We will first file a review in the HC, failing which we will move the Supreme Court,” UT adviser Manoj Parida has said. Should UT power department be privatised?Is privatisation necessary, especially when the power department has surplus revenues? Send your responses with a photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by December 11||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-power-privatisation-should-not-come-as-a-shock/story-ZgdhbQuexdJDEEaaEQ9KYN.html
06-12-2020||City||622 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths on Sunday in Pune district||PUNE The state health department, on Sunday, reported 622 fresh Covid-19 cases and three Covid-related deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported a total of 3.57 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.34 lakh have recovered, 7,606 have been reported dead and 15,423 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals, or in home isolation. Pune city reported 263 new cases taking its total count to 1,82,536 with one death taking the death toll to 4,323. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation reported 111 new cases taking its final count to 89,895, and two deaths put the death toll at 1,264 on Sunday. Pune rural reported 248 new cases taking the final count to 85,480 with no deaths. The death toll stands at to 1,984, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 7,486 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to 17.23 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 93.08%. Also, 4,757 new cases in the state were reported on Sunday, taking the total to 18.52 lakh. In addition, 40 Covid19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 48,817. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.58%. Of 1,12,73,705 laboratory samples, 18,52,266 have been tested positive (16.43%) for Covid-19 until Sunday. Currently 5,56,085 people are in home quarantine and 5,903 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/622-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-on-sunday-in-pune-district/story-D1rqC3yxoe6RD1txIlURtK.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Man shot dead in Sector 24, Rohini; video footage of killing surfaces on social media||A 25-year-old man was shot dead by a group of four to five men, in Sector 24 of outer Delhi’s Rohini on Friday evening. The CCTV footage of the murder surfaced on social media on Sunday and a woman friend of the victim is seen trying to help him after chasing away the attackers. The firing was also caught on camera, though the faces of the attackers, the victim and his friend are not clearly visible.As many as seven bullets were fired and five of them hit the 25-year-old man, identified as Bharat Solanki alias Yuvin, killing him on the spot. Solanki had a criminal background and was involved in three or four criminal cases, including extortion and robbery, said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra.DCP Mishra said Solanki was with his woman friend and they had gone to a grocery shop in Sector 24 on Friday evening. Around 7pm, Solanki came out of the shop and headed to his car with the purchased goods. The woman remained in the shop, the DCP said.Just then, the assailants, who were lying in wait, opened fire at him. The CCTV footage shows Solanki talking to someone sitting in a white car, while one of the assailants walked up to Solanki and fired a couple of shots at him. As Solanki fell on the road, another assailant, seen wearing a cap, pumped around five more bullets into him.“Hearing the gunshots, the woman came out of the shop and rushed to help Solanki. Seeing her, the assailants fled just as she started chasing them. We are questioning her and have not given (her) a clean chit in the case so far,” said DCP Mishra.The CCTV footage shows that the man wearing a cap was firing when the woman bumped into him. She is seen crouching to avoid being shot. Soon as the assailants fled, the person in the white car also sped away and the woman rushed to help Solanki.According to the DCP, the motive behind the murder and the identity of the assailants are yet to be ascertained. He said a case of murder was registered at the Begampur police station and personal enmity and love affair angles were being probed. Solanki was associated with a gang, a few members of which are in jail.“Gang rivalry could also be the reason behind Solanki’s murder. All possible motives are being probed,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-shot-dead-in-sector-24-rohini-video-footage-of-killing-surfaces-on-social-media/story-nGwKV0rJdVDvg26lrwY0LI.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||‘Ek baari mai kar do’: South Delhi civic body councillor caught asking Rs 10 lakh bribe on tape||South Delhi councillor Manoj Mehlawat, arrested by the CBI for allegedly taking Rs 10 lakh bribe from a builder, was caught on tape telling the complainant that “ab hamari source of income salary nahi hai...aise hi hoga (now salary is not my source of income...it will be like this only”, the agency has claimed. The BJP has suspended Mehlawat from its primary membership after his arrest last week. The Councillor’s remarks were caught on tape during a covert verification exercise by the CBI into the allegations against him. The builder had approached the CBI alleging that Mehlawat had repeatedly called him on phone demanding Rs 10 lakh as bribe to allow the construction of a house in the posh Vasant Kunj area without any hindrance. The councillor threatened the builder that he could not only demolish the ongoing construction project but also not allow him to “lay a single brick” in future. After receiving the complaint, the CBI, as a standard operating procedure, provided the complainant with a digital tape recorder and an independent witness to verify the allegations. During the conversation caught on tape, Mehlawat allegedly asked for full payment of bribe to allow the construction work to go on. “Main toh kehta hoon bhai ek baari mai kar do...baar baar se achcha hai...Hume bhi kisi ka kuch karna hota hai bhai...Ab hamari source of income salary nahi hai...aise hi hoga (I am saying pay in one go...it is better than installments...We also have to take care of others...Now our source of income is not salary...it will happen like this),” the councillor had allegedly told the builder at his office in Kaveri Apartments in Vasant Kunj. The conversation was caught on tape and corroborated by the independent witness. It is now part of the FIR. The CBI made public its FIR on Sunday evening nearly three days after Mehlawat was nabbed by the agency while taking the bribe as against the Supreme Court directive to make the FIR public within 24 hours as far as possible. Mehlawat became councillor of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation from Vasant Kunj in 2017 elections. According to media reports, there were serious complaints against him from local leaders but he became a prominent face in the local unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ek-baari-mai-kar-do-south-delhi-civic-body-councillor-caught-asking-rs-10-lakh-bribe-on-tape/story-rMoXuSieqgPZJdQkatrxGL.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||With drum and cymbals, women make a musical protest at Chilla border||As the male members of their families have been camping at Chilla border and protesting against the three new farm laws since Tuesday, seven women from Charoli village in Uttar Pradesh’s Jewar arrived at the protest venue on Sunday morning, carrying with them carrying traditional musical instruments such as dhol (drums) and manjiras (cymbals).Throughout Sunday, seven women, aged between 60 and 75 years, registered their protest through songs in their local dialect and demanded that the three farm laws be scrapped. The women said they would stay put at the venue until their demands are met by the government. The women said apart from participating in the protests, they will also assist with cooking meals for farmers who have been camping at Chilla border, which is completely closed to vehicular traffic since Saturday. “My husband, two sons and grandsons have been protesting here for the past six days. We thought that they would return after a day or two. But as the government has not accepted the demands of farmers, even after five rounds of meetings, we decided to come here and support our men. There was no point sitting idle at home while the men in our families fight this battle while braving the chill,” said Veerwat Devi,75.When the women arrived around 11am, the male protesters greeted them and informed everyone about their arrival through loudspeakers. Without wasting time, the women sat on the road, took out their musical instruments and began singing songs that, they said, they composed themselves. Soon, many male protesters too joined in.“This fight is not only of our men -- they do not produce crops alone. If we contribute to farming in our villages, why can’t we be a part of the agitation? If the situation demands it, even the younger women and children of our villages will join the protest. We can remain hungry for days and are ready to die here if the government will not scrap the laws,” said Rajni Devi, who was playing the dhol.After finishing their first round of singing, the women went to the makeshift community kitchen, enquired about lunch preparations and offered help.“We will cook dinner tonight for everyone. Our protest will now continue till the government meets our demands,” said Ratan Kaur, 75, the eldest among the seven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-drum-and-cymbals-women-make-a-musical-protest-at-chilla-border/story-xrKnzlUYcQRllD2LL7xpEK.html
06-12-2020||City||10 arrested for violating night curfew in Mohali||As many as 10 people, including a shopkeeper in Zirakpur, were arrested for violating the night curfew on Saturday.In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the state government had imposed curfew from 10pm to 5am on December 1.According to police, Bhupinder Kumar was found operating his shop in Adarsh Enclave, Dhakoli, post 10pm. He is a resident of Sector 14, Panchkula. Similarly, Kartik Dhawan was spotted driving around in a car near Mubarakpur. He didn’t have any satisfactory answer for being outside. A group of men, comprising Gurvinder Singh, his namesake, Jatinder Singh and Vikramjit Singh, was found roaming in a car without a valid reason. Varinder Kumar, Bunty, Sahil and Vishal Kumar were the remaining persons arrested for the same violation. Phase 1 SHO inspector Manphool Singh said two vehicles of the violators were impounded and separate cases under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code were registered. All accused were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-arrested-for-violating-night-curfew-in-mohali/story-TybRpjctuJs9RiJh2ODHGL.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Youth in SUV arrested with unlicensed pistol, live cartridges in Sector 17||A 24-year-old man was arrested with a .32-bore pistol and two live cartridges in Sector 17 on Saturday night.The accused, Gagandeep Singh of Gillco Valley, Rupnagar, was stopped for checking at a check post set up in Sector 17 around midnight. On searching his white Ford Fortuner, police recovered a pistol and two live cartridges.The check post was set up in view of a string of shooting incidents in the city over the past few months.Police said Singh worked as airport maintenance staff at the Dubai Airport and had come to India in October. He had obtained the weapon illegally for protection as he had enmity with some people in Rupnagar. He doesn’t have any priors.A case under the Arms Act was registered at the Sector 17 police station. He was produced before a court on Sunday and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-in-suv-arrested-with-unlicensed-pistol-live-cartridges-in-sector-17/story-3gJ3OUaPtFMriEJAUfPXHN.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Shaheen Bagh echo in Singhu as group from Okhla and Jamia Nagar visits farmers with donations||A small group of men from neighbourhoods such as Okhla, Jamia Nagar, Shaheen Bagh and Seelampur arrived with donations at the Singhu border where some of them addressed farmers from a secondary stage set up at the Singhu intersection on Sunday afternoon.The public address, however, ended abruptly when a TV news crew barged in to ask why people from “Shaheen Bagh” had taken the stage. While a group of farmers booed the TV news crew away, farmer leaders from Punjab took over the mic -- effectively ending these men’s active participation there.“We mentioned Shaheen Bagh in the hope that it would inspire farmers to carry on their protests until the government gave in to their demands. The farmers cheered us, but we didn’t expect to attract unnecessary attention from the media,” said Ghulam Rabbani, who lives in Okhla and runs a publishing business. About 20 men from various places in Delhi had arrived at the Singhu Border in four cars. “We brought along blankets and some food items. We didn’t face any problems until we reached there,” said Sibghatullah, who lives in Okhla and has a construction business. “I may not be a farmer, but my background is farming and I understand a farmer’s pain. That is why we decided to extend our support to them,” said Sibghatullah. Mohammad Zafaruddin Bakrati, who lives in Batla House and runs a monthly news magazine, said he was among those who addressed the farmers. “The farmers welcomed us without caring about our identity. It is Sunday and we decided to use the off day to extend our solidarity,” said Bakrati.Farmers at the gathering said it didn’t matter to them where the supporters were coming from. “We are respecting people from all places and all religions and setting an example. I felt sad to see the address by them being interrupted. Isn’t Shaheen Bagh in India?” said Sukwinder Singh, a resident of Sabhra village in Tarn Taran and joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan Committee (Punjab).While the men took a back seat following the interruption, the farmers continued to receive donations from people arriving from Delhi. One such donation was two multi-charging stations for mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shaheen-bagh-echo-in-singhu-as-group-from-okhla-and-jamia-nagar-visits-farmers-with-donations/story-fspSEkoRxZxBGhNWNWcc3L.html
06-12-2020||Jaipur||BJP-ally RLP supports Bharat Bandh call, threatens to exit coalition||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party, on Sunday extended its support to the farmers’ agitation. RLP MP Hanuman Beniwal in a video message posted on Twitter said that he will also take a call on its support to NDA after December 9 if the government does not solve problems faced by the farmers.Beniwal in his video message said, “We had decided very early which side we would choose. The farmers want these laws to be repealed. If the prime minister wants to help the farmers, he should implement the measures suggested in the Swaminathan Commission’s Report.”8 दिसम्बर को देश के किसानों की आवाज पर @RLPINDIAorg भारत बंद का समर्थन करती है ! कृषि बिलो व किसान आंदोलन को लेकर मीडिया के साथ आज हुई चर्चा के अंश आपके साथ साझा कर रहा हुं !#भारत_बंद #किसान_आंदोलन_दिल्ली pic.twitter.com/lCLRCcrPU5He also called the newly passed bills ‘black laws’ and said that after December 8 RLP officials will hold a meeting to decide whether they want to continue extending their support to the NDA-led government.Beniwal said, “We fully support the farmer groups’ call for Bharat Bandh. I also urge the RLP workers to peacefully participate in the Bandh and extend their support to farmers.’The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party had earlier requested the Centre to alleviate the concerns regarding the newly passed farm bills. The political party from Rajasthan was formed by Hanuman Beniwal, MP from Nagaur, in 2018. He was formerly a BJP leader.Beniwal on November 30 asked home minister Amit Shah to reconsider the newly passed laws or else RLP will have to rethink its ties with the BJP. He said, “Today, I have written to Shah that if the laws aren’t withdrawn, then we will reconsider our alliance with NDA.”He also said that he would not hesitate towards marching to Delhi. He further added, “We are with the farmers and if required will march to Delhi. The PM and Shah should hold dialogue with farmers, and provide space to hold a dharna in the capital. If any kind of ill-treatment is done with the farmers, then the farmers of the entire country will be on streets to gherao Delhi.”Earlier, the Shiromani Akali Dal quit the NDA-coalition over the passage of the farm bills. SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from her union ministry post ending the two-decade-long relationship between the BJP and SAD.The farmers have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 demanding that the government repeal the bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bjp-ally-rlp-supports-bharat-bandh-call-threatens-to-exit-coalition/story-Dc2zFofSDPocZHLIScoVmL.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Will do farming on India Gate lawns, if govt doesn’t accept demands, says farmer union leader||Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction in Uttar Pradesh (UP), on Sunday said the farmers will enter the national capital and start farming on the lawns of India Gate if the Centre doesn’t accept their demand of rolling back the three new farm laws.Addressing farmers gathered at Delhi-UP border in Ghazipur, Tikait said, “If the government does not accept our demand and revoke these three farm laws, we will break all barriers and enter the national capital…. We will ride our tractors into the national capital and will do farming on the lawns of India Gate.”Tikait said the farmers will allot each lawn to different ministers and members of Parliament.“We will allot each lawn near India Gate to different MPs and ministers and put up a board specifying which lawn belongs to whom. We will give the government a chance to get a first-hand experience of how we cultivate the produce so that they understand our plight...The government should not underestimate farmers.”Urging farmers not to use “objectionable language” and avoid “political references” in their speeches, Tikait said, “We should not let anyone take political advantage from our movement. Limit your speeches and talks to topics related to the movement.”On Sunday, the crowd was thin at the Ghazipur border with several farmers returning to their villages in UP and Uttarakhand to check on their fields. Chandra Pal Singh, a farmer from Bhojpur village in Ghaziabad, said, “Many of our brothers have left to check on their fields back home and they will return before December 8 to participate in the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers. We will assemble here in large numbers before December 8.”The Ghazipur protest site got visitors from neighbouring Noida and Ghaziabad on Sunday. Dharmendra Singh, a Railway Protection Force personnel from Meerut, said, “I took two days off to come here and extend my solidarity to the protesting farmers. All of us are directly or indirectly connected to farmers and we cannot survive without them. The government should listen to their demands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/will-do-farming-on-india-gate-lawns-if-govt-doesn-t-accept-demands-says-farmer-union-leader/story-JFdbm1mUydpuiII0tVtHsK.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||NEET-UG: 5 medical colleges to allot one seat each for children of Covid­-19 warriors||Five medical colleges across India have been identified to allot one seat each this year for children of Covid-19 warriors. In November, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan announced the centre’s decision to reserve five medical seats under the ‘Children of Covid Warriors (deceased)’ category.In a notification dated December 5 by the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS), the five institutes include MGIMS Wardha in Maharashtra, Lady Hardinge Medical College in New Delhi, NSCB Medical College, Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, JLN Medical College Ajmer in Rajasthan and Government Medical College Haldwani in Uttarakhand.The five seats will be reserved for candidates who cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) exam held in September. Such students, states the notification, should apply for these seats through the respective Directorate of Medical Education/Directorate of Health Services (DHS) of their domicile states.Also read: India dials up ties with Gulf countries, sharpens the contrast with PakistanAccording to the notification, ‘Covid warriors’ refer to the definition by the ministry of health and family welfare as “public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by the same.” This special quota is for children of those Covid warriors who lost their lives due to Covid-19 or died accidentally on account of Covid-related duty.“Nominations/applications have to be routed through the DME or DHS of the concerned state after scrutiny about their eligibility. The authorities will then forward such applications to Medical Council Committee (MCC) for allotment as per the NEET merit,” states the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/neet-ug-5-medical-colleges-in-india-to-allot-one-seat-each-for-children-of-covid-19-warriors/story-N7ZNJLTH2UDs0LsHuWNsVP.html
06-12-2020||City||Two minor sisters from PoK inadvertently cross into Poonch||Two minor sisters from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir were detained early on Sunday after they inadvertently crossed the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said. “Laiba Zabair,17, and her younger sister Sana Zabair,13, of Abbasspur in Kahuta Tehsil of PoK, were noticed moving into this side by Indian troops deployed along the LoC in Poonch sector, defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said. “Own troops deployed along the LoC, having detected the crossing, exercised complete restraint to prevent any harm to the teenagers,” he said, adding that the matter was taken up over hotline with the Pakistan Army and efforts are being made for their early repatriation. PTIPoonch senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “Their mother had died some time ago and their step-mother did not treat them fairly. Therefore, they decided to leave home for Tattapani in PoK but mistakenly strayed into Indian side. They seem to be innocent.” Angral said nothing incriminating was recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-minor-sisters-from-pok-inadvertently-cross-into-poonch/story-fMdfOt8aRl8w0pzp5dD0OO.html
06-12-2020||City||DDC polls: Mehbooba Mufti seeks votes for Pulwama nominee Waheed Parra||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday sought votes for Waheed Parra who is contesting the district development council (DDC) polls from Pulwama.Waheed, who is the PDP youth president, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last month, days after he filed his nomination papers from Pulwama DDC seat. He was interrogated by the agency in the terror case related to arrested DSP Davinder Singh. Pulwama will go to polls in the fourth phase of elections on Monday. While canvassing for Waheed, Mehbooba Mufti said,”You all are aware that Waheed has always raised his voice against cruelty and he is being punished for that today. I hope your vote will be an answer to Delhi’s tyranny.”Waheed is considered close to Mehbooba Mufti and is one of the prominent youth leaders in Kashmir. He has a strong following among the youth, especially in south Kashmir. In the last assembly election, Waheed had played an important role in the win of Haseeb Drabu who became J&K’ s finance minister in the PDP-BJP coalition government.On Saturday, Mehbooba Mufti had visited Waheed’s house at Naira village in Pulwama to meet his family. The PDP had earlier launched a social media campaign for the release of its youth leader by releasing videos and pictures showing Waheed’s contribution towards strengthening mainstream politics in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-mehbooba-mufti-seeks-votes-for-pulwama-nominee-waheed-parra/story-RttZMVjm4hj3HzKajuaG8M.html
06-12-2020||City||Two Kashmir youth prevented from joining militancy: J&K Police||Two youths from Kashmir’s Ganderbal district were prevented from joining militant ranks after they were apprehended in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Sunday. They have been handed over to their parents.Police said they had got credible information about the youths’ plans to sign up for militancy. “On the basis of technical inputs, the youth from Wussan area of Ganderbal were apprehended in downtown area of Srinagar,” a police spokesman said. “They were counselled and handed over to their parents,” he said.Senior superintendent of police (SSP Ganderbal) Khalil Ahmad Poswal said youth in Kashmir are being approached through social media to join militancy. “Anti-national elements (ANEs) operating across the border are preying on the gullible youth of Kashmir through various social media platforms and enticing them to join militancy which needs to be curbed,” the SSP said.He said parents should come forward and report any such activity of their wards so that they are mainstreamed through concerted counselling by experts. The preliminary investigation of police has revealed that both the apprehended persons had “developed a tendency” to sign up for militancy.The arrested youths were properly counselled by the police with the help of a psychiatrist and other experts in presence of their parents. “The parents were advised to keep an eye on their daily activities,” the spokesman said.Police said parents and community members hailed their efforts for the ‘sympathetic act’ of saving the lives of these young boys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-kashmir-youth-prevented-from-joining-militancy-j-k-police/story-1Rep6foLozkpot2XuS1whM.html
06-12-2020||City||11 deaths, 553 fresh Covid infections in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 553 Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 44,958 while the death toll reached 722 as eleven more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 108 were reported in Mandi, 92 in Shimla, 90 in Solan, 63 in Kangra, 48 in Kullu, 38 each in Bilaspur and Chamba, 30 in Hamirpur, 27 in Una, 10 in Sirmaur, five in Lahaul-Spiti and four in Kinnaur. There are 8,269 active cases in the state. The recoveries have reached 35,923 as 520 more patients have been cured. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 8,362 cases followed by Mandi where 7,337 people have been infected till date. Kangra ranks third with 5,954 infections and Solan has 5,442 cases, Kullu 3,872, Sirmaur 2,717, Bilaspur 2,334, Hamirpur 2,281, Una 2,272, Chamba 2,237, Lahaul-Spiti 1,119 and Kinnaur 1,031. Meanwhile, a government spokesperson said an online registration portal has been launched to facilitate people to obtain permission for organising events, marriages and other social gatherings. He said those who want to organise any kind of social, cultural, political or any other kind of event in the state, can register on https://covid.hp.gov.in. The facility has been started to avoid large gatherings in public offices.45 challaned for not wearing masks in HamirpurHamirpur: As many as 45 people were challaned for not wearing masks in Badsar sub-division of Hamirpur district, a police spokesman said. The Hamirpur district police have launched a massive campaign to nab those not wearing face masks and avoiding social distancing norms. The spokesman said Rs 32,000 were collected after 32 people deposited the fine. Other 13 people who didn’t pay the fine will be taken to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-deaths-244-fresh-covid-infections-in-himachal/story-TGBxo6gpGwXucwBjVe7t9K.html
06-12-2020||City||Congress leader wants HP govt to defer Panchayati Raj Institution polls amid Covid surge||Former chief parliamentary secretary and Congress leader Rohit Thakur has urged the Himachal Pradesh government to postpone the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) elections in the state in wake of rapid increase in Covid-19 infections, particularly in Shimla. In a statement issued here, Thakur, citing a report of Union health ministry, said Himachal’s seven districts were on the top of the list of most affected 19 districts of the country. “Shimla district has the highest growth rate of 15.3% in Covid cases and things are spiraling out of control,” he said, adding that sub-divisional headquarters Rohru and Rampur besides Sanjauli and Pandali of Kotkhai have been declared as containment zone.“The corona situation in Theog assembly constituency also remains worrying,” he said, adding that the death rate has also gone up across the state with 208 people succumbing to the virus in last 22 days.The ex-MLA from Jubbal-Kotkhai constituency said the situation in the state’s health institutions was going from bad to worst. “There is a huge shortage of oxygen cylinders. The government should give priority to the health of people over the PRI polls,” he said.“Amid this situation, there will be nominal participation of people in the polls and it would just be a formality. According to the World Health Organisation, Covid-19 infections are likely to spread more and PRI polls in such a situation would be disastrous,” he said.Thakur said the vaccine is expected in the next six months and the government can conduct the elections after it arrives. “If there is any constitutional hurdle in deferring the elections, the state government should take up the matter and resolve it before the central government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-wants-hp-govt-to-defer-panchayati-raj-institution-polls-amid-covid-surge/story-57gKPD8JHOpOvJfQzzBimN.html
06-12-2020||City||Vehicles to be provided for transportation of home isolated Covid patients: Jai Ram||Covid-19 patients who have been isolated at home will be provided vehicle facility in case they need to move to health institutions for treatment, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday. He was presiding over a meeting with senior state officers. The vehicle facility will be available at identified community health centres. The CM said Covid-19 patients under treatment at home were facing difficulties in getting vehicle if they needed to be shifted to the hospital. “These vehicles would be fitted with a fiber glass to separate the driver cabin from the rear seat. It will facilitate the patients of rural areas,” he said, adding that two vehicles would be stationed at each identified health institution.The CM said in addition to this, 30 ambulances have been added from the districts to supplement the emergency services. “Walk in kiosks have been placed at few places in the state to collect samples for testing,” he added. He directed the officers to ensure publicity of the same so that the public could avail the facility.Thakur said the state government has increased Covid testing to ensure effective tracking of patients to curb the spread of virus. He said 96,657 and 1,35,100 tests were done in October and November respectively as compared to 31,035 and 42,331 in April and May respectively.As many as 29,176 tests have been done in December till date, he added.Meanwhile, secretary health Amitabh Avasthi informed the CM that four pre-fabricated Covid hospitals will come up in the state in a fortnight. He said this will substantially add to the bed capacity for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicles-to-be-provided-for-transportation-of-home-isolated-covid-patients-jai-ram/story-l3hLYXILiWMUo7iXciUaCK.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Biological mother demands custody of child under filmmaker’s care||A Bollywood film maker who is the foster father of a two-year-old and the toddler’s biological mother feature in a custody row, while a man has surfaced claiming to be the boy’s father, an official said on Sunday.The toddler was found at Borivli in September last year badly bruised and having bite marks with the woman who claimed he had slipped out of her hands and hurt himself, an official of the Women and Child Development department said.While the woman, who had reached Mumbai from Uttar Pradesh leaving behind a daily wage labourer husband and a 12 -year-old son, was referred to a local NGO for mental illness treatment, the infant was taken by the Child Welfare Committee under its care, the official said.After living in two foster care homes, the toddler was shifted to the Bollywood director’s home in May this year as the previous family said the coronavirus-induced lockdown had made it difficult to look after him, the official said.At a recent meeting of the Child Welfare Committee in Mumbai, the Bollywood director said he should be allowed to keep the toddler longer, as the mother was not mentally fit.However, the 30-year-old mother said she was medically fit to look after her son now. The Committee sought a fresh medical fitness certificate for the mother from a government hospital and a decision on with whom to keep the toddler is expected in a few days, the official said.Meanwhile, a person claiming to be the toddler’s biological father has approached the authorities, the official said, adding they will match his DNA report. A DNA test last month confirmed the woman is the toddler’s biological mother.The toddler may be placed with the Children’s Aid Society at Mankhurd here as per provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, before the issue is resolved, the official said.As per the Centre’s model guidelines for foster care, a foster family can adopt a child after five years of care, if the child has no biological family claiming her.“We have been informed that the director, who is married and has a son, is not looking to adopt the toddler,” the official said. However, seeing the mothers condition, he became apprehensive and requested that the child be in foster care for a little longer till she is fine, the official added.The NGO founder has informed the Committee that the woman may develop ‘severe reactive depression’ if kept away from her son for long, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biological-mother-demands-custody-of-child-under-filmmaker-s-care/story-HoVmG9QX3JM0CtoHE0GSqO.html
06-12-2020||Jaipur||Teen dies after grenade explodes in his hand, another critically injured||A 13-year-old boy died in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district when a grenade exploded in his hand. The incident took place on Sunday noon at Army firing range where the boy was grazing his cattle during which he found the hand grenade. The grenade exploded in boy’s hand while he was looking at it, he died at the spot.Another boy was critically injured in the accident and was referred to Jodhpur, the police said. The incident took place in the Army’s firing range near Bhadariya town under Lathi police station in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district. On getting informed by the locals, the police reached the spot.Also read: India dials up ties with Gulf countries, sharpens the contrast with PakistanAjay Singh, superintendent of police, Jaisalmer, confirmed the report. Singh said that on Sunday two boys were grazing their cattle in the Army’s firing range which is a prohibited area. According to Singh, the boys found a hand grenade which possibly got dropped there during the Army’s exercise.The police said that the deceased has been identified as Sarwan Singh (13) while the injured is identified as Mahipal Singh (11).The Army’s response is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/teen-dies-after-grenade-explodes-in-his-hand-another-critically-injured/story-J74kBpv06jlJhXAxOa51wN.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway observe mega block, diverts routes of trains in Mumbai||Central Railway observed a mega block and diverted various routes of many trains in Mumbai to maintain the infrastructure and safety of passengers.The Down fast line services leaving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus from 8.52 am to 1.53 pm has been diverted on Down slow line at Matunga, halting at all stations from Sion to Mulund stations and will arrive destination 15 minutes behind schedule, according to the press release issued by Central Railway.“Fast trains beyond Thane will be re-diverted on Dn fast line at Mulund. Up fast line services leaving Thane from 8.55 am to 2.13 has been also diverted on Up slow line halting at all stations from Mulund to Dadar stations and will be re-diverted on Up fast at Parel and will arrive destination 15 minutes behind schedule,” the release said.“Dn Harbour line services to Vashi /Belapur/Panvel leaving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai from 11.34 am to 4.47 pm and Dn Harbour line services to Bandra/Goregaon leaving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus from 9.56 am to 4.43 pm will remain suspended.Up Harbour line services for Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai leaving Panvel/Belapur/Vashi from 9.53 am to 3.20 pm and to Up harbour line services to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus leaving Goregaon/Bandra from 10.45 am to 4.58 pm will also be remain suspended,” it informed.“However, Special services will run between Panvel and Kurla platform number 8 during the block period. Harbour line passengers are permitted to travel via Main Line and Western Railway from 10.00 am to 6.00 pm during the period, according to the press release.“These maintenance mega blocks are essential for infrastructure upkeep and safety. Passengers are requested to bear with the Railway Administration for the inconvenience caused,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-observe-mega-block-diverts-routes-of-trains-in-mumbai/story-TU0QMT4tBaCzG1Sd7IAYEL.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Deol hopeful that discussions between Centre, farmers will be fruitful||Actor-turned-politician Sunny Deol on Sunday said that he supports the government’s farm bills as he believes that these were introduced to bring reforms in the agriculture sector. Expressing hope that a solution will be reached soon, Deol asked other political parties and groups to allow the agitating farmers’ unions and the government to hold discussions peacefully. Deol posted a statement on Twitter where he said, “I request the entire world that this matter remains between our farmers and the government. Do not interfere, because they will find a way after holding discussions. I know that many people want to take advantage of it and create problems. They are not thinking of the farmers and may have their own agenda.”Deol, through his statement, also chose to distance himself from actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu’s comments made on November 30. Deep Sidhu had canvassed for Sunny Deol during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Deol said, “Deep Sidhu, who was with me during the election has not been with me for a long time and whatever he is speaking, he is saying on his own. I am in no way related to his activities. I stand with my party and farmers and will always be with farmers. Our government always thinks of the betterment of farmers and I am sure that the government will ensure the right outcome after holding talks with farmers.”Sidhu, who has actively participated in the protests, faced criticism from several sections for allegedly raising pro-Khalistan slogans.During the protests, Sidhu while speaking with a Haryana police official had said, “Ye inquilab hai. Ye revolution hai. If they don’t understand the seriousness of this matter, it will define the political structure and the geopolitics of India as well as South Asia.”He further said, “It is going to be very sad for them. If you take away farmers’ land, then what do they have left? Only debt?”The video of this conversation went viral and AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on November 30 termed Sidhu as pro-Khalistani. Singh had said, “The man who is standing in this picture (with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sunny Deol and another man) is raising slogans of ‘Khalistan zindabad’ during farmers’ protests. Now, it is clear that BJP is making attempts to defame farmers’ agitation with the help of its own people. The PM should clarify what relationship he has with the man who is demanding Khalistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deol-hopeful-that-discussions-between-centre-farmers-will-be-fruitful/story-7KJaiMEfND88biahPlTsyJ.html
06-12-2020||City||Callers posing as bank officials dupe Ludhiana man of ₹52,300; 2 booked||A city resident lost ₹52,300 to two Jalandhar-based conmen who had contacted him through phone on the pretext of helping him avail a bank loan.Complainant Ram Narayan of Basti Jodhewal said that he was in need of a loan and was approaching some banks and finance companies for the same. A few days ago, he got a call from a man who introduced himself as an employee of the loan branch of a private bank. The man asked him to send his documents and also deposit ₹52,300 in two bank accounts as “processing fee”.But after he deposited the amount, the accused stopped taking his calls. It was then that Ram Narayan realised that he had been duped and approached the Cyber Crime Cell with his complaint.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said the accused were identified with the help of the bank accounts in which the money had been deposited. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Jatinder Kumar of Booti Enclave of Jalandhar and Ajay Kumar of Raja Garden of Jalandhar. The two accused are still on the run. It is the second such case of online fraud in the past two days. On Saturday, the police had booked two Kharar residents for duping a Ludhiana woman of ₹1.43 lakh on the pretext of sending her expensive gifts from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/callers-posing-as-bank-officials-dupe-man-of-52-300-2-booked/story-tYW4oP1kkB3tg5x20ls5TP.html
06-12-2020||City||Environment activists decry new DC rules allowing construction in garden spaces||PUNE Environment activists in the city, along with members of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) garden department, have expressed concern over new unified development control rules, which allow the construction of food stalls, and swimming pools within garden premises in the city. The activists have stated that any kind of construction will hamper the purpose of public gardens and squeeze into the open green areas. The state government’s Urban Development department issued a notification on Friday, December 5, approving uniform land and building development rules for local civic bodies in Maharashtra under its “Ease of doing business” plan. Under these rules, covered under the Permissible in Proposed Reservations Garden, the state has mentioned that in addition to the main use of a garden, construction of an open swimming pool and allied constructions, including a water tank, rain water harvesting system, gardener/watchman’s quarter, small restaurant or food stalls to the extent of 20 square metres may be permitted. Total FSI used for such constructions shall not exceed 4% of the garden area. Currently only 10 per cent of construction is allowed under existing development control rules. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had passed an order in 2015 restricting construction inside gardens. Now, new rules have given permission to develop open swimming pools and allied constructions, including a water tank and rain-water harvesting system. PMC’s garden department chief Ashok Ghorpade said, “The decision may squeeze the open space of the garden as food stalls or small restaurants will occupy some area and it will encourage people to come for eating. There are eateries outside the garden. There is no need to allow food stalls inside the garden. It will create an unnecessary nuisance to other people who regularly come to the garden for health purposes. At the same time PMC is providing separate swimming-pool facilities to people under public amenities. There is no need for swimming pools in garden space.” Kill the purpose of garden Sarang Yadwadkar, city-based environmentalist, said, “Corporations can develop swimming pools, and food stalls in amenity spaces. But here, they are pushing into garden areas. That means they don’t want to use amenity space for these social causes. They want to lease out amenity space to private players and push these amenities in garden areas. It will create a cement concrete structure in the garden and spoil the clean and green purpose of the garden. Gardens are the lungs of the city. We should take care of it.” Civic activist Sudhir Kulkarni said, “In the case of the Sambhaji garden, NGT had pulled up PMC on issue more than 10 per cent RCC construction in the garden area and ordered excessive construction to be cleared and RCC construction to be restrained. Unified rules are creating obstacles for gardens.” NGT order on construction in Sambhaji garden For development in the Sambhaji garden, PMC had allowed 15 per cent construction in garden premises. However, residents had filed a litigation in NGT against construction in the Sambhaji garden in 2015 NGT gave directives to stop construction and demolish constructions in the Sambhaji garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/environment-activists-decry-new-dc-rules-allowing-construction-in-garden-spaces/story-Nz7XIwC11QvT9faSgxqpHL.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Three winners announced at National Conference on Social Innovation||The Pune International Centre (PIC) announced winners of the 8th National Conference on Social Innovation (NCSI) under three categories including urban, rural and tribal. NCSI has been organised in association with the National Innovation Foundation and the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, on Saturday. NCSI recognised 18 social innovators from urban, rural and tribal categories of 100 entries from various fields including education, health and environment. Each category had six innovators, of which one from each category was chosen as the winner.The winners included Nitesh Bhardwaj, founder of Ulgulan Foundation in the tribal category; Ayush Nigam, founder of Distinct Horizon in the rural category and Shashank Nimkar, founder of Earth Tatva in the urban category.Ulgulan Foundation in the tribal category is working to create social awareness and raise local issues by using mobile films in tribal areas of Maharashtra, while Distinct Horizon in the rural category is innovating agricultural machinery that can double the profits of farmers and reduce GHG (green house gas) emissions.Earth Tatva in the urban category works to reduce mining for natural resources by making products from recycled ceramics under closed loops zero waste manufacturing process. The winners will be offered a cash prize of Rs 50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/national-conference-on-social-innovation-announces-winners-in-urban-rural-and-tribal-categories/story-VDrylXhjPK2lGtYBaMg6EK.html
06-12-2020||Pune||‘Haste’: Pawar underlines why govt is facing outrage from farmers||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the government is facing problems due to the farmers’ protests because they hastily passed the farm bills and chose not to listen to the concerns raised by the Opposition during the Monsoon Session of Parliament in September. “When Bill was being passed, we’d requested the government that they shouldn’t be in a hurry, it should be sent to the Select Committee and a discussion is needed, but that didn’t happen and the Bill was passed in haste. Now the government is facing problems because of that haste,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Lending his support to the protesting farmers’ unions from Punjab, the NCP chief said he fears that farmers from all over the country will support them if the situation is not resolved quickly. Pawar also highlighted that protesting farmers in Haryana and Punjab are the main cultivators of paddy and wheat, both of which are essential foodgrains.The monsoon session witnessed heated arguments between the ruling NDA and the opposition parties in both houses. The bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill - were passed in the Lok Sabha due to BJP’s majority in the Lower House but its passage in the Rajya Sabha witnessed a lot of chaos.On September 22, Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen (Trinamool Congress); Congress’ Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain, and Ripun Borah; and KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (M) were suspended for a week for unruly behaviour.These MPs had protested against the passage of these bills inside the well of the House and were suspended for behaving in an unruly manner. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh. Pawar on September 23 had fasted protesting against the suspension of these eight Rajya Sabha MPs as well as the passage of the farm bills.The farmers’ unions and the Centre have not reached an agreement on the demands raised by the farm groups. The farmers’ groups despite repeated assurances from the government will go ahead with the countrywide strike on December 8. The Centre and farmers’ unions will meet on December 9 to hold the sixth round of talks regarding the farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/haste-pawar-underlines-why-govt-is-facing-outrage-from-farmers/story-jWRAGkURvamYQfTfEEqPeI.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Two dead as motorbike skids along slope in Ambegaon, Pune||Two men, riding on a motorbike, were killed after the vehicle skid along a slope in Ambegaon on Friday evening.The two deceased have been identified as Arman Shabbir Shaikh (20), a resident of Naik Chawl in Bopodi and Hrushikesh Surendra Jadhav (23), a resident of Pimple Gurav, Pimpri-Chinchwad, according to the police.While Shaikh was riding the vehicle, Jadhav was riding pillion. The two were riding along the slope at the end of a bridge that is located on the road connecting Satara and Mumbai, according to the police.Their bodies were taken for post-mortem while their families were informed.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-dead-as-motorbike-skids-along-slope-in-ambegaon-pune/story-n45PUpuQRKYxWpORskgwPK.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Man steals money from ex-employer’s office in Pune to pay crop loan||A man was remanded to five days in custody of Pune police till Saturday for using duplicate keys he had of his former employer’s locker and stealing Rs 1,64,000 on November 7 to pay off multiple debts, including a Rs 57,000 crop loan.The man has been identified as Shivaji Balip, a resident of Jhashi Palshi in Maan taluka of Satara district. “His family is into farming, but he used to work for the complainant’s company, which produces starch, until last year. Then he moved to his native place. Of the stolen money, we have recovered Rs 74,000 from him. Of the rest, he has used Rs 57,000 to pay off a crop loan for his family and around Rs 40,000 to pay a loan for a two-wheeler, he had purchased. He had made a duplicate key of the locker when he used to work there,” said senior police inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of Shivajinagar police station.A complaint was lodged by Ramchandra Madne, (33), a resident of Prabhat road. His office and residence are at the same location. Back when Balip was working for the complainant, the complainant had forgotten his keys in the office before going out and had tasked Balip to get the keys. That is when Balip is suspected to have made a duplicate key for the locker, according to the complainant.“He owes money to people. He also has a loan of Rs 45,000 for a two-wheeler he had purchased. So, he came back and robbed his previous employer,” said one of the officials investigating the case.A case under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Shivajinagar police station against Balip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-steals-money-from-ex-employer-s-office-in-pune-to-pay-crop-loan/story-PgtKXjA57Xu5CKUb4twRTJ.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Pune hospital starts Sputnik V phase two trials, volunteers under observation||City’s Noble Hospital administered Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine to combat Covid-19 disease to 17 volunteers over the past three days. Volunteers are currently under observation for any medical symptoms, according to hospital authorities. The vaccine was also one of the first in the world to be registered as a measure against Covid-19 disease and had gained world attention after the Russian president Vladimir Putin claimed its safety. The hospital is one of the first in the state to administer the vaccine for its phase two trials.The hospital had administered the dose to 17 volunteers who came to the hospital over the past three days. Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital, said, “This is the phase two trial of the vaccine and is probably the first in the country to administer it to volunteers. We will keep observing the volunteers for the next few days and report it to the sponsors.” Although the vaccine has been manufactured by the Russian Ministry of Health, it is being manufactured and distributed in India by Hyderabad-headquartered Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.Another doctor at Noble Hospital, said, “We have got a protocol for administering the vaccine which has certain conditions, including the age of the volunteer which needs to be above 18 years of age. The volunteers need to be healthy which means they should not have any comorbidities. Also, we will only collect the samples from the volunteers for antibodies and Covid-19 testing which would be tested by Dr Reddy’s, who are the sponsors for this vaccination. Two doses of the vaccine would be given and we have 17 volunteers with us who were administered the vaccine in the past three days after we scrutinised the candidates.”The volunteers were selected randomly and now will be followed up for the next few days. The volunteers have been given an online form to fill in if they notice any symptoms. The doctors also said that the volunteers would be followed up telephonically for flu-like symptoms. The doctors said, “The storage temperature of the vaccine is minus 20 degrees Celsius till it is injected. It has to be thawed and liquified before it is injected. This is the second vaccine undergoing trials in Pune.”IMA expresses concernsThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) has expressed concern over the fact that even if the vaccine comes out in December and is approved by the ICMR, the inoculation or the administering of the vaccine would be only possible in the next 2-3 months. The IMA listed several problems in the country, including the need to maintain a cold chain throughout from the manufacturing site to the vaccination centre and that any disruption in the cold chain would make the vaccine ineffective. The mRNA vaccines need to maintain the temperature around minus 25 degrees to minus 70 degrees in some of the vaccine types.In India, the additional conditions would be of transport vehicles with the facilities to maintain the required temperature and currently the government does not have such facilities and may require outsourcing it, which will take quite some time, as per the IMA. The government hospitals, primary health centres and sub-centres will have to install refrigeration cold stores maintaining such low temperature levels. At present in India there are not many such facilities and the state government is planning to install it and it will take a minimum of 2-3 months for that, said IMA.“The additional challenges would be providing 24x7 electricity to deep freezing machinery. To inoculate 130 crore of the Indian population, government staff will not be sufficient and the government may need to employ additional staff or will have to outsource it to private hospitals. Considering all these points, we feel that even if the vaccine is available in December 2020, the inoculation drive may not begin for the next 2 to 3 months,” said officials of the IMA.The IMA in its letter states that the government may take a decision to provide the vaccine at select metros, but again it will create discontent in the masses especially from rural India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-hospital-starts-sputnik-v-phase-two-trials-volunteers-under-observation/story-59HtxkigsXs07KpVfSw2mK.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Mercury drops to 11.5 degrees C in Pune, IMD points to La Nina conditions||With the city witnessing the cold breeze, Pune on Saturday reported a drop in night temperature at 11.5 degree Celsius. Weather department noted that the reason for cooler nights are the northern easterly winds that are causing the drop in mercury. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, the winter is likely to be cooler this season. Pune on Saturday reported 11.5 degrees Celsius as minimum temperature, 0.9 degrees less than the normal. However, the day temperature was 30.8 degrees Celsius, 1.5 degrees Celsius more than the normal. Speaking about the intensity of winter this season, IMD officials said that there are moderate La Niña conditions prevailing over the equatorial Pacific. The lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at Gondia at 10.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday. Dr SD Sanap, scientist, weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that the minimum temperature in the state is likely to be around 12 degrees Celsius to 13 degrees Celsius in the coming days. “However, there will not be any further drop of night temperature in the city. In the northern part of the state there will be fall. Southern part of Maharashtra may not be witnessing any major fall. It will remain more or less the same,” said Dr Sanap. “The latest Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) forecast indicates that the moderate La Niña conditions are likely to sustain at least till the end of winter season. And our observations say that if the La Niña conditions prevail, that India experiences a cooler winter,” said Sanap. As per the recently published seasonal outlook for December, January and February, most subdivisions of northwest, north, east and northeast India and few subdivisions of central and peninsular India will also experience below normal minimum temperature. Most of the subdivisions of northeast India, few subdivisions of west coast and south peninsular India is likely to experience above normal minimum temperatures as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mercury-drops-to-11-5-degrees-c-in-pune-imd-points-to-la-nina-conditions/story-bMwqzNbmhcA85XJjKxhHXL.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Two contract killers murder Pune man who hired them for killing his son’s second wife||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested two persons for killing a man who had paid them to kill the second wife of his son. The body of the deceased, a farmer, was found at a tin-shed located at Varale village of Khed taluka on December 1. The Pune police said that the murder took place around midnight on November 30. The arrested have been identified as Avinash Baban Rathod, who drives an excavator for a living and is a resident of Mohkhed village of Jintur in Parbhani and Wasim Jabbar of Balan Bazar in Munger district of Bihar. Their accomplice, a native of Bihar, is on the run. The deceased has been identified as Bhikaji Vinayak Panmand (58) of Khed. Panmand had hired Rathod for killing the second wife of his son Ajit Panmand (30) for he was against the relationship as his son has a first wife and two children with her, according to the police. The Satara-based second wife has recently delivered a baby with Ajit, police said. “They had taken Rs 1,34,000 from the deceased under the pretext of killing the woman, but they did not kill her. They probably had no intention of killing her. They took the contract money and bought illegal weapons from Uttar Pradesh. The farmer was pressuring them to either return the money or finish the job. The hired killers called him to the shed, where he was later found dead. They did ask him to bring Rs 3 lakh more, and may had an altercation and killed him there,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. “Ajit has been married for five years and around the same time, he claims to have started the affair. He told his family that he went to Alandi and married the second time. However, his family learned about it two years ago and it has been a constant source of tension in their family,” said senior inspector Arvind Pawar of Mahalunge police outpost in Chakan police station jurisdiction. While the two men from Bihar held the farmer’s arms, Rathod strangled him with a cloth belt which came apart during the act after which the hired man strangled him to death with his hands, according to the police. The police had initially registered an accidental death report as there were no clear signs or motive for the murder. However, upon investigation, they found a cheap mobile phone in his name which was used only to contact Rathod, according to Prakash. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (criminal conspiracy), 120(b) (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Arms Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-contract-killers-murder-pune-man-who-hired-them-for-killing-his-son-s-second-wife/story-HSWgKG6YCNo2VrGE0zkG0O.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Experts say second Covid-19 wave not severe in city as Pune records only slight rise in cases||In a glimmer of hope, the second wave of Covid-19 infection has not been as severe as the first onsalught in the city, as per experts. Pune has reported only a slight rise in the number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases over the past few weeks as compared to the previous month. It has been 21 days since the country celebrated Diwali (November 14) which is also the incubation period for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. There were speculations of witnessing a second wave post the festive season due to the lifting of the lockdown restrictions and social interactions. Prior to Diwali (November 14), the district reported 400-500 Covid-19 cases on a daily basis. This has currently has gone up to 900 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours.Although the civic administration had prepared for the worst case scenario, the city has reported only a slight rise in the number of daily cases and with a stable recovery rate, the number of active cases have also not gone up. As per the state health department, as of November 13, the recovery rate of the district had been 93.3% while as of December 4, the recovery rate has reduced to about 92.4 per cent. On November 13, there were 15,904 active cases in the district while as of December 4, there are 19,553 active cases in the district. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “It is a good thing that the city has not reported a spike in Covid-19 cases as witnessed in Delhi. It must be because of the discipline that the people observed, but it is a positive thing and we need to maintain this plateau for the next 15 days. If we are able to do that, then, we would be in a much better position to combat the pandemic. Currently, wearing a mask is the only preventive measure.” Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head of department of microbiology at BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said, “It is the nature of the virus that only the less aggressive strain or the mutation of the virus passes on from one host to another as the virus does not want to kill the host, but to stay as long as possible in it. This is the reason why we are not reporting many deaths as we did in the months of July and August.”Glimmer of hopePune district is reporting only a slight rise in the number of cases post the festive season.Recovery rate: As per the state health department, as of 13 November, the recovery rate of the district was 93.3%. As of December 4, the recovery rate went down slightly to about 92.4%. Active cases: On November 13, there were 15,904 active cases in the district while as of December 4, there are 19,553 active cases in the district. Avg daily cases: Prior to Diwali, the district reported about 400-500 cases on a daily basis which has currently gone up to 900 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/experts-say-second-covid-19-wave-not-severe-in-city-as-pune-records-only-slight-rise-in-cases/story-XEdKL9awD1p1GszizfrC9K.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Earthmover fails to enter as MIT, Pune students barricade hill slope road||The tussle between the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) over the hill slope road continued on Saturday, as students and security staff of the institute barricaded the road and did not allow the PMC officials nor JCB inside.A stop-work notice was issued to MIT citing unauthoriseddebris work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud, and on Friday the PMC had dug up the road being constructed and ordered the institute to clear the debris within two days.A witness to this was Manjiri Zarkar, a resident of Vaidehi Society, which is one of the societies affected by the leftover debris. He said, “Students had gathered at the entrance of the main road and barricaded the road, not allowing the PMC officials nor the JCB inside. This went on for an hour after which PMC workers returned.”Sudhir Kadam, an official from PMC’s building permission department, said, “We went to continue our work of digging up the road and also to clear the debris, but our JCBs were not allowed inside. After deliberations, a meeting has been planned with city engineer Prashant Waghmare and the MIT officials on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/earthmover-fails-to-enter-as-mit-pune-students-barricade-hill-slope-road/story-1ZKGwP9TD0xsYC3Me5bsfJ.html
06-12-2020||Pune||Graduates’ constituency result rings alarm bell for Pune BJP unit||The defeat of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supported candidate during Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency may prompt ghar-wapsi of many Congress and NCP workers who had joined BJP during 2017 civic elections when BJP emerged victorious. The victory of Maha Vikas Aghadi candidates Arun Lad (NCP) and Jayant Asgaonkar (Congress) has elated the mood in local units of both parties as they expect the outcome will have a positive impact on municipal corporation elections. The Pune graduates’ constituency was once dominated by BJP with leaders like Prakash Javadekar and Chandrakant Patil representing it. The party was hoping that positive outcome in recent graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls will help it retain control over the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) polls scheduled in February 2022. The BJP currently has a strong presence of 98 corporators in the 162-member civic body. According to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city unit president and MLA Chetan Tupe, though there were five MLC elections, they were conducted in most districts in the state and mainly four regions which include western Maharashtra, Vidharbha, Marathwada and North Maharashtra. “We can consider it as a trial run. Everywhere the voters have given us a clear mandate. At the same time, these results would definitely make an impact on the civic body elections,” said Tupe while stressing that many of the Congress and NCP leaders who had left before 2017, will return home.The Congress has 11 corporators while NCP and Shiv Sena has 40 and 10 corporators respectively in the PMC. The three parties have already hinted that they are likely to fight polls together. BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said there won’t be any impact on the municipal election. Mulik said, “MLC election and local self-government elections are different. Winning one election does not mean that voters are with the Maha Vikas Aghadi. Success is not permanent. Even in graduate constituency, Pune city had given a lead to the BJP candidate. I don’t think that any of our members are willing to join the Maha Vikas Aghadi.” Mulik said, “It is true that we tried to register a maximum number of voters for the graduate constituency. But most of the names do not appear in the final voter list.” BJP leader Ujwal Keskar said, “In every election, some people use to join other parties. Those who are sure of not getting ticket from particular party, try to join other party. Some people might go but it would not affect the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/graduates-constituency-result-rings-alarm-bell-for-bjp-for-pune-civic-body-polls/story-D2fAzs6u3UmjmBj5qeNIcM.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal pledges AAP’s support to Bharat Bandh call against farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would support the strike on Tuesday by farmer groups which are protesting against the three contentious farm laws passed in the Parliament in September.“The AAP would support the Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups on December 8. AAP volunteers too would join hands with farmers in peaceful protests across the country on that day. It’s an appeal to citizens of India to support the farmers,” said Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the AAP, in a tweet.Kejriwal’s declaration of support to the agitation comes on a day when Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary reiterated that the three laws were in favour of the farmers and were unlikely to be repealed as has been the demand by the farmers.He added that if necessary, the government will make some amendments to the laws to take into account agitating farmers’ wishes.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Also Read: Case against 150 protesting sugarcane farmers for ‘unlawful assembly’ in MaharashtraChoudhary alleged that the Congress party in particular and the opposition in general was responsible for allegedly misleading and instigating the farmers, according to ANI.“I think the Congress government in different states and also the party in opposition is trying to instigate farmers. Nation’s farmers are in favour of these laws but some political people are trying to add fuel to the fire,” Choudhary was quoted as saying by the news agency.Several opposition parties have extended support to the farmers’ agitation, which continues in absence of any breakthrough in talks between the Centre and the farmer representatives.Also Read: Congress, Left, TRS, Trinamool: List of parties which are supporting December 8 Bharat BandhAAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that all party volunteers and workers will participate in the strike to support the farmers, reported news agency PTI.“This is not just the farmers’ fight but the fight for all countrymen. India is an agricultural country and if farmers are unhappy then the country is affected. I appeal to all to join the protest,” Rai said, in a video message.Farmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the agri-marketing laws are not met.They are demanding that a special session of parliament is called to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-pledges-aap-s-support-to-bharat-bandh-call-against-farm-laws/story-9lIsJ0RvqxsKKLLIGLFnPP.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Shot 7 times on Delhi street: CCTV captures murder, woman chasing attackers||A 25-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by a group of four-five assailants in sector-24 of outer Delhi’s Rohini area on Friday evening. The CCTV footage of the murder surfaced on social media on Sunday in which the victim’s female friend is seen helping him and chasing away the attackers.As many as seven bullets were fired at the 25-year-old man, identified as Bharat Solanki alias Yuvin, killing him on the spot. Solanki had a criminal background and was involved in three-four criminal cases, including extortion and robbery, said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra.DCP Mishra said that Solanki was with his female friend and they had gone to a grocery shop in Rohini Sector-24 on Friday evening. Around 7 pm, Solanki came out of the shop and headed to his car to keep the purchased goods. The woman remained in the shop, the DCP said.Four-five assailants, who had laid a trap on the way, opened fire at him. The CCTV footage shows that Solanki was talking to someone sitting in a white car, while one of the assailants walked up to Sonalki and fired a couple of bullets at him. As Solanki fell on the road, another assailant, seen wearing a cap, pumped four-five bullets into his head and other parts of the body.“Hearing the gunshots, the woman came out of the shop and rushed to help her friend. Seeing her, the assailants ran away. She is seen chasing them. She is not the one who fired bullets, but she ran to help Solanki. However, we are questioning her and have not given (her) a clean chit in the case so far,” said DCP Mishra, adding that Solanki was married.Also Read: Serial killer targeted strangers for fun. His family called him ‘Psycho Razi’: CopsThe CCTV footage shows that the man wearing the cap was firing when the woman bumped into him. She is seen bending down to avoid being shot. All the assailants ran away while the person in the white car also sped away as the woman rushed to help Sonalki.According to the DCP, the motive behind the murder and the identity of the assailants are yet to be ascertained. He said a murder case was registered at the Begampur police station and personal enmity and love affair angles were being probed as well. Solanki was associated with a gang, some members of which are in jail.“Gang rivalry could also be the reason behind Solanki’s murder. All possible motives are being probed,” added DCP Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shot-7-times-on-delhi-street-cctv-captures-murder-woman-chasing-attackers/story-JPSaA3UXli3oXffWVMCzvI.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi Traffic Police suggests alternate routes for commuters||With farmers protesting against the new farm laws staying put at the national capital’s borders, Delhi Traffic Police on Sunday advised people to take alternative routes for entering and exiting the city. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about alternative routes open for travelling to the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.It advised those commuting to Delhi to come via the Delhi–Noida Direct or DND Flyway instead of Noida Link road. Chilla border on Noida Link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to the farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. “The Ghazipur border on NH 24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to avoid NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for traffic movement but Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers, it added. “Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides,” the police said.It advised commuters to take alternate routes via Safiabad, Saboli, NH8, Bhopra, Apsara borders, and Peripheral expressway. People travelling to Haryana can take Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders, the police said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past 10 days to demand a repeal of the agriculture reform laws. They continued their sit-in demonstrations on Sunday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-suggests-alternate-routes-for-commuters/story-TrkrIYzNI7oxd5fZpLlMAM.html
06-12-2020||Jaipur||15-year-old boy detained for raping minor in Rajasthan||A 15-year-old boy accused of sexually assaulting his 5-year old relative in Rajasthan’s Alwar district was detained on Saturday on the complaint of the minor girl. The matter came to light on Friday night around 9.30 pm when the survivor shared her ordeal, suffered little earlier the same day, with her mother, as per S Sengathir, inspector general of police (IGP), Jaipur range.“The accused, who is a relative of the minor girl, took her to an isolated place in the farms on Friday afternoon where he raped her and then dropped her home,” said Sengathir. After reaching home, the survivor told her mother about the incident.“The assault was so brutal that the girl’s private parts were bleeding. Further, her family members took her to a hospital where rape was confirmed and immediately, the Alwar superintendent of police, Tejaswani Gautam, reached the hospital to meet the survivor and her mother. Accused has been detained,” said Sengathir. Also Read: Gulabi Gang to be formed in Indore next monthThe police said that the minor girl’s condition was stable and she had been discharged from the hospital. In another case of rape with a minor in Pratapgarh district, a man in his thirties was arrested for allegedly raping his niece. On November 30, family members of the 10-year-old girl had registered a complaint alleging the girl was raped by her uncle when she was alone at her relative’s home, where she had gone with her mother..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/15-year-old-boy-detained-for-raping-minor-in-rajasthan/story-9nDDiul7XMhhPpjaPBgEeN.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality ‘very poor’, may improve over next 2 days: IMD||Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the upper end of the “very poor category” on Sunday and is likely to improve over the next two days due to a predicted increase in the wind speed, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The air quality had turned severe on Saturday with slow wind speed allowing the accumulation of locally-generated pollutants, according to the weather bureau.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was 394 at 9am on Sunday. The 24-hour average was 404 on Saturday, which falls in the severe category. It was 382 on Friday, 341 on Thursday, 373 on Wednesday, 367 on Tuesday, 318 on Monday and 268 on Sunday. Air pollution in the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad (AQI 430), Greater Noida (404) and Noida (404) continued to remain in the severe zone.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.The minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday and the maximum is likely to settle around 28 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.VK Soni, the head of IMD’s environment research centre, said the wind speed remained slow allowing the accumulation of pollutants generated locally. “Easterly winds carrying moisture also led to the formation of secondary particulate matter. All these factors together pushed the air quality in the ‘severe’ zone,” he said, according to news agency PTI.However, Soni said, the air quality is likely to be in the “poor category” by Monday due to an expected increase in the wind speed. According to IMD, the maximum wind speed is likely to be 8kmph on Sunday and 15kmph on Monday. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-very-poor-may-improve-over-next-2-days-imd/story-PU3ftiNxKHu9JgJAdp1W5N.html
06-12-2020||Bhopal||2 men kicked and abused for allegedly stealing diesel in MP’s Indore||Two men were beaten up brutally and abused by three employees of a stone crusher unit in Indore for allegedly stealing diesel from dumpers, said police. The video of the incident went viral on social media on Saturday. The accused Paras Bagwan, Shivnarayan Pandit and Pradeep Singh, who work at a stone crusher unit in Madhya Pradesh’s Betma town in Indore district, were booked under section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene comments) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC, said HN Mishra, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police. A video of the incident went viral on social media on Saturday. In the video, the three accused were seen beating up Balaram Sargara and Pappu Parmar, both residents of village Machal, with belts.They were also seen kicking the two in their faces and also hurling caste-based slurs at them. Also Read: From 10 years in jail to fine of up to Rs 1 lakh: What MP’s freedom of religion law saysMishra said, “Pappu Parmar and Balaram worked as drivers at the stone crusher. They were not getting their salaries for the past few months. On Friday, Bagwan called both the drivers to Rawad village, where Bagwan, Pandit and Singh beat them up accusing them of stealing diesel from the dumpers at the crushing unit. The accused also threatened the victims with dire consequences.” All the three accused are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/two-dalits-beaten-up-for-allegedly-stealing-diesel-in-mp-s-indore/story-nYn0FUuvhztjfCeEgU01HP.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Harsimrat Kaur discharged from PGIMER||Bathinda MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal was discharged on Sunday from the city’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research after testing negative for Covid-19. The 54-year-old politician was kept under observation at the hospital’s isolation ward after she complained of breathlessness on Saturday night. “She has been discharged after a panel of doctors examined her. Her vitals were stable and she was maintaining a good oxygen saturation level on room air,” an official PGIMER spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/harsimrat-kaur-discharged-from-pgimer/story-NPlC7pUKJdvUeMUoNRi9JP.html
06-12-2020||Dehradun||At Uttarakhand wedding, top cop administers Sanskrit pledge to follow Covid-19 guidelines||Superintendent of police of Bageshwar district in Uttarakhand administered a pledge in Sanskrit to guests at a wedding function to fight Covid-19 pandemic through adherence of disease containment guidelines.SP Manikant Mishra arrived at the wedding to check if the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the administration for holding such functions were being followed before he administered a pledge to all guests, and the groom and the bride.“We are fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic these days and can save ourselves by following the guidelines only. Since the wedding ceremony is an auspicious occasion and may convey the message deeply and effectively among the people, I chose the occasion to administer such a pledge to fight the pandemic in my area,” said Mishra.Mishra said he had taken prior permission from the bride’s father who happily agreed and hailed the move.“When I reached the venue, the priest was chanting mantras and performing rituals with the bride and the groom present in the mandap. I sat near them while one of my staffer distributed copies of the pledge, written in Sanskrit. I then administered the pledge and the rest repeated it after me,” said Mishra.On the use of Sanskrit for administering the pledge, he said, “Being born in a Brahmin family, I am very much familiar with the language. Apart from this, a Hindu marriage is performed with chanting of shlokas and mantras in Sanskrit, hence, I decided to administer the pledge in the same language.”Also Read: Uttarakhand drone force readies for Covid-19 vaccination in remote areasMishra said, “Wearing face masks, maintaining social distance, regular washing of hands, use of sanitizers and immediate consultation with doctors if Covid-19 like symptoms appears, were the points mentioned in the pledge.”“I have advised priests in the area to administer such pledge during wedding and religious functions for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.Jeevan Ram Tamta, father of the bride, said, “When the officials contacted me with the proposal of the pledge to be administered by the SP, how could have I rejected it? After all, he is a senior police officer and is making people aware about the pandemic, so I immediately accepted the proposal. It made my daughter’s wedding memorable as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/at-uttarakhand-wedding-top-cop-administers-sanskrit-pledge-to-follow-covid-19-guidelines/story-VVmA8umJ2tNaFdK4v5gNEM.html
06-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand drone force readies for Covid-19 vaccination in remote areas||Amid reports of the Covid-19 vaccination drive likely to start in coming weeks, Uttarakhand’s Drone Application and Research Centre (DARC) under Information Technology Development Agency (ITDA) is gearing up for possible application of drones to supply the vaccine doses in remote areas of the state.The state government has already set up a task force at state, district and block level to implement and monitor the vaccination process once it starts.The government machinery is now working more actively in this regard after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the vaccine for Covid-19 would be launched in next few weeks.Citing the steps taken by the state government, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had said that the biggest challenge in the vaccination process would be storage and logistics. Considering it, the use of drones by the DARC, which is the country’s first such body, could be significant.The state has been already using drones to detect forest fires, poaching, for policing and also in disaster management.DARC conducted trials to carry vaccines by drone.Amit Sinha, inspector general, Uttarakhand police and director of ITDA said, “The drones can be definitely used to carry the Covid-19 vaccines in areas which are difficult to reach or take more time. We have already conducted a successful test a few weeks back.”“Under the test, we had flown a fixed wing drone carrying a vaccine of a disease in an ice-box from the DARC in Dehradun to Mussoorie. It reached the desired point in Mussoorie in about half an hour covering 14km and then returned after dropping the package. In about one hour it covered about 30 km,” said Sinha.Also Read: Tourists violating Covid-19 preventive norms in Nainital to be finedHe also informed that the agency had also successfully tested a drone to carry blood samples of a patient from Dehradun to a village in Tehri Garhwal.“The agency is fully ready to use drones in the vaccination process with its expertise. If needed it would also associate with the private individual drone users and developers who are associated with the agency in development of the unmanned aerial vehicles here,” said Sinha. The ITDA at present has about 12 drones including Quadcopters and fixed-wing vehicles, Sinha added. “The Quadcopters can fly for less time while the fixed wing ones can fly for more time and cover longer distances. The fixed ones are used for carrying vaccines or medicines as per requirement. We can develop more fixed-wing drones at the centre if needed. Have already been supplying (drones) to the state disaster management department for various uses,” said Sinha. The state health department which is the forefront force handling the ongoing pandemic and would also monitor the vaccination process, said it is yet to take a decision on the use of drones for Covid-19 vaccine delivery.“As of now, as initial preparation for the vaccination process, we have formed the task force at various levels. On the use of drones, we haven’t taken any decision but can mull it once the vaccination process starts,” said Amit Negi, state health secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-drone-force-readies-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-remote-areas/story-X0dmfRydgYc4AyAQfbpzsM.html
06-12-2020||Jaipur||Action against owner if over 100 people gather at wedding venue in Rajasthan||In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the owner of the wedding hall or garden will have to ensure that entry to the venue is closed once 100 people gather, said Rajasthan Government.“The owner of the wedding hall/garden will have to ensure that entry to the venue is closed once 100 people gather there,” the Rajasthan Government state. If rules are violated, the owner of the venue will be held responsible and action will be taken against him and his license will also be cancelled, according to the State Government. Earlier, the Rajasthan Government had imposed a night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am within urban limits of 13 district headquarter towns of Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar from December 1 to 31.Rajasthan has reported 24,318 active cases, 2,49,713 recoveries and 2,389 fatalities, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/action-against-owner-if-over-100-people-gather-at-wedding-venue-in-rajasthan/story-VWhXQgRShlXQZ7z3vxgVBM.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Congress slams Pawar’s statement on Rahul||A Maharashtra Congress leader on Saturday urged the constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition to stop commenting on the Congress leadership if they want a “stable” government in the state.State Congress working president and Women and Child Minister Yashomati Thakur’s remarks came days after Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar’s comments on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.“Everybody should follow the basic rules of coalition. Being a working president of MPCC, I must appeal to colleagues of MVA that if you want stable government in Maharashtra then stop commenting on leadership of Congress (sic),” Thakur tweeted.“Our leadership is very strong and stable. Formation of MVA is a result of our strong belief in democratic values,” she added.In an interview to a local daily, Pawar had said that Rahul Gandhi’s leadership has a “few problems” and lacks consistency. The Sena, NCP and Congress are partners in the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government. They had joined hands after the Assembly elections held last year.Clarifying Pawar’s remarks, NCP and Sena leaders said that the comments had no connection with the stability of the three-party state government. NCP spokesperson Umesh Patil said, “Pawarsaheb’s statement must be taken positively, looking at his age and experience. [Yashomati] Thakur’s comment on the stability of the government is unnecessary. There is good coordination within the MVA.” Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the statement must be viewed as “directions”. “Whatever Sharad Pawar might have said about Rahul Gandhi, it has nothing to do with the stability of Maha Vikas Aghadi. I have always stood behind Rahul Gandhi, when his leadership was being damaged. Sharad Pawar is a tall leader in politics. The opposition parties in the country consider Pawarsaheb their leader. When an experienced leader like him says something, it must be viewed as directions...,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-slams-pawar-s-statement-on-rahul/story-HOY0RFyUbKZmKp6EEBlNnM.html
06-12-2020||Kolkata||CID names BJP’s Mukul Roy as accused in TMC MLA Murder case||The West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department has named senior BJP leader Mukul Roy as a co-accused in a 2019 murder case.In its second supplementary chargesheet, filed in a local court in Nadia on Saturday, the CID has charged Roy under sections 302 (murder) and 120b (party to criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.An FIR was registered against the top BJP leader and three others in February 2019, a day after Trinamool Congress MLA Satyajit Biswas from Krishnagunj in Nadia district was shot dead by unidentified assailants. Roy, a former veteran of the ruling TMC in Bengal, had joined the BJP in November 2017. BJP Lok Sabha MP from the district’s Ranaghat constituency Jagannath Sarkar was also named in the police complaint. Roy, however, dismissed the charges and said, “There are at least 45 cases pending against me. I do not believe in the politics of violence and never indulge in such kinds of things. I challenge chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the police minister to say it in public that I have such kind of taste,” news agency PTI quoted Roy as saying.BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya called the chargesheet a “conspiracy of CM Mamata Banerjee”. “Mamta Banerjee’s conspiracy continues. The false murder chargesheet against Mukul Roy shows how she is trying to suppress the opposition by her conspiracy,” Vijayvargiya said. “The matter is under investigation and in the court. The law will take its own course,” said a senior TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cid-names-bjp-s-mukul-roy-as-accused-in-tmc-mla-murder-case/story-TO7mHvE6sH2dn7mIcRoojJ.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sippy Sidhu murder case in Chandigarh: CBI court allows polygraphy test of two||The court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday allowed an application moved by the investigation agency to conduct a lie detector test of two persons in the five-year-old Sippy Sidhu murder case. Lawyer Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu, alias Sippy Sidhu, 36, was allegedly shot dead in a park at Sector 27 in Chandigarh on September 20, 2015.Sippy’s family had been alleging involvement of the daughter of a former judge of Punjab and Haryana high court in the murder, which was later transferred to CBI in 2016.The CBI had filed an application seeking a lie detector test of two persons namely Karampal and Simrandeep .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sippy-sidhu-murder-case-in-chandigarh-cbi-court-allows-polygraphy-test-of-two/story-XRIASEUTuBadr8Hqk2syfM.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020 golf tourney: Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma continues as leader||The overnight leader, Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma, capitalised on his familiarity with his home conditions once again as he managed to pull himself out of trouble on Day 3 to continue as the frontrunner in the title race for the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020 Presented by TAKE Sports held at Chandigarh Golf Club on Saturday.Akshay, 30, played one-under-71 but managed to stay at the top of the leaderboard after the end of the third round of the Rs 1.5-crore event. His three-day tally is 10-under-206.Noida’s Amardeep Malik, who was overnight tied second, also returned a 71 on Saturday to be placed second at nine-under-207.Pre-tournament favourite Anirban Lahiri (70) gained two spots to occupy tied third at eight-under-208 along with Patna’s Aman Raj (68) and Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (72). While Aman gained seven spots in round three, Veer dropped one spot.Another Chandigarh golfer, Karandeep Kochhar, produced the round’s best score for the second day in succession as he shot a 67 to rise 12 positions to sixth place at seven-under-209.Akshay Sharma (67-68-71) found himself in a hole when he dropped early bogeys on the first and fourth, not being able to strike it accurately due to the wind. However, he got in his stride with a 20-feet birdie conversion from just off the green on the 10th.“The weather conditions were the toughest today, especially when I started. It was extremely windy, so club selection was difficult, and that resulted in bogeys for me early on. On the front-nine I found only four greens in regulation and just couldn’t hit it close enough,” said Sharma. “I’m generally one-under on the first four holes, but being two-over this time, there was some pressure on me. The pressure only released with the 20-feet birdie conversion on the 10th. I knew I could get a few more birdies thereafter, so I was in good rhythm from there on,” he added.Amardeep Malik (68-68-71), another two-time winner on PGTI, came up with an eagle, three birdies and four bogeys during his 71 to keep himself in the hunt. He struck a fabulous approach on the par-5 13th to set up a five feet eagle conversion. He also closed the day in style with a birdie chip-in on the 18th from behind the green.The highlight of Veer Ahlawat’s round was his massive tee shot on the par-5 13th that landed just short of 400 yards.Anirban Lahiri (70-68-70) continued to make his gradual progression up the leaderboard with his 70 which featured three birdies and a bogey. He also recovered well from the bushes to make par on the 16th.“It was another good day of ball-striking, but the toughest day for me on the greens. I missed so many putts inside 10 feet and also missed a couple of three-footers,” said Lahiri. “However, I feel I didn’t hit too many bad putts. I made a lot of good strokes, but had a few bad breaks today. I feel as long as I’m stroking it well on the greens and doing what I need to do, I should have nothing to complain about,” he added. Among the other prominent names, SSP Chawrasia (70) was tied 21st at one-under-215, Gaganjeet Bhullar (74) was tied 36th at two-over-218 and Jyoti Randhawa (73) was tied 42nd at three-over-219.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2020-golf-tourney-chandigarh-s-akshay-sharma-continues-as-leader/story-t46WW9XeUx6eNF3DTA4DUO.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Skies in Chandigarh to remain partly cloudy today||After partly cloudy skies were observed in the city on Saturday morning, though the skies cleared later during the day, cloudy weather is likely to return on Sunday as per India Meteorological Department (IMD).Officials said, “Cloudy weather is likely on Sunday, but clear skies will return on Monday. Due to the cloudy weather, the minimum temperature can rise over 13 degrees in the coming days.”The maximum temperature went up from 25.1 degrees on Friday to 25.4 degrees on Saturday. The minimum temperature stayed consistent on Friday and Saturday at 10.6 degrees. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will continue to stay around 25 degrees while the minimum temperature will stay between 12 and 13 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/skies-in-chandigarh-to-remain-partly-cloudy-today/story-xkLaja31D2avYF9MCCe4HO.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi reaches 100% occupancy on Day 2||The New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express resumed to a slow start on Saturday morning with around 50% occupancy, but the occupancy went up to 100% in the evening train as per the officials of the Indian Railways.The train had remained cancelled since October 14 owing to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. It first started on Friday with around 80% occupancy in the morning and the occupancy dropped down to 50% in the morning and increased later in the evening.Speaking about this, station superintendent Anil Aggarwal said, “Now that people have found out that the train is running, it is expected to remain booked completely. Since the roads of Delhi are blocked, even more people are turning to trains for travelling outside the city.”Aggarwal added that the train had a total of 1,062 seats and in the evening the wait-list went up to 167 seats, none of which could be claimed. For Sunday morning, the train was already completely booked and officials are preparing a wait-list for the train.Apart from Shatabdi Express, trains are running to Jaipur, Mumbai, Lucknow and Patliputra from Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-delhi-kalka-shatabdi-reaches-100-occupancy-on-day-2/story-ZkvtJwBftuOTiPn6bequwI.html
06-12-2020||City||Panchkula’s Covid tally breaches 9,000-mark||Seventy-eight new cases, mostly from urban Panchkula, took the district’s Covid count past 9, 000 on Saturday. It has taken the district just 18 days to add the latest 1,000 cases as it was on November 17 that it had crossed the 8,000-mark. Previously, the gap of 1,000 cases was filled in 21 days, when from 7, 000 on October 27, the cases reached 8,000 on November 17. September was toughest month yet for the district when 1,000 cases were being added in less than 10 days’ time. For instance, the cases shot from over 3, 000 on September 6, to over 4,000 on September 13 and over 5, 000 on September 20.The district, which witnessed a decline in October, saw a surge in November again.Health authorities said their focus is on increased sampling and ensuring availability of beds for Covid-19 patients. “We are doing 800-900 tests daily, and once, we even tested 3,000 suspected patients in a day. Our focus is to screen as many people as possible and detect the hidden cases so that they can be treated on time and deaths can be prevented,” said a health official from Panchkula.The district has so far recorded 9, 045 cases, out of which 511 are active cases. As many as 8, 403 persons have recovered so far while 131 have succumbed to the virus.On Saturday, out of the new cases, 47 were reported from the sectors while the rest were from Amravati Enclave, Baloti, Bhainsa Tibba, Devinagar, Fatehpur, Kalka, Khatoli, Marranwala, MDC, Nanakpur, Naggal Ruttal, Paploha, Pinjore, Saketri, Sarkpur and Tipra.2 dead, 100 more infected in MohaliMohali: Two more persons died while 100 others tested positive in Mohali on Saturday. As many as 122 persons also recovered from the infection. Of the cases reported on Saturday, one case each was reported from Kurali and Boothgarh, while seven cases were detected in Dera Bassi, 11 in Gharuan, 14 in Kharar and 66 in Mohali urban. With this, Mohali’s cumulative tally went up to 16,168, out of which 2, 256 are active. The district’s total death count currently stands at 290. Two more fatalities in ChandigarhChandigarh: Chandigarh recorded two more deaths and 98 new infections on Saturday. The city’s toll has now climbed to 289 while the cumulative tally is 17, 926. The deceased include a 94-year-old woman from Sector 23 and a 74-year-old from Sector 47. There are 883 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-covid-tally-breaches-9-000-mark/story-rMyfqoPPZdXBpcn0ol71cI.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Schizophrenia cases in emergency went up during lockdown, reveals PGIMER study||There was an increase in the proportion of patients diagnosed with schizophrenia in emergency settings during the lockdown, a study conducted by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has revealed. Schizophrenia is a type of mental illness characterised by distortions in thinking, perception, emotions, language, sense of self, and behaviour.For the purpose of the study, records of all patients attending Psychiatry Emergency Services from January 1 to July 25, 2020 were retrieved. Comparisons were made between the patient profile before the imposition of the nationwide lockdown from January 1, 2020 to March 23, 2020 (83 days) and after the imposition of the lockdown from March 24, 2020, to July 25, 2020 (123 days). A longer duration was considered for the lockdown period to ensure an equal sample size in both groups.Reduction in proportion of patients diagnosed with delirium The study found that during the pre-lockdown period, delirium (an acute state of confusion due to underlying physical illnesses) was the most common psychiatric diagnosis in emergency settings. Previous studies from the same centre had also found delirium to be the most common psychiatric diagnosis in such settings. However, when the diagnostic profile of patients attending emergency services during the lockdown period was evaluated, it was seen that there was a significant reduction in the proportion of patients diagnosed with delirium. “This significant reduction, possibly reflects, reduction in the number of patients with severe physical illnesses, attending the emergency services, as delirium is usually seen in the background of a physical decompensation,” the study states.Many patients experience a relapseThe study suggests that there was an increase in the proportion of patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia, availing the emergency services, during the lockdown period. This finding suggests that, in the absence of routine regular services, possibly many patients with schizophrenia experienced a relapse of symptoms and presented to the emergency services.“There could be many reasons for relapse, such as difficulty in procuring, purchasing the medication, an increase in the level of stress, and an adverse household environment,” the study evaluated.The Psychiatry Emergency Services caters to patients attending medical, surgical, trauma, as well as paediatric services. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, patients referred from the out-patient services for urgent care, other hospitals, as well as those coming by self-referrals were seen in the emergency services. During the lockdown period, after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, mostly only those patients requiring emergency care, referred from other hospitals, or those who attended on their own, or those initially seen in the telepsychiatry services and considered to require emergency care were attended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schizophrenia-cases-in-emergency-went-up-during-lockdown-reveals-pgimer-study/story-pJPKcI5nSu4P6zNorGzYyL.html
06-12-2020||City||Panchkula: Congress says 200 approached for MC tickets||Members of the selection committee of Congress claimed that nearly 200 people have already approached them for contesting the elections of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC).A five-member selection committee has already been constituted to finalise the names of the candidates for 20 wards.Kalka MLA and member of the committee Pardeep Chaudhary said: “We have held two to three meetings and come across nearly 200 persons who have given their names. But a meeting was held yesterday, with Kumari Selja, following which it was decided to give three more days to all those who want to contest.”He said: “So once we get all the names, short listing of candidates for each ward will be done later on after consulting the high command (Kumari Selja).”The Congress has announced to contest the MC elections, scheduled on December 27, on symbol. The six-day time, starting December 11, has been given for filing nominations, by the state election commission.The Haryana Congress also announced via its Twitter handle, asking those interested to fight for the post of a mayor or councillor, to give their names from 10am on December 5 to 5pm on December 7 at the party office in Sector 9B, Chandigarh.Corporation formed in 2010The Panchkula MC was formed in March 2010 by merging the then municipal council with municipal committees of Kalka and Pinjore along with 42 villages. Though the move was opposed in court, the first mayor, Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, was elected in June 2013 after a Supreme Court decision. She served the term till 2018.No elections have taken place since 2018, as the matter of bifurcation of the corporation reached the Punjab and Haryana high court. This year, the matter was sorted, following which the polls were announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-congress-says-200-approached-for-mc-tickets/story-XDBMQe3KJT6tmedwOTymRO.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Tortoise caught in fishing net at Chandigarh’s Sukhna Lake||A tortoise was caught in a fishing net at the regulator end of the Sukhna Lake on Saturday.As per eyewitnesses, the tortoise had been caught in the net for the past few days, however, it couldn’t be confirmed whether it was alive or dead.Chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said they will examine the case and take action against those involved. “We will check who all got permission for fishing from the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department and examine CCTV footage. Anyone caught will be booked for violating Wetland rules.”Dalai added that there were a lot of tortoises near Sukhna Lake and using a net for fishing at the Sukhna Lake was banned. Joint director of the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department Dr Kanwarjit Singh said, “We had started giving permission for fishing from November 1, however, it is only given for the backside of the lake. Only angling is allowed and nets are strictly banned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tortoise-caught-in-fishing-net-at-chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake/story-PBwjUicvP2zhGWh9QQmW2L.html
06-12-2020||City||Waterfront project in Thane: 5 bodies get notice for CRZ violations||A legal notice has been issued to five state government bodies for failing to address alleged coastal regulation zone (CRZ) violations for a waterfront development and beautification project by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The five bodies are the principal secretary of the state environment department; State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA); Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA); the mangrove cell of the forest department; and TMC.Thane resident and environmentalist Rohit Joshi has alleged in a petition that there is large scale dumping of debris and reclamation in mangroves and creek areas, all falling under CRZ-1 (with highest protection). Issued through Joshi’s counsel on Thursday, a legal notice called for the CRZ clearance by state bodies to be revoked within seven days and restoration work be completed within three weeks at all sites. The notice highlighted four locations and specific dates where CRZ violations were observed recently. It further read that if damage to the creek ecology of Thane continued, the matter would be taken to court again.Covering an area of 72.2 hectares, TMC’s waterfront beautification project extends up to 10.58km, covering eight areas — Kopri-Mithbunder, Gaikmukh, Kavesar-Waghbil, Saket-Balkum, Nagla bunder, Kolshet, Parsik-Retibunder, and Kalwa-Shastrinagar. Beautification works include the development of promenades, playgrounds, jogging, walking and cycling tracks, open gymnasiums, and food courts. The project was first proposed in 2010 and construction began in 2017. Joshi had previously filed a petition before Bombay high court (HC) against the project but the HC had rejected his submissions and approved the project in September 2019.Over the past four years, clearances from the SEIAA, MCZMA, mangrove cell, and the Maharashtra Maritime Board were issued to TMC. This included the CRZ clearance issued on July 8, 2019, which specified, “No mangroves should be cut or destroyed for the project activities. TMC to ensure that dumping of the debris in mangrove and creek is not allowed.”“It is an absolute mockery of CRZ laws as debris are dumped on mangroves and on the creek despite a specific prohibition to do so in the clearance itself,” said Zaman Ali, Joshi’s legal counsel. According to Thursday’s notice, a survey of all eight sites showed environmental violations on February 24, April 17, October 6 and 7, and November 11 and 30 at Gaimukh and Nagla bunder; at Kolhet on October 28; Saket-Balkum on November 30; and Kopri-Mithbunder on December 2. “Each of these locations have large mounds of debris choking the high tide flow from the creek, destroying ecologically sensitive mangrove trees, and ruining the biodiversity of natural areas. Development work in low lying areas including near the creek has resulted in submergence during heavy rains causing great risk to life and property,” said Joshi.The notice has directed action be taken for the alleged violations under Environment Protection Act, 1986 and Forest Conservation Act, 1980, within seven days from the date of receipt of the notice. “Any non-compliance will entail serious legal consequences before the HC,” reads the notice.The mangrove cell said they had not received the notice, but would direct their officers to validate the findings and submit a report. “Large mangrove patches fall under the jurisdiction of the revenue department or TMC. They need to be handed over to us for better security,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).TMC officials did not deny the allegations but said the areas were being protected. “Wherever debris has been dumped, it is being removed within days of the complaint. We are working with the local police to identify violators and unidentified persons have also been booked. The project has all clearances in place,” said Manisha Pradhan, chief of TMC pollution control department.An executive engineer of the TMC’s waterfront development project said, “We have managed to keep away encroachments from these areas for the last four years. Satellite images can verify this. Those filing notices today never raised their voice against environment violations back then.”9.43 HA WIPED OUT DUE TO DEBRIS DUMPING FROM WATERFRONT DEVELOPMENT AREAA comparative study by Thane based group Muse Foundation of the Kolshet creek area found green cover reduction of 9.43 ha due to debris dumping, encroachment, dumping of plastic and hazardous waste. Their study used satellite images dating from April 2010 to April 2020. “Massive CRZ violations are being ignored by authorities. They are being undertaken by the local planning body, which makes it even more unacceptable,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waterfront-project-in-thane-5-bodies-get-notice-for-crz-violations/story-5Cs6qCwJZ2737iMlHoX0rM.html
06-12-2020||City||Winter’s here, but Mumbai records highest December day temperature in 4 years||Cooler conditions prevailed over coastal areas including Mumbai and cold winds swept interior parts of the state on Saturday morning as the weather bureau said Maharashtra was under the grip of the winter season. Cooler conditions also caused city’s air quality to deteriorate and it was in the ‘poor category’ on Saturday.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and city, recorded a drop in the night temperature on Saturday to 18.4 degrees Celsius (1.4 degree Celsius below normal), the lowest temperature so far this season. It is expected to hover below the 20 degree Celsius mark for the next two days, the weather bureau said.However, the city recorded the highest December day temperature over the past four years. The maximum temperature in the suburbs was 35.5 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees Celsius above normal. The highest maximum temperature last year was 35.1 degrees Celsius in December. The highest for the decade, however, was recorded on December 1, 2015 at 36.5 degrees Celsius. The all-time high December maximum was recorded on December 4, 1987 at 39.8 degrees Celsius.South Mumbai recorded the maximum temperature at 34 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which was 1 degree Celsius above normal.Even moisture levels showed a marginal decline from previous days as the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 78% and 85% humidity on Saturday morning.In other parts of the state, especially interior Maharashtra along Marathwada and Vidarbha, temperatures were much lower. Parbhani recorded the lowest temperature at 8.8 degrees Celsius, followed by Gondia at 10.5 degrees Celsius.“The drop in minimum temperature indicates winter season is very much underway in Maharashtra as the wind pattern (northerly to northeasterly early morning and easterly during the day) is drawing cool and dry winds over interior and coastal areas of the state. The minimum temperature is likely to remain below the normal mark,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department. “There has been large diurnal variation between maximum and minimum temperatures over the last few days, which can affect health. As per our models, a similar trend will be observed over the next couple of days,” he said. Meanwhile, the pollutant-measuring indicator showed a spike on Saturday as the air quality index (AQI) entered the poor category for the first time this month. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), it was 225 (poor) for PM2.5 pollutant. The AQI was 99 (satisfactory) on November 30, worsened to 118 (moderate) by Tuesday and kept increasing to 176 (moderate) by Friday. Bandra Kurla Complex (316) recording a very poor AQI. Colaba (276), Mazgaon (269), Chembur (283), Andheri (218), and Malad (300), all recorded poor air. Worli (73) had the best AQI on Saturday.Researchers said the drop in temperatures combined with calm winds had allowed a rise in pollution levels. “Due to low ventilation, AQI is likely to remain poor for the next two days,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. The AQI is predicted to be 211 (poor) on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/winter-s-here-but-mumbai-records-highest-december-day-temperature-in-4-years/story-FKXlVira0IfEtJ722GNWOJ.html
06-12-2020||City||Maratha quota case in Supreme Court: Panel of 5 lawyers to plan Maharashtra government’s strategy||The Maharashtra government has set up a coordination committee of five advocates in connection with the hearing before the five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court (SC) for the lifting of the interim stay on Maratha reservation.The idea behind the move is to plan a strategy for the case and also reach out to the Maratha community as some outfits have expressed unhappiness over the interim stay on the quota. The Apex Court will hear the case on lifting the interim stay on December 9.Public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said that members of the community, including experts, researchers and historians can give suggestions related to the quota to the committee. “Citizens, experts, historians, researchers, etc from the community can give legal suggestions to this committee regarding the lifting of the interim stay. The community will study the suggestions and then forward them to the state-appointed advocates,” a statement from Chavan’s office said.According to Chavan, the committee will comprise advocates Ashish Gaikwad, Rajesh Tekale, Ramesh Dube Patil, Anil Golegaonkar and Abhijit Patil. In September, SC had stayed the implementation the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, which had granted quota to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-quota-case-in-supreme-court-panel-of-5-lawyers-to-plan-maharashtra-government-s-strategy/story-lgyvmZkIcLTH4T9siIBFJK.html
06-12-2020||City||NEP aims to address growing developmental imperatives of country: Himachal CM||The National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 aims at addressing many growing developmental imperatives of our country and revamping of all aspects of the education structure, including its regulation and governance, to create a new system that is aligned with the aspirational goals of 21st century education, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday.He was addressing a webinar on NEP organized by Karnataka-based WEEXPO, India’s largest virtual education show.He said that the NEP envisions an education system rooted in Indian ethos that contributes directly to transforming India, that is Bharat, sustainably into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society, by providing high-quality education to all, and thereby making India a global knowledge superpower.“This policy envisages that the curriculum and pedagogy of our institutions must develop among the students a deep sense of respect towards the fundamental duties and constitutional values, bonding with one’s country, and conscious awareness of one’s roles and responsibilities in a changing world,” said Thakur.He said the vision of the policy is to instill among the learners a deep-rooted pride in being Indian, not only in thought, but also in spirit, intellect, and deeds, as well as to develop knowledge, skills, values, and dispositions that support responsible commitment to human rights, sustainable development and living, and global well-being, thereby reflecting a truly global citizen.Thakur said that it was under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the new education policy was implemented after 34 long years.“The state government has also decided to effectively implement the NEP in Himachal and several steps have also been initiated to achieve the desired goals,” he informed.While appreciating the efforts of WEEXPO INDIA and vision of its founder Dr SK Narayanan Swami to connect the world with the current knowledge, based on education from grassroots to university level, Thakur said that during the Covid pandemic, online education and virtual classes have helped students of the country in getting education from their homes. He said that Himachal’s literacy rate was second best in the country after Kerala.Swami also appreciated the steps taken by the Himachal government to provide quality education in the state. Deputy CM of Karnataka, C N Ashwath Narayan, also shared his views on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nep-aims-to-address-growing-developmental-imperatives-of-country-himachal-cm/story-LO5n4aT8G8TvLx6JfNvrHL.html
06-12-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP, SP win two seats each in MLC polls||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BJP bagged two seats each in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council election to the Graduates’ constituencies, while counting of votes was underway on one seat.BJP candidates Manvendra Pratap Singh ‘Guru Ji’ won the Agra Division Graduates’ seat and Dinesh Goyal won the Meerut Graduates’ seat, while SP’s Ashutosh Sinha won Varanasi Division Graduates’ seat and Maan Singh Yadav won from the Allahabad-Jhansi Division Graduates’ seat, the election office said.While the SP has wrested the Varanasi and the Allahabad-Jhansi seats from the BJP, it lost the Agra seat to the saffron party.Counting of votes for the Lucknow Graduates’ seat was continuing, and the results are expected late in the night, UP’s Chief Electoral Officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said.On Friday, the results for six teachers’ constituency seats were declared of which three were taken by the BJP, one by the SP and two by independents.BJP’s Umesh Dwivedi, Shrishchandra Sharma and Hari Singh Dhillon were declared winners from Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly-Moradabad teachers’ constituencies respectively.SP candidates Lal Bihari Yadav won from Varanasi teachers’ constituency, and independents Akash Agarwal and Dhruv Kumar Tripathi won from the Agra and the Faizabad teachers’ constituencies respectively.Polling was held on Tuesday for 11 seats -- five reserved for graduates and six for teachers. The BJP, SP, Congress and the teachers’ associations contested the polls, with 199 candidates in the fray.The term of office of the MLCs from these constituencies had expired on May 6.Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav issued a statement alleging that the BJP attacked police in Jhansi, fearing defeat and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits.Thousands of ballot papers were cancelled in Agra, where people are agitated over it, Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-bjp-sp-win-two-seats-each-in-mlc-polls/story-Jc1EtNPkjsDCNvVyF30KfM.html
06-12-2020||City||Higher reaches of Himachal witness light snowfall, showers||Himachal Pradesh witnessed light snowfall and showers at isolated places in the upper reaches of Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts on Saturday.State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that weather will remain dry throughout the state on December 6, while the higher and middle hills will receive snowfall and rainfall at isolated places on December 7 and will continue till December 9.“Weather will remain dry from December 10 onwards,” he added.Light snowfall and rainfall occurred at isolated places in the higher hills while weather was mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours. As the minimum and maximum temperatures maintained normalcy, no significant changes were witnessed.In state capital Shimla, minimum temperature touched 7.6°C, while Kufri jittered at 5.9°C.Prominent tourist destinations including Manali shivered at 5°C, while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 8.6°C and 6.8°C minimum temperatures.Minimum temperature in Una was 7.2°C, while Solan recorded 4°C, Bilaspur 7.5°C, Hamirpur 8°C, Nahan 11.8°C, Mandi 5.1°C and Kalpa 0°C.Keylong, which witnessed 2cm snow, was coldest in the state at minus 3.5°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/higher-reaches-of-himachal-witness-light-snowfall-showers/story-Z19ztaJoqU0VW8wAmdaJ7J.html
06-12-2020||City||2 drug peddlers held with 9kg contraband in Kullu||Two persons running an illicit drug trade in Kullu have been arrested with 4kg charas (cannabis) and 5.356kg ganja, police said on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Kashi Nath (56) and Mohan Lal (63), both residents of Sachani village in Kullu’s Bhuntar tehsil.On Friday, the police received a tip-off that two persons were selling drugs in Sachani village. While Kashi Nath is a wholesaler of charas and ganja, Mohan lal act as a middleman and provides customers to Kashi Nath after fixing the deals, police said.During a raid at Kashi Nath’s house, police recovered the contraband and arrested both the accused.Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said cases under Section 29 of the NDPS Act have been registered against the two accused and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-drug-peddlers-held-with-9kg-contraband-in-kullu/story-PeWURep3DKWOCN66miY1EI.html
06-12-2020||City||Former vice-president, executives of security firm Topsgrup booked||The economic offences wing (EOW) has booked former vice-president of security services provider TOPSGRUP, Ramesh Iyer. In a first information report (FIR) filed on Friday, Iyer and other TOPSGRUP executives are accused of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and causing the company losses amounting to crores. A senior EOW officer said, on condition of anonymity, that the FIR was on the basis of a complaint against Iyer and other senior executives filed by a representative of TOPSGRUP chairman and founder Rahul (Diwan) Nanda. “The complaint against Iyer and others was filed by Nanda’s representative on September 14. After preliminary verification of facts, Khar police registered an FIR in the matter on Wednesday and it got transferred to EOW on Friday.”On October 28, Iyer had filed a complaint, alleging Nanda and his family had caused a loss of ₹175 crore to the company. Nanda has denied the allegations. Iyer’s complaint is also being probed by EOW and is the basis of a case registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). In November, ED arrested Amit Chandole, a close associate of Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik as part of its investigation. Sarnaik was allegedly involved in wrongdoings in this case through Chandole, who is in judicial custody at present. The complaint by Nanda’s representative accuses Iyer and other TOPSGRUP executives of manipulation, forgery, falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds. HT has a copy of the complaint. The FIR filed on Friday further alleges that the accused entered into a conspiracy with promoters of Adtech Group, causing a loss of more than ₹6.33 crore to TOPSGRUP. By deliberately diverting crucial clients to competitors and other misdemeanours, the accused allegedly caused a loss of ₹78.12 crore to the company. Iyer had previously denied the allegations against him. Speaking on condition of anonymity, an EOW officer said both parties’ allegations are serious and would be investigated thoroughly. “Once the forensic audit of the company’s books and accounts is conducted, all irregularities will surface and people behind them would be exposed,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-vice-president-executives-of-security-firm-topsgrup-booked/story-tKfqZNf2lr5zq9TCrOvchK.html
06-12-2020||City||Will focus on HP’s unemployment issue, says new Youth Cong chief||The newly-elected Himachal Youth Congress president Nigam Bhandari vowed to “focus on the issue of unemployment among youth in state”.He was addressing a press conference in Kangra after being appointed as the Youth Congress chief. A loyalist of former minister GS Bali, Bhandari defeated ex-CM Virbhadra Singh-supported Yadopati Thakur by a margin of over 2,500 votes in the organisational elections.Nigam said the issue of unemployment is the biggest concern of his political mentor GS Bali and Youth Congress will make it their core issue.He credited his win as the Youth Congress president to the team of Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee secretary Raghuvir Singh Bali.Meanwhile, RS Bali said Youth Congress should make unemployment and farmers’ issues a priority. He said the Youth Congress will play a decisive role in the upcoming panchayat elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-focus-on-hp-s-unemployment-issue-says-new-youth-cong-chief/story-VVO9wz4CwByB4cJAHu6I6N.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s honey farmers rubbish adulteration claims, say profits have only increased in Covid times||While this year has spelled misery for most businesses, it has ushered in profits for honey farmers in the state who are having a fruitful year. The farmers are undeterred by the recent study by the Centre of Science and Environment regarding adulteration and have only got busier with the increased demand. The prices of honey have recorded an increase of ₹50 from what it was at this time last year. Farm-grown honey is available at a price of ₹145 per kg at this time while last year it was available at ₹95 (unbranded). Simranjeet Singh, former President of Progressive Honey Bee Keepers Association who supplies honey to some major brands in the country said that adulteration is more with corn syrup imported from China which is being done by some brands at the processing stage. No farmer indulges in adulteration as it damages their reputation, he said.“The government should first look into adulteration of imported corn syrup in honey. There is a huge increase in demand as more people are buying honey for boosting immunity amid the threat of contracting Covid-19,” he added. Simranjeet is the young scion of a large extended family — 50 members are into beekeeping across the state. There are over 1,000 bee boxes that Simranjeet’s honey factory has placed across Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and even Rajasthan. According to Hardeep Singh, a Doraha-based honey farmer, who owns 500 bee boxes, the honey produced at the farms is the purest. “Demand from other countries is also huge in these times but exports are now very limited,” he said.As per estimates, Punjab has around 20,000 bee farmers who are engaged with the production of 16,500 metric tonnes of honey annually in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-honey-farmers-rubbish-adulteration-claims-say-profits-have-only-increased-in-covid-times/story-7R5VkZ3igdPTUg26jAgN8J.html
06-12-2020||City||Himachal’s death toll crosses 700-mark||Himachal Pradesh recorded 905 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the state’s covid tally to 44,405; while the death toll crossed the 700-mark as 13 more people succumbed to the contagion. Till date, 711 people have died due the virus in Himachal. As many as 399 people have died in the past 35 days. Of the new cases, 243 were reported in Shimla, 204 in Mandi, 113 in Kangra, 112 in Solan, 52 in Chamba, 48 in Bilaspur, 40 in Hamirpur, 25 in Kullu, 22 each in Kinnaur and Una, 13 in Lahaul-Spiti and 11 in Sirmaur. There are 8,247 active cases in the state while 35,403 people have recovered. As many as 945 recoveries were reported on Saturday. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 8,270 infections, followed by 7,229 in Mandi, Kangra 5,891, Solan 5,352, Kullu 3,834, Sirmaur 2,707, Bilaspur 2,296, Hamirpur 2,251, Una 2,245,Chamba 2,199, Lahul-Spiti 1,114, and Kinnaur 1,027.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-death-toll-crosses-700-mark/story-fEdoVg47BB4mNsoM0b2zkL.html
06-12-2020||City||Him Suraksha Abhiyan: Over 1 lakh people screened for Covid in Hamirpur||The district administration has screened around 1, 16,000 people (more than 27 percent) for Covid infection in Hamirpur under the state government’s Him Suraksha Abhiyan aimed at containing the virus spread.As part of the drive, as many as 532 teams constituted in the district carried out door-to-door sample collection for Covid testing.During a meeting of district officials at the Salasi rest house on Saturday, forest minister Rakesh Pathania said that the state government was taking effective steps to contain Covid-19 and he would personally supervise the campaign in the district in the coming days.Pathania said that till the vaccine was not available, the main emphasis would be to enforce the SOPs issued by the central government like wearing of face masks, washing hands and social distancing.He said that during the next week, the district administration and elected representatives would adopt the ‘One warning, free warning’ campaign in various parts of Hamirpur to make people aware about the importance of wearing face masks. Pathania said that under the campaign, ten places in each assembly constituency of the district would be identified and the authorities would go there and spread awareness.The minister also directed the district authorities to bring down the number of active cases by half.Deputy commissioner Debasweta Banik detailed the steps being taken in the district with regards to the pandemic and other related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/him-suraksha-abhiyan-over-1-lakh-people-screened-for-covid-in-hamirpur/story-pHOJFmfIYfmC3jPfUc8FfI.html
06-12-2020||City||J&K DDC polls: Harwan ballot likely to seal summer capital’s fate||Harwan, the picturesque hamlet on the outskirts of the summer capital, may emerge as the decider for Srinagar district in the ongoing district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir.Of the total 14 rural constituencies in the district, six segments fall in the Harwan area, nestled between snow-covered mountains, cold streams and Mughal Gardens, around 19km from the city’s centre Lal Chowk.All the 14 constituencies of the district went to polls in the first two phases of the DDC elections, polling 33.76 % and 33.78% in phases I and II respectively.“Harwan will decide in whose kitty Srinagar will go. If any political entity manages to get Harwan’s six seats, it will be in a strong position to control the capital,” said Ali Mohammad Rather, an Independent candidate adopted by People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in Theed constituency of Harwan.The first round of polling in Harwan was held on November 28.The DDC elections are happening for the first time in J&K after the special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 was revoked in August last year and the region bifurcated into two union territories.Local mainstream rivals NC and PDP along with other four smaller parties have formed People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration(PAGD), demanding restoration of Article 370 and have been asking votes to “save the identity” of the erstwhile state. The fight is between PAGD, newly floated Apni Party by former PDP leader Altaf Bukhari and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Harwan may play a significant role but the other eight seats are scattered and are equally important. Actually, Sonwar constituency covers nine of the 14 Srinagar seats,” said Ehsan Pardesi, NC’s Sonwar in-charge and vice president of party’s youth wing.The 14 DDC seats of Srinagar can be broadly divided into four areas — Harwan (6), Kohmoh (3) which together make Sonwar assembly constituency, Nowgam Lasjan (3) and Qamarwari Panzinara (2). Four different political parties are in the sway here.Traditionally, Harwan, part of the Sonwar assembly constituency, has been a stronghold of National Conference (NC). However, in the last assembly polls in 2014, the constituency went to People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Mohammad Ashraf Mir, who defeated former J&K chief minister and NC vice-president Omar Abdullah. A major portion of Srinagar’s Gujjar-Bakerwal communities reside in these areas.Mir, however, left PDP and is now part of the newly floated Apni Party led by former PDP leader Altaf Bukhari.“This time Harwan is not with NC. Our party is the emerging factor. Even BJP is strong,” said Ashraf Mir, who is the provincial president of Apni Party now.In Lasjan, the PAGD have fielded candidates supportive of Javaid Mustafa Mir belonging to the People’s Movement. Khonmoh is a mixed bag with pockets of support for the BJP’s Aijaz Hussain. Panzinara is close to Pattan area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district and is considered by PAGD a stronghold of People’s Conference led by Sajad Lone.“Competition is tough at some places while we are poised to win a couple of seats in Nowgam,” said BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur.Mohammad Shafi Dar, a local from the Gandtal seat, said the tussle is between alliance candidates and independents in the Harwan belt as people were more concerned for local development. “BJP is not very popular here. Coming together of the Gupkar Alliance is considered good but its constituents face a trust deficit. Independents may give a tough fight to the alliance,” said Dar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-ddc-polls-harwan-ballot-likely-to-seal-summer-capital-s-fate/story-ldCzwEYWohIgVViQ2DRFML.html
06-12-2020||City||After attack on DDC candidate, police ask candidates to follow security protocol||After the attack on a District Development Council (DDC) election candidate in South Kashmir, police have asked all candidates to strictly adhere to the security protocol.On Friday, Apni Party candidate Anees-ul-Islam Ganie, of Sagam, was shot at in his native village. He sustained two bullet injuries, but survived the attack.Soon after the attack, Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar said candidates and other vulnerable people should inform the PCR or police stations concerned as and when they plan to go for poll campaigning or other movements so that appropriate security arrangements can be provided to them.On Friday’s attack, police said the candidate was allocated cluster accommodation at Khanabal and after end of scrutiny period he was informed by the Kokernag police station on December 3 regarding the same.“He was instructed to get escort personnel for campaigning purposes which he did not take. All candidates have already been instructed to inform us before going out for campaigning. Information regarding the attacked candidate’s movement was neither conveyed to the PCR nor the police station concerned,” police had said in a statement after the attack.A senior cop said that leaders who follow the security protocol are safer as compared to those not following the guidelines.Meanwhile, Congress, on Saturday, claimed that their party candidates have not been provided security. J&K former minister and senior Congress leader Peerzada Mohammad Syed and Congress vice-president Ghulam Nabi Monga said, “Our party candidates are unable to move out without any security arrangement as there is always a threat for them for being part of a mainstream party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-attack-on-ddc-candidate-police-ask-candidates-to-follow-security-protocol/story-j4o9TGvfYcSwoQmAEvJszJ.html
06-12-2020||City||501 fresh covid cases, 469 recoveries in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 12 more deaths and 501 fresh coronavirus infections on Saturday, taking the total Covid count to 1,12, 757 and death toll to 1,742.Officials said 234 people tested positive in Kashmir and 267 in Jammu. Six persons died in each Jammu and Kashmir divisions.They added that 1,06,006 people have recovered in the UT so far, after 469 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the recovery rate to 94.01%. There are 5,009 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 31.48 lakh. A total of 1,125 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 617 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 92 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 40 cases. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 147, followed by 34 in Udhampur district. Srinagar tops the case tally with 23,591 cases and 426 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 21,297 cases and 314 deaths.Till date, 8.04 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 20,185 in home quarantine, 5,009 in isolation, and 31,134 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.46 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/501-fresh-covid-cases-469-recoveries-in-j-k/story-5ba8ZmwybdmvKRChjHRVRJ.html
06-12-2020||City||Mumbai-Nagpur expressway’s first phase to open on May 1: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said the first phase (between Nagpur and Shirdi) of the 701-km Mumbai-Nagpur expressway will be open to public on May 1 next year, while the entire corridor will be ready by May 2022. Thackeray made the announcement while reviewing the work for the mega project at Amravati and Aurangabad districts. He was accompanied by urban development and public works department (public undertaking) minister Eknath Shinde, district legislators and ministers Yashomati Thakur, Sanjay Rathod, Abdul Sattar and senior officials during the visit. “The entire state is awaiting the Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Expressway. We are confident that it will be the best in the country. We will produce an expressway that Maharashtra will be proud of. I am confident that you will be able to travel on the corridor between Nagpur and Shirdi from May 1, 2021. The entire project up to Mumbai will be completed by May 2022,” Thackeray told reporters at Amravati. The CM travelled about 6km on the under-construction portion of the expressway at Amravati to check the quality and speed. He expressed his satisfaction with the work. CM said the work was for the project was affected owing to the lockdown but the construction did not stop. According to senior officials from Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), the executing body for the project, the Nagpur-Shirdi stretch is 520-km-long. An official said, “About 80% of the work has been completed on the stretch. We are going to push the contractors to finish the work in the next five months to throw it open to motorists on Maharashtra Day [May 1].” The second phase of the project has ghat sections and tunnels in Nashik and Thane districts and therefore would take more time to finish, the official added. The eight-lane expressway, which is named after Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, is expected to cut down the travel time between Mumbai and Nagpur by eight hours, as per MSRDC. Currently, it takes around 16- 18 hours to travel between the two cities. The ₹55,332 crore project will pass through 10 districts of the state and provide easier connectivity to 14 other surrounding districts. The expressway will also connect 26 talukas and 392 villages between the two cities. The state has also planned to develop 20 townships and nodes along the route of the expressway to boost local industries and create employment. The ambitious project to link the state’s capital and the second capital through the expressway was proposed by the previous state government in 2016 and it was regarded as a pet project of the then CM Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-nagpur-expressway-s-first-phase-to-open-on-may-1-maharashtra-cm/story-7XqGfukQpI6j7vnHrujLBM.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress, allies demand resignation of Nagpur mayor Sandip Joshi on moral grounds||The Congress and other opposition parties in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) are now targeting mayor Sandip Joshi after his defeat in the Nagpur division graduates’ constituency MLC election and want him to quit his post on moral grounds. Joshi, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate, was defeated by Congress’s Abhijit Wanjari in the MLC polls by more than 18,000 votes. However, Joshi refused to resign and said he would complete his term as mayor. This is the first time when a BJP and erstwhile Jan Sangh nominee has lost this seat since it was first introduced in the 1960s. Nagpur civic body is ruled by the BJP and Joshi was elected as mayor one year ago. “The party has given me the mayor’s responsibility and I am fulfilling it. I have been asked to work for 13 months and will do so,” said Joshi. Joshi, a close aide of former chief minister and incumbent Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, was elected as the city mayor on November 22, 2019. The mayor’s term ends after two-and-a-half-years. The tenure was curtailed due to the Assembly elections and the BJP had decided to equally split the tenure between Joshi and senior party corporator Dayashankar Tiwari. Joshi, a four-time corporator, said his term was till December 22. The leader of the Opposition, Tanaji Wanve said Joshi has lost the confidence of the common man. “The mayor’s post is a prestigious one. The occupant should have the confidence of citizens. Therefore, Joshi should resign on moral grounds,” said senior corporator and Congress leader Praful Gudadhe. On the other hand, BJP city president Pravin Datke said Joshi will complete whatever term the party had assigned him as mayor. Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar said, “The mayor’s defeat in the graduates’ constituency election means that people are unhappy with BJP’s rule in NMC. Most of the votes in this election were from the city. The BJP has four out of the city’s six MLAs including Fadnavis. Union minister Nitin Gadkari is also from the city. Therefore, the result is a clear indication that people will teach BJP a lesson in the next municipal elections slated in January 2022.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-allies-demand-resignation-of-nagpur-mayor-sandip-joshi-on-moral-grounds/story-hE5vLemtWZpxCo0oKz5njP.html
06-12-2020||City||Phase-3 of panch bypoll records 61.1% voter turnout in J&K||In the third phase of vacant panch and sarpanch bypolls, 61.1% and 49.25% voter turnout were recorded, respectively, state election commissioner KK Sharma said.The SEC said bypoll for vacant panch seats were held in 327 constituencies in the third phase. As many as 31,844 electors, including 16,600 males and 15,244 females, of total 52,118, exercised their right to franchise in the third phase, he said.He added that Jammu division recorded 79.47% voter turnout and Kashmir 59.63%.On vacant sarpanch constituencies, he said, 49.25% polling was registered in this phase in 66 constituencies. Of total 80,913 electors, 39,852 people, including 21,307 males and 18,545 females, voted to choose their representatives. Also, 74.74% polling was registered in Jammu and 42.57% in Kashmir division.In Jammu division, Kishtwar recorded the highest voter turnout (89.55%) for the panch bypolls, followed by 88.29% in Rajouri and 86.1% in Ramban. Similarly, in Kashmir, Kulgam topped the voter turnout (77.11%), followed by 74.21% in Budgam and 64.88% in Bandipora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phase-3-of-panch-bypoll-records-61-1-voter-turnout-in-j-k/story-noNewKnBBt0AruqlD32AwM.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farm bills: Ludhiana passengers left in the lurch as Punjab Roadways staff stage strike||Passengers at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Inter-State Bus terminal (ISBT) were left a harried lot after the Punjab Roadways and PRTC employees’ unions observed a one-hour strike on Saturday to extend their support to the farmers’ agitation against the farm bills. They protested from 12am to 1pm and raised slogans against the central government. They demanded that the Centre roll back the decision to introduce the farm laws and continue with the old system. The bus stand wore a deserted look as the gates were closed by the members of the unions. Chaos was also witnessed outside as private operators parked the buses on the road which led to traffic snarls. The one-hour protest affected the movement of over 80 buses and passengers had a hard time finding buses for their desired route. Due to the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, over nine Volvo buses (three of Punbus and six of PRTC) operating from Ludhiana to Delhi ISBT and Ludhiana to Gurgaon have been suspended. Basant Singh, 65, said, “I have been trying to find a bus for Malerkotla for the last half an hour. But, due to the protest, we are stuck at the bus stand. My wife has knee problems and cannot stand for long hours. It is sheer harassment for the public and protests must be held outside central government offices.”Another passenger, Sunita Rani, who wanted to take a bus to Chandigarh with her two-year-old son, said, “I was not aware of the strike and reached the bus stand at noon. There was a chaos outside and took 10 minutes to cross the road. After inquiring, I found out that the service will resume after 1pm. I thought about taking a bus from outside, but private operators were charging double.” District president of Punbus Contractual Employees’ Union, Shamsher Singh, said, “If the central government does not accept the farmers’ plea in the next meeting, then the joint action committee of Punjab Roadways and Punbus will launch an agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-bills-ludhiana-passengers-left-in-the-lurch-as-punjab-roadways-staff-stage-strike/story-LRdTJR2pP1J9C8JdkJ5AaP.html
06-12-2020||City||Roshni scam: Cong for probe into alleged land deals by senior BJP leaders||Congress on Saturday questioned the lopsided action into the Roshni land scam and asked why the alleged land deals of senior BJP leaders were never probed.It also raised objections about the BJP’s silence over the serious allegations on some of its former ministers.Seeking a probe into the allegations of land and business deals against some ruling party leaders in the recent past, Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said that all those who held public offices at some point were subject to public scrutiny and accountable for their conduct, especially financial deals.“Any allegation about any such personality, which comes out in the public domain, must be probed by the government and its agencies, and the outcome should be highlighted before the people in the shortest possible time. People have the right to know about the veracity of allegations about their representatives to maintain faith in the system,” he said.He claimed that various such allegations were levelled against some top leaders of the ruling party, some of whom have served as ministers, but the same were never probed.‘Farm laws flawed to core, farmers deserve better’ Congress on Saturday held a protest in Jammu to express solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The protest led by former ministers Raman Bhalla and Yogesh Sawhney was organised by District Congress Committee Jammu (Urban).Hitting out at the Prime Minister for his remarks that farm reforms have opened doors of new opportunities for farmers, Bhalla said that insistence in support of the laws shows that the government is “drunk with power” and is rigid even in reconsidering the laws.“Farmers are the heart and soul of India, and attacking them is the gravest mistake the BJP has made. Congress will not stand by it. The laws are flawed to the core and our farmers deserve better,” said Sawhney.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roshni-scam-cong-for-probe-into-alleged-land-deals-by-senior-bjp-leaders/story-DOtEWMbTqvv3Asl8VF7iHL.html
06-12-2020||City||J&K HC seeks list of unauthorised occupants of ministerial bungalows, govt houses||A division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Gita Mittal and justice Rajesh Bindal on Saturday directed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to provide complete details of unauthorized occupants of ministerial bungalows and government accommodations that include former ministers, legislators and former bureaucrats.The court has also sought details of arrears of rent, electricity and renovations.The division bench rapped the estates department for not initiating any serious exercise to evict former ministers, legislators and bureaucrats from these government accommodations.Terming the situation intolerable, the division bench directed the additional advocate generals BA Dar and Aseem Sawhney, who appeared for the government, to file a comprehensive affidavit indicating the arrears of rent, water, electricity and also funds spent on renovation, repairs and maintenance, particularly during the period of illegal occupation by the defaulters.Advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmed, who appeared for petitioner Prof SK Bhalla, submitted that since June 2018, former ministers and legislators have been overstaying in government bungalows in total contravention to the rules.He also submitted that the estates department initiated a lopsided action and evicted some of the occupants but has not taken any steps in vacating the illegal occupants belonging to a particular political party.Ahmed specifically referred to the list of unauthorised occupants furnished by Sawhney with the status report filed by the estates department pursuant to the directions of the division bench on July 8 this year.As per the list submitted in the court, the unauthorised occupants include late ex CM GM Shah, former chief minister and Awami National Conference leader; former BJP minister Choudhary Lal Singh; former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta; former minister Sunil Sharma; BJP president and former MLA Ravinder Raina; former MLA Vikar Rasool Wani, former minister Shakti Raj Parihar, former minister Sat Sharma, former minister Ghulam Nabi Lone (Hanjura), former minister Syed Farooq Indrabi, former minister Zahoor Ahmed Mir, former deputy speaker Nazir Ahmed Khan, among many other former ministers and legislators.Ahmed referred to some judgments of the apex court where it was ruled that after demitting the office, former ministers and former bureaucrats were not entitled to government accommodation.He further submitted that time-bound directions were required to be issued to the estates department to ensure eviction of the illegal occupants.Consequently, the high court bench directed the administration to file a separate tabulation and affidavit indicating charges on maintenance, particularly after demitting of office by the unauthorised occupants within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-hc-seeks-list-of-unauthorised-occupants-of-ministerial-bungalows-govt-houses/story-reFb3KzFpcEcwxP1P3kVYN.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Thane rural areas moving towards Covid-free; only 7% active cases prevalent||The rural areas in Thane district have become 90 per cent Covid free with only seven per cent active cases, claimed the Zilla Parishad (ZP). The ZP is looking forward to becoming Covid-free soon.Gram Panchayats situated in areas like Bhiwandi, Ambernath, Kalyan, Murbad and Shahapur had seen a slight increase in cases a few months ago. However, 89 per cent have recovered from these areas.The ZP came up with a new initiative wherein areas with positive cases were declared containment zones and a health camp was setup in these zones for 14 days. They conducted regular check-ups of villagers and ensured that those with symptoms were treated at the earliest. This helped break the chain.From September, a decline was noticed in the number of positive cases. “We have a team of medical officers, ASHA workers, Anganwadi sevika and teachers who conduct health camps in areas where a positive case is found. They are trained for the same and have played a big role in containing the virus. From among 431 gram panchayats, 376 did not have any new Covid case in the last 28 days. Currently, there are 1,212 active cases in the rural areas that constitute to only seven per cent of the total positive cases recorded till now,” said Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane ZP.Rural areas within Thane have recorded 18,270 positive cases till now. From among these, 565 deaths have taken place and 16,493 have recovered. There are 1,212 active cases within the rural areas of the district. However, efforts to curb new cases are also undertaken.Jithesh Vishe, deputy sarpanch, Vehlonde village, said, “If anyone from outside the village is visiting, the villagers have to first inform the gram panchayat and ensure the person has a test done before they arrive. As we have explained the impact and spread of the virus, our villagers are also very careful and ensure that there are hardly any visitors. It is with the support of the locals that we have managed without a single Covid positive case in our gram panchayat. Despite no cases, we strictly continue to follow social distancing and sanitation norms in the village.”In July, the ZP had asked villages that did do not have a single case in 28 days to hoist a green flag in the gram panchayat. In the first week of October, there were 209 villages in Thane rural areas that hoisted green flags. Special efforts were taken to remove the fear in the minds of the residents regarding Covid. They conducted awareness and efforts were taken to trace, track and test as many as possible across Thane rural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-rural-areas-moving-towards-covid-free-only-7-active-cases-prevalent/story-XnvSwEr5L8sCjzvoCmNPlN.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Man dies after being hit on head with tabla in Delhi’s RK Puram||A man who worked as a “granthi” at a gurdwara in RK Puram was killed allegedly over a petty issue while performing “kirtan”, police said on Saturday.Both the deceased, Ravinder Singh, and the accused, Darshan Singh, worked at the gurdwara, they said.On Friday morning, while performing kirtan, they got into quarrel over some petty issue, and Darshan Singh hit Ravinder Singh on the head with a tabla, the police said.The accused also hit Ravinder Singh’s wife, Maninder Kaur, who tried to stop the fight, a senior police officer said.Ravinder Singh succumbed to injuries at the Safdarjung hospital on Saturday, while the condition of his wife is stated to be stable, he said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said a case has been registered, and efforts are being made to nab the accused, who is at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-dies-after-being-hit-on-head-with-tabla-in-delhi-s-rk-puram/story-ZO6mk4wmTfaVMJ5OiGCT9K.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||2 get 20 years in jail for sexually assaulting neighbour’s 3-year-old daughter in Mumbai||The special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocsco) court on Friday sentenced two men, both aged 19, to 20 years’ imprisonment for sexually abusing the three-year-old daughter of their neighbour. While one of the accused was convicted for aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the child, his friend was sentenced for abetting the act. Public prosecutor Rashmi Tendulkar argued that both the men had common intention behind the crime. As per prosecution, the girl was playing in the common passage in the building in November 2018. The duo reached the spot. They made her to sit on a sofa and sexually assaulted her. As claimed by the prosecution, the main accused’s friend kept a watch to ensure nobody saw them. A while later, the girl’s mother saw her with the men after seeing them with the men. When she asked the child what were the accused doing with her, the girl narrated the incident to her mother. The mother also noticed injuries on her body. The girl’s family then approached the RAK Marg police station in Sewri and filed a complaint against the duo. The key accused was arrested on November 23, 2018, while his friend was arrested on November 21, 2018. Since their arrest, the two have been in jail, as the court has been refusing to grant them bail. The accused had pleaded that they were falsely implicated in the case because of the disputes in the society. However, the court rejected the arguments made by the defence and relied on the statement of the girl, who also identified the accused in the court. The court also relied on medical evidence before sentencing the duo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-get-20-years-in-jail-for-sexually-assaulting-neighbour-s-3-year-old-daughter-in-mumbai/story-9W3lHKmDm74EoRKbjnoZ2K.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Women prisoners in Thane and Kalyan jail battle depression as they cannot meet kin||A 38-year-old mother of two, an undertrial lodged in Kalyan’s Adharwadi Jail for a kidnapping case, used to meet her children regularly till March this year.For more than nine months since the lockdown was implemented, she lost touch with her children. Her 70-year-old mother who used to take care of her children lost her job as a housemaid. The woman was depressed and worried about her two children and contacted NGOs, who managed to get in touch with her children only to find they could barely manage two square meals.Like her, many others lodged in women’s prison in Adharwadi and Thane Central Jail have lost touch with their families or children in this lockdown. As per the protocol, no one is allowed in or out of the jail in order to control the pandemic in the prison.Based on a request made by Prayas to be ADG Prisons, the prison department started video calling facility for prisoners to talk to their families and their children including their children living in shelter homes. Many mothers in prison have spoken to their children through this facility.Social workers and criminologists working with the inmates claimed that women, children and the undertrials lodged in Thane and Kalyan prisons are the most affected in the lockdown as their outdoor contact is completely lost. NGOs are not allowed inside. Thus, those children staying in the prison who earlier had many games and activities planned now have nothing to do.As per the record, Adharwadi Jail in Kalyan has 120 women prisoners while Thane Central Jail has 80. Children up to the age of six are allowed to stay with their mothers. Accordingly, Kalyan prison has 15 children and eight stay with their mother in Thane Jail.Senior social worker of Prayas, a field action project of TISS, Reena Jaiswar, who works for Kalyan jail inmates said, “We are responsible for the prisoners’ children and take care of their activities. Since the past few years, as per the rules, we have started taking out those children for two hours for classes (Anganwadi) or any activity near the jail premises. In those two hours, if they see a car or an auto rickshaw on the road, they are happy. Since the lockdown, there is no activity for these children. They also miss the Anganwadi food that they loved.”Now, these children don’t have games, education, fun activities and television to pass their time. With no one allowed inside the prisons anymore, Jaiswar said, “The state should have come up with a few helplines or a system to interact with the inmates and their children, and help them with their problems. These people are completely out of touch with whatever is happening in the outside world. NGOs are providing things from the outside that are necessary for them to survive, like Vitamin C tablets and winter clothes, though attention should also be given to the mental health of the inmates and their children in these times.” Talking about the 38-year-old woman, Jaiswar informed that the woman was an accessory in the case as she had helped the prime accused to get married to a minor girl. Her husband left her with her two children aged 10 and 11 a few years ago. After she was arrested, her old 70-year-old mother worked as a maid to take care of them.Jaiswar said, “The grandmother had no job during the lockdown. She borrowed money from a few relatives. The woman had not seen her children and was worried. We came to know in May and went to their house when we saw they did not have anything left to eat. We arranged food grains and other essentials including immunity booster for the children and grandmother, and made them speak with their mother. Till now, we have been providing them with all the essentials. But the children are now insisting on meeting their mother.”Her trial was about to get over in March but it got delayed in the lockdown.Thane jail superintendent Harshad Ahirrao said, “For almost four to five months of the lockdown, we could not do anything for the children as we ourselves were short staffed. But, since the past two months, we have taken volunteers from women prison cells who can teach different subjects or activities to them. Some of these women are educated. A few are uneducated but they know how to keep the children engaged. So, accordingly, they have arranged different sessions for the children daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-prisoners-in-thane-and-kalyan-jail-battle-depression-as-they-cannot-meet-kin/story-dQQbz5gYuRG7w3GtS3qT1O.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chef Kelvin Cheung booked for duping Bastian co-owner of $200K||Mumbai police booked a popular Canada-born chef for cheating a Bandra-based known seafood restaurant’s co-owner to the tune of USD 200,000. No arrest has been made yet.According to police sources, Khar police on Friday registered a first information report (FIR) against chef Kelvin Cheung and his father Chi Ping Cheung under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code based on the complaint of Ranjit Bindra, a resident of Pali Hill in Bandra and co-owner of Bastian.As per the police complaint, Cheung had been working at Bindra’s office for a long time as chef. “While working in the Bandra restaurant, Cheung offered Bindra to invest in his plans to invest in popular restaurant franchises in Chicago and Los Angeles with the help of his father. In 2015, the complainant had invested USD 200,000 in multiple transactions,” said Gajanan Kabdule, senior inspector of Khar police station.Police sources said that the money was transferred through a hospitality firm.Cheung suddenly quit his association with the restaurant last year by saying that his father passed away. Since then, the complainant’s discussion with Cheung regarding the investments abroad did not go well. Later, Cheung also allegedly started ignoring Bindra. Bindra followed up the matter, but in vain, a police officer said.“Recently, Bindra learnt that Cheung has returned to India. He hoped to get his money back, and hence approached police and registered a complaint,” said Kabdule.The police are verifying all the allegations and are investigating the case, he said.Cheung said, “I have not received any details about the case from Bastian or the police, so I can’t comment on the same. I can state that I wasn’t part of any deal with Bastian regarding their investment deal. I haven’t signed any contracts with them and I haven’t received any payments from them as alleged by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-chef-kelvin-cheung-booked-for-duping-bastian-co-owner-of-200k/story-lwaZjJOJsCtcaBtP1e4XpO.html
06-12-2020||City||826 cases pending against JKPSC in high court, reveals RTI||The Jammu and Kashmir Public Service Commission (JKPSC) has as many as 830 cases pending against it in the J&K high court and Supreme Court, an RTI reply has revealed.“The UT’s apex body for recruitment of gazetted posts, including that of subordinate judicial officers, is facing 830 cases in the high court and Supreme Court,” said RTI activist Raman Sharma.The reply provided by JKPSC to Sharma in response to his RTI application stated that as of date there were 826 cases pending against it in the high court and that it was also party in another four cases in the Supreme Court.The recruitment body has also informed in its reply that it has filed two cases in the Supreme Court and eight appeals before the J&K high court.Spent Rs 70 lakh as legal fee in past 5 years With regard to the legal expenses borne by the JKPSC in defending and pursuing these cases in the Supreme Court and high court, the RTI reply states that during the financial year 2018-19 and 2019-20, it paid Rs 35,14,367 as lawyers’ fees including over Rs 22,00,000 as retainership fee.“The amount paid by the recruitment body in defending these court cases in 2018 and 2019 exceeded its own legal budget by Rs 5 lakh. The RTI reply shows zero legal expenses borne by the recruitment body during the 2020-21 though Rs 9 lakh has been kept as legal budget,” said Sharma.The total legal expenses borne by the commission in the last five financial years were approximately Rs 70,00,000 and every fiscal they exceeded the allocated budget to meet the legal fees.In October 2017, the JKPSC in another RTI reply to activist Sharma had informed that there were 500 cases pending against it in the J&K high court. “The number of cases has risen from 500 to 826 in a span of three years which means that every third day a new court case is filed by the aggrieved party against the recruitment panel,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/826-cases-pending-against-jkpsc-in-high-court-reveals-rti/story-59rekZffLMdOfzPHzDpthL.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Minister steps in to resolve garbage dumping issue at Uran mangroves||The guardian minister of Raigad, Aditi Tatkare, has asked the Raigad district collector to resolve the pending issue of illegal dumping on mangroves in Uran. The minister, who was on a visit to Uran recently, met the activists who informed her about the garbage dump affecting the health of the people and destroying mangroves at Bori Pakhadi.Nishant Gharat of Uran Yuva said, “We are made to suffer due to the unbearable stink, and at times polluting smoke from the garbage dump.”Tatkare asked collector Nidhi Chaudhari to look into the issue immediately and find a solution.BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, said that Uran has been suffering for 13 years now due to the garbage dump at Bori Pakhadi residential area. Apart from damaging mangroves, the dump’s pollution has been causing breathing problems to the people around. The Uran Municipal Council also pumps out sewer water at the dump, which adds to the health risks.He added, “We have been literally running from pillar to post to get the issue resolved by writing to the Prime Minister thrice and repeatedly alerting the Chief Minister. After a long fight, the then Konkan Divisional commissioner Shivaji Daund ordered an FIR to be filed against Uran Municipal Council for violation of the Environment Act, yet the garbage dumping goes on non-stop.”Kumar said that after their complaint, the High Court appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee has asked both Cidco and Raigad district collector to find an alternative site for the garbage dump and not to harm the mangroves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-minister-steps-in-to-resolve-garbage-dumping-issue-at-uran-mangroves/story-HLtcDuwBfZCUwbyYkaJqxJ.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Marginal difference in FYJC second admission list cut-offs||Cut-offs across prominent colleges in the city remained high in the second merit list for admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC). The state education department declared the second merit list on Saturday morning. Of around 1.58 lakh students who had applied, a total of 76,231 students were allotted seats in the second round. Of them, 20,371 were allotted the college of their first preference. After the first admission round, nearly 2.42 lakh seats across colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) were vacant. While cut offs saw a marginal dip in some of the top colleges, they remained the same in others. For science stream, prominent colleges such as Ramnivas Ruia College and DG Ruparel College in Matunga, Sathaye College in Vile Parle and PACE Junior College in Andheri closed their second lists above 90%. At KC College in Churchgate the cut-off for science saw a marginal increase as it increased from 89.4% in the first list to 90% in the second list. Similarly, prominent colleges for commerce steam such as RA Podar College in Matunga and NM College in Vile Parle closed second list at 94.2% and 95.2%, respectively. Mulund’s VG Vaze College closed its list at 93.6% with no change in the cut-off from the first list. “We had already completed a substantial number of admissions in the first list itself. Cut-offs were expected to be high with high scorers this year,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal of VG Vaze college. The highest cut-off for arts stream was recorded at St Xavier’s College in Fort at 94.6% followed by Ramnivas Ruia College in Matunga at 94%. The cut-off increased from 92.6% in the first list to 92.8% in the second for Jai Hind College in Churchgate. “Since students are allowed to change their preferences in every round, it is possible that students with higher scores might have applied in the second round, leading to an increase in cut-offs,” said an official from the education department. On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. With this, the second merit list for admissions which was originally scheduled to be released on September 10 was stalled, leaving over 2.42 lakh students in the lurch in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone. While the state government has revealed that admissions to all courses will now take place without the 12% SEBC quota, it has also clarified through its recent government resolution (GR) that admissions confirmed under SEBC quota during the first round, which took place before September 9, will remain intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-marginal-difference-in-fyjc-second-admission-list-cut-offs/story-1iho0C9FwjLF3MBCz1Jw1M.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||1 booked for billing ₹20K loan instalments to Ludhiana woman’s account||After 10 months of investigation, a repeat offender was booked for billing a loan availed by him to an unsuspecting woman’s account here on Friday. The accused, Kabir Rai of Ambedkar Nagar, a habitual offender, is already facing trial in several similar cases. In December 2019, the complainant, Karamjit Kaur, was shocked to find that she was being charged a monthly instalment of ₹2,741 against a loan that she had never availed. The sum was being automatically withdrawn from her account. Kaur had previously purchased an air-conditioner in instalments but had already paid her dues. She lodged a complaint with the financial organisation but she was again asked to pay the instalment in January , 2020. On following up the matter, she came to know that she was being billed for a loan of ₹20, 335 for purchasing an inverter, although she had applied for no such loan. On February 5, Kaur lodged a police complaint. Division Number 3 station house officer inspector Satish Kumar said the inverter had been purchased from a shop near Samrala Chowk. The shop’s owner revealed Rai as the culprit. A case was registered against him under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Information And Technology Act.The accused is already facing a trial in three such cases lodged against him in Dugri, Shimlapuri and Salem Tabri police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-booked-for-billing-20k-loan-instalments-to-ludhiana-woman-s-account/story-3D1GQxguKEtc6jLhA1vudJ.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 4,922 new Covid-19 cases, 95 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 4,922 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths, taking the tally to 1,847,509 and toll to 47,694, with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.58%. There are presently 82,849 active cases in the state. Of the 95 deaths on Saturday, 44 were within the past 48 hours, 11 were in the past week and the remaining 40 happened more than one week earlier. Maharashtra has a recovery rate of 92.88%, and 5,834 patients recovered on Saturday, taking the recoveries in the state to 1,715,884. So far, the state has conducted 11,205,118 Covid-19 tests, with a positivity rate of 16.49%. Of these, in the past 24 hours, 72,887 tests were conducted in the state. Mumbai on Saturday recorded 758 new cases, and 19 deaths, taking the tally to 285,267 and toll to 10,940. There are 14,048 active cases in the city. Mumbai’s recovery rate is at 91%, with an average growth rate of 0.29%, and a doubling rate of 243 days. So far, Mumbai has conducted 1,955,342 Covid-19 tests with a positivity rate of 15%. Among the municipal corporations around Mumbai, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 152 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 51,953, Navi Mumbai municipal corporation recorded 125 new cases and 2 deaths, taking the tally to 52,538 and deaths to 1,024; Kalyan-Dombivili Municipal Corporation recorded 173 infections, taking the tally to 58,800; Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation recorded 64 new cases and 1 death, taking the tally to 25,582 and deaths to 630. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recorded 351 Covid-19 cases, and six deaths, taking the tally to 182,273 and toll to 4,288.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-4-922-new-covid-19-cases-95-deaths-on-saturday/story-1VURfyC3uwAjKDYxL24bWK.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for raping 17-year-old on pretext of rituals||A man was booked for allegedly repeatedly raping a 17-year-old girl on the pretext of performing rituals to protect her family from evil on Saturday. The accused, Baba Vicky Sai, 36, of Dharampura, also threatened to kill her family using his ‘powers’ should she reveal the sexual abuse. The victim’s mother the police that she had availed Vicky’s help to treat her husband. “On October 6, Vicky came to their home and performed some sorcery but her husband died the next day,” police said. The complainant said the accused kept visiting their house to purify the house and would stay overnight to perform ‘remedies’ to ward off some imminent threat to her elder daughter. “On October 24, the accused stayed in a room overnight with the victim to perform the said remedies and left in the morning. On December 2, the accused called the victim and her mother to his house in Dharampura and again confined himself to a room with the victim,” police said. Later, the accused went to the victim’s house and when he left in the morning, the complainant found her daughter crying. On being coaxed she admitted that Vicky had been sexually assaulting her since October 24 on the pretext of performing rituals for her family’s well-being, police said. Division Number 3 station house officer inspector Satish Kumar said a case had been registered a case under Sections 376 (2) (n) (committing rape repeatedly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-held-for-raping-17-year-old-on-pretext-of-rituals/story-T19v9IXhUcrE87IWfvKy4J.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to have own medical college||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to have its own medical college in the city. The civic body has formed a committee to plan the project and is taking the help of medical experts for it.The NMMC spends more than ₹100Cr annually on the health department. It presently has a 300-bed hospital at Vashi, two mother and child hospitals in Airoli and Nerul and urban health posts in each ward.Due to the lack of medical professionals, NMMC is unable to provide super specialty care at its hospitals. Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar has decided on the medical college to help the civic hospitals get the required manpower for its patients and also plan to increase the capacity of the hospitals in Airoli and Nerul. A discussion was held on having graduation and post-graduation courses in the proposed college.Bangar, said, “We are working on the medical college plan to provide quality health services in the city. We are also working on upgrading the existing hospitals, planning for the college building and hostel and working the cost of the project for the civic body.“We will be able to provide tertiary care facility at our civic hospitals and thereby provide modern medical services to the residents. Through the medical college professors, we will get qualified doctors. There will also be doctors doing internship who will be available at our hospitals. This will enable quality doctors to provide efficient services at our hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-to-have-own-medical-college/story-FouPMYNzQCOW0m2aM1fOkK.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Air India Express crew member flew despite testing positive||A senior member of Air India Express’s cabin crew was on duty despite the airlines being aware that she tested positive for Covid-19 around 50 minutes before the employee’s flight, it has been found. The airline, while admitting that the employee had tested positive, said it will investigate the matter further. The 44-year-old woman employee had undergone an RT-PCR test on November 12, the report for which was received before the scheduled flight from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport. The crew member’s report and her schedule for Friday, November 13, accessed by HT, per showed that the employee even operated on the same sector and returned to her base station (Delhi) [via the return flight]. Although the 44-year-old was quarantined from the next day, the airline allowed her to operate the entire day on November 13. India is already facing issues with Dubai and Hong Kong after passengers from India tested Covid-19 positive after landing there. An Air India Express spokesperson said, “The said flight was a Delhi-Madurai flight, for which a pre-flight RT-PCR test is not mandatory. The head crew member was to operate the international sector the next day and hence had taken the test. However, she was quarantined from November 14 onwards and no other fellow crew members when tested were found infected. We will, however, surely investigate the matter.” The spokesperson, however, did not confirm if the infected employee was symptomatic or not. Meanwhile, airline sources alleged that officials tried to manipulate the employee’s report data in the scheduling system. “The system no longer showed that this senior employee had undergone the RT-PCR test on November 12, which meant that there would have been no (of the conducted test) on-record proof, if the test report wasn’t accessed. Tampering already logged in data is illegal.” A top official with one of the leading airlines said, “It’s true that a crew member can operate few domestic flights until his/her test reports are awaited. This is done in order to avoid a situation of crew shortage for airlines. But, it is completely unacceptable that an airline got the crew member tested only two days before her international flight (as per the statement by the airline, the crew had to operate an international flight on November 14) and also goes ahead, allowing her to operate flights even when she is confirmed to be Covid-19 positive.” Vipul Saxena, aviation expert, said “This is a blatant violation of safety norms and Covid-19 protocol and the head of flight safety must be made responsible. Crew schedule planning definitely has a provision for such a last-moment change. A detailed inquiry must be initiated to check the symptoms of the head crew member and also whether she was forced to take the flight.” Earlier, the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) had suspended Air India Express flights between India and Dubai on October 2, which was withdrawn the same evening. The suspension notice was issued after a passenger on a Jaipur-Dubai flight was found to be Covid-19 positive. Air India Express had submitted an apology to DCAA before getting the notice and the airline and the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had to hold discussions with Dubai authorities, following which the suspension order was lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-express-crew-member-flew-despite-testing-positive/story-HSs8zxkVQanigpjyKRhxzO.html
06-12-2020||Kolkata||CAA likely to be implemented from January, says Kailash Vijayvargiya||Senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday said that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act is likely to be implemented from January next year as the Centre and the saffron party are keen to grant citizenship to the large refugee population in West Bengal.The BJP national general secretary accused the TMC government of not being sympathetic to the cause of the refugees.“We are hopeful that the process of granting citizenship to refugees under the CAA will begin from January next year,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the party’s ‘Aar Noy Anyay’ (no more injustice) campaign in North 24 Parganas district.“The Centre has passed the CAA with the honest intention of granting citizenship to persecuted refugees coming to our country from neighbouring nations,” he added.Reacting to Vijayvargiya’s comment, senior TMC leader and state minister Firhad Hakim said that the BJP is trying to fool the people of West Bengal.“What does the BJP mean by citizenship? If the Matuas are not citizens, how come they voted in assembly and parliamentary polls year after year? The BJP should stop fooling the people of West Bengal,” he said.The Matuas, originally hailing from East Pakistan (present-day Bangladesh), started migrating to West Bengal in the 1950s, mostly due to religious persecution.The community, with an estimated population of 30 lakh in the state, influences results in at least four Lok Sabha seats and 30-40 assembly constituencies in Nadia, North and South 24 Parganas districts.A section of state BJP leadership is apprehensive that the delay and confusion over CAA implementation might turn refugee voters, especially the Matua community, against BJP in the 2021 assembly elections due in April-May next year.The community had voted hands down in favour of the BJP during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, party sources said.The CAA seeks to grant citizenship to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Christian, Jain and Parsi refugees who have come to India from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan on or before December 31, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/caa-likely-to-be-implemented-from-january-says-kailash-vijayvargiya/story-JIt5fX0VmV3tkUyoGUu7PI.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fake loan scam rocks Ludhiana civic body||The Ludhiana municipal corporation has been rocked by an alleged fake loan scam after it emerged that employees’ fake salary slips and identity cards were being used to procure bank loans. The scam, which has sent alarm bells ringing among the civic body’s top brass, came to light after bank officials approached the corporation to report that around 60 employees had defaulted on loan payments, amounting to lakhs. However, it was later found that at least half of the defaulters were not MC employees but had managed to procure the loans on the basis of fake government documents. It is yet to be confirmed whether the remaining employees in the defaulters’ list had themselves applied for loans or there documents had been misused by somebody else. Staff’s involvement suspected An MC official, requesting anonymity, said they suspect the involvement of some of the MC staff in the scam. MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana while refusing to divulge any details said a preliminary report had been filed with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, who will take further action. An official, requesting anonymity, said Tiwana has recommended that a police complaint be filed in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-loan-scam-rocks-ludhiana-civic-body/story-bFXDIDFX3GrTFoh2M5QWMM.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||50-year-old man found murdered in Delhi’s Sonia Vihar||The body of a 50-year-old man bearing multiple injuries to the head was found at his home in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar area on Saturday morning, police said.The deceased, identified as Birender Singh, used to stitch gunny bags and lived with his wife, they said.A senior police officer said the victim’s wife had gone to a temple in the morning and on returning home, found the body.There was no sign of a forceful entry, he said.The spot was visited by crime and Forensic Science Laboratory team of Rohini, the officer added.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered, and the case was being investigated by 10 different teams.As per initial investigation, the role of an insider is suspected and personal enmity could be the motive behind the killing, he said. The body has been shifted to a mortuary in Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and will be handed over to the family after autopsy, the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/50-yr-old-man-found-murdered-in-delhi-s-sonia-vihar/story-pE3jVMb6KlUk9LoLCLOnDM.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Education secy issues charge sheet against three employees of Ludhiana DEO’s office||School education secretary Krishan Kumar on Saturday issued a chargesheet against three employees of the district education officer’s (elementary) office for allegedly accepting bribe from the representative of a private educational institute.The employees are deputy district education officer (elementary), Kuldeep Singh, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) clerk Amit Mittal and Harvinder Singh, legal adviser, SSA . The education department has given them 21 days to respond to the allegations.According to the chargesheet, the employees have violated the provisions of Section 8 of the Punjab Civil Service Rule, 1970.In the chargesheet, the education secretary said that if the employees fail to submit the reply in the given time, then action will be taken according to the rules. As per the chargesheet, Kuldeep and Harvinder had demanded Rs 70,000 from a private school representative to resolve a complaint. The incident was reported in 2018 when Atam Nagar MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains allegedly caught Mittal red-handed while taking the bribe.In a video recording, Mittal said that he was sent by Kuldeep and Harvinder to collect the money, and he was only acting at their behest.Kuldeep Singh said, “I am yet to receive the copy of the orders and will submit a reply in next few days to the department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/education-secy-issues-charge-sheet-against-three-employees-of-ludhiana-deo-s-office/story-z5HRctngt8Tcd7InWQYxSJ.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Toddler’s kidnapping: Main accused, aide sent to 7-day custody||The court remanded the primary accused in the kidnapping of the two-year-old son of a prominent Ludhiana-based hotelier and his aide to seven-day police custody on SaturdayThe main accused, Harjinderpal Kumar, who had worked as the family’s driver for two years and one Sukhdev Singh alias Sukha, were arrested from Moga on Friday. Two other accomplices – Lal Singh and Sukhdev Singh are yet to be arrested while former sarpanch Rachpal Singh is already on police remand till 8 December.Police said the five co-conspirators had planned on portraying Harjinderpal Singh as a victim. On kidnapping the child on December 1, the accused called the child’s mother to demand ₹4 crore to secure the driver and child’s release. Harjinderpal also switched off his phone. However, the police cottoned on to the plan and set out to trace the driver. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said they expect to retrieve important facts about the execution of the crime from the two men. The police have conducted raids in different places in Zira, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Moga to arrest two absconding accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/toddler-s-kidnapping-main-accused-aide-sent-to-7-day-custody/story-TjmCCasxCzc7JuXHEH6XAO.html
06-12-2020||Jaipur||Red alert for all Rajasthan reserves, sanctuaries after tiger spotted with wire snare around neck||The forest department of the Rajasthan government on Saturday issued a ‘Red Alert’ till February 2021 for all reserves, sanctuaries, and parks in the state as incidents of hunting, poaching, and animal trapping have come to the notice.The order comes a day after a camera trap footage showing a Ranthambore tiger, T-108, with a wire snare around its neck.“Under the ‘Red Alert’, all forest officials have been directed to intensify search operations and take help from local police assistance to nab hunters and criminals. The department has cancelled leaves of all field officers, and directions have been issued for effective patrolling against illegal activities in protected areas,” the order read.The order stated that reports had earlier been received from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve about animals such as cows and buffaloes getting caught in traps laid by hunters.“Recently, five hunters were arrested in Mount Abu for hunting a sambar deer, looking to which red alert is announced till February 2021,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/red-alert-for-all-rajasthan-reserves-sanctuaries-after-tiger-spotted-with-wire-snare-around-neck/story-Pn7BN66mtyPZbmWOeZdM5M.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Now ghee supplier accuses Chandigarh policemen of extortion||A ghee or clarified butter supplier has complained to Chandigarh police about alleged extortion by men from the crime branch, even as action has yet to be initiated against two men from the branch against whom similar allegations have been levelled by a liquor vend owner.A complaint was lodged by the ghee supplier from Barwala in Haryana on December 2, alleging extortion by Chandigarh policemen following which the inquiry was marked by the DIG Chandigarh to Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police holding charge of police complaint cell (PCC). “A complaint was filed with the PCC and an inquiry has been initiated into it,” Bansal confirmed. The 26-year-old supplier complained that on October 29 this year he was taking 30 cartons of ghee to Sector 26 in Chandigarh when a few policemen in plainclothes allegedly stopped him and took him to the Sector 11 police station. Over there, he alleged, they took Rs 18,000 from his pocket and asked for Rs 3.70 lakh for getting his ghee samples passed and ensuring that no case was registered against himHowever, the ghee supplier claimed that even after he paid the money a case was registered against him. He has now sought action against the policemen involved, submitting their names to the police, but which have been withheld because of the probe. It is to be noted that crime branch officials during the festive season had set up a naka after receiving information on spurious ghee being sold in city. They claimed to have seized 3.48 quintals of spurious ghee from the light point near colony number 4 after the arrest of three persons, including the ghee supplier in question under section 102 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Other policemen yet to be summonedMeanwhile, police are yet to summon head constables Anil and Pawan of the crime branch, who were accused by the liquor contractor of extortion. Anil and Pawan were identified in the video clip submitted by the contractor with his complaint that he was paying them Rs 96,000 per month for the past few months. “Investigations are continuing and soon these police personnel would be summoned,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh . Officials revealed that even though no money exchanged hands in the CCTV footage. A case under Section 383 (extortion) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) was registered on November 29 at the Sector 39 police station against unidentified persons. The police had been claiming that around four more liquor contractors have approached us alleging extortion, however they have not provided any evidence and the complaints are being verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-ghee-supplier-accuses-policemen-of-extortion/story-9o8frX3W13FD3R7BEZKsPJ.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Local bodies dept notifies 64 vending zones in Ludhiana||The local bodies department on Saturday notified 64 vending zones in the city which can accommodate around 9,000 street vendors.In a survey conducted earlier, MC had identified 21,725 street vendors in the city, of which 5,925 are in Zone A, 5,377 in Zone B, 3,654 in Zone C and 6,769 in Zone D.As per the notification, six vending zones with a capacity of 1,543 vendors will be established in Zone A , 17 zones with a capacity of 3,354 in Zone B; 11 zones with a capacity of 1,174 in Zone C and 30 zones with a capacity of 2,918 in Zone D. The project been hanging fire for over six years and MC still has to go a long way to establish the zones at ground level and shift the vendors to these sites.Also, only six zones have been identified in Zone A where long traffic jams are witnessed due to roadside vendors. Only those vendors who have got themselves registered with MC by paying a fee of Rs 750 will be allotted a space in the zones.The MC will be provide facilities like lights and potable water supply in exchange. The local bodies department has also kept the provision of mobile street vendors Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Anti-encroachments drives are already being conducted in the city and they will intensify in the future. Action will be taken against the vendors if they become a hurdle to smooth flow of traffic. The sites have been notified by the local bodies department, and even if they have not been developed yet, the vendors can be shifted there. Apart from the notified sites, many others have been identified and we will get those notified from the local bodies department in the coming time.” Meanwhile, the vendors rued that before intensifying anti-encroachments drives, MC should first set up the vending zones properly.A roadside vendors from Model Town Extension, Gurman Singh said, “We are already struggling to make ends meet. MC should at least provide us a space which is properly developed before shifting us from the roadsides. The vending zones should also be established near the places where our vends currently are, otherwise we will lose customers.” MC jumps the gun as NOCs awaitedWhile MC has got the sites notified from the local bodies department, it is yet to get NOC for a large number of sites from different departments including Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), Industries department and National Highway Authority of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/local-bodies-dept-notifies-64-vending-zones-in-ludhiana/story-RimyyixK38IaneMPLKHmxO.html
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Students won’t be forced to appear for exams physically: Ludhiana DEO||With the examinations for Classes 9 to 12 of government schools starting from Monday, the authorities are in a fix as many parents have not submitted the written consent to let their wards appear physically.The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had instructed school principals to conduct offline exams for students of Classes 9 to 12.The authorities of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, have written to the education secretary saying that the school has 2,918 students studying in Classes 9 to 12, and due to lack of infrastructure and teachers, it will not be possible to conduct the exams physically.Only 145 students of the schools have received their parents’ consent so far. Navdeep Romana, the school principal, said, “The school has 40 classrooms and requires more space to accommodate students so that social distancing norms can be followed.”Government Senior Secondary School, Indirapuri, has 84 students studying in Class 12. Of this, 70 have received their parents’ consent to appear for the exam. The school has sufficient rooms to accommodate students by following the social distancing norms.Jaswinder Singh, the school principal, said, “We will conduct the exams as per instructions, but how will students whose parents have not given their consent appear ? We are waiting for directions so that every student can appear for the exam.”District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, who is handling the additional charge of DEO, secondary, held a virtual meeting with the school principals at 5pm on Saturday.“I have directed the principals to conduct offline exams for students whose parents have given written consent. The others will be asked to appear online. No student will be forced to visit the school to attempt the paper,” Kaur said.“Teachers will send the question paper to students on their WhatsApp numbers at 9am. Students will have to submit a copy of the answer sheet to the teacher’s WhatsApp number or their parents can submit it to the class in charge,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-won-t-be-forced-to-appear-for-exams-physically-ludhiana-deo/story-hk9LQSFyahS7arg9NkuaxM.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi’s positivity rate below 5% for third day on the trot||With over 81,000 samples tested, Delhi reported 3,419 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, leading to a daily positivity rate of 4.2% – the lowest in 209 days, or since May 10.The number of RT-PCR tests, considered by experts to be the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, however, dropped from 40,191 on Friday to 35,352 on Saturday – a reduction of 12%. Overall samples tested also dropped from Friday’s 85,003 to 81,473 on Saturday. Friday’s test count was the highest daily testing figure recorded in Delhi till date.Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR, tests are significantly better than rapid antigen tests at detecting positive cases – the latter has a higher tendency to give false negative. As a result, the higher the share of RT-PCR tests in overall testing, the more accurate the positivity rate is.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total samples tested – has now remained below 5% for the third consecutive day. On Friday, with 4,067 new cases, the positivity rate was 4.78%, while on Thursday, it was 4.96%.According to World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, the spread of the infection in a region that is testing “adequately” is considered to be under control if the positivity rate holds steady at 5% or below for two weeks.This is the first time since the Delhi government started releasing testing data in March that the positivity rate has remained below 5% for three consecutive days.“Let us see for how long the rate stays below 5%; if it holds for at least a week, then the situation would be comfortable. Delhi has been carrying out aggressive testing and contact tracing because of which the positivity rate has reduced from over 15% (it was 15.26% on November 7),” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday.The positivity rate has been seeing a near steady decline from the last week of November, as per the daily health bulletin released the Delhi government.“The decreasing number of cases and positivity rate is a good sign – they show that we have scaled down from the peak after the festive season. We have to wait to see what the next sero-survey report says, but I think at least 40% to 50% of Delhi residents must have been exposed to the infection after the November peak. With so many already exposed, Delhi should not see such a high peak again,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. On Saturday, Delhi added 77 more deaths due to the infection, tipping the city’s total toll beyond 9,500. So far, 9,574 people have died of the infection since the first case was reported on March 2. The number of deaths being reported daily has dropped to an average of 82 per day over the last seven days as compared to an average of 104 the week before and 107 the week before that. However, with fewer cases being reported, the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has crossed 2% for the first time since August beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/positivity-rate-below-5-for-third-day-on-the-trot/story-bAWCUj6ekrhUAlrEfQFq0N.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Chilla border completely shut as farmers block Delhi to Noida carriageway as well||Chila border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) was completely blocked by farmers on Saturday morning, bringing traffic to a standstill and forcing the police to increase the deployment in the area. Senior police officers said as the road leads to multiple hospitals in east Delhi as well as Noida, they have requested protesters to open a passage for emergency vehicles. Other borders points that are completely shut, as on Saturday, are Singhu and Tikri borders, where farmers have been camping since November 27 to protest the Centre’s new farm laws.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said until Friday, only one carriageway (from Noida to Delhi) was blocked by protesters while the other one (from Delhi to Noida) was open to traffic. “On Saturday morning, farmer groups blocked that carriageway as well, leaving no scope for traffic movement,” he said.Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar said they are negotiating with farmer leaders at Chilla border to open one carriageway or at least give a passage for emergency vehicles. “Once before, too, they had shut the Chilla border completely, but we had convinced them to open one carriageway. Our talks are in progress,” he said.The DCP also said since the number of farmers have also increased at Chila border from Saturday, the police have accordingly stepped up deployment. “Adequate presence of paramilitary and police personnel along with teams of the rapid action force in riot gear was maintained at the border point throughout the day,” he said.Satish Tomar, IT in-charge of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, who is camping at Chilla border, said more farmers were on their way to Chilla border on Saturday when they were detained by police in Jewar. “In protest, we blocked the other carriageway also at Chilla border. The farmers were released by evening and they have reached Chilla. But we are continuing with the blockade of the Chilla border completely. If they try to remove us forcefully, we will march to Jantar Mantar,” Tomar said.Apart from Chilla border, the traffic situation at the other Delhi border points remained the same as on Friday. A senior police officer said that on Thursday, the situation was bad as the closure of the border had happened suddenly and during office hours. “On Friday, people got used to the diversions and on Saturday, because the traffic volume was low, the situation was much better. However, because main routes at the Gazipur border (on NH-24) also remained closed to traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi, people were advised to avoid NH-24 and use Apsara, Bhopra or DND Flyway instead to reach Delhi. Since these alternative routes are narrow as compared to the main roads, they witnessed slow-moving traffic,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.Delhi Police kept making regular updates on social media to keep commuters informed about the diversions and closures.The movement of the vehicles on Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road and other routes by which motorists were entering Delhi from Ghaziabad also saw slow-moving traffic on Saturday. The traffic remained diverted on other routes such as the DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj, Dallupura, Khoda, New Ashok Nagar, and Kondli borders.The other border points fully closed since Wednesday are Jharoda, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli. Badusarai border remained open only to light motor vehicles such as cars and two-wheelers, while Jhatikara border was open only to two-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chilla-border-completely-shut-as-farmers-block-delhi-to-noida-carriageway-as-well/story-hlRraLqIQ6J2XLbM7oEGhO.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air slips back into severe zone as wind changes direction||Delhi’s air quality slipped into the ‘severe’ zone on Saturday, as winds changed direction and slowed down considerably making dispersion of pollutants difficult. The air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of ‘severe’ to the upper end of ‘very poor’ zone over the next two days, government agencies forecast. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, the AQI was 404 on Saturday. It was 382 in the ‘very poor’ zone on Friday. The last time air quality was in the ‘severe’ category was on November 25, with an AQI reading of 413. On a scale of 0-500, an AQI value between 301-400 is considered ‘very poor’ while 401-500 is ‘severe’.According to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with stubble burning incidents being negligible at present, local accumulated pollutants have not been able to disperse because of unfavourable meteorological conditions.V K Soni of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said that winds at present are blowing from the east, which have increased the moisture content in the air. “High moisture content and calm winds trap pollutants close to the ground resulting in an increase in the PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentrations. The air quality is likely to improve slightly on Sunday and may remain in the upper end of the ‘very poor’ zone,” said Soni.IMD scientists said that the average wind speed on Saturday was less than 5 kmph. Also, at Safdarjung Observatory, the official marker for city weather, shallow fog was observed in the early morning hours with visibility being 600 metres.“While there was an increase in the night temperature, the air quality deteriorated because of winds being calm. Whenever there is a change in wind direction, it impacts the air quality. From December 7-10, air quality may improve considerably, as northwesterly winds will return to Delhi. Also, the wind speed is likely to remain around 12-15kmph at that time,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.On Saturday, the minimum temperature was 11 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. The maximum settled at 27.8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.The System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, said the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels was just 1%. “The air quality is likely to improve slightly to the ‘very poor’ zone on Sunday. However, significant improvement may take place only from December 7 onwards,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.According to experts, every year after peak pollution in November, which is mostly attributed to contribution from stubble burning, bad air episodes are seen towards December-end and early January. This is mainly because as compared to November, meteorological conditions are even more unfavourable during this time while the baseline pollution (local emission from Delhi and neighbouring regions) stays the same. This includes local waste burning, industrial fumes, vehicular emissions and dust suspension, among others. D Saha, former head of CPCB’s air lab, said that during December-January, with colder days and calm winds, the meteorological conditions are tougher and slows down dispersion. “Also, at this time because of the geographical position of Delhi, dust and other emissions from the Indo-Gangetic plains settle here. Enforcement agencies need to ensure that local emissions are minimised to prevent the peaks in pollution,” said Saha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-s-air-slips-back-into-severe-zone-as-wind-changes-direction/story-VFmQoJQyB3JnznvRsoiLNI.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Govt plans one-time scheme to waive dues on road tax payment||The state transport department has moved a proposal to offer a one-time waiver of penalty on non-payment of road tax for public service vehicles such as private buses, taxis, Gramin Sewas and RTVs, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Saturday. “The proposal has already been sent to the finance department for its approval. This penalty-waiver scheme is being brought in because businesses of a lot of private bus operators and taxi drivers came to a complete standstill during the lockdown months and even after unlocking of the economy many of them could not resume operations owing to the city’s Covid-19 situation,” Gahlot said. The minister said the scheme will bring a much needed relief to the transporter of Delhi who have to pay an annual road tax, non-payment of which attracts steep fines. The scheme does not apply to private cars and two-wheelers as they pay a one time road tax while purchasing the vehicle and do not have to pay the tax annually. It was only on November 3 when private buses were allowed to operate in the city with the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) allowed inter-state bus movement. On the same day, all the three inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) located at Kashmere Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan were opened for public use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-moots-one-time-waiver-of-penalty-on-non-payment-of-road-tax-for-private-transporters/story-DoS7IttJo3zrwPsEDG8wVN.html
06-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers camping at Burari move to join protests at Ghazipur||Davinder Singh, 27, a farmer from Pooranpur in Uttar Pradesh, has been keeping a track of protests that erupted in Punjab after the Centre passed the new farm laws two months ago. Active on social media platforms, Singh received numerous messages that farmers from different parts of the country were marching to Delhi to demand a repeal of the laws. On November 27, Singh, and four other farmers, finally joined the protests.“We packed some woollen wear, a few essentials, clothes, and drove from Pooranpur to Burari. Our friends from the village later brought in the ration, mattresses, tarpaulin sheets, bamboo sticks, gas cylinders, stove, utensils, and other items in trucks and tractors. The supplies are enough for us to last at least six months,” Singh said.However, nearly a week after setting things up at the Nirankari ground at Burari – the government’s designated spot for farmer protests -- Singh and his friends had to move again. “We thought our issues would be addressed here. We waited for the government to come to meet us and listen to our concerns, but no one came. This is why we decided to pack all our essentials and drive to Ghazipur to participate in the road blockade,” he said.Every evening, he draws a yellow tarpaulin sheet from his truck over the red cycle track on Ghazipur flyover and ties it to the railing on the road. Singh and his friends then sleep below this canopy on some mattresses, with blankets being their only protection against Delhi’s harsh winters. Every morning, the tarpaulin sheet is folded back and the poles used to erect them go back to resting against the railing. Singh, a first-time protester, said it is challenging to live on the road and to deal with the possibility of moving from one place to another with all their belongings. “If the talks with the government are inconclusive today, we will move further inside the city. We are aware that it means moving with our belongings once again. But there is no other option,” said Rambir Singh, 63, another farmer from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh who reached Delhi on November 30. He too was among those who had camped at Burari Ground. (QUOTE WILL BE UPDATED) Several protesters, who have travelled from different states, said that apart from the bigger issues of non availability of toilets, water, and having to sleep in the open, there are smaller problems that people fail to notice. “For instance, if we have to cook something or make tea, we have to take out food portions from our polythene packets and then put them back in the vehicles,” said Davinder. “This is no way to live.”Although Singh was not stopped on his journey from Pooranpur to Burari, others weren’t that lucky. Tajinder Singh, a member of the Trai Kisan Sangathan, said that they had left with all the protest paraphernalia including banners and poles, food, clothes, blankets, and other essentials on November 26 from Uddham Singh Nagar in tractors and vehicles. But were stopped at Rampur. The group had to camp there for two days before moving on again.“After continuing our journey from Rampur on November 28, we learnt midway that protesters had gathered at Burari so we went there. We waited there for the government to address the issues of farmers but nothing happened. So, three days later, around 500 farmers from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh left the grounds and came here to Ghazipur,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-camping-at-burari-move-to-join-protests-at-ghazipur/story-1WxTwEda0v7FTN8cSD1kFO.html
06-12-2020||Mumbai||Students create guidebook to make public spaces safe amid Covid-19 pandemic||While the country is in unlock mode, citizens are still hesitant to access public spaces for fear of getting infected. To provide stakeholders with a ready reckoner to better basic infrastructure at public spaces, two urban planning students have created a guidebook for decision-makers to keep public places free of Covid-19. The guidebook Back to the City provides simple interventions for urban spaces like streets, parks, public transport, markets, malls, schools and offices. It has been designed under the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH and CEPT University under the BMZ (Germany’s Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development) funded project Sustainable Urban Development - Smart Cities. Nisarg Shah, who is currently pursuing a Bachelors in Urban Design from CEPT University, said, “The handbook has been designed in such a way that the illustrations can be understood by people who cannot read. These pamphlets can be posted in public spaces so that people are constantly reminded to maintain social distancing norms. At the end of each suggestion, the guidebook also states which authority is responsible to implement it.” For instance, the streets guidebook states that the government and private entities must come together to create more awareness about social distancing norms through street art. It also suggests that the government must create health checkpoints at major crossings in the city and improve them with public health facilities. Shah, along with Smrithi Prasad designed the handbook as part of their internship at GIZ. “We will also be presenting the handbook to the National Institute of Urban Affairs next week,” Shah said. Prasad, who completed her Masters in Urban Design from CEPT, said, “We are currently in Unlock 5, but we have seen that there has been overcrowding at many places. Plus, many people fear accessing public spaces because the norms might not be followed.” Prasad said that they are focusing on publishing these guidebooks on various digital platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-create-guidebook-to-make-public-spaces-face-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-RzMpREeVeO7DoAuBYw8BfM.html
